---
title: Semiclosed Brayton cycle power system with direct heat transfer
abstract: A semiclosed power system utilizing a Brayton cycle with combustion occurring between diesel fuel and Oin direct contact with an inert gas. The inert gas and products of combustion form a heated working fluid which is expanded in a turbine to provide power. The expanded working fluid is then used in a regenerator to heat the cooler, compressed inert gas before the inert gas is transferred to the combustor. The expanded working fluid is cooled by direct contact with seawater causing the steam within the expanded working fluid to condense to water and COin the working fluid to be dissolved in the water and seawater. The inert gas is separated from the fluids and recycled within the system. The fluids are pumped overboard.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07937930&OS=07937930&RS=07937930
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 07937930
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 19920807
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"GOVINT":[{},{}],"heading":["STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENT INTEREST","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENT"],"p":["The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.","This patent application is copending with the related applications by the same inventor filed on the same date as subject patent entitled Closed Cycle Brayton Propulsion System with Direct Heat Transfer, Ser. No. 07\/926,116, filed 7 Aug. 1992 Closed Brayton Cycle Direct Contact Reactor\/Storage Tank with Chemical Scrubber, Ser. No. 07\/926,090, filed 7 Aug. 1992 Brayton Cycle Direct Contact Reactor\/Storage Tank with OAfterburner, Ser. No. 07\/926,200, filed 7 Aug. 1992 Brayton Cycle Power System with Direct Combustion Heat Transfer, Ser. No. 07,926,115, filed 7 Aug. 1992.","(1) Field of the Invention","The present invention relates to a system and a process for providing power using a semiclosed Brayton cycle with direct heat transfer. More particularly the invention relates to a diesel fueled Brayton cycle system using an inert gas as a major portion of the working fluid. This system is of particular use in torpedo and unmanned underwater vehicle propulsion systems.","(2) Description of the Prior Art","Current underwater propulsion systems are typically closed Rankine cycle power systems utilizing lithium as a fuel, a chlorofluorocarbon as an oxidant, and water as a working fluid. In a Rankine system, the working fluid is compressed, heated until vaporization, and then expanded through a turbine to produce power. Upon exiting the turbine, the low pressure vapor is condensed to a liquid, and the cycle is repeated. In a typical underwater propulsion system the working fluid is heated as it passes through heat transfer tubes that are wrapped to form a cylindrical annulus within the system's heat exchanger. The center of the cylinder contains liquid metal fuel to heat the working fluid being carried by the heat transfer tubes. The working fluid, water, and the liquid metal fuel, lithium, react chemically with one another; therefore, a leak in the heat transfer tubes causes a violent reaction which generates a significant amount of heat and gas resulting in failure of the heat exchanger and the underwater device. Furthermore, should a leak occur in a land based system, the system will release a toxic cloud of LiOH into the environment. Other problems the phase change of the working fluid, severe stress of the oxidant injectors due to high reaction zone temperatures, and slow start up time.","An alternative to the closed cycle Rankine power system is a closed or semiclosed Brayton cycle system. In a Brayton cycle, there is no phase change and accordingly, no noise associated therewith. The Brayton cycle is also more efficient than the Rankine cycle despite the fact that more energy is required to compress a gas than to pump an equivalent mass of liquid. Prior art Brayton cycle systems cannot be used in underwater systems because the components of the Brayton cycle, principally the conventional Brayton heat exchanger, will not fit in the restricted space available in underwater vehicles.","A compact heat exchanger can be made by increasing gas velocity through the heat exchanger to achieve higher heat transfer coefficients; however, this results in greater heat exchanger pressure drop. Increasing gas velocity is used successfully in Rankine cycle systems because pump power is a small fraction of gross power ( 1\/50) and pump losses are small by comparison. Accordingly, there is no significant reduction in cycle efficiency. In the Brayton cycle, however, compressor power is typically a large part of the gross power (\u00bd); therefore, small increases in gas velocity and heater pressure drop reduce the Brayton cycle efficiency below that of the Rankine cycle.","My other listed inventions with which this application is copending relate to direct contact closed Brayton cycle power systems using liquid metal fuel. The size and weight penalty of the Brayton's hot side heat exchanger is eliminated by direct contact heat transfer between the working fluid which is an inert gas such as helium, argon, xenon, or a mixture of inert gases, and a liquid metal bath of a material such as lithium, sodium, potassium, aluminum, magnesium, or an alloy.","Accordingly, it is a general purpose and object of the present invention to provide an improved Brayton cycle power system. A further object of this invention is that the system be compact and capable of higher power densities than the molten metal versions and have the added advantage of burning a hydrocarbon fuel with oxygen.","These and other objects are accomplished with the present invention by providing a semiclosed system utilizing a Brayton cycle. In this invention, combustion occurs in a combustor between diesel fuel and Owith an inert gas present. During combustion, a heated high pressure working fluid of steam, CO, and inert gas is formed. The heated working fluid is expanded in a turbine and then used in a regenerator to heat the cooler, compressed working fluid before this fluid is transferred to the combustor. The expanded working fluid is mixed with seawater causing the steam within the expanded working fluid to condense to water. The COis dissolved in the water and seawater, and the inert gas is separated from the other components. The inert gas is recycled within the system, and the water, seawater, and COsolution is pumped overboard.","Referring now to  there is shown a semiclosed Brayton cycle power system . System  has a storage tank\/separator  initially containing an inert gas . Preferably, the inert gas is argon; however, the gas can also be a mixture of helium and xenon. The inert gas is compressed in a compressor  and transported to a regenerator  wherein the gas is partially heated. Upon exit from regenerator  the partially heated gas is mixed with oxygen from Osource  by mixing valve . The resulting gas mixture is transported to a combustor . Diesel fuel from diesel fuel tank  is also transported to combustor  via diesel fuel control valve . Combustion of diesel fuel and oxygen occurs in combustor  by conventional means. The diluent inert gas mixed with oxygen acts to reduce the combustion temperature and prevent damage to combustor . Combustion results in the formation of a steam, CO, and hot inert gas working fluid. The steam\/CO\/inert gas working fluid is communicated to a turbine  where the working fluid is expanded driving output shaft . Output shaft  is mechanically connected to drive compressor  and auxiliary compressor . Shaft extension allows power to be withdrawn from system . The mechanical connection between turbine  and auxiliary compressor  is symbolically shown by dashed line . The steam\/CO\/inert gas working fluid after being expanded in turbine  is routed to regenerator . The remaining heat from the working fluid mixture is used to preheat the inert gas as mentioned previously. Regenerator  operates by conventional means. There is no direct contact in the regenerator  between the inert gas from the compressor  and the working fluid mixture of steam\/CO\/inert gas. The steam\/CO\/inert gas working fluid is then transmitted to a spray cooler\/condenser  and cooled by direct contact with large amounts of cold seawater. Spray cooler\/condenser  is a constant enthalpy cooler providing a large amount of shearing and mixing between the working fluid and the seawater to promote dissolution of the COand condensation of the steam. The seawater, water, COand inert gas mixture is then routed to storage tank\/separator . The fluid components , water and seawater with COdissolved therein, are allowed to settle to the bottom of storage tank\/separator  where they can be pumped overboard by a seawater discharge pump . The remaining gas , mostly inert gas with a trace of CO, is routed back to compressor  inlet.","As with any Brayton propulsion system speed and power are regulated by adding or removing mass from the system. Auxiliary compressor  is available to remove the inert gas from compressor  discharge and forward the inert gas to an accumulator  through an accumulator input valve . Inert gas can also be added to the system from accumulator  through an accumulator output valve  to compressor . For most power levels and depths of operation, auxiliary compressor  will not be brought into operation.","There has therefore been described a new direct contact Brayton power system that utilizes an inert gas. Because of its use of hydrocarbon fuel, torpedo room refueling of a recovered underwater vehicle is possible. Eliminating the liquid metal fuels of previous designs reduces environmental hazards and increases community acceptance. This approach has the advantage of high power levels since both the heating and cooling processes are via direct contact. The direct contact combustion of diesel fuel and Ois a highly developed low risk technology. Very high temperatures are now easily achieved resulting in improved cycle efficiency.","An alternate method of start up requiring slight alterations is by blowdown of the accumulator  to the turbine  rather than blowdown of storage tank\/separator  in the preferred embodiment. The transient response of the present system is much improved over those previously designed.","It will be understood that various changes in the details, materials, steps and arrangement of parts, which have been herein described and illustrated in order to explain the nature of the invention, may be made by those skilled in the art within the principle and scope of the invention as expressed in the appended claims."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["A more complete understanding of the invention and many of the attendant advantages thereto will be readily appreciated as the invention becomes better understood by reference to the following detailed description when considered in conjunction with the accompanying drawing wherein:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 1"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
