---
title: Method and apparatus for providing an alert with information signal between a mobile switching center and a base station
abstract: The invention is a method and apparatus for providing an Alert With Information Message signal between a mobile switching center and a base station in a cellular communication system. The invention recognizes that current provisions of the IS-634 standard lack support for certain required functionality on the interface between a mobile switching center and a base station, or the A-Interface. An Alert With Information Message signal is introduced on the A-Interface to support the required functionality. Introduction of the Alert With Information Message provides support for reliable call processing on the A-Interface for the call waiting procedure, the hard handoff procedure, and the resolution of a glare condition.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=06870823&OS=06870823&RS=06870823
owner: Qualcomm Inc
number: 06870823
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 19970527
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"p":["This application claims the benefit of Provisional Application No. 60\/040,319, filed Feb. 14, 1997.","I. Field of the Invention","The present invention relates to spread spectrum telecommunications systems. More particularly, the present invention relates to a novel and improved messaging method and apparatus in a CDMA communication system.","II. Description of the Related Art","The use of code division multiple access (CDMA) modulation techniques is one of several techniques for facilitating communications in which a large number of system users are present. Although other techniques such as time division multiple access (TDMA), frequency division multiple access (FDMA), and amplitude modulation (AM) schemes such as amplitude companded single sideband (ACSSB) are known, CDMA has significant advantages over these other techniques. The use of CDMA techniques in a multiple access communication system is disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 4,901,307, entitled \u201cSPREAD SPECTRUM MULTIPLE ACCESS COMMUNICATION SYSTEM USING SATELLITE OR TERRESTRIAL REPEATERS,\u201d assigned to the assignee of the present invention and incorporated by reference herein.","In the CDMA cellular system, a large number of mobile telephone system users, each having a transceiver, communicates through satellite repeaters or terrestrial stations which are also referred to as cells. Each cell includes a physical plant called a base station. A cell covers a limited geographic area and routes calls carried over cellular telephones to and from a telecommunication network via a mobile switching center. When a cellular telephone user moves into the geographic area of a new cell, the routing of that user's call may be eventually made through the new cell by a process called a \u201chandoff\u201d.","A cellular telephone or, more specifically, a mobile station, broadcasts a signal that is received by a base station. The signal is then relayed to a mobile switching center which in turn routes the signal to the public switched telephone network and to telephone lines or other mobile stations. Similarly, a signal may be transmitted from the public switched telephone network to a mobile station via a base station and a mobile switching center. The communications channel allocated for communication of information between the mobile station and the base station is called the traffic channel.","The interface between the mobile station and the base station is referred to as the Air-Interface. The telecommunications industry association (TIA) has provided a standard for CDMA call processing on the Air-Interface entitled \u201cIS-95-A Mobile Station\u2014Base Station Compatibility Standard for Dual Mode Wideband Spread Spectrum Cellular System,\u201d hereinafter IS-95-A, which is incorporated by reference. The interface between the base station and the mobile switching center is referred to as the A-Interface. The TIA has provided for call processing on the A-Interface through the standard provided in \u201cIS-634 Mobile Switching Center\u2014Base Station Interface for Public 800 MHz,\u201d which is also incorporated by reference. IS-95-A and IS-634 both define the messages and signals that are sent on their respective interfaces for the operation of a CDMA cellular telephone call.","The call flow in a CDMA environment requires processing on both the Air-Interface and the A-Interface. The successful progression of a call requires that the proper messages and signals are sent at the right times on both the Air-Interface and the A-Interface. The IS-634 standard is being developed to provide for call processing on the A-Interface. A number of problems and deficiencies are present in IS-634 which currently does not support some of the necessary operations on the A-Interface. Some of these problems and deficiencies are recognized and solved by the present invention in the manner described below.","The present invention is a novel and improved method and apparatus for providing a new message on the interface between a mobile switching center and a base station, also known as the A-Interface, of a cellular telephone system. The present invention recognizes that the A-Interface, as presently defined by the IS-634 standard, does not support some of the operations necessary for reliable call processing. Introduction of the new message will provide support for required functionality on the A-Interface.","The present invention recognizes that improvements are needed for the A-Interface to reliably handle the call waiting and the hard handoff procedures. In addition, a better technique is needed for resolving a glare condition. An Alert With Information Message is introduced on the A-Interface to improve the operation of these procedures.","Using the call waiting feature, a mobile station may have a first party of a public switched telephone network put on hold while being connected to a second party. If the second party hangs up, then according to the current procedure, a Release\/Clear Message (or an equivalent message) is sent to the mobile station, causing the mobile station to release its traffic channel. A new traffic channel must then be reestablished to reconnect the mobile with the first party. The present invention recognizes that the current procedure is unreliable in that difficulties may arise in the process of reconnecting the mobile with the first party. Moreover, Air-Interface resources are used inefficiently as the current procedure requires the release of the traffic channel and the reassignment of a new channel. To overcome these shortcomings, an Alert With Information Message is sent on the A-Interface to the base station, triggering the transmittal of an Alert With Information Message on the Air-Interface. Upon receipt of the Alert With Information Message, the mobile station is prompted to transmit a Connect Message to the mobile switching center via a base station. The mobile switching center then reconnects the first party to the mobile station, without the need to reestablish a new traffic channel.","A hard handoff occurs in a cellular system when a mobile station moves from the coverage area of one base station to the coverage area of another base station. During a mobile station terminated call, in order for the mobile to undertake handoff, it must first receive an Alert With Information Message transmitted by the base station. Under current procedure, the Alert With Information Message is generated and transmitted solely by the base station in whose coverage area the mobile is currently located. The present invention recognizes that the current procedure may cause the hard handoff procedure to be unreliable. If the mobile moves from the coverage area of a first base station to the coverage area of a second base station, the mobile station may never receive the Alert With Information Message from the first base station, resulting in a dropped call. Thus, the present invention provides for an Alert With Information Message to be generated and transmitted by the mobile switching center. While the mobile station is moving from the coverage area of the first base station to that of the second base station, the mobile switching center transmits the Alert With Information Message to the second base station. The second base station in turn transmits an Alert With Information Message to the mobile station. Having received the Alert With Information Message, handoff can now proceed without the call being dropped.","A mobile subscriber may attempt to originate a call while another party is attempting to call the same mobile subscriber, resulting in a glare condition. The Air-Interface standard, IS-95-A, provides the mobile the option of aborting the call that it is originating and responding to the call that it is receiving. However, the present invention recognizes that the mobile may not successfully receive the call because the base station is not configured to transmit the proper messages to the mobile when a glare condition occurs. In order for the mobile subscriber to respond to a call, it is necessary for the mobile to receive an Alert With Information Message. However, the standard currently does not address this situation. As a result, the call may be dropped. The present invention recognizes that the resolution of the glare condition should be undertaken at the mobile switching center. The mobile switching center, upon receiving a message indicative of a mobile originating a call and subsequently receiving a message indicative of the same mobile receiving a call, should recognize that the mobile is proceeding with receiving a call. The mobile switching center should then transmit an Alert With Information Message to the base station, triggering the base station to transmit an Alert With Information Message to the mobile station. As the Alert With Information Message is received by the mobile station, the glare condition is resolved without the call being dropped.","Benefits and advantages of the present invention will become apparent from the following description of the preferred embodiment when it is considered with reference to the drawings.","An exemplary CDMA cellular mobile telephone system in which the present invention is embodied is illustrated in FIG. . The CDMA cellular telephone system is indicated generally by  and includes a mobile switching center (MSC) , also referred to as a mobile telephone switching office (MTSO), that includes interface and processing circuitry for providing system control to the base stations. The MSC  routes telephone calls from a public switched telephone network (PSTN)  to the appropriate base station for transmission to the appropriate mobile station. The MSC  also controls the routing of calls from the mobile stations via one or more base stations to the PSTN . In addition, the MSC  may direct calls between mobile stations via the appropriate base stations. The MSC  may be coupled to the base stations by various conventional means, such as dedicated telephone lines, optical fiber links, or by radio frequency communications.","It should be understood that although the present invention is described herein within the context of a CDMA cellular communications system, it is equally applicable to other types of communication systems, such as the personal communication system (PCS). Furthermore, systems utilizing other well known transmission modulation schemes such as TDMA and FDMA as well as other spread spectrum systems may employ the present invention.","In , two exemplary base stations (BSs),  and , along with two exemplary mobile stations (MSs)  and , each including a cellular telephone, are illustrated. Arrows and represent forward and reverse code channels that define a possible communication link between BS  and MS . Arrows and define a possible communication link between BS  and MS . Similarly, BS  can establish a two-way communication link with MS  as represented by arrows and and with MS  as represented by the arrows and ","As previously mentioned, the interface between BSs  and  and MSs  and  is called the Air-Interface, and in the exemplary embodiment, call processing on the Air-Interface is governed by IS-95-A. Also as previously mentioned, the interface between MSC  and BSs  and  is called the A-Interface, and call processing on the A-Interface is governed by IS-634. The present invention recognizes that the A-Interface as currently defined by IS-634 lacks support for some of the necessary functionality for reliable call processing. In addition, the present invention recognizes that introduction of a new message on the A-Interface will cure some of the deficiencies of the A-Interface.","An exemplary procedure in which deficiencies are recognized on the A-Interface is the call waiting procedure. Call waiting is one feature available to the CDMA cellular subscriber. The call waiting feature allows a cellular subscriber to toggle between two parties on the telephone network. Call waiting may be provided in a CDMA telephone system according to the techniques disclosed in copending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 08\/535,998, entitled \u201cEarly Detection of Mobile to Mobile,\u201d filed Sep. 29, 1995, which is assigned to the assignee of the present invention and incorporated by reference herein.","An exemplary call waiting scenario is illustrated in FIG. . In , party  and party  are two parties of a PSTN. A call has been established between MS  and party . A traffic channel has been set up between MS  and BS  on the Air-Interface. Furthermore, BS  is connected to MSC  on the A-Interface by any of various conventional means as described above.","If party  calls MS  while MS  is communicating with party , MSC  will send signaling data to BS  indicating that another party is attempting to contact MS . The means for combining traffic data and signaling data is described in detail in U.S. Pat. No. 5,511,073, entitled \u201cMETHOD AND APPARATUS FOR THE FORMATTING OF DATA FOR TRANSMISSION,\u201d assigned to the assignee of the present invention and incorporated by reference herein. To inform MS  that another call is coming in, an alerting signal is relayed by BS  to MS  either by a Flash With Information message or an inband tone. Then, MS  can invoke the call waiting feature by pushing a specific key on the MS keypad. This causes the generation of a Flash With Information Message, which is sent on the Air-Interface to BS , which in turn relays the Flash With Information Message on the A-Interface to MSC . MSC  then connects party  to MS  while putting party  on hold. Thereafter, MS  may toggle between party  and party  by pushing the key on the keypad to cause the generation of the Flash With Information Message. Each time MSC  receives the Flash With Information Message, it connects MS  to the party that was previously put on hold and puts on hold the party that was previously on the line.","Referring still to , assume that party  is on hold and MS  is connected to party . If party  hangs up, then according to the current procedure, the network which is servicing party  generates a Release Message. This Release Message propagates to MSC , which then sends the Release Message to BS  on the A-Interface. BS  in turn sends a Release Message to MS  on the Air-Interface to cause MS  to release its traffic channel. MSC  then signals to BS  that party  is attempting to contact MS . This causes BS  to send a Paging message to MS  to indicate that a call is incoming. In response, MS  generates a Paging Response Message which is transmitted to BS . BS  then transmits the Paging Response Message to MSC . On receipt of a Paging Response Message, MSC  assigns a new traffic channel to MS  and MS  is reconnected to party .","The present invention recognizes that this procedure has several shortcomings. First, it does not efficiently use the Air-Interface resource, since it requires the release of the traffic channel, re-paging of MS  and the assignment of a new traffic channel. Further, the need to obtain a new traffic channel makes it difficult to reestablish the connection between MS  and party . If MS  moves away from BS  from which it is released, the page from MSC  may not be received by MS . At the very least, this increases the amount of time that party  has to wait for the reconnection with MS . There is also the possibility that the connection between MS  and party  cannot be reestablished, resulting in a dropped call. A better procedure is needed to handle the procedure for releasing party  from MS  wherein MS  is using the call waiting feature.","To overcome the shortcomings, the present invention introduces a new message for the A-Interface. A preferred embodiment of the present invention is illustrated in FIG. . The preferred embodiment provides for a new message, an Alert With Information Message, on the A-Interface. The Alert With Information Message is currently available on the Air-Interface under IS-95-A. According to IS-95-A, the Alert With Information Message is sent by a base station to a mobile station to cause the mobile to ring and to transition from a Conversation State to a Waiting For Answer State, expecting the mobile user to intervene. By providing for an Alert With Information Message on the A-Interface, the mobile switching center can better control the progress of the call waiting procedure.","Referring to , assume again that party  is on hold and MS  is in communication with party . If party  then hangs up, the network servicing party  generates a Release Message as described above. In the preferred embodiment, when the Release Message comes from the network, MSC  intercepts it, and message generator  in MSC  generates an Alert With Information Message signal, which is sent to BS  on the A-Interface. Message receiver  in BS  receives the Alert With Information Message, and BS  in turn sends an Alert With Information Message to MS  on the Air-Interface. When MS  receives the Alert With Information Message, it generates an alerting signal in the mobile and waits for the subscriber to answer. When the subscriber answers by pressing a key on keypad of MS , a Connect Message generated by MS  is sent to BS  and forwarded to MSC . On receiving the Connect Message, MSC  connects party  to MS .","In the preferred embodiment, by not permitting the Release Message (or a Clear Message) from the network to be sent to MS , MS  is not caused to release the traffic channel when party  hangs up. As a result, there is no need to expend additional Air-Interface resources for the assignment of a new traffic channel. Furthermore, the preferred embodiment does not require MS  to be paged following the release of the traffic channel to indicate that party  is still waiting to be reconnected with MS . Consequently, the risk that MS  will move away from the coverage area of BS  and not receive the page is eliminated.","A brief illustration of the steps involved in call waiting as described in the embodiment above is shown in FIG. .  shows a flow chart illustrating some of the steps involved in the processing as discussed with reference to FIG. .","Another procedure in which deficiencies are recognized on the A-Interface is the handoff procedure. In a cellular communication system, a handoff must take place when a mobile station moves from the coverage area of one base station to another base station. A geographic area in a cellular system is divided up into cells. Each cell is serviced by a corresponding base station. In a hard handoff environment, as a mobile station moves from one cell to another cell, communication with the original base station is terminated before communication with the subsequent base station is established. In a soft handoff environment, communication with the subsequent base station is established before terminating communication with the original base station. U.S. Pat. No. 5,267,261, which is incorporated by reference and assigned to the assignee of the present invention, discloses a method and system for providing soft handoff.","The hard handoff procedure in a mobile terminated call may be understood with reference to . As illustrated in , as MS  moves from the coverage area of BS to BS, a connection needs to be established between MS  and BS while MS  needs to be disconnected from BS. Both BS and BS are shown to be connected to MSC  in FIG. . However, it should be understood that a hard handoff can also occur when a mobile station moves from the control of one mobile switching center to another. In fact, the different mobile station controllers may support different modulation techniques such as TDMA or FDMA.","In , the states of a mobile station in a mobile terminated call are briefly illustrated. The states are summarized herein and explained more fully in the aforementioned document IS-95-A, pages 6-160 to 6-161.","The progression of the hard handoff procedure is dependent on the state of the mobile station. Referring to , in a mobile station terminated call, the mobile is in the Traffic Channel Initialization State, shown by block , when a traffic channel has been established between a mobile station and a base station. Upon receipt of a Base Station Acknowledgment Order from the base station, the mobile moves into the Waiting For Order State, shown by block . The mobile station then transitions into the Waiting For Answer State, illustrated by block , when it receives an Alert With Information Message from the base station. When the mobile station subscriber answers the call by pushing a specific key on the mobile station keypad, the mobile transitions into the Conversation State, represented by block . The mobile transitions into the Release State, shown by block , when conversation terminates.","According to the current procedure, a mobile station should be in the Waiting For Answer State  or the Conversation State  during hard handoff. If the mobile is in any other state, the call is likely to be dropped during hard handoff. Thus, the mobile station must receive an Alert With Information Message transmitted by the base station on the Air-Interface before the mobile station undertakes handoff. Otherwise, the handoff procedure would be unreliable. Referring again to , assume that MS  is in the coverage area of BS. If MS  subsequently moves from the coverage area of BS to the coverage area of BS while MS  is in the Waiting For Order State , MS  may not receive the Alert With Information Message sent by BS. Without receiving the Alert With Information Message, MS  cannot transition into the Waiting For Answer State  in the coverage area of BS. As a result, the call will be dropped while handoff is in progress. Thus, the present invention recognizes that a better method for handling hard handoff in a mobile station terminated call is necessary.","As previously described, providing an Alert With Information Message on the A-Interface overcomes the shortcomings in the call waiting procedure. The present invention recognizes that providing an Alert With Information Message on the A-Interface will also overcome the shortcomings in a hard handoff procedure in a mobile station terminated call. Further, it should be understood that the present invention applies to hard handoff procedures in a variety of communication environments, including CDMA, TDMA, or FDMA.","A preferred embodiment of the use of an Alert With Information Message on the A-Interface in a hard handoff procedure is illustrated in  with reference to FIG. . An Alert With Information Message is generated by message generator  in MSC  and sent to message receiver  in BS. The Alert With Information Message is sent on the A-Interface when MS  is moving from the coverage area of BS to the coverage area of BS while in the Waiting For Order State. After BS receives the Alert With Information Message from MSC , BS then sends an Alert With Information Message to MS  on the Air-Interface. Having received the Alert With Information Message, MS  can transition into the Waiting For Answer State  while in the coverage area of BS, and handoff can occur without the call being dropped. Thus, by providing for an Alert With Information Message on the A-Interface, MSC  has better control of the hard handoff procedure. Since MSC  can send the Alert With Information Message to BS, causing BS to send the Alert With Information Message to MS , MS  does not need to rely on receiving the Alert With Information Message from BS in order to transition into the Waiting For Answer State . Consequently, handoff can occur without the call being dropped. A flow chart illustrating some of the processing steps involved in hard handoff as described in the embodiment above is shown in FIG. .","Still another procedure in which deficiencies are recognized on the A-Interface is the handling of a glare condition. A glare condition is when a mobile subscriber attempts to initiate a call while another party is attempting to call the mobile subscriber. A call initiated by a mobile subscriber is referred to as a mobile station originated call, while a call made to a mobile subscriber is referred to as a mobile station terminated call.","The glare condition may be better understood by referring back to FIG. . In a mobile station originated call, an Origination Message is transmitted from a mobile station, such as MS , to a base station, such as BS , upon initiation of a call by MS . After transmission of the Origination Message but before a connection is established between MS  and the called party (party A of PSTN ), another party (party B of PSTN ) may attempt to contact the mobile subscriber and MSC  may page MS , causing in a glare condition. The Air-Interface standard, IS-95-A, permits MS  the option of aborting the call to party A and responding to the call from party B. MS  then follows the state transition sequence for a mobile station terminated call as illustrated in FIG. .","Referring now to , in a mobile station termination scenario, the mobile expects to receive an Alert With Information Message to transition from the Waiting For Order State, represented by block , to the Waiting For Answer State, represented by block . If the Alert With Information Message is not received, the mobile would time out and release the call.","It is recognized by the present invention that current procedures under IS-95-A and IS-634 do not properly resolve the glare condition. Currently, the base station is not configured to transmit an Alert With Information Message to the mobile station upon occurrence of a glare condition. The problem is explained in greater detail with reference to FIG. . Referring to , when MS  originates a call, an Origination Message is sent from MS  to BS . In response to the Origination Message, BS  transmits a BS Acknowledgment Order to MS . Meanwhile, MSC  receives an incoming call to the same MS , unaware of the origination effort in progress, and sends a Paging Request Message to BS  to initiate a mobile terminated call setup. BS  in turn sends a Page Message containing the MS address, and the Page Message is received by MS .","Due to the mobile origination attempt, BS  constructs a Service Request Message and sends the message to MSC . However, after receiving the Page Message, MS  aborts the origination call setup, and responds by transmitting a Paging Response Message, which is received by BS . But because MSC  had received a Service Request Message from BS , MSC  in response sends an Assignment Request Message to BS , requesting assignment of Air-Interface resources for the mobile station originated call. Upon receipt of the Assignment Request Message, BS  assumes that a mobile station originated call is in progress, and does not transmit an Alert With Information Message to MS . As a result, MS  times out waiting for the Alert With Information Message, and the mobile station terminated call is dropped.","In order to better resolve the glare condition, the present invention provides for still another use of the Alert With Information Message on the A-Interface. First, note that after BS  receives a Paging Response Message from MS , BS  in turn sends a Paging Response Message to MSC . Then, in a preferred embodiment, the present invention provides for an Alert With Information Message to be transmitted on the A-Interface if MSC  receives a Service Request Message and then a Paging Response Message. Still referring to , it can be seen that the Alert With Information Message may be generated in MSC  by message generator , while the Alert With Information Message may be received in BS  by message receiver . After BS  receives the Alert With Information Message from MSC , BS  then sends an Alert With Information Message to MS  on the Air-Interface. Having received the Alert With Information Message, MS  can transition into the Waiting For Answer State, and the glare condition is resolved without the call being dropped.","Referring now to , a flow chart illustrating some of the processing steps involved in the resolution of the glare condition as discussed with reference to  is shown. An Alert With Information Message is provided on the A-Interface to resolve the glare condition.","The present invention recognizes that for the call waiting, hard handoff, and resolution of a glare condition procedures, there are certain deficiencies in call processing on the A-Interface as currently defined by IS634. By providing an Alert With Information Message on the A-Interface, the present invention overcomes these deficiencies. The Alert With Information Message is already available on the Air-Interface under IS-95-A to cause a mobile station to transition from the Waiting For Order State to the Waiting For Answer State. An Alert With Information Message is provided on the A-Interface to trigger the transmittal of the Alert With Information Message on the Air-Interface, solving the problems of the call-waiting and handoff procedures as well as resolving the glare condition.","The previous description of the preferred embodiments is provided to enable any person skilled in the art to make or use the present invention. The various modifications to these embodiments will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art, and the generic principles defined herein may be applied to other embodiments without the use of the inventive faculty. Thus, the present invention is not intended to be limited to the embodiments shown herein but is to be accorded the widest scope consistent with the principles and novel features disclosed herein."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS"],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The features, objects, and advantages of the present invention will become more apparent from the detailed description set forth below when taken in conjunction with the drawings in which like reference characters identify correspondingly throughout and wherein:",{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00018","num":"00018"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00019","num":"00019"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00020","num":"00020"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00021","num":"00021"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 3"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00022","num":"00022"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00023","num":"00023"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00024","num":"00024"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00025","num":"00025"},"figref":["FIG. 8","FIG. 3"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00026","num":"00026"},"figref":"FIG. 9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00027","num":"00027"},"figref":"FIG. 10"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
