---
title: Transmitter and transmitting method, information editor and editing method, receiver and receiving method, information storage and storing method, and broadcasting system
abstract: A ground station multiplexes audio digital data of a plurality of audio broadcasts, GUI data, and download audio data and transmits the multiplexed signal to a receiving side through a satellite. The receiving side displays a GUI screen corresponding to an audio broadcast. When a music information selection command is input on the display screen, an audio broadcast of a music program corresponding to the music information is selected. When a music information download command is input on the display screen, download audio data corresponding to the music information is output. The download audio data is stored to a storage device so as to download audio data corresponding to a desired music title.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07890048&OS=07890048&RS=07890048
owner: Sony Corporation
number: 07890048
owner_city: Tokyo
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 19981110
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","BEST MODES FOR CARRYING OUT THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION","INDUSTRIAL UTILIZATION"],"p":["The present application is a national stage application under 35 U.S.C. \u00a7371 of International Application No. PCT\/JP98\/05044, filed Nov. 10, 1998, which claims priority from Japanese Application Nos. P09-308488, filed Nov. 11, 1997, and P09-327881, filed Nov. 28, 1997, the disclosures of which are hereby incorporated by reference herein.","1. Technical Field","The present invention relates to a transmitting apparatus and method, an information editing apparatus and method, a receiving apparatus and method, an information storing apparatus and method, and a broadcasting system suitable for transmitting music programs with a satellite broadcast.","2. Background Art","Digital satellite broadcasts have become common. The digital satellite broadcasts have higher resistance against noise and fading than conventional analog broadcasts. Thus, in the digital broadcasts, high quality signals can be transmitted. In addition, since the frequency use efficiency is improved, many channels can be accomplished. In the digital satellite broadcasts, one satellite can provide several hundred channels. In the digital satellite broadcasts, dedicated channels such as a sports channel, a movie channel, a music channel, and a news channel are provided. On these dedicated channels, special programs are broadcast 24 hours a day.","Among the dedicated channels, a music channel is one of popular channels. On conventional music channels, promotion video programs that are new music title guide programs and hit chart programs are broadcast.","On the conventional music programs, new music title guide programs and hit chart programs are transmitted with moving pictures and sound. When the listener likes a music title that is being broadcast on a music channel, he or she may want to buy a CD that contains the music title to enjoy it. In addition, the listener may want to know information of the artists of the music title and information of the album that contains the music title. It will be very convenient for the listener to obtain information of the artists and information of the album of the music title and to download data of the music title at his or her location. However, on the conventional music channel, moving pictures and sound are unidirectionally broadcast. Thus, the conventional music channels do not satisfy such needs.","Therefore, an object of the present invention is to provide a transmitting apparatus and method, an information editing apparatus and method, a receiving apparatus and method, an information storing apparatus and method, and a broadcasting system that allow the user to easily obtain information of a music title that is being broadcast.","Another object of the present invention is to provide a transmitting apparatus and method, an information editing apparatus and method, a receiving apparatus and method, an information storing apparatus and method, and a broadcasting system that allow the user to easily obtain data of a music title that is being broadcast.","The present invention is a broadcasting system having a transmitting station that broadcasts audio programs and a receiving station that receives a signal from the broadcasting system; a transmitting apparatus and a transmitting method that compose the broadcasting system; an information editing apparatus and an information editing method; a receiving apparatus and a receiving method; and an information storing apparatus and an information storing method. The transmitting station has a transmitting apparatus comprising a plurality of audio channel material supplying means for supplying a plurality of audio broadcast materials of audio digital data, a data supplying means for supplying digital data for an audio information screen corresponding to a transmitted audio broadcast, a download audio data supplying means for supplying download audio data compressed in a predetermined compressing format, a multiplexing means for multiplexing the audio digital data of the plurality of audio broadcasts, the digital data for the audio information screen corresponding to the transmitted audio broadcast, and the download audio data, and a transmitting means for transmitting the multiplexed data.","The receiving station has a receiving apparatus comprising a receiving means for receiving a signal of which audio digital data of a plurality of audio broadcasts, digital data for an audio information screen corresponding to a transmitted audio broadcast, and download audio data of audio data compressed in a predetermined compressing format have been multiplexed, a data demultiplexing means for demultiplexing the multiplexed signal into the audio digital data of the plurality of audio broadcasts, the digital data for the audio information screen corresponding to the transmitted audio broadcast, and the download audio data compressed in the predetermined compressing format, an audio reproducing means for reproducing sound from the audio digital data, a download data decoding means for decoding the download audio data, a displaying means for displaying audio information of the transmitted audio broadcast corresponding to the digital data for the audio information screen corresponding to the transmitted audio broadcast, an input means for inputting data on the display screen, and a controlling means for selecting an audio broadcast of a music program corresponding to a music information selection command that is input on the display screen through said input means and for outputting download audio data of music information corresponding to an audio information download command that is input on the display screen through said input means, and an information storing apparatus for storing the download audio data that is output from the receiving apparatus.","The broadcasting station broadcasts a signal of which audio digital data of a plurality of audio broadcast programs, digital data for an audio information screen of a transmitted audio broadcast program, and download audio data compressed in a predetermined compressing format have been compressed. The receiving side displays a screen of audio information of a received audio broadcast program corresponding to the digital data for the audio information screen corresponding to the audio broadcast program. When an audio information designation command is input on the display screen, an audio broadcast program of a music title corresponding to the music information is selected. When an audio information download designation command is input on the display screen, download music data corresponding to the music information is output. When the download audio data is stored to an information storing device, desired music data can be downloaded. Thus, information of a broadcast music title can be easily obtained. In addition, data of a desired music title can be easily stored.","In the system according to the present invention, a music program is broadcast with a digital broadcast satellite. In addition, audio data corresponding to the music program is broadcast. Thus, when the listener likes a music title that is being broadcast in the music program, he or she can buy the music title at his or her location.","Next, a first embodiment of the present invention will be described. In , reference numeral  is a ground station of the satellite broadcasting system. Audio channel program broadcast material servers A, B, . . . supply audio channel materials to the ground station . A download audio data material server  supplies download data to the ground station . A GUI data server  supplies data for a graphic user interface screen to the ground station .","The audio channel program broadcast material servers A, B, . . . are servers that supply audio programs with respective audio channels. The audio channel program broadcast materials are only audio materials. The audio channel program broadcast material servers A, B, . . . repeatedly each broadcast the same music title in a predetermined period. The music titles that are supplied by the audio channel program broadcast material servers A, B, . . . correspond to download data thereof as will be described later. The audio channels are independent from each other. The audio channels can be used in various manners. On one channel, a recommended Japanese pop music title may be repeatedly broadcast in a predetermined period. On another audio channel, a recommended American pop music title may be repeatedly broadcast in a predetermined period. On a further audio channel, a recommended jazz music title may be repeatedly broadcast in a predetermined period. Alternatively, on a plurality of channels, a plurality of music titles of the same artist may be separately broadcast.","The download audio material server  supplies download audio data corresponding to a plurality of music titles that are being broadcast in the audio channel programs. As described above, it is assumed that on one channel, a recommended Japanese pop music title is repeatedly broadcast in a predetermined period. On another audio channel, a recommended American pop music title is repeatedly broadcast in a predetermined period. On a further audio channel, a recommended jazz music title is repeatedly broadcast in a predetermined period. In this case, audio data corresponding to the recommended Japanese pop music title, the recommended American pop music title, and the recommended jazz music title is supplied as download music data.","Since music titles broadcast in the audio channel programs are only guide music broadcast programs, they may contain vocal music title guides and commercial messages.","On the other hand, the download audio data does not almost contain vocal music title guides and commercial messages. In other words, the download audio data is broadcast in the almost complete state. In addition, the sound quality of the download audio data is superior to that of the audio channel programs.","The GUI (Graphic User Interface) data server  supplies data necessary for forming a list page of music titles that are being broadcast, an information page of each music title, and an EPG (Electronic Program Guide) on a screen. As will be described later, a list of music titles whose audio data that can be downloaded and information of the music titles are displayed on the screen. The GUI data server  supplies such data.","The ground station  multiplexes audio data of audio channel materials received from the audio channel program broadcast material server A, B, . . . the download data received from the download audio data material server , and the data received from the GUI data server . At this point, the audio data on the audio channels is compressed in for example MPEG (Moving Picture Experts Group) audio format. The download audio data is compressed in for example ATRAC (Adaptive Transform Acoustic Coding) 2 format. In addition, the download audio data is encrypted with key information received from a key information server . In addition, the data received from the GUI data server is encoded in MHEG 5 (Multimedia and Hypermedia Information Coding Experts Group Phase 5) format. The multiplexed signal is scramble-QPSK modulated and transmitted.","The signal broadcast from the ground station  is received by a home receiving facility  through a satellite . The satellite  has a plurality of transponders. One transponder has a transmission capacity of for example 30 Mbps.","The home receiving facility  has a parabola antenna , an IRD  (Integrated Receiver Decoder), a storage device , and a television receiver . The parabola antenna  receives a signal from the ground station through the satellite . The received signal is supplied to an LNB (Low Noise Block Down-converter)  disposed in the parabola antenna . The output signal of the LNB  is supplied to the IRD .","The IRD  selects a signal of a predetermined channel from the received signal and demodulates\/decodes the selected signal to a video signal and an audio signal. In addition, the IRD  performs a displaying process for a list page of broadcast music titles, an information page of each music title, and an EPG corresponding to the received GUI data. An output signal of the IRD  is supplied to the television receiver .","The storage device  stores download audio data. Examples of the storage device  are an MD recorder\/player, a DCC recorder\/player, a DAT recorder\/player, and a DVD recorder\/player. Alternatively, as the storage device , a personal computer may be used. Audio data may be stored in a hard disk drive or a CD-R.","The IRD  is connected to a charging server  through for example a telephone line . An IC card that records various types of information is inserted into the IRD . When audio data is downloaded, relevant information is recorded to the IC card. The information recorded to the IC card is supplied to the charging server  through the telephone line . The charging server  charges the listener for the download audio data corresponding to the download information. Since the listener is accurately charged for the download audio data, the copyright of the music title can adequately be protected.","As described above, in the system according to the present invention, the ground station  multiplexes audio data of materials of audio channels received from the audio channel program broadcast material servers A, B, . . . , download data received from the download audio data material server , and data received from the GUI data server  and broadcasts the multiplexed signal.","When the home receiving facility  receives the broadcast signal, a graphic screen is displayed corresponding to data received from the GUI data server. When the listener performs a required operation while seeing the graphic screen, he or she can see an information page of each music title. In addition, the user can listen to a demo of each music title. When the listener performs a required operation while seeing a graphic screen, he or she can download audio data corresponding to a desired music title and record it to the storage device.","In other words, when the home receiving facility  receives the broadcast signal, as shown in , a list page  of broadcast music titles is displayed on the screen. The list page  shows artist names , , . . . , and downloadable music titles , , , . . . The list page  also shows selection buttons , , , . . . of the individual music titles.","The listener can look for a desired music title while seeing music titles on the list page . When the listener wants to see detailed information of each music title, he or she presses a selection button  for the desired music title using arrow keys of for example a remote commander.","When the listener presses the selection button  corresponding to the desired music title, as shown in , an information page  of the designated music title is displayed. The information page  of each music title shows a still picture  such as a jacket of a CD that contains the relevant music title. The information page  also shows detail information  of the music title such as an artist name, a music title, a song writer, a composer, a song text, and live information. In addition, the information page  shows a demo button , a download button , and a return button .","The demo button  is a button that allows the listener to listen to a demo of a desired music title. Thus, before buying audio data of a desired music title, the listener can listen to its demo. The download button  is a button that allows the listener to download the audio data corresponding to the music title and record it to the storage device . The return button  is a button that allows the listener to see the preceding page on the screen.","Thus, with the list page  of the broadcast music titles and the information page  of each music title, the listener can know what music titles are being broadcast. In addition, the listener can know detail information of each music title. The list page  and the information page  are displayed corresponding to the received GUI data. The GUI data contains data that defines the display position of the still picture  on the screen, the display position of text, font type and font size, and display positions of individual buttons, still picture data, and bit map data of individual buttons.","When the listener wants to listen to a demo of a desired music title, he or she presses a demo button using the keys of the remote commander. When the listener presses the demo button , an audio channel corresponding to the designated music title is selected. On each audio channel, the same music title is repeatedly broadcast in a predetermined period. When the demo button  is pressed, the audio channel corresponding to the music title is selected. Thus, the listener can listen to a demo of the music title while seeing the same screen.","When the listener wants to buy audio data corresponding to the music title, he or she presses the download button . As described above, the download audio data corresponds to the music title that is being broadcast on the relevant audio channel. Thus, when the download button  is pressed, the audio data corresponding to the selected music title is downloaded and recorded to the storage device .","To return to the list page, the listener presses the return button . When the return button  is pressed, the list screen  shown in  is displayed.","Thus, in the system according to the present invention, the list page  of the music titles and the information page  of each music program are displayed. With the list page  of the music titles and the information page  of each music title, the listener can know information of each music title. When the listener presses the demo button  corresponding to the information displayed on the screen, he or she can listen to a demo of the selected music title. When the listener presses the download button , he or she can download the audio data corresponding to the selected music title and record it to the storage device .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0066","num":"0065"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 3"],"b":["30","1","35","2"]},"When the determined result at step S is No (namely, the music title selection button  has not been pressed), the flow returns to step S. When the determined result at step S is Yes, the information page  of the selected music title is displayed (at step S).","After the information page  of the selected music title is displayed, it is determined whether or not the return button  has been pressed (at step S). When the determined result at step S is Yes (namely, the return button  has been pressed), the flow returns to step S.","When the determined result at step S is No (namely, the return button  has not been pressed), it is determined whether or not the demo button  has been pressed (at step S). When the determined result at step S is Yes (namely, the demo button  has been pressed), an audio channel corresponding to the selected music title is selected (at step S). On each audio channel, the same music title is repeatedly broadcast in a predetermined period. Thus, when the demo button  is pressed, the listener can listen to a demo of the selected music title (at step S). Thereafter, the flow returns to step S.","When the determined result at step S is No (namely, the demo button  has not been pressed), it is determined whether or not the download button  has been pressed (at step S). When the determined result at step S is No (namely, the download button  has not been pressed), the flow returns to step S.","When the determined result at step S is Yes (namely, the download button  has been pressed), the audio data corresponding to the selected music title is downloaded (at step S). After the audio data corresponding to the selected music title has been completely downloaded (at step S), a charging process for the downloaded audio data is performed (at step S). Thereafter, the flow returns to step S.","Thus, in the system according to the present invention, music titles are broadcast on a plurality of audio channels. In addition, download audio data corresponding to the music titles is broadcast. With a list page of broadcast music titles and an information page of each music title, while looking for information of each music title, the listener can easily store audio data corresponding to a desired music title to the storage device. Next, such a system will be described in detail.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0073","num":"0072"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":"1"},"In , audio data is supplied from audio channel program broadcast material servers A, B, . . . to MPEG audio encoders A, B, . . . , respectively. Download audio data is supplied from a download audio data material server  to an ATRAC 2 encoder . Data for a graphic user interface screen is supplied from a GUI data server  to a GUI data authoring circuit .","The MPEG audio encoders A, B, C, . . . compress and audio data received from the audio channel program broadcast material servers A, B, . . . in MPEG audio format and output audio packets. The audio packets are supplied to a multiplexer .","The ATRAC 2 encoder  compresses download audio data received from the download audio data material server  in ATRAC 2 format and outputs data packets. The data packets are supplied to an encrypting circuit . The encrypting circuit  encrypts the data packets. An output signal of the encrypting circuit  is supplied to a multiplexer . The audio data is encrypted so as to prevent it from being illegally downloaded and thereby protect the copyright of the audio data. At this point, information for decrypting encrypted data is supplied from an encryption information generating circuit  to the multiplexer .","The GUI data authoring circuit  processes the data for the graphic user interface screen (the data being received from the GUI data server ) and outputs data packets. The data packets are supplied to the multiplexer .","The multiplexer  multiplexes audio packets received from the MPEG audio encoders A, B, C, . . . , data packets received from the ATRAC 2 encoder  through the encrypting circuit , encryption information received from the encryption information generating circuit , and data packets received from the GUI data authoring circuit . An output signal of the multiplexer  is supplied to a scramble processing circuit . The scramble processing circuit  performs a predetermined scrambling process for the output signal of the MUX . An output signal of the scramble processing circuit  is supplied to a QPSK modulating circuit . The QPSK modulating circuit  QPSK-modulates transmission data. An output signal of the QPSK modulating circuit  is supplied to a radio frequency circuit . The radio frequency circuit  converts a carrier frequency into a predetermined frequency and amplifies the power of the transmission signal. An output signal of the radio frequency circuit  is transmitted from an antenna  to a satellite .","Thus, in the ground station , audio data on audio channels is compressed in MPEG audio format. In addition, download audio data is compressed in ATRAC 2 format. The compressed audio data, the compressed download data, and the GUI data are multiplexed and transmitted.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0080","num":"0079"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 5"],"b":["1","1","1","2","2","2","3","1","2"]},"The number of audio channels is for example 40 channels from CH to CH. On each audio channel CH, CH, CH, . . . , in each programs PRG or PRG, the same music title is repeatedly transmitted. In other words, in program PRG from time T to time T, on audio channel CH, music title B is repeatedly transmitted. On audio channel CH, music title C is repeatedly transmitted. On audio channel CH, music title D is repeatedly transmitted. In program PRG, on audio channel CH, music title B is repeatedly transmitted. On audio channel CH, music title C is repeatedly transmitted. On audio channel CH, music title D is repeatedly transmitted.","Download audio data is transmitted in the unit of two minutes. In two minutes, download audio data corresponding to  music titles is transmitted. As the download audio data, data on audio channels CH, CH, CH, . . . , and CH is transmitted.","In other words, in program PRG from time T to time T, audio data corresponding to 40 music titles (music title B, music title C, music title D, . . . ) is transmitted on audio channels CH, CH, CH, . . . , and CH, respectively, in for example two minutes. In program PRG from time T to time T, audio data corresponding to 40 music titles (music title B, music title C, music title D, . . . ) is time-axis compressed and transmitted on audio channels CH, CH, CH, . . . , and CH, respectively, in for example two minutes.","Download audio data is transmitted in the unit of for example two minutes. GUI data for displaying a list page of download audio data and a music title selection page is transmitted in the unit of 10 seconds.","As shown in , in programs PRG and PRG, data of a plurality of audio channels, download audio data, and GUI data are multiplexed and transmitted. Thus, when the bit rate of one audio channel is denoted by B, the number of audio channels is denoted by n, the bit rate of download audio data is denoted by B, and the bit rate of the GUI data is denoted by B, the total bit rate Bcan be expressed as follows.\n\n\n","When the bit rate Bof each of audio channels CH, CH, CH, . . . is 256 kbps and the number of channels n is 40, the following relation is obtained.\n\n=256 kbps\u00d740=10.2 Mbps\n","It is assumed that the bit rate of the download audio data compressed in ATRAC 2 format is 128 kbps, that the period of download audio data per music title is five minutes, and that the download audio data of 40 music titles is transmitted in two minutes. In this case, the bit rate Bof the download audio data can be expressed as follows.\n\n=128 kbps\u00d740 music titles\u00d75 minutes\u00d760 seconds\/120 seconds=12.8 Mbps\n","It is assumed that the bit rate of GUI data per music title is 200 kbytes and that the GUI data for 40 music titles is transmitted in 10 seconds.","In this case, the bit rate Bof CGI data can be expressed as follows.\n\n=200 kbytes\u00d740 music titles\u00d78 bits\/10 seconds=6.4 Mbps\n","Thus, the total bit rate Bcan be expressed as follows.\n\n=10.24 Mbps+12.8 Mbps+6.4 Mbps=29.44 Mbps\n\nWhen the bit rate of one transponder of the satellite  is 30 Mbps, data of all channels, download audio data, and GUI data can be transmitted with one transponder of the satellite .\n","Next, the home receiving facility  will be described. As shown in , the home receiving facility  is composed of the parabola antenna , the IRD , the storage device , and the television receiver . Examples of the storage device  are an MD recorder\/player, a DCC recorder\/player, a DAT recorder\/player, and a DVD recorder\/player.","Thus, the storage device  may input only an analog audio signal. The storage device  may directly input PCM audio data. The storage device  may directly input audio data compressed in for example ATRAC 2 format.","In other words, as shown in , the storage device  may be an MD recorder\/player, a DAT recorder\/player, or a DCC recorder\/player that has a digital input terminal DIN corresponding to IEC 958 standard of which audio data is transmitted with an optical cable. In this case, a digital output terminal DOUT of the IRD  is connected to a digital input terminal DIN of the storage device  with an optical fiber L corresponding to for example IEC 958 standard. The IRD  performs an ATRAC 2 decompressing process for download audio data and outputs PCM audio data. The PCM audio data is supplied to the storage device  through the IEC 958 optical cable.","As shown in , the storage device  may be an MD recorder\/player, a DAT recorder\/player, a DCC recorder\/player, or a compact cassette recorder\/player that does not have a digital input terminal. In this case, an analog output terminal AOUT of the IRD  is connected to an analog input terminal AIN of the storage device  with a cable L. The IRD  performs an ATRAC 2 decompressing process for download audio data and performs a D\/A converting process. The resultant analog data is output from the analog audio output terminal AOUT of the IRD  to the storage device  through the cable L.","As shown in , the storage device  may have a data terminal ATRAC_IN from which data compressed ATRAC 2 format can be directly input. In this case, an output terminal ATRAC_OUT of the IRD  is connected to an input terminal ATRAC_IN of the ATRAC 2 of the storage device  with for example an optical fiber L corresponding to for example IEC 958 standard. In this case, ATRAC 2 audio data is directly output from the IRD  to the storage device  through the IEC 958 optical cable.","Thus, the storage device  may input PCM audio data, analog data, or ATRAC 2 data. In addition, the storage device  may have a terminal from which an external control signal is input and the operation state of the storage device  is controlled corresponding thereto. In this case, a control signal is exchanged between the IRD  and the storage device . With a control signal received from the IRD , download audio data can be automatically recorded to the storage device .","In other words, as shown in , when the storage device  is for example an MD recorder\/player, a DAT recorder\/player, or a DCC recorder\/player that has a digital input terminal DIN corresponding to for example IEC 958 standard (of which audio data is supplied with an optical fiber) and an input\/output terminal CTL for a control signal, a digital output terminal DOUT of the IRD  is connected to a digital input terminal DIN of the storage device  with an optical cable L. In addition, a control signal input\/output terminal CTL of the IRD  is connected to a control signal input\/output terminal CTL of the storage device  with a cable L. Thus, a control signal is exchanged between the IRD  and the storage device . When audio data is downloaded, corresponding to a control signal received from the IRD , the storage device  is placed in record mode. The IRD  performs an ATRAC 2 decompressing process for the download audio data and outputs PCM audio data to the storage device  through the cable L.","As shown in , when the storage device  is for example an MD recorder\/player, a DAT recorder\/player, or a DCC recorder\/player that does not has a PCM input terminal and that has an input\/output terminal CTL for a control signal, an analog output terminal AOUT of the IRD  is connected to an analog input terminal AIN of the storage device  with a cable L. In addition, a control signal input\/output terminal CTL of the IRD  is connected to a control signal input\/output terminal CTL of the storage device  with a cable L. Thus, a control signal is exchanged between the IRD  and the storage device . When audio data is downloaded, corresponding to a control signal received from the IRD , the storage device  is placed in record mode. The IRD  performs an ATRAC 2 decompressing process for the download audio data and performs a D\/A converting process. The resultant analog audio signal is supplied to the storage device  through the cable L.","As shown in , when the storage device  is for example an MD recorder\/player, a DAT recorder\/player, or a DCC recorder\/player that has an input terminal ATRAC_IN corresponding to ATRAC 2 format and that has an input\/output terminal CTL for a control signal, an ATRAC 2 output terminal ATRAC_OUT of the IRD  is connected to an ATRAC 2 input terminal ATRAC_IN of the storage device  with an optical cable L. In addition, a control signal input\/output terminal CTL of the IRD  is connected to the control signal input\/output terminal CTL of the storage device  with a cable L. Thus, a control signal is exchanged between the IRD  and the storage device . When audio data is downloaded, corresponding to a control signal received from the ID , the storage device  is placed in record mode. The IRD  directly supplies the download audio data corresponding to ATRAC 2 format to the storage device  through the cable L.","As shown in , when the storage device  is for example an MD recorder\/player, a DAT recorder\/player, or a DCC recorder\/player that has a digital interface DIF corresponding to for example IEEE 1394 standard, the digital interface DIF of the IRD  is connected to the digital interface DIF of the storage device  with a cable L. In this case, while a signal is exchanged between the IRD  and the storage device , the downloaded audio data can be supplied from the IRD  to the storage device .","In the above description, the recording method of audio data to the storage device  has not been mentioned. In particular, in the storage devices shown in , C, and D, since ATRAC 2 data is input, it is preferable to record data that has been compressed in ATRAC 2 format. In other words, when compressed data is recorded, since the ATRAC 2 decoding process or the like is not required, in the broadcasting format shown in , downloaded audio data corresponding to music titles can be stored to the storage device  in two minutes.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0102","num":"0101"},"figref":["FIG. 8","FIG. 8"],"b":["22","21","2","21","25","22","25"]},"An output signal of the LNB  is supplied to a tuner circuit . The tuner circuit  selects a signal with a predetermined frequency from the received signal corresponding to a setup signal received from the controller .","An output signal of the tuner circuit  is supplied to a QPSK demodulating circuit . The QPSK demodulating circuit  QPSK-demodulates the received signal into a bit stream. An output signal of the QPSK demodulating circuit  is supplied to an error correcting circuit . The error correcting circuit  detects and corrects an error of the output signal of the QPSK demodulating circuit .","An output signal of the error correcting circuit  is supplied to a descrambler & demultiplexer . The descrambler & demultiplexer  receives the bit stream signal from the error correcting circuit , descrambles the received signal, and temporarily stores the resultant signal to a data buffer memory . Thereafter, the descrambler & demultiplexer  frames the descrambled signal into a sequence of packets, determines whether or not each packet is desired data, and demultiplexes each packet.","The ground station  transmits video data and audio data of conventional broadcast programs, audio data of a plurality of channels, download audio data, and GUI data. The video data has been compressed in MPEG 2 format. The audio data has been compressed in MPEG audio format. The download audio data has been compressed in ATRAC 2 format.","The demultiplexer  demultiplexes the received packets into video data and audio data, download audio data, and GUI data.","The video data demultiplexed by the demultiplexer  is supplied to an MPEG 2 video decoder . The MPEG 2 video decoder  appropriately stores the input digital video signal to the buffer memory  and decodes the video signal that has been compressed in MPEG 2 format. The MPEG 2 video decoder  decodes a component video signal.","An output signal of the MPEG 2 video decoder  is supplied to a video encoder  corresponding to for example NTSC standard. The analog video encoder  forms a composite video signal corresponding to for example NTSC standard with a component video signal. The resultant video signal is obtained from an output terminal .","Audio data of conventional TV programs and audio data of audio channels are supplied to an MPEG audio decoder . The MPEG audio decoder  appropriately stores an input digital audio signal to a buffer memory  and decodes the digital audio signal.","An output signal of the MPEG audio decoder  is supplied to a D\/A converter . The D\/A converter  converts a digital audio signal into an analog audio signal. An output signal of the D\/A converter  is obtained from an output terminal .","The download audio data is temporarily stored in a buffer memory . An output signal of the buffer memory  is supplied to a decrypting circuit . As was described above, the download audio data has been encrypted. A decryption key is generated from an IC card .","Information that represents that audio data has been completely downloaded is supplied from the buffer memory  to a gate circuit . In addition, information necessary for decrypting encrypted data is supplied from the demultiplexer  to the gate circuit .","When audio data is downloaded, it is stored in the buffer memory . At this point, the gate circuit  becomes open and causes the information necessary for decrypting encrypted data to be supplied to the IC card . Thus, the IC card  supplies the decrypting key to the decrypting circuit . The decrypting circuit  decrypts encrypted data with the decrypting key received from the IC card . At this point, charging information is stored in the IC card .","An output signal of the decrypting circuit  is supplied to an ATRAC 2 decoder  and a terminal B of a switch circuit . The ATRAC 2 decoder  performs the ATRAC 2 decoding process and outputs a PCM audio signal. The PCM audio signal is supplied to an input terminal A of the switch circuit .","The switch circuit  is controlled by a controller . When the switch circuit  is placed on the terminal A side, the switch circuit  outputs a PCM audio signal. When the switch circuit  is placed on the terminal B side, the switch circuit  outputs a digital audio signal that has been compressed in ATRAC 2 format.","An output signal of the switch circuit  is supplied to a water mark adding circuit . The water mark adding circuit  adds an electronic water mark to audio data so as to protect the copyright of the audio data.","An output signal of the water mark adding circuit  is supplied to a digital signal output terminal  and a D\/A converter . The D\/A converter  converts a digital audio signal into an analog audio signal. The resultant analog audio signal is obtained from an output terminal . The digital signal output terminal  outputs a digital audio signal (with a water mark) in IEC 958 format.","The GUI data demultiplexed by the demultiplexer  is supplied to the controller . The controller  generates a list page and an information page of each music title corresponding to the GUI data. The data of the list page and the information page is written to a particular area of the buffer memory . Thus, the list page of music titles that are broadcast and the information page of each music title can be displayed on the screen.","The controller  controls all processes of the IRD . Data is input to the controller  through an input key pad . A modem  is connected to the controller . Information necessary for charging audio data is recorded to the IC card . Information recorded to the IC card  is transmitted to a charging server  (see ) by the controller  and the modem  through a telephone line .","The IRD  also has a control signal input\/output terminal . The control signal input\/output terminal  is connected to the controller . A control signal is exchanged between the storage device  and the controller  through the control terminal .","The IRD  also has a digital interface  corresponding to IEEE 1394 standard. An output signal of the water mark adding circuit  is obtained from the digital interface . In addition, a control signal is exchanged with the controller  through the digital interface .","Thus, the IRD  has the output terminal  for outputting an analog audio signal (the output terminal  corresponds to the output terminal AOUT shown in ), the data output terminal  corresponding to IEC 958 standard for outputting PCM audio data or ATRAC 2 compressed audio data (the data output terminal  corresponds to the output terminal DOUT or ATRAC_OUT shown in ), the digital interface  corresponding to IEEE 1394 standard (the digital interface  corresponds to the digital interface DIF shown in ), and the control signal input\/output terminal  (that corresponds to the control signal input\/output terminal CTL shown in ).","When the storage device  has only the analog audio input terminal AIN, the analog audio signal output terminal  is used to connect the IRD  and the storage device .","When the storage device  has the a PCM signal digital input terminal DIN, the data output terminal  is used to connect the IRD  and the storage device . At this point, the storage circuit  is placed on the terminal A side.","When the storage device  has the ATRAC data input terminal ATRAC_IN, the digital signal output terminal  is used to connect the IRD  and the storage device . At this point, the switch circuit  is placed on the terminal B side.","When the storage device  has the control signal input\/output terminal CTL, the storage device  exchanges data with the control signal input\/output terminal CTL.","When the storage device  has the digital interface DIF corresponding to IEEE 1394 standard, the digital interface  of the IRD  is connected to the digital interface DIF of the storage device . Audio data and a control signal are exchanged between the IRD  and the storage device .","Thus, the digital signal output terminal  is shared with PCM data and ATRAC 2 audio data and is switched over by the switch circuit .","In other words, when the storage device  has the PCM data digital input terminal DIN, the switch circuit  is placed on the terminal A side. When the storage device  has the terminal ATRAC_IN, the switch circuit  is placed on the terminal B side. When the switch circuit  is placed on the terminal A side, downloaded ATRAC 2 data is supplied to the ATRAC 2 decoder . The ATRAC 2 decoder  decodes the downloaded ATRAC 2 data. The decoded data is obtained from the data output terminal  through the switch circuit  and the water mark adding circuit . When the switch circuit  is placed on the terminal B side, downloaded ATRAC 2 data is obtained from the data output terminal  through the switch circuit  and the water mark adding circuit .","In the above-described example, download audio data has been compressed in ATRAC 2 format. However, the compressing format of the present invention is not limited to ATRAC 2 format. In other words, another compressing format, for example ATRAC format can be used.","As described above, in the system according to the present invention, in addition to conventional music programs, music titles are broadcast on a plurality of audio channels. Moreover, download audio data and GUI data are broadcast. On audio channels, the same music title is repeatedly broadcast in a predetermined period. Thus, the listener can select a desired music title and download audio data corresponding to the selected music title to the storage device.","Next, with reference to , , and , a second embodiment of the present invention will be described. In , blocks similar to those in , , and  are denoted by similar reference numerals. In the first embodiment, pictures are not broadcast. However, in the second embodiment, pictures corresponding to audio channels are also broadcast. In other words, while a music TV program is being broadcast, music titles corresponding to the music TV program are broadcast on audio channels. In addition, audio data corresponding to music titles broadcast on the audio channels can be downloaded.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0134","num":"0133"},"figref":["FIG. 9","FIG. 9","FIG. 1","FIG. 9","FIG. 1"],"b":["11","11","11"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0135","num":"0134"},"figref":["FIG. 10","FIG. 10","FIG. 4","FIG. 4"],"b":["1","11","51","51","11","51","51","11","51","57","11","51","57","1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0136","num":"0135"},"figref":["FIG. 11","FIG. 11","FIG. 5","FIG. 11","FIG. 11","FIG. 5"],"b":["1","1","1","2","1","1","2","3","2","2","3","2","12","13"]},"In the system according to the second embodiment, in addition to conventional music TV programs, audio music programs are broadcast on a plurality of audio channels. In addition, download audio data and GUI data are broadcast. On each audio channel, the same music title is repeatedly broadcast in a predetermined period. Thus, the listener can select a desired music title and download audio data corresponding to the selected music title to the storage device.","The system may broadcast only conventional video music programs, music titles on a plurality of audio channels, and GUI data rather than download audio data. In this case, as shown in , a download audio data material server is not required on the transmitting side. In a conventional music broadcast program, video data that has been compressed in MPEG 2 format and audio data are transmitted. In addition, the same music title is repeatedly broadcast in a predetermined period on each audio channel.","Moreover, as shown in , an ATRAC decoder that decodes download audio data is not required on the receiving side. A program transmitted on a conventional music broadcast channel and a program transmitted on each audio channel are the same as those in the system that transmits download audio data.","In the system that does not transmit download audio data, although audio data cannot be downloaded, on a screen as shown in , the listener can listen to a demo of a desired music title. In addition, audio data that has been compressed in MPEG audio format is transmitted on each audio channel. Thus, audio data transmitted on each audio channel can be recorded to the storage device.","In the above-described first and second embodiments, the storage device that downloads audio data corresponding to a received music title is for example an MD recorder\/player, a DAT recorder\/player, or a compact cassette recorder\/player. The storage device may be a compact cassette recorder\/player that has only an analog input. The storage device may be an MD recorder\/player or a DAT recorder\/player that has a PCM (Pulse Code Modulation) audio data input. The download music data is compressed in for example ATRAC 2 format. The storage device may directly input ATRAC 2 data. The storage device may have a mode setting function of which the mode of the storage device can be set with an external control signal. The storage device may have a digital interface corresponding to for example IEEE 1394 format.","Thus, a variety of types of the storage device may be connected to the IRD. Thus, the IRD should be connected to the storage device in an optimum connecting state. However, when the user sets the optimum connecting state corresponding to the storage device, he or she should pay a special attention for the connection of the storage device to the IRD.","To solve such a problem, when audio data is downloaded, a process shown in  is performed by the IRD  shown in . Thus, the optimum terminal is automatically selected. Next, a process for automatically selecting the optimum terminal will be described as a third embodiment of the present invention. The process is performed by the IRD .","In , a check command is sent to the control signal input\/output terminal  (at step S). It is determined whether or not a device has been connected to the control signal input\/output terminal  of the storage device  (at step S).","When the determined result at step S is Yes (namely, a device has been connected to the control signal input\/output terminal ), corresponding to a control signal, data is exchanged between the IRD  and the storage device . Thereafter, it is determined whether or not the storage device  has a data input terminal corresponding to for example IEC 958 standard (at step S).","When the determined result at step S is Yes (namely, the storage device  has a data input terminal corresponding to for example IEC 958 standard), the data output terminal  is enabled (at step S). Thereafter, it is determined whether or not the storage device  has an analog audio input terminal (at step S).","When the determined result at step S is No (namely, the storage device  does not have an IEC 958 input terminal), the flow advances to step S. At step S, it is determined whether or not the storage device  has an analog audio input terminal.","When the determined result at step S is Yes (namely, the storage device  has an analog audio input terminal), the analog audio signal output terminal  is enabled (at step S). Thereafter, it is determined whether or not the storage device  has an ATRAC 2 input terminal (at step S).","When the determined result at step S is No (namely, the storage device  does not have an analog audio input terminal), the flow advances to step S. At step S, it is determined whether or not the storage device  has an ATRAC 2 input terminal.","When the determined result at step S is Yes (namely, the storage device  has an ATRAC 2 input terminal), the ATRAC 2 data output is enabled (at step S). In other words, the switch circuit  shown in  is placed on the terminal B side. Thereafter, the user is prompted for an output selection (at step S). Data corresponding to the output selection of the user is output (at step S).","When the determined result at step S is No (namely, the storage device  does not have an ATRAC 2 input terminal), the user is prompted for an output selection (at step S). Data corresponding to the output selection of the user is output (at step S).","When the determined result at step S is No (namely, a device has not been connected to the control signal input\/output terminal  of the storage device ), it is determined whether or not a predetermined time period has elapsed (at step S). When the determined result at step S is Yes (namely, the predetermined time period has elapsed), a check command that determines whether or not an IEEE 1394 device has been connected is sent to the digital interface  (at step S). Thereafter, it is determined whether or not information corresponding to the check command has been received from the device (at step S).","When the determined result at step S is Yes (namely, the information has been received from the device), it is determined whether or not the device can record ATRAC 2 data (at step S). When the determined result at step S is Yes (namely, the device can record ATRAC 2 data), the switch circuit  is placed on the terminal B side. In addition, the ATRAC 2 data is output from the digital interface  (at step S). When the determined result at step S is No (namely, the device cannot record ATRAC 2 data), the switch circuit  is placed on the terminal A side. Thus, PCM data is output from the digital interface  (at step S).","When the determined result at step S is No (namely, the information has not been received from the device), it is determined whether or not a timeout has taken place (at step S). When the determined result at step S is Yes (namely, a timeout has taken place), the manual mode is set (at step S).","In the above-described example, download data has been compressed in ATRAC 2 format. However, according to the present invention, the compressing format is not limited to ATRAC 2 format. In other words, another compressing format for example ATRAC format may be used.","Next, a fourth embodiment of the present invention will be described. In a digital satellite broadcast, a signal is unidirectionally broadcast from a broadcasting station to a receiving station. Thus, when a music title that is broadcast is recorded to a storage device, unless the recording timing is carefully set, the beginning and end of the music title may not be recorded.","In other words, when a music title that is broadcast is recorded by an MD recorder\/player or the like, the user places the MD recorder\/player in record pause mode until the broadcast of the music title starts. After the broadcast of the music title starts, the user switches record pause mode of the MD recorder\/player or the like to record mode. After the broadcast of the music title ends, the user stops record mode of the MD recorder\/player. However, it is troublesome for the user to start and stop record mode of the MD recorder\/player. In addition, unless the user pays a special attention for the recording timing, the beginning and end of the music title may be lost.","To solve such a problem, identification signal generating circuits A, B, . . . are disposed as shown in . The identification signal generating circuits A, B, . . . generate a tart flag and an end flag. Corresponding to the start position and the end position of each music title, the start flag and the end flag are added. In other words, as shown in , transmitted MPEG audio data is composed of a header, an error check code, audio data, transmission channel data, multilingual data, and ancillary data. As ancillary data, the start flag and the end flag are inserted.","The start flag and the end flag allow data of an audio channel received on the home receiving facility  side to be accurately recorded to the storage . The start flag and the end flag are used to reserve a music title recorded on the receiving facility  side. When the ATRAC 2 encoder  forms packets, the ID generating circuits  generates ID data corresponding to the start position and the end position of each music title. The ID data is included in the header of each data packet. With the ID data, received data of an audio channel can be securely recorded to the storage  on the home receiving facility  side. The flags and ID data are also used to allow a music program to be reserved on the home receiving facility  side.","In other words, as shown in , a start flag SFLG and an end flag EFLG are added to the beginning and the end of audio data transmitted on each of audio channels CH, CH, . . . , respectively. Thus, when the beginning of a music title is detected with the start flag, the recording operation of the music title to the storage device  starts. When the end of the music title is detected with the end flag EFLG, the recording operation of the music title to the storage device  ends. To detect the start flag SFLG and the end flag EFLG, as shown in , the IRD  has a flag detecting circuit  that detects the start flag SFLG and the end flag EFLG of audio data transmitted on an audio channel. With the start flag and the end flag, the listener can accurately record a desired music title to the storage device  without need to consider the record timing.","In other words, when the listener wants to record a music title on an audio channel to the storage device , he or she presses a record button  of a GUI as shown in . When the record button  is pressed, audio data corresponding to the selected music title is downloaded and recorded to the storage device .","When the listener wants to download ATRAC 2 data, he or she presses a download button  of the GUI shown in . When the listener presses the download button , ATRAC 2 data corresponding to the selected music title is downloaded and recorded to the storage device . As shown in , at the beginning and end of download ATRAC 2 data, ID data id is added to the header of each packet data. Thus, when the beginning of the music title is detected with the ID data id, the recording operation of the music title to the storage device  starts. When the end of the music title is detected with the ID data id, the recording operation of the music title to the storage device  stops. To detect the ID data id, as shown in , the IRD  has an ID detecting circuit .","Thus, according to the fourth embodiment, a music title information page  is displayed on a GUI screen . With the information page , the listener can know information of each music title. When the listener selects the music title, he or she can listen to a demo of the music title. When the listener presses the record button , an audio signal corresponding to the music title on an audio channel is recorded to the storage device . When the listener presses the download button , the audio data corresponding to the music title is downloaded and recorded to the storage device .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0164","num":"0163"},"figref":["FIG. 22","FIG. 22"],"b":["47","23","71","77","22","80","83","23"]},"When a broadcast signal is received (at step S), a graphic screen is displayed corresponding to GUI data (at step S). At this point, the storage device  side has been placed in record standby mode (at step S).","When a music title is selected with the music title selection button (at step S), an information page of the selected music title is displayed. In addition, an audio channel of the selected music title is selected. Since the same music title is repeatedly broadcast in a predetermined period on each audio channel, the listener can repeatedly listen to the selected music title (at step S).","When the record button  is pressed (at step S), the start flag SFLG is detected. When the first start flag SFLG is detected, the IRD  sends a record start command to the storage device  (at step S).","When the storage device  side receives a record start command from the IRD , the storage device  is placed in record mode (at step S). The storage device  continues the recording operation until the storage device  receives a record end command from the IRD  (at step S).","Thereafter, the IRD  detects the end flag EFLG. When the IRD  detects the end flag EFLG, the IRD  sends the record end command to the storage device  (at step S).","When the storage device  receives the record end command from the IRD , the recording operation of the storage device  stops (at step S).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0171","num":"0170"},"figref":["FIG. 23","FIG. 23"],"b":["45","23","91","97","22","101","104","23"]},"When a broadcast signal is received (at step S), a graphic screen corresponding to GUI data is displayed (at step S). At this point, the storage device  has been placed in record standby mode (at step S).","When a music title is selected with the music title selection button (at step S), an information page  of the selected music title is displayed. In addition, an audio channel corresponding to the selected music title is selected. On each audio channel, the same music title is repeatedly broadcast in a predetermined period. Thus, the listener can repeatedly listen to the selected music title (at step S).","When the download button  is pressed (at step S), ID data is detected. When the ID data is detected, a record start command is sent from the IRD  to the storage device  (at step S).","When the storage device  side receives the record start command from the IRD , the storage device  is placed in record mode (at step S). The storage device  continues the recording operation until the storage device  receives a record end command from the IRD  (at step S).","The IRD  side detects ID data. When the IRD  side detects the ID data, the IRD  sends the record end command to the storage device  (at step S). Thereafter, the flow returns to step S.","When the storage device  side receives the record end command from the IRD , the recording operation of the storage device  stops (at step S). Thereafter, the flow returns to step S.","In the above-described example, the record button  and the download button  are operated for each music title so as to record it to the storage device . Alternatively, a plurality of music titles may be reserved and successively recorded or downloaded.","In other words, when a plurality of music titles are reserved with a reserve button  and a record button  as shown in , reserved music titles , , . . . are displayed as shown in . When a plurality of music titles are reserved, audio channels are successively selected and the reserved music titles are recorded to the storage device in the reserved order.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0180","num":"0179"},"figref":["FIG. 26","FIG. 26"],"b":["48","23","111","117","22","121","124","23"]},"When a broadcast signal is received (at step S), a graphic screen corresponding to GUI data is displayed (at step S). At this point, the storage device  has been placed in record standby mode (at step S).","When a plurality of music titles are successively selected with the reserve button  and then the record button  is pressed, a reserve recording operation is performed (at step S).","An audio channel corresponding to the first reserved music title is selected. The start flag SFLG is detected. When the first start flag SFLG is detected, a record start command is sent from the IRD  to the storage device  (at step S).","When the storage device  side receives the record start command from the IRD , the storage device  is placed in record mode (at step S). The storage device  continues the recording operation until the storage device  receives a record end command from the IRD  (at step S).","Next, the IRD  side detects the end flag EFLG. When the IRD  detects the end flag EFLG, the IRD  sends a record end command to the storage device  (at step S).","When the storage device  side receives the record end command from the IRD , the recording operation of the storage device  stops (at step S). Thereafter, the flow returns to step S.","The IRD  determines whether or not the storage device has recorded the last reserved music title (at step S). When the determined result at step S is No, the IRD  selects the next reserved music title (at step S). Thereafter, the flow returns to step S. At step S, the IRD  performs the similar process. Thus, the storage device  records the next music title. After the storage device  has recorded the last music title, the flow returns to step S.","When a plurality of music titles are selected with the reserve button  and then the download button  is pressed, as shown in , reserved music title numbers , , . . . are displayed. When a plurality of music titles are reserved, download audio data corresponding to the reserved music titles is successively recorded to the storage device  in the reserved order.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0189","num":"0188"},"figref":["FIG. 28","FIG. 28"],"b":["48","48","131","137","22","141","144","23"]},"When a broadcast signal is received (at step S), a graphic screen corresponding to GUI data is displayed (at step S). At this point, the storage device  side has been placed in record standby mode (at step S).","When a plurality of music titles are successively selected with the reserve button  and then the download button  is pressed, a download reserving operation is performed (at step S).","Thereafter, ID data is detected. When the ID data is detected, the IRD  sends a record start command to the storage device  (at step S).","When the storage device  receives the record start command from the IRD , the storage device  is placed in record mode (at step S). The storage device  continues the recording operation until the storage device  receives a record end command from the IRD  (at step S).","Next, the IRD  side detects ID data. When the IRD  detects the ID data, the IRD  sends a record end command to the storage device  (at step S).","When the storage device  receives the record end command from the IRD , the recording operation of the storage device  stops (at step S). Thereafter, the flow returns to step S.","Next, it is determined whether or not the storage device  has recorded the last reserved music title (at step S). When the determined result at step S is No (namely, the storage device  has not recorded the last music title), audio data corresponding to the next music title is selected (at step S). Thereafter, the flow returns to step S. At step S, the IRD  side performs the similar process and causes the storage device  to record the next music title. When the determined result at step S is Yes (namely, the storage device  has recorded the last music title), the flow returns to step S.","According to an embodiment of the present invention, download audio data is stored to the information storage device. Thus, audio data according to desired music titles can be downloaded. Consequently, information of broadcast music titles can be easily obtained. In addition, audio data corresponding to desired music titles can be easily stored to the information storage device.","According to another embodiment of the present invention, the optimum connecting state corresponding to the type of the storage device can be automatically set.","In addition, according to a further embodiment of the present invention, when an audio signal transmitted on an audio channel is stored to the storage device, with a start flag and an end flag, each music title can be accurately recorded to the storage device without a loss of the beginning and the end of the music title. In a stream of download audio data, ID data is inserted corresponding to the beginning and end of each music title. When an audio signal transmitted on an audio channel is recorded to the storage device, with the ID data, each music title can be accurately recorded without a loss of the beginning and the end of the music title. With the start flag and the end flag, a plurality of music titles can be reserved and the reserved music titles can be automatically recorded to the storage device in the reserved order. In addition, with ID data, a plurality of music titles can be reserved and music data corresponding thereto can be automatically downloaded to the storage device in the reserved order.","As described above, the transmitting apparatus, the transmitting method, the information editing apparatus, the editing method, the receiving apparatus, the receiving method, the information storing apparatus, the information storing method, and the broadcasting system are suitable for transmitting music data with a digital satellite broadcast."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIGS. 2A and 2B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIGS. 6A","b":["6","6"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIGS. 7A","b":["7","7","7"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 11"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 12"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":"FIG. 13"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":"FIG. 14"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIGS. 15A to 15C"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":"FIG. 16"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":"FIG. 17"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":"FIG. 18"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":"FIG. 19"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":"FIG. 20"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"figref":"FIG. 21"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0034"},"figref":"FIG. 22"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"figref":"FIG. 23"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0037","num":"0036"},"figref":"FIG. 24"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0037"},"figref":"FIG. 25"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0039","num":"0038"},"figref":"FIG. 26"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0040","num":"0039"},"figref":"FIG. 27"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0041","num":"0040"},"figref":"FIG. 28"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
