---
title: MILLIWAVE TRANSMITTING DEVICE, MILLIWAVE RECEIVING DEVICE AND MILLIWAVE TRANSMISSION AND RECEPTION SYSTEM CAPABLE OF SIMPLIFYING WIRING OF A RECEIVING SYSTEM OF TERRESTRIAL BROADCASTING SERVICE AND SATELLITE BROADCASTING SERVICE
abstract: In conventionally receiving satellite broadcasting (BS, CS) and terrestrial broadcasting (VHF, UHF) services, transmitting the services to a plurality of TV receivers in an individual house results in complicated wiring and a community house is also limited in the number of installed TV receivers due to previously setting a distributor and thus requires an additional distributor to be installed when a TV receiver is additionally installed. The milliwave receiving and transmitting system of the present invention allows a broadcast signal to be transmitted and received indoors via indoor, wireless milliwave transmission without using any indoor wiring.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=06915529&OS=06915529&RS=06915529
owner: Sharp Kabushiki Kaisha
number: 06915529
owner_city: Osaka
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 19990226
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS","First Embodiment","Second Embodiment","Third Embodiment","Fourth Embodiment","Fifth Embodiment","Sixth Embodiment","Seventh Embodiment","Eighth Embodiment","Ninth Embodiment"],"p":["1. Field of the Invention","The invention relates to a milliwave transmitting device, milliwave receiving device, milliwave transmission and reception system and electrical appliance for indoor, wireless, milliwave transmission of a plurality of broadcast waves e.g. of terrestrial broadcasting service including VHF broadcasting, UHF broadcasting and the like, and satellite broadcasting service including BS (Broadcasting Satellite) broadcasting, CS (Communication Satellite) broadcasting and the like.","2. Description of the Background Art","Currently there have been implemented TV broadcasting in a plurality of electronic-wave bands, such as terrestrial broadcasting service (VHF, UHF), satellite broadcasting service (BS, CS) and the like.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0006","num":"0005"},"figref":"FIG. 17","b":"900"},"For satellite broadcasting service, TV broadcast receiving system  receives a signal of 12 GHz in band at a BS antenna  at a CS antenna . A low-noise converter  attached close to each antenna converts a received electronic wave into a signal of an intermediate-frequency band of one to two GHz. The converted signal is transmitted from outdoors via each of coaxial cables  and  to an indoor TV receiver  (BS and CS tuners or a TV incorporating BS and CS tuners therein). For terrestrial broadcasting service, a signal of a radio-frequency band received by a UHF antenna  and that received by a VHF antenna  are mixed (or remain independent from each other) and then transmitted via a coaxial cable  to an each room's TV receiver .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0008","num":"0007"},"figref":["FIG. 18","FIG. 18"],"b":["1000","11","12","13","14","14","15","16"]},"In individual houses, however, transmission to a plurality of TV receivers renders wiling complicated. In community houses, by contrast, all broadcast waves are transmitted to each household via a single coaxial cable , although the number of TV receivers installed is limited due to a distributor set previously and an additional distributor is thus required when a TV receiver is additionally installed.","One object of the invention is to provide a milliwave transmitting and receiving system for indoor, milliwave, wireless transmission of satellite broadcasting service (BS, CS) and terrestrial broadcasting service (VHF, UHF), eliminating complex wiling.","Another object of the present invention is to provide milliwave transmitting and receiving devices for implementing the milliwave transmitting and receiving system.","The invention is a milliwave transmitting device for indoor, milliwave, wireless transmission, including a broadcast-wave receiving circuit, a modulation circuit and a milliwave transmitting circuit.","The broadcast-wave receiving circuit receives a plurality of broadcast waves and converts the waves into broadcast signals respectively corresponding to the waves. The modulation circuit up-converts a broadcast signal into a milliwave for indoor transmission and reception. The milliwave transmitting circuit transmits an up-converted milliwave.","In another aspect of the invention, there is provided a milliwave receiving device for indoor, milliwave, wireless transmission, including a milliwave receiving circuit and a broadcast-wave demodulation circuit.","The milliwave receiving circuit receives a milliwave up-converted from a plurality of broadcast waves and thus transmitted and received indoors. The broadcast-wave demodulation circuit down-converts a milliwave in a frequency band of a broadcast wave.","In still another aspect of the invention, there is provided a milliwave transmitting and receiving system for indoor, milliwave, wireless transmission, including a milliwave transmitting device and a milliwave receiving device.","The milliwave transmitting device transmits a milliwave signal through wireless milliwave transmission. The milliwave transmitting device includes a broadcast-wave receiving circuit receiving and converting a plurality of broadcast waves into broadcast signals respectively corresponding to the broadcast waves, a modulation circuit up-converting a broadcast signal in a milliwave for indoor transmission and reception, and a milliwave transmitting circuit transmitting an up-converted milliwave.","The milliwave receiving device receives a milliwave signal through milliwave, wireless transmission. The milliwave receiving device includes a milliwave receiving circuit receiving a milliwave from the milliwave transmitting circuit, and a broadcast-wave demodulation circuit down-converting a milliwave in a frequency band of a broadcast wave.","The invention can advantageously eliminate indoor wiring, such as coaxial cable, to wirelessly transmit a broadcast wave in a milliwave. Thus, antenna works are not required for each additional installation of a TV video receiver and the like, and complex wiring can also be dispensed with. Thus, a miniature TV, a personal computer or video camera with a TV tuner, and the like can be used at any place indoors.","Another advantage of the invention is that transmission and reception can be provided from a single transmitting device to a plurality of receiving devices.","The foregoing and other objects, features, aspects and advantages of the present invention will become more apparent from the following detailed description of the present invention when taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0039","num":"0038"},"figref":["FIG. 1","FIGS. 17 and 18"],"b":"100"},"Milliwave, wireless-transmission, TV receiving system  employs a milliwave of a frequency band of 60 GHz for the indoor, wireless system. A milliwave of the 60 GHz band is significantly higher in frequency and allows a radio-wave bandwidth of a transmitter and receiver to be wider than currently used-satellite and terrestrial TV broadcast waves so that terrestrial broadcasting service and satellite broadcasting service can be collectively radio-transmitted at one time. In addition, in this frequency band radiowaves are significantly absorbed by oxygen and water and thus readily blocked between adjacent houses. This frequency band is also suitable for wireless indoor transmission in a household, since it provides a \u00bd wavelength of 2.5 mm in the air, approximately the same as the size of an IC chip and thus capable of integration with the IC together with its antenna, and can thus reduce the size of the equipment and allows a light-weight, miniature radio module to be incorporated into an electrical appliance.","A satellite-broadcast electronic wave is received by a common, receiving BS antenna  and a common, receiving CS antenna  and converted in an intermediate frequency band of one to two GHz. Of the converted, satellite-broadcast BS and CS signals, the CS signal is converted in frequency by a block converter . Then the signals are mixed with VHF and UHF signals of terrestrial broadcast waves and transmitted via a single coaxial cable . The signal transmitted on coaxial cable  is passed via a distributor  and an amplifier  and thus distributed to a milliwave transmitting device  in each household.","A signal from milliwave transmitting device  is transmitted to a milliwave receiving device  via an electronic wave of the milliwave band described above.  shows a single milliwave transmitting device  transmitting a signal to a plurality of milliwave receiving devices  (three milliwave receiving devices  in the present embodiment).","Milliwave transmitting device  includes a frequency converter (referred to as a frequency arranger  hereinafter) arranging a plurality of TV broadcast waves along a frequency axis, an up-converter  converting an intermediate frequency band to a radio signal of a milliwave band, and an antenna .","Milliwave receiving device  includes antenna , a down-converter  converting a radio signal of a milliwave band into an intermediate frequency band, a frequency converter (referred to as an inverse frequency arranger  hereinafter) converting an intermediate frequency band arranged along a frequency axis to a normal TV broadcast wave.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0045","num":"0044"},"figref":["FIG. 2A","FIG. 2B"],"b":["22","26"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0046","num":"0045"},"figref":"FIGS. 3A-3D","b":"100"},"Reference will now be made to  and A-D to describe frequency arranger  and inverse frequency arranger  operations.","As shown in , for signal inputs to frequency arranger  an intermediate frequency of a CS signal and that of a BS signal are previously arranged by block converter  along a frequency axis at an intermediate frequency of 1035 MHz to 1895 MHz. Of such input signals, the  frequency arranger  allows a frequency mixer  and a local oscillator  to convert only terrestrial broadcast signal in frequency and arrange it along the frequency axis. In other words, in the series of the frequencies of the signals output from frequency arranger  the terrestrial broadcast signal is converted in frequency, as shown in FIG. B.","A reason why a terrestrial broadcast signal is converted in frequency is as follows: when a terrestrial broadcast signal prior to the frequency conversion is up-converted to the 60 GHz band the terrestrial broadcast signal comes close to local oscillation wave (milliwave) due to the low frequency of terrestrial broadcasting service. However, the local oscillation wave is essentially an unnecessary wave which must be removed rather than radiated from antenna . Thus a terrestrial broadcast wave signal directly up-converted will be removed together with the local oscillation wave. Accordingly, frequency arranger  converts terrestrial broadcast wave into a different frequency band (e.g. a band of 2 GHz) at the intermediate-frequency stage.","The broadcast waves thus arranged along the frequency axis are up-converted into the 60 GHz band by the milliwave transmitting device  up-converter  to have the radio frequencies as shown in FIG. C and thus output as a milliwave radio-signal from the milliwave transmitting device antenna .","In milliwave receiving device , antenna  receives a milliwave radio signal which is in turn down-converted to a broadcast wave and thus input to inverse frequency arranger . As shown in , inverse frequency arranger  provides the inverted version of the process provided by frequency arranger , using frequency mixer  and local oscillator  to convert an intermediate frequency arranged along a frequency axis to an original, ground -wave frequency. A relation between the frequencies of outputs from inverse frequency arranger  is shown in FIG. D.","Milliwave, wireless-transmission, TV receiving system  inputs a broadcast wave thus obtained to TV receiver  to provide for TV reception.","Since a broadcast wave can be transmitted indoors via milliwave radio-transmission without using a wiling such as a coaxial cable, antenna works are not required for each additional TV installation and complex wiring can also be dispensed with. Thus, a miniature TV, a personal computer or video camera with a TV tuner, and the like can be used at any indoor locations.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0054","num":"0053"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":"200"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0055","num":"0054"},"figref":"FIGS. 5A and 5B","b":["22","23","200"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0056","num":"0055"},"figref":"FIGS. 6A-6C","b":"200"},"Hereinafter, the identical and similar portions to those shown in  are denoted by same reference characters and different portions are only described. Reference will now be made to  to  to describe a configuration and operation of milliwave, wireless-transmission, TV receiving system .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0058","num":"0057"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":["20","21","21","20","21","1","20","21","22","26","40","41"]},"Referring to , for an individual house without block converter , signals input to frequency arranger  are BS, CS and ground-wave signals transmitted via three independent coaxial cables. Furthermore, an intermediate frequency component of BS (1035 MHz to 1335 MHz) and an intermediate frequency component of CS (1293 MHz to 1548 MHz) overlap each other. A CS signal has a vertical polarized wave component and a horizontal polarized wave component. One of these components is selected at a CS antenna by a DC control bias output from a CS tuner depending on channel select.","As shown in , frequency components of a CS broadcast wave overlap when a block converter is not used. Accordingly, depending on the channel select from a CS tuner in the TV receiver  a DC control bias of 11V or 15V is produced to switch a received, polarized-wave component transmitted from CS antenna  (the bias of 11V for the vertical polarized-wave, the bias of 15V for the horizontal polarized-wave) to extract a desired, polarized-wave component.","Thus, frequency arranger  in milliwave transmitting device  for the individual house receives BS, CS and ground-wave signals via the respective, three independent coaxial cables, as shown in FIG. A.","In frequency arranger , an intermediate frequency of CS broadcasting is converted in frequency by a frequency mixer  and a local oscillator  and an intermediate frequency of terrestrial broadcasting is converted in frequency by frequency mixer , local oscillator  and a multiplication element  having a multiplication ratio N (wherein N is a natural number) and the frequencies are rearranged along a frequency axis.  represents an arrangement of frequencies subjected to such a frequency conversion as described above. As shown in , the intermediate frequency of BS broadcasting and the converted frequency of CS broadcasting do not overlap at all and the intermediate frequency of terrestrial broadcasting is temporarily converted to a different frequency band (e.g. a band of 2 GHz).","The milliwave receiving device  inverse frequency arranger  provides a process procedure opposite to that provided by frequency arranger . More specifically, inverse frequency arranger  uses frequency mixer , local oscillator  and multiplication element  to convert intermediate frequencies arranged along a frequency axis to an original ground-wave frequency and the original intermediate-frequency band of a CS broadcast wave.  represents a frequency arrangement thus converted. Inverse frequency arranger  thus provides an original frequency arrangement of broadcast waves.","In addition, vertical and horizontal polarized-wave components of CS broadcasting input via CS antenna  for individual houses should be switched by a DC control bias  serving as a polarized-wave control signal for selecting one of vertical polarized-wave (11V) and horizontal polarized-wave (15V) depending on the channel select. Thus, a CS tuner of TV reception  inputs DC control bias  to infrared transmission device , the input DC control bias  is used by a signal processing portion  to produce a modulation signal, and an electrical\/optical converter  transmits wirelessly from infrared transmission device  an infrared signal corresponding to the modulation signal.","In milliwave transmitting device  at infrared reception device , electrical\/optical converter  extracts an electrical signal corresponding to the infrared signal and signal processing portion  again produces DC control bias  for controlling vertical and horizontal polarized waves. Thus, switching between vertical and horizontal polarized waves is provided in CS broadcasting.","The infrared-signal transmitting circuit  provided in each milliwave receiving device and the infrared-signal receiving circuit  provided in the milliwave transmitting device allow a polarized wave of a CS broadcast signal to be controlled to provide for wireless, milliwave transmission when a block converter is not used e.g. in individual houses.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0067","num":"0066"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 4"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0068","num":"0067"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 4"],"b":["20","21","21","20","21","44","20","21","51","50","20","21"]},"UHF-band radio transmission device  includes signal processing portion  applying signal process to and thus modulating DC control bias  from a CS tuner of TV receiver , and a UHF-band radio portion  converting the modulated wave into a radio signal of a UHF band. UHF-band radio reception device  includes a UHF-band radio portion  converting a UHF-band radio signal into a demodulated wave, and signal processing portion  reproducing from the demodulated wave the DC control bias  of the CS tuner of TV receiver .","The UHF-signal transmitting circuit  provided in each milliwave receiving device  and the UHF-signal receiving circuit  provided in milliwave transmitting device  allow a polarized wave of a CS broadcast signal to be controlled to provide for wireless, milliwave transmission when a block converter is not used e.g. in individual houses. Particularly, since an electronic wave of the UHF band is dissimilar to infrared transmission, capable of transmission through such blockages as fusuma, a paper sliding door, wall and the like, milliwave transmitting and receiving devices can be used between partitioned rooms. By incorporating a cordless telephone such as PHS into the system, not only a signal for controlling vertical and horizontal polarized waves but data transmission can be advantageously provided to allow bidirectional communication.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0071","num":"0070"},"figref":["FIG. 8","FIG. 7"],"b":"400"},"The  milliwave transmitting device  and milliwave receiving device  are basically similar in configuration to those of the third embodiment shown in , using UHF-band radio transmission and reception devices  and  of a UHF band to transmit and receive the control signal for switching between vertical and horizontal polarized-wave components.","It should be noted, however, that milliwave, wireless-transmission, TV receiving system  of the present embodiment differs in configuration from milliwave, wireless-transmission, TV receiving system  in that in order to reliably operate milliwave transmitting and receiving devices  and  a reference signal of UHF-band radio portions  and  is used to contemplate the stabilization and noise reduction of a local oscillation signal of milliwave transmitting and receiving devices  and .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0074","num":"0073"},"figref":["FIGS. 9A and 9B","FIG. 5"],"b":["20","21"]},"Referring to , in milliwave transmitting device  at UHF-band radio portions  and , a UHF-band local oscillator  is constituted by a phase lock oscillator (a phase locked loop circuit) driven by a crystal oscillator . More specifically, a phase difference between an output signal of a frequency divider  receiving an output from a voltage controlled oscillator VCO and an output signal of crystal oscillator  is used by a low pass filter LPF to produce a control voltage which controls an oscillation frequency of voltage controlled oscillator VCO. A local oscillation wave from UHF-band local oscillator  is used to modulate and demodulate a UHF signal.","As shown in , in milliwave transmitting device  a signal from UHF-band local oscillator  is guided to a harmonic amplifier  of up-converter . Harmonic amplifier  amplifies a harmonic component of the signal from UHF-band local oscillator  and injects it to a milliwave, local oscillator  to provide synchronization of milliwave, local oscillator  oscillation. A similar configuration is also provided in the  milliwave receiving device .","While the present embodiment employs an injection and synchronization system of a local oscillation wave to milliwave, local oscillator , UHF-band local oscillator  (or crystal oscillator  in UHF-band local oscillator ), and a milliwave harmonic mixer, a phase comparator, a frequency divider, a loop filter and the like may be used to configure a feed back loop circuit and milliwave, local oscillator  may provide facing operation.","With this configuration, a milliwave signal generated from milliwave, local oscillator  can have less noise component and obtain a stable frequency equivalent to the level of the crystal oscillator.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0079","num":"0078"},"figref":"FIGS. 10A and 10B","b":["500","70","71","72","73","74","74","71","70","73"]},"The operation will now be described. A milliwave signal carrying a TV broadcast wave is received by receiving antenna , passed via signal line  and distributed by distributor , and again radiated via a plurality of transmitting antennas . By directing the plurality of transmitting antennas in a plurality of directions, the milliwave signal can be efficiently relayed and distributed from a room to each other room. While in the present embodiment milliwave signal distributor and relay  is attached to an ornament or illumination apparatus , it may be attached to TV receiver  together with milliwave receiving device  or to an inner or an upper or lower portion of the electrical appliance e.g. of refrigerators, air conditioners and the like,","Furthermore, at least one of the various milliwave receiving devices and milliwave transmitting devices described in the embodiments, rather than only a milliwave receiving device and a milliwave distributor and relay, may be mounted to an electrical appliance.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0082","num":"0081"},"figref":["FIGS. 11A and 11B","FIG. 10"],"b":["600","75"]},"The operation will now be described. A milliwave signal carrying a TV broadcast wave is received by receiving antenna , amplified by amplifier  and then distributed by distributor , and radiated via a plurality of transmitting antennas . By directing the plurality of transmitting antennas  in a plurality of directions, the milliwave signal can be efficiently relayed and distributed from a room to each room. Also, amplifying a signal which has once attenuated can result in a extended, radio-transmission section. A power supply for amplifier  can be obtained from a ceiling or an illumination apparatus. While in the present embodiment milliwave-signal distributor and relay  is attached to an ornament or illumination apparatus , it may be mounted to TV receiver  together with milliwave receiving device  or to an internal or an upper or lower portion of the electrical appliance e.g. of refrigerators, air conditioners and the like.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0084","num":"0083"},"figref":"FIGS. 12A and 12B","b":"700"},"Milliwave signal relay  of the present embodiment includes two planar receiving and transmitting antennas and of 60 GHz in band opposite to each other, in contact with or stuck on a blockage , such as an indoor wall, door or the like. Planar antenna  is formed on a dielectric substrate or dielectric film  and has a rear surface provided with a grounding conductor  as a slot coupling hole .","Slot coupling hole  is constructed behind a patch conductor  shown in , and two planar antennas and are arranged opposite to each other. While the present embodiment uses a plurality of slot coupling holes , each of patch conductors  on the planar antenna  (or ) can be formed as a microstrip line and all of them can be converted and collectively coupled to a single slot line in a single slot coupling hole of the planar antenna . Thus the patch conductor  on the planar antenna can be electrically coupled to those on the planar antenna by the single slot line extending through the single slot coupling holes of the planar antenna and . Furthermore, a planar antenna may be a slot antenna.","The operation will now be described. A milliwave signal carrying a TV broadcast wave is received by planar antenna and guided to slot coupling hole . The plurality of slot coupling holes  operate as a slot antenna to radiate a received milliwave signal into blockage  such as a wall.","The milliwave signal is transmitted through the wall if the wall does not contain much water. (If the wall contains much water the milliwave signal is absorbed by the water.) The transmitted milliwave signal is received by the slot antenna of slot coupling holes  of planar antenna , guided to the patch conductor  side of planar antenna , and again radiated therefrom.","A milliwave-band (the 60 GHz band in particular) antenna provides a \u00bd wavelength of 2.5 mm and patch conductor  would each have a width of approximately 2.5 mm, so that it can be constructed with a dielectric substrate or dielectric film  of approximately three square centimeters. A relay thus constructed allows reliable wireless transmission between rooms partitioned by a wall. Thus, a milliwave signal relay allows transmission and reception from a single transmitting device to a plurality of receiving devices and, particularly, transmission and reception through blockages such as walls, fusumas and the like.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0090","num":"0089"},"figref":["FIGS. 13A and 13B","FIGS. 13A and 13B"],"b":"20"},"Milliwave transmitting device  according to the eighth embodiment includes an IF output level adjusting amplifier  receiving a broadcast signal from an antenna, a frequency arranger , an IF amplifier  for frequency compensation, and a milliwave up-converter . It should be noted that in , an input portion of IF output level adjusting amplifier  is labeled Pa, an input portion of the frequency arranger is labeled Pb, and an input portion of the milliwave up-converter is labeled Pc.","When block converter  is used in a community house, a signal is provided on a single coaxial cable. Accordingly amplification is provided serially for each frequency band to adjust the level of an output signal. In individual houses, various broadcast-wave signals are distributed on a plurality of respective cables and the signals are amplified in parallel for each frequency.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0093","num":"0092"},"figref":["FIGS. 14A-14C","FIGS. 14A-14C"],"b":"20"},"Input broadcast-waves, such as ground wave, BS wave, CS wave, are input to IF output level adjusting amplifier .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0095","num":"0094"},"figref":["FIG. 10A","FIG. 14B"],"b":"90"},"At the previous stage of the input portion of milliwave up-converter  is provided IF amplifier  for frequency compensation. In up-converting to a milliwave band, IF amplifier  for frequency compensation previously enhances a signal level (or elevates an output) at higher frequency band side when the signal has an IF frequency, since higher frequency band side of a milliwave band is smaller than lower frequency band side thereof in the gain of milliwave band up-converter  and that of the milliwave receiving device. This can compensate for transmission loss in milliwave, wireless transmission at higher frequency band side and ensure reliable, wide-band, wireless milliwave transmission.  represents a signal level at intermediate portion Pc, with an output level increased with frequency.","It should be noted that while the present embodiment has IF amplifier  for frequency compensation, IF amplifier  for frequency compensation is not necessarily required and it is sufficiently effective if an output from output level adjusting amplifier  that has such an amplification characteristic as represented in  is input to milliwave up-converter .","The configuration of the milliwave transmitting device described in the present embodiment is also applicable to a milliwave transmission and reception system having the infrared transmission and reception devices of the second embodiment and a milliwave transmitting and receiving system having the UHF-band radio transmission and reception devices of the third embodiment.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0099","num":"0098"},"figref":["FIGS. 15A and 15B","FIG. 15A","FIG. 15B"],"b":"20"},"Milliwave transmitting device  of the ninth embodiment is formed of an IF output level adjusting amplifier  receiving a broadcast signal from an antenna, an IF amplifier  for C\/N (carrier-to-noise) ratio compensation, a frequency arranger , and a milliwave up-converter . When a block converter is used in a community house, a signal is provided on a single coaxial cable. Accordingly, amplification is provided serially for each frequency band to adjust the level of an output signal. For individual houses, various broadcast signals are distributed on a plurality of respective cables and the signals are amplified in parallel for each frequency.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0101","num":"0100"},"figref":["FIGS. 16A-16C","FIGS. 16A-16C","FIG. 16A"],"b":["20","20","100"]},"Since the signal level varies depending on the type of broadcast wave, and the signal area, the gain of the antenna used and the like, IF output level adjusting amplifier  provides amplification with different gains associated with the respective bandwidths of various broadcast waves to provide a uniform signal level.  represents a signal level provided with such a uniform output level.","At the previous stage of the input portion of milliwave up-converter  is provided IF amplifier  for C\/N compensation. Since modulation system varies depending on each broadcast wave, the IF amplifier  for C\/N compensation preferentially applies intense amplification to a type of broadcast wave requiring high C\/N in demodulation and thus supplies it to milliwave up-converter . This allows high-quality transmission at the milliwave, wireless section. For example, a CS signal provides a smaller output from a satellite than a BS signal and requires a wide bandwidth and a high C\/N for the QPS-system digital modulation. Accordingly, a linear amplifier is used to preferentially apply intense amplification to the CS signal, as compared to the PS signal level, and an up-converter is introduced in a milliwave band to allow reliable, wide-band, milliwave, wireless transmission.  represents a signal level at intermediate portion Pc, with a high output level at a high-frequency side.","The configuration of the milliwave transmitting device described in the present embodiment is of course applicable to a milliwave transmission and reception system with the infrared transmission and reception devices of the second embodiment and a milliwave transmission and reception system with the UHF-band radio transmission and reception devices of the third embodiment.","Although the present invention has been described and illustrated in detail, it is clearly understood that the same is by way of illustration and example only and is not to be taken by way of limitation, the spirit and scope of the present invention being limited only by the terms of the appended claims."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":"100"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIGS. 2A and 2B","b":["22","26","100"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":["FIGS. 3A-3D","FIG. 3A","FIG. 3B","FIG. 3C","FIG. 3D"],"b":["100","22","22","23","26"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":"200"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":"FIGS. 5A and 5B","b":["22","26","200"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":["FIGS. 6A-6C","Fig. 6A","FIG. 6B","FIG. 6C"],"b":["200","22","26"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIG. 7","b":"300"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":["FIG. 8","FIG. 9A","FIG. 9B"],"b":["400","20","21"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":"Figs. 10A and 10B","b":"500"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":"FIGS. 11A and 11B","b":"600"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":"FIGS. 12A and 12B","b":"700"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":"FIGS. 13A and 13B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"figref":["FIGS. 14A-14C","FIG. 14A","FIG. 14B","FIG. 14C"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0034"},"figref":"FIGS. 15A and 15B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"figref":["FIGS. 16A-16C","FIG. 16A","FIG. 16B","FIG. 16C"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0037","num":"0036"},"figref":"FIG. 17","b":"900"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0037"},"figref":"FIG. 18","b":"1000"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
