---
title: Configuration of overhead channels in a mixed bandwidth system
abstract: A method and apparatus for transmitting broadcast information in a multi-carrier communication system. The Sync Channel of the multi-carrier system is transmitted a 1.25 MHz channel bandwidth (i.e., over a single carrier), and to specify the preferred channels for the Sync Channel transmission instead of the preferred channels for the entire multi-carrier system. The Sync Channel Message will carry additional information indicating the center frequency of a multi-carrier system within a reserved set of frequency bands and indicating the frequency of a single carrier system in the reserved set of frequency bands. Considering the A block of the PCS band again, the preferred channels for Sync Channel transmission can be selected as channels 75, 150 and 225. This selection ensures that one of the preferred channels will always be used by any multi-carrier system regardless of the location of its center channel.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=06925067&OS=06925067&RS=06925067
owner: Qualcomm, Incorporated
number: 06925067
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 19990423
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS"],"p":["I. Field of the Invention","The present invention relates to communications. More particularly, the present invention relates to a novel and improved method and apparatus for transmitting and receiving broadcast information in a multi-carrier CDMA communication system.","II. Description of the Related Art","The use of code division multiple access (CDMA) modulation techniques is one of several techniques for facilitating communications in which a large number of system users are present. Other multiple access communication system techniques, such as time division multiple access (TDMA) and frequency division multiple access (FDMA) are known in the art. However, the spread spectrum modulation technique of CDMA has significant advantages over these modulation techniques for multiple access communication systems. The use of CDMA techniques in a multiple access communication system is disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 4,901,307, entitled \u201cSPREAD SPECTRUM MULTIPLE ACCESS COMMUNICATION SYSTEM USING SATELLITE OR TERRESTRIAL REPEATERS\u201d, assigned to the assignee of the present invention, of which the disclosure thereof is incorporated by reference herein. The use of CDMA techniques in a multiple access communication system is further disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 5,103,459, entitled \u201cSYSTEM AND METHOD FOR GENERATING SIGNAL WAVEFORMS IN A CDMA CELLULAR TELEPHONE SYSTEM\u201d, assigned to the assignee of the present invention, of which the disclosure thereof is incorporated by reference herein. CDMA has been standardized by the Telecommunications Industry Association in Interim Standards IS-95A and IS-95B, entitled \u201cMobile Station-Base Station Compatibility Standard for Dual Mode Spread Spectrum Systems\u201d (referred to hereafter collectively as IS-95).","In IS-95 communications systems channels of information transmitted from a common base station are distinguished from one another by orthogonal spreading codes. Each channel is spread by a unique orthogonal spreading sequence. The channels that are transmitted by an IS-95 base station include, a pilot channel, a sync channel, at least one paging channel and dedicated traffic channels. The pilot channel is used to provide a phase reference for coherent demodulation of the other channels by mobile stations within the coverage area of the base station. The sync channel carries overhead information such as timing information, pilot PN offset information and other information that allows the reception of the other overhead channels. The paging channel notifies mobile stations of mobile terminated calls directed to the mobile station in the area. Dedicated traffic channels provide information directed to the user of a specific mobile station in the coverage area of the base station.","In IS-95, when the base station sends a Sync Channel Message, it shall uses the fixed-length message format of Table 1 below:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0008","num":"0007"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00001","num":"00001"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"119pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"70pt","align":"center"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":[{},"TABLE 1"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"Field","Length (bits)"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"119pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"70pt","align":"char","char":"."}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"MSG_TYPE (\u201800000001\u2019)","8"]},{"entry":[{},"P_REV","8"]},{"entry":[{},"MIN_P_REV","8"]},{"entry":[{},"SID","15"]},{"entry":[{},"NID","16"]},{"entry":[{},"PILOT_PN","9"]},{"entry":[{},"LC_STATE","42"]},{"entry":[{},"SYS_TIME","36"]},{"entry":[{},"LP_SEC","8"]},{"entry":[{},"LTM_OFF","6"]},{"entry":[{},"DAYLT","1"]},{"entry":[{},"PRAT","2"]},{"entry":[{},"CDMA_FREQ","11"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"161pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["MSG_TYPE","Message type."]},{"entry":["P_REV","Protocol revision level."]},{"entry":["MIN_P_REV","Minimum protocol revision level. The base"]},{"entry":[{},"station sets this field to prevent mobile"]},{"entry":[{},"stations which cannot be supported"]},{"entry":[{},"by the base station from accessing the system."]},{"entry":["SID","System identification. The base station shall set"]},{"entry":[{},"this field to the system identification number for"]},{"entry":[{},"this system."]},{"entry":["NID","Network identification. This field serves as a"]},{"entry":[{},"sub-identifier of a system as defined by the"]},{"entry":[{},"owner of the SID."]},{"entry":["PILOT_PN","Pilot PN sequence offset index. The base"]},{"entry":[{},"station shall set this field to the pilot PN"]},{"entry":[{},"sequence offset for this base station, in units"]},{"entry":[{},"of 64 PN chips."]},{"entry":["LC_STATE","Long code state. The base station shall set this"]},{"entry":[{},"field to the long code state at the time given by"]},{"entry":[{},"the SYS_TIME field of this message."]},{"entry":["SYS_TIME","System time. The base station shall set this"]},{"entry":[{},"field to the System Time as of four Sync Channel"]},{"entry":[{},"super frames (320 ms) after the end of the last"]},{"entry":[{},"super frame containing any part of this Sync"]},{"entry":[{},"Channel Message, minus the pilot PN"]},{"entry":[{},"sequence offset, in units of 80 ins."]},{"entry":["LP_SEC","The number of leap seconds that have occurred since"]},{"entry":[{},"the start of System Time."]},{"entry":["LTM_OFF","Offset of local time from System Time. The"]},{"entry":[{},"base station shall set this field to the"]},{"entry":[{},"two's complement offset of local time from"]},{"entry":[{},"System Time, in units of 30 minutes."]},{"entry":["DAYLT","Daylight savings time indicator. If daylight"]},{"entry":[{},"savings time is in effect, the base station"]},{"entry":[{},"shall set this field to \u20181\u2019; otherwise, the"]},{"entry":[{},"base station shall set this field to \u20180\u2019."]},{"entry":["PRAT","Paging Channel data rate. The base station"]},{"entry":[{},"shall set this field to the PRAT field value"]},{"entry":[{},"shown in Table 2 corresponding to the data rate"]},{"entry":[{},"used by the Paging Channels in the system."]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00002","num":"00002"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"center"}},"thead":{"row":[{"entry":"TABLE 2"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":"Paging Channel Data Rate"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":{}}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"84pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"105pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"PRAT Field (binary)","Paging Channel data rate"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"84pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"105pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"00","9600 bps"]},{"entry":[{},"01","4800 bps"]},{"entry":[{},"10","Reserved"]},{"entry":[{},"11","Reserved"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"147pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"CDMA_FREQ","Frequency assignment. The base station shall"]},{"entry":[{},{},"set this field to the CDMA Channel number"]},{"entry":[{},{},"corresponding to the CDMA frequency assign-"]},{"entry":[{},{},"ment for the CDMA Channel containing a"]},{"entry":[{},{},"Primary Paging Channel."]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}}]}}},"In IS-95 systems, each base station transmits a pilot channel that is covered only by a short PN sequence. In IS-95 systems, the short PN sequence repeats once every 26 ms. The pilot signal transmissions from each base station are distinguished from one another by a phase offset with respect to one another. In particular, there each base station associated with a single base station controller differs in phase by at least 64 PN chips.","Under normal operation, the mobile station acquires the pilot signal first. The pilot signal carries no data and is simply the all ones sequence spread by the common short code, which also spreads all of the other channels transmitted by the base station. After acquiring the pilot channel, the mobile station receives the information described above from the sync channel. The frame and interleaver timing on the sync channel are aligned with the pilot PN sequence. The zero state of the short PN sequence marks the starting point of the sync channel frame and interleaver.","In the U.S. Personal Communication System (PCS) spectrum, the CDMA channel number N specifies the carrier frequencies of the forward and reverse link channels. In particular, channel number N corresponds to a reverse link carrier frequency of (1850+0.05N) MHz and a forward link carrier frequency of (1930+0.05N) MHz, where N ranges from 0 to 1199. The bandwidth of each CDMA channel is 1.25 MHz. Therefore, the channel numbers of adjacent CDMA channels are different by at least 25 (25\u00d70.05 MHz=1.25 MHz). To facilitate mobile stations' initial acquisition, certain carrier frequencies are designated as the preferred frequency assignments. Referring to , for an IS-95B CDMA system in the A block of PCS band, the channel numbers of the preferred frequency assignments are , , , , , , , , , , and . Mobile stations will search the preferred frequency assignments first upon powering up.","The International Telecommunications Union recently requested the submission of proposed methods for providing high rate data and high-quality speech services over wireless communication channels. A first of these proposals was issued by the Telecommunications Industry Association, entitled \u201cThe cdma2000 ITU-R RTT Candidate Submission\u201d (hereafter cdma2000). cdma2000 proposes increasing the throughput of the forward link signals by transmitting portions of the information on three bands, each of 1.2288 MHz. This method is described as the \u201cmulti-carrier\u201d approach.","A multi-carrier CDMA system, that uses three adjacent 1.25 MHz RF channels with channel spacing also equal to 1.25 MHz is defined in cdma2000. Referring to , a multi-carrier CDMA system in the A block of the PCS band can be deployed with the center channel on channel , , , ,, , , , or . Channels  and  are usually avoided to avoid interference to adjacent bands on the reverse link. In the proposed cdma2000 description, the reverse link may be direct-spread with a chip rate of 3.6864 Mcps, which makes the emission limit requirements more difficult to meet than for a chip rate of 1.2288 Mcps.","A mobile station, upon powering up, searches for pilot signal on a preferred frequency. If no pilot is found in the current channel, it changes its channel and searches again. Once a pilot is acquired, the mobile station demodulates the Sync Channel associated with that pilot to receive timing information, pilot PN offset, and other information enabling its reception of the other overhead channels.","In a multi-carrier approach, one method for providing Sync Channel data would be to tri-partition the Sync Channel message and place one third of the message on each of the three portions of the multi-carrier signal. If the Sync Channel of a multi-carrier system is spread over three channels, the mobile station will have to know the exact channels used by the system in order to demodulate the Sync Channel reliably. Since the exact channels are not known in advance, the mobile station has to try numerous combinations to receive the Sync Channel message. Given the number of preferred channels, the time spent on such trials could be excessive and therefore degrade the mobile station's initial acquisition time. Therefore, there is a need felt in the art for a method that minimizes the mobile station's search time.","The present invention is a novel and improved method and apparatus for transmitting broadcast information in a multi-carrier communication system. The proposed invention is to send the Sync Channel of the multi-carrier system in a 1.25 MHz channel bandwidth (i.e., over a single carrier), and to specify the preferred channels for the Sync Channel transmission instead of the preferred channels for the entire multi-carrier system. The Sync Channel Message will indicate the center frequency for a multi-carrier system in the band if one exists and the frequency of a single band system if one exists.","Considering the A block of the PCS band again, the preferred channels for Sync Channel transmission can be selected as channels ,  and . This selection ensures that one of the preferred channels will always be used by any multi-carrier system regardless the location of its center channel. The mobile station, upon powering up, searches on the preferred channels for Sync Channel first. Once the pilot signal is acquired on any of these channels, the mobile station demodulates the Sync Channel on the channel as well. The mobile station learns from the Sync Channel Message the location of a multi-carrier and a single carrier system in the band if either exists. It can be easily observed that the number of channels to search and the number of hypotheses to try are significantly reduced by using the proposal in this disclosure. As a result, it improves the mobile station's initial acquisition time.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":["FIG. 1","FIG. 1"],"b":["25","50","75","100","125","150","175","200","225","250","275","200","200","200","200","200","200","200","200","200","200","200"],"i":["a, ","b, ","c, ","d, ","e, ","f, ","g, ","h, ","i, ","j ","k. "]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":["300","300","300","300","300","300","300","300","300","300","300"],"i":["b, ","c, ","d","c, ","d, ","e","h, ","i ","j","a ","k "]},"This method of receiving the Sync Channel message is very inefficient and time consuming. If a mobile station is capable of operating in a multi-carrier or single carrier mode, the mobile station will potentially have to conduct eleven 1\u00d7 searches or bands -and seven multi-carrier searches using center frequencies -In a CDMA communication system, each band searched requires the mobile station to test a large number of PN offsets to detect the presence of the pilot signal. Thus, this method of acquisition requires a substantial time period.","The present invention provides a significantly more efficient method for acquiring the necessary system parameters in a potentially mixed bandwidth communication system. In the present invention, the Sync Channel is always transmitted in a 1\u00d7 band. In the preferred embodiment, the preferred channels are channels ,  and . Thus, a mobile station need only conduct at most three searches to receive the Sync Channel message in 1\u00d7 bandwidth in order to acquire the necessary information for acquisition of its preferred system. The present invention greatly reduces acquisition time in a mixed bandwidth communication system. In addition, by providing the Sync Channel message only on the preferred channels reduces the capacity impact of providing that overhead messaging on many more channels.","The reason for the allocation of the preferred channels of the present invention is that it provides the greatest flexibility in the provision of a multi-carrier system. With the allocation of the preferred channels to channel numbers ,  and  (and ), a multi-carrier system provided anywhere in the band consisting of bands -will include one of the preferred channels. A multi-carrier system comprising the bands and will include the preferred channel A multi-carrier system comprising the bands and will include the preferred channel of A multi-carrier system comprising the bands of and will include the preferred channel of A multi-carrier system comprising the bands of and will include the preferred channel of Any combinations of three adjacent bands will include a preferred channel upon which the mobile station will be able to receive the necessary system parameters for operation.","In the present invention, the mobile station tunes to a preferred channel (or ) and attempts to detect a pilot signal on that frequency band. If a pilot signal is detected the mobile station receives, demodulates and decodes the Sync Channel message. In the present invention, the Sync Channel message will provide information that identities the center frequency of a multi-carrier system in the current set of frequency bands (if one exists) and the frequency of a 1\u00d7 band in the current set of frequency bands (if one exists).","The mobile station in response to the information received in the Sync Channel selects the system that is appropriate for its needs or capabilities. If the mobile station prefers to use a multi-carrier system, the mobile station uses the center frequency of the multi-carrier system indicated in the Sync Channel message to tune to the multi-carrier system and receive the broadcast channel (BCH) message. The broadcast channel message will indicate to the mobile station the number of common control channels (CCCHs) that are employed by the current system. The mobile station takes the number of common control channels and using a predetermined hashing algorithm determines what code channel it will use to receive page messages from the transmitting base station.","If the mobile station selects to operate in a single band system, the mobile station uses the information received in the Sync Channel message to tune to the appropriate frequency of the single band system. The mobile station then receives the general paging channel message on the primary paging channel. The general paging channel message provides the number of paging channels used by the single band system. The mobile station uses a predetermined hashing function to determine the code channel upon which the mobile station will receive paging messages for the transmitting base station.","The present invention is equally applicable to systems that may include 3\u00d7 direct spread communications systems. In this embodiment, the Sync Channel message would include the additional information Whether the 3\u00d7 system is a direct spread system or a multi-carrier system. In addition, the Sync Channel message may also provide information respecting whether the system uses a form of diversity transmission such as orthogonal transmit diversity (OTD). If methods of transmission diversity are possible in the multiple bandwidth communication system, specification of the means of transmit diversity greatly reduces the number of hypotheses that must be tested to acquire a system.","These changes to the Sync Channel messages can be accommodated without necessitating the extension of the Sync Channel message used in IS-95B and illustrated above. In the current Sync Channel message there is a large number of reserved bits that can be used to provide the additional information.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0037"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":["2","300","300","300"],"i":["c, ","f ","i"]},"In block , the mobile station determines whether the search operation was successful. In the exemplary embodiment, the present invention is incorporated into a CDMA communications system, though the present invention would be equally applicable to other mixed bandwidth communications systems. In the exemplary embodiment, the mobile station tunes its RF receiver to a preferred channel (or ) and attempts to detect the presence of a pilot signal. In the exemplary embodiment of an IS-95 based CDMA communications system, each base station transmits its pilot signal using a unique pilot signal offset. Thus, the mobile station after tuning to a preferred channel (or ), searches the possible PN offset hypotheses.","The method and apparatus for detecting a pilot signal in a CDMA communication system are well known in the art and are described in detail in U.S. Pat. No. 5,644,591, entitled \u201cMethod And Apparatus For Performing Search Acquisition In A CDMA Communication System\u201d, which is assigned to the assignee of the present invention and incorporated by reference herein. The mobile station tests each PN offset hypothesis by computing the correlation between the received signal within the preferred frequency band with the PN hypothesis being tested. If the correlation energy for all PN hypotheses is less than a threshold value, then the acquisition at the preferred frequency is not successful and the operation moves to block . In block , the next preferred channel (or ) to be tested by the mobile station is selected and the flow moves to block  and continues as described.","When the mobile station detects sufficient correlation energy between the received signal at the preferred channel frequency and a PN offset hypothesis, a successful acquisition is declared. At this point the operation moves to block . In block , the mobile station receives the Sync Channel message. In the present invention, the Sync Channel message is transmitted in a single 1\u00d7 band (or ). In the exemplary embodiment of an IS-95 based CDMA communication system, the Sync Channel frame boundary and the interleaver boundary are aligned with the short PN sequence used to spread the pilot channel signal. Thus, upon successful acquisition of the pilot channel signal, the mobile station has enough information to de-interleave and decode the Sync Channel message.","After receiving the Sync Channel message, the operation moves to block . The mobile station determines from the Sync Channel message the center frequency of a multi-carrier system in the current set of bands (if one exists) and the location of a single carrier band in the current set of bands (if one exists). The mobile station decides whether to operate in a multi-carrier mode or a single channel mode based on its capabilities and needs.","The operation moves to control block . If the mobile station capable of operating in a multi-carrier mode decides to operate in multi-carrier mode, then the flow moves to block . In block , the mobile station initiates its RF hardware for multi-carrier reception. The mobile station will know from the received Sync Channel message the center frequency of a multi-carrier system in the current set of frequency bands if one exists. The operation then moves to block , where the mobile station receives the broadcast channel (BCH) signal and from that channel learn among other information the number of common control channels used by the communication system. The mobile station hashes the number of common control channels to determine the code channel that it should use to receive pages.","If, back in block , the mobile station decides to use a single channel system because of limitations in its capability or other preference with respect to its service needs, the operation moves to block . In block , the mobile station initiates its RF hardware for single-carrier reception. The operation then moves to block , where the mobile station receives the general page message on a predetermined code channel. The general page message will state the number of paging channels used by the system. The mobile station hashes the number of paging channels used to determine the code channel that it will use to receive directed pages from the serving base station.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0045","num":"0044"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":["30","32","40","40","34","30"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0046","num":"0045"},"figref":"FIG. 5","b":["30","48","32","48","32","48","32","48","32"],"i":["a ","b ","c "],"sub":["1","2","3"]},"The data for transmission on forward link signal  is provided to de-multiplexer . De-multiplexer  provides the data to one of the three transmission subsystems . The present invention is described in terms of a three carrier multi-carrier communication system because three IS-95 carriers each occupying 1.2288 MHz can fit into a 5MHz band. However, it will be understood by one skilled in the art that the teachings of the present invention can easily be extended to an arbitrary number of channels in a multi-carrier system.","The de-multiplexed data streams are provided to modulators . In the exemplary embodiment, modulators  modulate the forward link data in accordance with a CDMA modulation format such as that described in the IS-95 standard and described in detail in the aforementioned U.S. Pat. No. 5,103,459. The forward link data includes dedicated channel data that is for provision to a specific mobile station and broadcast channel data that is for provision to all mobile stations in the coverage area of base station  or a subset of mobile stations  in the coverage area of base station . The Sync Channel message is an example of broadcast data that is transmitted to all mobile stations in the coverage area of base station . In the present invention, the Sync Channel message is provided to a designated one of transmission subsystems  for transmission on a designated one of the three carriers.","The modulated forward link data from modulators  is provided to up converter . Up converter  up coverts the modulated signal to a carrier frequency (f, f, or f) that is generated by a local oscillator (not shown). The up converted signals are then combined for transmission through antenna .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0050","num":"0049"},"figref":"FIG. 6","b":["52","32","30","40","60","60"],"sub":"pilot"},"The Walsh spread pilot symbols are provided to complex PN spreader . Complex PN spreader  spreads the Walsh spread pilot symbols in accordance with two separately generated pseudonoise (PN) sequences, PNand PN. If the two inputs to complex PN spreader  are designated as I and Q, the result of the complex spreading operation are two channels I\u2032 and Q\u2032 given by the equations:\n\n\u2003\u2003(1)\n\n\u2003\u2003(2)\n\nThe purpose of the complex PN spreading is to more evenly distribute the loading on the in-phase and quadrature channels of the QPSK modulator, which results in a reduction of the peak to average ratio on the power amplifier (not shown) of base station  which in turn increases the capacity of base station . Complex PN spreading is described in the cdma2000 RTT proposal and is described in detail in U.S. Pat. No. 6,396,804, entitled \u201cHigh Data Rate CDMA Wireless Communication System\u201d, which is assigned to the assignee of the present invention and is incorporated by reference herein. The complex PN spread pilot symbols are provided to transmitter (TMTR) , which up converts, filters and amplifies the signal for transmission through antenna .\n","In the exemplary embodiment, the Sync Channel message is distinguished from other channels of information by being spread by a unique orthogonal spreading sequence W. In the preferred embodiment of the present invention, the sync channel message is only transmitted by a selected one of modulators , or . The selected modulator  transmits the Sync Channel message on a preferred channel. In the exemplary embodiment, the Sync Channel message indicates the center frequency of a multi-carrier system in the current band of frequencies, in one exists, and the frequency of a single carrier system in the current set of frequency bands, if one exists.","The Sync Channel message is provided to message formatter . In the exemplary embodiment, message formatter  generates a set of cyclic redundancy check (CRC) bits and an optional set of tail bits and appends those bits to the Sync Channel message. IS-95 systems do not append tail bits to the Sync Channel message. cdma2000 (also referred to as IS-2000) systems append eight tail bits to the Sync Channel message. The Sync channei message with the CRC bits and tails bits appended is provided to encoder . Encoder  encodes the sync channel message, CRC bits and tail bits in accordance with a predetermined forward error correction coding algorithm such as convolutional coding.","The encoded symbols are then provided to interleaver (INT)  which reorders the encoded symbols in accordance with a predetermined interleaving format. The interleaver is provided to provide time diversity in the transmitted stream of encoded symbols. Decoders have better error correction performance when the errors in the received stream are not burst errors.","The reordered symbols are provided to Walsh spreader  which spreads the reordered symbols in accordance with a predetermined code sequence W. In the exemplary embodiment, Wis a code sequence that is orthogonal to all other code sequences used to channelize the channels of forward link signal . The Walsh spread signal is then provided to complex PN spreade  and is spread as described above.","Common channel messages are transmitted to all subscriber stations or sets of subscriber stations within the coverage area of base station . Examples of common channel messages include paging messages that alert mobile stations of incoming calls and control channel messages that provide necessary control information to mobile stations in the coverage area of base station . For illustration purposes a single control channel is shown. It will be understood by one skilled in the art that in practical implementations a plurality of control channels will be transmitted a base station .","The Common Channel message is provided to message formatter . In the exemplary embodiment, message formatter  generates a set of cyclic redundancy check (CRC) bits and a set of tail bits and appends those bits to the Common Channel message. The Common Channel message with the CRC bits and tails bits appended is provided to encoder . Encoder  encodes the Common Channel message, CRC bits and tail bits in accordance with a predetermined forward error correction coding algorithm such as convolutional coding.","The encoded symbols are then provided to interleaver (INT)  which reorders the encoded symbols in accordance with a predetermined interleaving format. The interleaver is provided to provide time diversity in the transmitted stream of encoded symbols. Decoders have better error correction performance when the errors in the received stream are not burst errors.","The reordered symbols are provided to Walsh spreader  which spreads the reordered symbols in accordance with a predetermined code sequence W. In the exemplary embodiment, Wis a code sequence that is orthogonal to all other code sequences used to channelize the channels of forward link signal . The Walsh spread signal is then provided to complex PN spreader  and is spread as described above.","Dedicated Channel data is transmitted to a particular subscriber station within the coverage area of base station . The Dedicated Channel data is provided to message formatter . In the exemplary embodiment, message formatter  generates a set of cyclic redundancy check (CRC) bits and a set of tail bits and appends those bits to the frame of dedicated channel data. The frame of Dedicated Channel data with the CRC bits and tails bits appended is provided to encoder . Encoder  encodes the frame of Dedicated Channel data, CRC bits and tail bits in accordance with a predetermined forward error correction coding algorithm such as turbo coding or convolutional coding.","The encoded symbols are then provided to interleaver (INT)  which reorders the encoded symbols in accordance with a predetermined interleaving format. The interleaver is provided to provide time diversity in the transmitted stream of encoded symbols. Decoders have better error correction performance when the errors in the received stream are not burst errors.","The reordered symbols are provided to Walsh spreader , which spreads the reordered symbols in accordance with a predetermined code sequence W. In the exemplary embodiment, Wis a code sequence that is orthogonal to all other code sequences used to channelize the channels of forward link signal . The Walsh spread signal is then provided to complex PN spreader  and is spread as described above.","The complex PN spread data is provided to transmitter (TMTR)  and up converted, filtered and amplified for transmission through antenna .","Turning to , a simplified multi-carrier receiver which in the exemplary embodiment is provided in mobile station  is illustrated. In the exemplary embodiment, mobile station  is capable of simultaneously receiving forward link signals  transmitted on up to three carrier channels. It will be understood by one skilled in the art that the present invention can be extended to multi-carrier reception of an arbitrary number of channels. The received signal is provided to each of receive subsystems  which down convert and demodulate a different component of forward link signal  in accordance with a unique carrier frequency.","The forward link signal  is received at antenna  and provided to receivers . Each of receivers and down convert, filter and amplify the received signal in accordance with a different frequency f, f, or f, respectively. The down converted signals are provided to demodulators . In the exemplary embodiment, demodulators  demodulate each of the down converted signals in accordance with a code division multiple access (CDMA) modulation format. The implementation of demodulators  is described in detail in the aforementioned U.S. Pat. No. 5,103,459. The demodulated components of forward link signal  are provided to multiplexer (MUX)  which re-assembles the transmitted data stream.","In the present invention, mobile station  initially only uses a single receiver  and demodulator  to demodulate the Sync Channel. Mobile station  tunes a selected receiver  to a preferred channel (or ) and attempts to acquire the pilot signal at the preferred channel frequency using a corresponding one of demodulators . If sufficient correlation energy is detected, the acquisition is declared to be successful. The mobile station then still only down converting at the single frequency, demodulates, de-interleaves and decodes the Sync Channel message. From the Sync Channel message, mobile station  determines the center frequency of a multi-carrier system in the current frequency bands, if one exists, and the frequency of a single carrier system in the current frequency bands, if one exists.","Mobile station  decides whether it will operate in a multi-carrier mode or a single carrier mode. If mobile station  decides to operate in a multi-carrier mode, then mobile station  activates the RF circuitry additional receivers , tuning to the appropriate set of frequencies indicated in the Sync Channel message and begins to receive the forward link signal on a plurality of carrier frequencies. If mobile station  decides to operate in a single-carrier mode, then mobile station  tunes to the appropriate frequency indicated in the Sync Channel message and begins to receive the forward link signal on a single carrier frequency band.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0068","num":"0067"},"figref":"FIG. 8","b":["32","40"]},"The forward link signals  are received at antenna  and provided to receiver . Receiver  tunes to a preferred channel frequency and down converts, filters and amplifies the received signal. In the exemplary embodiment, receiver  is a quaternary phase shift keyed receiver and outputs an in-phase (I) and Quadrature (Q) component of the received signal.","The two components of the received signal are provided to complex PN despreader . Complex PN despreader  despreads the received signal in accordance with two pseudonoise sequences PNand PN. In the exemplary embodiment, the PN despreading is a complex PN despreading as is described in detail in the aforementioned U.S. Pat. No. 6,396,804. In the exemplary embodiment, the PN sequences used to spread forward link signals  are generated using a generator polynomial that is common to all base stations . The spreading from base stations is distinguished from one another by the offset of the sequence.","Control processor  provides offset hypotheses to complex PN despreader . Complex PN despreader  despreads the received signals in accordance with the PN offset hypotheses provided by control processor  as well as W. The received signal is despread in accordance with the PN offset hypothesis and the resultant signal is provided to pilot filter . Pilot filter  despreads the signal from complex PN despreader  in accordance with an orthogonal sequence Wand low pass filters the result of complex despreader . In the exemplary embodiment, the Walsh sequence comprising of all 's is used to channel the pilot signal.","The resultant signals from pilot filter  are provided to energy detector  which sums the squares of the resultant samples from pilot filter  to provide a received pilot energy value. The received pilot energy value is provided to control processor , where it is compared to a predetermined threshold value. If the computed energy exceeds the threshold acquisition is declared to be successful and the mobile station begins to receive the Sync Channel message. If the energy falls below the threshold value, then the acquisition is declared unsuccessful and the next PN hypothesis is provided by control processor  to complex PN despreader . The method and apparatus for searching PN offsets in a CDMA communication system is described in detail in U.S. Pat. No. 5,644,591, entitled \u201cMethod And Apparatus For Performing Search Acquisition In A CDMA Communication System\u201d, which is assigned to the assignee of the present invention and incorporated by reference herein. If, after exhausting the possible PN offset hypotheses, the received pilot energy fails to exceed the threshold value, then control processor sends message to receiver  to begin down converting the received signal at a different preferred frequency channel.","Upon successful acquisition of a pilot channel on a preferred channel frequency, mobile station  demodulates and decodes the Sync Channel message. The received signal from receiver  is despread using the PN offset determined in the pilot search algorithm. The pilot signal is processed by pilot filter  as described above.","The PN despread signal is also provided to Walsh despreader . Walsh despreader  despreads the received signal in accordance with a Walsh code sequence W. When demodulating the Sync Channel, the Wis Walsh sequence allocated for the transmission of the Sync Channel message. Walsh despreader  despreads the signal components in accordance with the orthogonal sequence Wand provides the result to dot product circuit . As forward link signal  traverses the propagation path to mobile station , an unknown phase component is introduced into the received signal. Dot product circuit  computes the projection of the received signal onto the received pilot signal to provides a scalar result without the phase errors. The implementation of dot product circuits for coherent demodulation are well known in the art and a method and apparatus for performing the dot product procedure is described in detail in U.S. Pat. No. 5,506,865, entitled \u201cPilot Carrier Dot Product Circuit\u201d which is assigned to the assignee of the present invention and is incorporated by reference herein.","The scalar outputs from dot product circuit  are provided to multiplexer  which combines the two received streams into a signal data stream. The data stream from multiplexer  is provided to de-interleaver  which reorders the received symbols in accordance with a predetermined de-interleaving format. The reordered symbols are provided to decoder  which decodes the symbols of the Sync Channel message to provide the received Sync Channel message.","The received Sync Channel message is provided to control processor . In the present invention, control processor  determines from the Sync Channel message the channel frequency for the primary overhead channel of the single carrier system or the center frequency of the multi-carrier system. In response to the Sync Channel message, control processor  initiates the correct number of receive subsystems  and tunes them to the appropriate channels to receive forward link signal .","The previous description of the preferred embodiments is provided to enable any person skilled in the art to make or use the present invention. The various modifications to these embodiments will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art, and the generic principles defined herein may be applied to other embodiments without the use of the inventive faculty. Thus, the present invention is not intended to be limited to the embodiments shown herein but is to be accorded the widest scope consistent with the principles and novel features disclosed herein."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The features, objects, and advantages of the present invention will become more apparent from the detailed description set forth below when taken in conjunction with the drawings in which like reference characters identify correspondingly throughout and wherein:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":"FIG. 8"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
