---
title: Electronic book alternative delivery systems
abstract: The invention, an electronic book selection and delivery system, distributes electronic text and graphics to subscribers. The system contains an operations center, a video distribution system or a variety of alternative distribution systems, a home subsystem, and a billing and collection system. The operations center and/or distribution points perform the functions of manipulation of text data, security and coding of text, cataloging of books, message center, and uplink functions. The home subsystem connects to a video distribution system or variety of alternative distribution systems, generates menus and stores text, and transacts through communicating mechanisms. A portable book-shaped viewer is used for viewing the text. The billing system performs the transaction, management, authorization, collection and payments utilizing the telephone system or a variety of alternative communication systems.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07835989&OS=07835989&RS=07835989
owner: Discovery Communications, Inc.
number: 07835989
owner_city: Bethesda
owner_country: US
publication_date: 19990413
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["RELATED APPLICATIONS","BACKGROUND ART","TECHNICAL FIELD AND BRIEF SUMMARY OF INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF INVENTION"],"p":["This application is a continuation-in-part of U.S. application Ser. No. 07\/991,074 entitled TELEVISION PROGRAM PACKAGING AND DELIVERY SYSTEM WITH MENU DRIVEN SUBSCRIBER ACCESS, filed Dec. 9, 1992, now abandoned and U.S. application Ser. No. 08\/336,247 entitled ELECTRONIC BOOK SELECTION AND DELIVERY SYSTEM, filed Nov. 7, 1994 now U.S. Pat. No. 5,985,690, and U.S. application Ser. No. 08\/160,194 filed Dec. 2, 1993 now U.S. Pat. No. 5,990,927 and PCT\/US93\/11606 entitled ADVANCED SET-TOP TERMINAL FOR CABLE TELEVISION DELIVERY SYSTEMS, filed Dec. 2, 1993, and U.S. application Ser. No. 08\/906,469 entitled REPROGRAMMABLE TERMINAL FOR SUGGESTING PROGRAMS OFFERED ON A TELEVISION PROGRAM DELIVERY SYSTEM, filed Aug. 5, 1997 now U.S. Pat. No. 6,408,437, and U.S. application Ser. No. 09\/191,520 entitled DIGITAL BROADCAST PROGRAM ORDERING, filed Nov. 13, 1998 now abandoned. These applications are incorporated by reference herein. Also incorporated by reference are co-pending U.S. application Ser. No. 09\/237,827 entitled ELECTRONIC BOOK HAVING LIBRARY CATALOG MENU AND SEARCHING FEATURES, filed Jan. 27, 1999, U.S. application Ser. No. 09\/237,828 entitled ELECTRONIC BOOK ELECTRONIC LINKS, filed Jan. 27, 1999, and U.S. application Ser. No. 09\/289,956 entitled ELECTRONIC BOOK ALTERNATIVE DELIVERY METHODS, filed on date herein.","Sparked by the concept of an information superhighway, a revolution will take place in the distribution of books. Not since the introduction of Gutenberg's movable typeset printing has the world stood on the brink of such a revolution in the distribution of text material. The definition of the word \u201cbook\u201d will change drastically in the near future. Due to reasons such as security, convenience, cost, and other technical problems, book and magazine publishers are currently only able to distribute their products in paper form. This invention solves the problems encountered by publishers.","The electronic book selection and delivery system is a new way to distribute books to bookstores, public libraries, schools and consumers. The technological breakthroughs of this invention provide a secure electronic system for both delivering selected books and receiving payments. The system has an unusual combination of features that provides the consumer with a daily use household appliance that has a high tech aura while being very practical, portable, and easy to use.","An advantage of the system is that it eliminates the distribution of any physical object such as a paper book or computer memory device from any book or text distribution system. The purchase of a book becomes a PAY-PER-READ\u2122 event avoiding the overhead, \u201cmiddle-men,\u201d printing costs, and time delay associated with the current book distribution system. Published material and text such as the President's speech, a new law, a court decision on abortion, or O. J. Simpson's testimony can be made immediately available to the consumer at a nominal fee. Alternatively, books may be made available free to the end use consumer, subsidized by advertisers who sponsor books or embed advertising within the books.","The system is a novel combination of new technology involving the television, cable, telephone, and computer industries. It utilities high bandwidth data transmissions, strong security measures, sophisticated digital switching, high resolution visual displays, novel controls, and user friendly interface software.","The primary components of the text delivery system are the subsystem for preparing the text for delivery and the subsystem for receiving and selecting text that was delivered. An embodiment of the system includes additional components and optional features that enhance the system. The system may be configured for use by bookstores, public libraries, schools and consumers. In one embodiment, the system for consumer use is made up of four subsystems, namely: (1) an operations center, (2) a distribution system, (3) a home subsystem including reception, selection, viewing, transacting and transmission capabilities, and (4) a billing and collection system. Alternative configurations of the system are defined to allow for a variety of traditional and non-traditional delivery methods.","The operations center performs several primary functions: manipulating text data (including receiving, formatting and storing of text data), security encoding of text, cataloging of books, providing a messaging center capability, and performing uplink functions. In one embodiment, the system delivers the text from the operations center to consumer homes by inserting text data within analog video signals. The insertion of text is generally performed with an encoder at an uplink site that is within or near the operations center. The system can use several lines of the Vertical Blanking Interval (VBI), all the lines of the analog video signal, a digital video signal or unused portions of bandwidth to transmit text data. Using the VBI delivery method, the top ten or twenty book titles may be transmitted with video during normal programming utilizing existing cable or broadcast transmission capability without disruption to the subscriber's video reception. Using the entire video signal, thousands of books may be transmitted within just one hour of air time. Nearly any analog or digital video or data distribution system may be used to deliver the text data. The text data may also be transmitted over other low and high speed signal paths including a telephone network (e.g., a public switched telephone network) having a high speed connection such as an asynchronous digital subscriber line (ADSL) connection and the Internet, for example.","The home subsystem performs at least four functions: connecting to the distribution system, selecting text, storing text, and transacting through a communicating mechanism. The components of the home subsystem may be configured in a variety of hardware configurations. Each function may be performed by a separate component, the components may be integrated, or the capability of existing cable set top converter boxes, computers, and televisions may be utilized. A connector, library unit and viewer unit may be used. In one embodiment, the connector portion of the home subsystem receives an analog video signal and strips or extracts the text from the video. The home library stores the text signal, provides a user friendly software interface to the system and processes the transactions at the consumer home. The viewer provides a screen for viewing text or menus and novel user friendly controls. Alternative embodiments are presented that support delivery of text using a variety of communication mechanisms.","The viewing device may be a portable book shaped viewer which stores one or more books for viewing and provides a screen for interacting with the home library unit. A high resolution LCD display is used to both read the books and to interact with the home library software. In one embodiment, an optional phone connector or return-path cable connection initiates the telephone calls and, with the aid of the library, transmits the necessary data to complete the ordering and billing portion of the consumer transaction. Alternative embodiments are presented that support ordering and billing using a variety of communication mechanisms. The user friendly controls include a bookmark, current book and page turn button. The billing and collection system performs transaction management, authorizations, collections and publisher payments automatically.","A system similar to the system for consumer use may be used in bookstores, schools and public libraries.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0052","num":"0051"},"figref":"FIG. 1","i":"a ","b":["100","110","110","120","115","115","115","115","115"]},"In , the content provider  and the distribution center  are shown as separate components of the electronic book distribution system . However, the content provider  and the distribution center  may be co-located.","The distribution center  may convert printed matter into an electronic format. Alternately, the distribution center  may receive electronic files from an outside source, such as the content provider . The distribution center  may process and store electronic books.","The distribution center  distributes electronic books. The distribution may be, for example, over distribution path , distribution network , and distribution path  to an electronic book subsystem or terminal , which may include an electronic book viewer (not shown). The terminal may also be a television, a set top terminal, a personal computer, or similar device. An apparatus and method for distributing electronic books is disclosed in greater detail later. The distribution network  may be an electronic book store, an Internet web site, a wired or wireless telecommunications network, an intranet, a radio program delivery system, a television program delivery system, including cable television, satellite television broadcast, and over-the-air broadcast, for example. The electronic book distribution network  could include direct delivery through a mail delivery system of electronic books on a fixed media, such as a CD-ROM, for example.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0056","num":"0055"},"figref":"FIG. 1","i":"b ","b":"170"},"In the embodiment shown in , the components of the electronic book selection and delivery system  are an encoder , a video distribution system , a connector , and a text selector . The encoder  places textual data on a video signal to form a composite video signal. Although the composite signal may contain only textual data, it usually carries both video and textual data. A variety of equipment and methods may be used to encode text data onto a video signal. The video distribution system  distributes the composite video signal from the single point of the encoder  to multiple locations, which have connectors . The connector  receives the digital or analog video signal from the video distribution system  and separates, strips or extracts the text data from the composite video signal. If necessary, the extracted text data is converted into a digital bit stream. The text selector  works in connection with the connector  to select text.","Using the connector  and text selector  combination, various methods of selecting and retrieving desired text from a composite or video signal are possible. Text may be preselected, selected as received or selected after being received and stored. One method is for the connector  to strip or extract all the text from the video signal and have the text selector  screen all the text as received from the connector . The text selector  only stores text in long term or permanent memory if the text passes a screening process described below.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0059","num":"0058"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 2"],"b":["200","200","250","254","208","258","212","262","266","270","274","279","278","258","259","261","200","259","261","266"]},"The operations center  receives textual material from outside sources  such as publishers, newspapers, and on-line services. Alternately, the outside sources may maintain electronic books at the Internet web site . The outside sources  may convert textual and graphical material to digital format, or may contract with another vendor to provide this service. The operations center  may receive the textual and graphical material in various digital formats and may convert the textual material to a standard compressed format for storage. In so doing, the operations center  may create a pool of textual material that is available to be delivered to the home system . The textual material may be grouped by books or titles for easy access.","As used herein, \u201cbook\u201d means textual or graphical information such as contained in any novels, encyclopedias, articles, magazines, newspapers, catalogues, periodicals, or manuals. The term \u201ctitle\u201d may represent the actual title assigned by an author to a book, or any other designation indicating a particular group, portion, or category of textual information. The title may refer to a series of related textual information, a grouping of textual information, or a portion of textual data. For example, \u201cLatest Harlequin Romance\u201d, \u201cFour Child Reading Books (Ages 10-12),\u201d \u201cEncyclopedia \u2018BRITANNICA\u2019\u2122,\u201d \u201cPresident's Speech,\u201d \u201cInstruction Manual,\u201d \u201cSchedule of 4th of July Events,\u201d \u201cPet Handbooks,\u201d \u201cRoe v. Wade,\u201d and \u201cThe Joy of Cooking,\u201d are suitable titles. Also, the title may be a graphical symbol or icon. Thus, a picture of a wrench may be a title for a repair book, a picture of a computer a title for a computer book, a graphical symbol of a telephone a title for a telephone book, a drawing of a dagger a title for a mystery book, a picture of a bat and ball a title for a sports book, and a picture of tickertape a title for a business book.","The operations center  includes the uplink site  for placing the text onto a telecommunications signal and sending the telecommunications signal into a distribution system. The uplink site  would generally include an encoder  (not shown in ) to encode the text onto the telecommunications signal.","Many analog and digital video distribution systems may be used with the electronic book delivery system , such as cable television distribution systems, broadcast television distribution systems, video distributed over telephone systems, direct satellite broadcast distribution systems, and other wire and wireless video distribution systems. Nearly any distribution system which can deliver a telecommunications signal, including a video signal, will work with the electronic book delivery system . It is also possible to distribute the electronic book without using a telecommunications signal as described in the embodiments presented in Section VII below.","The home system  performs five functions: (1) connecting with a video distribution system; (2) selecting data; (3) storing data; (4) displaying data; and (5) handling transactions. An important optional function of the home system  is communicating using, in one embodiment, a telephone communication system . The home system  may be made up of four parts: a video connector  or similar type of connector for connecting with the distribution system , a library  for storing and processing, a viewer  for viewing menus and text and a telephone connector  for connecting with a telephone communications system . Additional embodiments are presented in Section VII that address alternative communication mechanisms.","The billing and collection system  may be co-located with the operations center  or located remote from the operations center . The billing and collection system  may be in communication with the home system  using telephone-type communication systems (for example ). Any of a number of communication systems as presented in Section VII, such as a cellular system or the Internet, will operate with the billing and collection system . The billing and collection system  records the electronic books or portions of text that are selected or ordered by the subscriber. The collection system will charge a subscriber's credit account or bill the subscriber. In addition, the billing and collection system  may monitor that amount due to publishers or other outside sources  who have provided textual data or other services such as air time to enable the text delivery system  to operate.","Also shown in  is an intranet \u2032. The intranet \u2032 may be used as a part of a private distribution network for distributing and circulating electronic books. For example, a university library may use the intranet \u2032 to circulate electronic books to university students and professors.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0067","num":"0066"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 3"],"b":["301","200","301","282","302","250","306","278","254","310","250","250","318","322","326","318","322","326"]},"The collection and billing system \u2032 shown has two sections (, ) one for transaction management, authorizations and publisher payments , and the other for customer service . The customer service section  provides for data entry and access to customer account information. Transaction accounting information  is supplied to credit card companies  by the transaction management section  of the billing and collection system \u2032. The credit card companies  provide billing  to customers either electronically or by mail.","Methods for communicating between the subscriber base  and the billing and collection system \u2032 include: by telephone switching  alone, cellular switching  and telephone switching  combined, and by use of the cable system  and the telephone switching . The system shown supports both one-way  and two-way cable communication  with subscribers. Additional communication methods are presented in Section VII. Public libraries and schools  as well as bookstores  may use the delivery system .","Public libraries and schools  could have a modified system to allow the viewer to be checked-out or borrowed while bookstores  would rent or sell the viewer and sell electronic book data. The bookstores  as well as the public libraries and schools  may be serviced by cable . Optional direct broadcast systems (DBS)  can also be used with the system  as detailed in Section VII.","I. The Operations Center",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0071","num":"0070"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":["250","254","250","302","250","402","402","404","406","404","250","410","410","414"]},"The processing at the operations center  is controlled by a processor , which uses an instruction memory . The processor  and instruction memory  may be supplied by a personal computer or mini-computer, for example. To perform the catalog and messaging functions, the operations center  uses a catalog and message memory  and the text generator  if necessary.","The data stream of text, catalog and messages may be encoded by security module encoding  prior to being sent to the uplink module . Various encoding techniques may be used by the security encoding module  such as the commercial derivative of NSA's encryption algorithm (Data Encryption System (DES)) and General Instrument's DigiCipher II. Following encoding, the encoded text may be stored in text memory  prior to being sent to the uplink . A first-in-first-out text memory arrangement may be used under the control of the processor . Various types of memory may be used for the text memory  including RAM. The operations center  may use file server technology for the text memory  to catalog and spool books for transmission as is described below. The operations center  may also store the electronic book as compressed data files.","In an embodiment, to transmit textual data, the distribution system  (see ) may use high bandwidth transmission techniques such as those defined by the North American Broadcast Teletext Standard (NABTS) and the World System Teletext (WST) standard. Using the WST format (where each line of the Vertical Blanking Interval contains 266 data bits), a four hundred page book, for example, may be transmitted during regular television programming using four lines of the Vertical Blanking Interval at a rate of approximately one book every 1.6 minutes (63,840 bits per second). Alternatively, books may be transmitted over a dedicated channel, which interrupts programming so that 246 lines of video can be used to transmit approximately 2,250 books every hour (3.9 Mbits per second). A teletext type format is the simplest but possibly the slowest text format to use with the electronic book delivery system . In either event, an encoder  may be used at an uplink site  to insert textual data into the analog video signal. In many other respects, the delivery of the textual information may be completed using an existing cable television plant and equipment. Alternative transmit formats and delivery systems are presented in Section VII.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0075","num":"0074"},"figref":"FIG. 5","i":"a ","b":["282","250","500","282","250","254","504","254","250","282"]},"In , the electronic books are distributed to consumers using a video distribution system such as a cable television system. However, the electronic books may also be packaged as data packets and distributed over other telecommunications networks such as a digital wireless telephone network, for example.","In one embodiment, as shown in block , files are broken into smaller packets of information. Header information is added to the packets. The bit stream is converted from a serial digital bit stream to an analog bit stream that is compatible with an NTSC video signal. Block  shows the switching of analog data into the video lines of a video signal. The analog data may be placed either in the VBI or the active video lines. In some instances, unused portions of bandwidth (such as 5-40 MHZ, 70-75 MHZ, 100-109 MHZ or other guard bands) may be used instead of the video lines. Alternate transmission methods are presented in Section VII.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0078","num":"0077"},"figref":"FIG. 5","i":"b ","b":["508","512","516","520","532","524","524","532","528","524","536","540","544","544","516","548","552"]},"As an alternative to cable, broadcast or other television delivery methods, the public telephone system may be used to transmit books to the subscribers. An average book would take about 7 minutes to transmit over the public telephone system. Using the telephone system, it is not necessary to combine video and text into a composite signal. In most other respects, the operations center would remain similar whether text delivery was by telephone or cable. File server technology (such as that described in U.S. Pat. No. 5,262,875, entitled \/\/, issued to Mincer, et al., and, U.S. Pat. No. 5,218,695, entitled -, issued to Noveck, et al., incorporated herein by reference) may be used at the operation center with a telephone system text delivery method.","As another alternative to cable, television, and telephone system delivery, the public telephone system may be used to provide access to the Internet, where the Internet web site  may be accessed. Electronic books may be ordered, paid for, and delivered directly from the Internet web site  over the telephone system.","When a wireless telephone network is used to distribute electronic books, or otherwise communicate with the home system , the home system may receive data using any one or more standard protocols including time division multiple access (TDMA), code division multiple access (CDMA), Global Systems for Mobile Communications (GSM) and Advanced Mobile Telephone System (AMPS) protocols.","In any delivery system using the telephone system, individual subscribers may increase the electronic book deliver rate by incorporating high speed modems or other communications devices such as an Integrated Services Digital Network (ISDN) connector, or by use of an Asymmetric Digital Subscriber Line (ADSL). These alternative delivery methods are presented in Section VII.","II. The Home Subsystem","The hardware configuration for a four component home system  is shown in . shows a hardware configuration for a two component home subsystem. The home system  performs several functions, such as receiving data and video transmissions, stripping (or extracting) the data from the video signal, screening and storing the data, providing user friendly interface controls and software, displaying menus and text, processing transactions, initiating telephone calls and transmitting billing data. Various hardware configurations may be utilized to achieve the desired functions of the home system . For example, as shown in , the home system  can be configured to utilize the reception and channel tuning capability of the current installed subscriber base of cable converter boxes and televisions  and networked computers. The home system  can also be designed as an advanced set top terminal converter box with menu generation capability, electronic memory and a telephone modem as described in section V below. Alternatively, the home system  can be configured to support alternate delivery and ordering methods as described in Section VII.","The electronic components, which make up the home system  can be arranged in a variety of ways. In the four unit subsystem of the viewer  and library  are wired together while the remaining components communicate through RF transceivers . In a simple version of the home system  there are only two units, a library  and a viewer . shows a two unit home system  with certain optional features.","The viewer  is generally equipped with a high resolution viewing area , digital logic (including a key , security , and a microprocessor ), video graphics control and memory , power supply circuitry  (not shown), an optional battery  and an optional RF transceiver . In a two unit arrangement, the library  contains the connector function to the electronic book distribution system , connector function to a public telephone communications system, and memory  (which may be removable and portable \u2032). More specifically, the library  would include data stripping functions , digital logic , memory storage , power circuitry , optional connections  (including cellular or PCN \u2032), optional battery (not shown), optional tuner module  and an optional RF transceiver . The connector  and the public telephone system connection , as well as the removable portable memory unit  of the library  may be broken out into separate components. (shows a removable portable hard disk memory \u2032 with removable cartridges .) Finally, the home system  may include an attached keyboard  or a wireless keyboard . Both the attached keyboard  and the wireless keyboard  may be used to communicate with the viewer  (not shown) or the library unit . The wireless keyboard  may communicate using radio frequency (RF) signaling, for example.","In an alternate arrangement, all functions of the home system  may be incorporated into a single unit. The functions of the library , for example, may be carried out by a card or chipset in the viewer . All the communications devices needed to couple the home system  to various telecommunications networks may also be incorporated into the viewer. All interfaces between the home system  and the subscriber may be included with the viewer . In this embodiment, the viewer  may include a communication device for receiving inputs from a separate keyboard. The viewer  may also include a built-in video camera \u2033 that may be used to transmit images of the subscriber. Using the transceiver , the camera \u2033 and the speaker\/microphone \u2032, the subscriber may use the viewer  for video conferencing, for example.","Therefore, the home system  may have as many as five separate components, which communicate with each other. The two, three, four or five separate components which make up the home subsystem can communicate with each other in a variety of ways, including hardwired connection , RF transceiver  and other wireless methods.","RF communications may be used in the home, allowing separate components to be located throughout the home without restriction. The data communicated between the units may be secure data. In addition, the library  may provide power to the viewer  through the hard wire communication link .","To receive and strip data from a video signal at the consumer's home, a device such as a cable interface device or cable connector  is used. The cable connector device includes a tuner , while the cable interface device makes use of existing tuning equipment in the home. In either configuration, data is stripped from the video signal and stored at the subscribers location in the library . The phone connector , optional connector , and modular connector  initiate communications and transmit ordering and billing information to the operations center  or billing and collection system . A digital connector  is provided to communicate digital information with the set top . The library  is the intelligent component of the home subsystem, incorporating the hardware and software necessary to store the text data, generate menus and effect the purchase transactions. In addition to an RF transceiver , the home library  also includes the necessary jacks and connections to allow the system to be connected to the viewer . As shown in , the library  communicates the text data to the viewer  in a secure format, which requires a key  for decryption. The text may be decrypted page by page just before viewing.","a. The Video Connector",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0091","num":"0090"},"figref":"FIG. 7","b":["212","212","608","612","616","620"]},"The connection to the video distribution system may be a cable connector to a cable television delivery system, as shown in . The cable connector includes a data stripper circuit , which accepts video input from either a set top converter, TV or VCR , or an optional tuner block  that receives the CATV signal through the cable connector \u2032. The data stripper circuit  strips data out of the video, and outputs a digital bit stream to the digital logic portion  of the library unit . The data is embedded in the video signal either in the vertical blanking interval or the active video portion in an encrypted and compressed format. The data stripper circuit  can be placed inside the set top converter box , TV, or in the library unit. The data stripper circuit  outputs the digital bit stream to be used by the library digital logic .","The video connector  may also contain a channel tuner module  that can tune to the video channel and provide access to the video that contains the data to be stripped. Using the optional tuner module , a set top converter, VCR, or TV tuner is not needed in the home subsystem. The optional tuner module  would instead receive the CATV signal directly through the cable connector . Additional connector options, which allow for the receipt of text files using alternative delivery methods, are presented in Section VII. This ubiquitous access is provided using the modular connector  as depicted in ","b. Library","An embodiment of the library  for a two unit home subsystem is shown in both and . The embodiment shown includes the following optional parts: the video connector , phone connector , RF transceiver , and battery pack  in addition to a removal portable memory \u2032, microprocessor , instruction memory unit , digital logic , and power unit .","The library  contains a digital logic section  (not shown in ) which includes the microprocessor , the digital logic  and the instruction memory unit . The microprocessor  may be a secure microprocessor such as the Mot SC21 device sold by Motorola. The digital logic section  will receive the serial digital bit stream from the data stripper circuit  and process the data. Error correction will also be performed by the digital logic section  and the data will be checked for proper address. If the address of the data is correct and the library  is authorized to receive the data, the data will be transferred to the memory storage unit , \u2032. Authorization to receive the data is provided by the cable headend or another distribution point. An authorization code may be sent in the serial digital bit stream. The digital logic section  will send appropriate text and graphical data to the memory storage unit , \u2032. It transfers this data in a compressed and encrypted format and the data remains stored in a compressed and encrypted format.","i. Memory Storage Unit","The memory storage unit of the library may be a removable portable memory unit \u2032 (as shown in , and ). A variety of options are available for memory storage: a hard disk drive, such as an 80 megabyte, a 200 megabyte, a hard disk with removable platters, and CD ROM. Referring to , a hard disk drive unit \u2032, which contains removable platters, may also be used. This would provide virtually unlimited library storage capacity. Data will be stored in the memory storage unit in a compressed and encrypted format. As is also shown in , the data may also contain a key or unique ID number that matches the ID or key of the viewer . This matching of a unique key or ID number prevents unauthorized transfer of text data from the memory storage unit to an unauthorized viewer. Small memory devices such as smart cards, electronic memory cards or PCM CIA cards (personal computer memory card industry association) may also be used to store the data.","ii. Power Circuitry","As shown in and , the library  will accept power from AC wall power , DC power , or optional battery power . The power circuitry ,  may provide all the voltage necessary from either the battery  or AC unit for the various circuitry in the library. The power circuitry ,  may also provide power to the viewer through a single data cable when connected to the viewer. The power circuitry ,  will recharge the battery using AC power when in operation. With the optional battery unit  installed, the library  becomes a portable unit and can still provide power to the viewer . In order to extend battery life, power conservation measures may be utilized, such as shutting down the memory system when not in use. When the viewer unit  is being utilized and the library circuitry is not being utilized, virtually all power may be shut down to the library .","iii. Connection to the Public Telephone System","In an embodiment, the connection to the telephone system may be provided by a connector device , which consists of a modem. Various available modems may be used to perform this function. As shown in , cellular phone or PCN phone connections \u2032 may also be provided. When the home system  is first initialized, the modem may be used to transfer the name and credit card information of the consumer to the billing and collection system . The telephone connection  may be utilized each time an electronic book is purchased by a consumer to complete and record the transaction. The telephone connection  may also be used to receive the text data from the operations center , by-passing the video distribution system . The phone connection  may be a separate unit as shown in . However, alternate means exist to connect the home system  to the billing and collection system  or the operation center . The modular connector  (shown in and ) provides access to each communication network to provide a path from the home system  to the billing and collection system  or the operations center . These alternatives are presented in detail in Section VII.","iv. Library Processing",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0104","num":"0103"},"figref":"FIG. 9","b":["609","262","651","212","617","650","609","651","654","609","658","650","654","658","609","609","662"]},"If the address is a unique address, the process moves to step S and the digital logic section  checks whether the address of the packet matches the library box ID number. The library box ID number is a unique number associated with the library . The library box ID is used to ensure security of the data. The process then moves to step S and the digital logic section  determines whether an electronic file has already been opened into which the data packet can be saved. If no data file has been opened, the digital logic section  opens a new data file for that packet. If an electronic file has been opened, the process moves to step S and the digital logic section  saves the packet in the electronic file on disk. The process moves to step  and the digital logic section  checks to see if this is the last packet for a particular book for a particular textual data block being received. If it is the last packet of information, the process moves to step  and the digital logic section  closes the electronic file and updates the directory of available electronic files. Following either step S or S, the process returns to receive another data packet from the data stream received from the data stripper block.","If the packet address is checked and the address is determined to be a broadcast address, the process moves to step S and the digital logic section  determines the type of message that is being sent. The message may be an index of book titles, menu (and menu graphics) information, announcements, special offerings, discounts, promotions, and previews, for example. The process then moves to step S and the digital logic section  stores the message in an appropriate electronic message file. The process then returns to step S to receive another data packet and perform another error check.","Using the process of , the library  is able to receive, store and update directories related to the textual data and graphical data (that can be used to depict pictures in a given book or to generate menus). Variations of the processes are possible depending on the format of the data and operating system of the library .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0108","num":"0107"},"figref":"FIG. 10","b":["266","262","266","266","262","602"]},"Information requests received from the viewer  generally fall into three categories: (1) directory data of books stored in the library , (2) index of all available books on the system, and (3) requests for a specific book (step S). In step S, the digital logic section  answers a request from the viewer  for a directory of data showing the books stored at the viewer . The directory of data is sent to the viewer  so that it may be displayed to the subscriber. In step S, the digital logic section  handles requests from the viewer  for an index of all available books on the system. The library  will obtain an index of all the available books on the system and transmit that index, in step S, with menu information to the viewer . In step S, the digital logic section  replies to a request from the viewer  for a specific book. In step S, the digital logic section  opens an electronic file for the specific book requested by the viewer  and transmits the record or transmits the information on a packet-by-packet basis to the viewer . This process of transmitting the specific book, record, or packets to the viewer  continues until the last record or packet has been sent in step S.","In addition to the processes shown on  in handling a request for a specific book, the library  also orders and receives specific books from the operations center  using the process as described in step S. Following a request for a specific book which is not stored at the library , the library  will proceed to determine the next available time the book will be on the video distribution system  or an alternative delivery system and ensure reception and storage of that book (process not shown). In performing this process the library  will transmit to the viewer information on when it will obtain the text data for the book so that the subscriber may view the book. In addition to timing information, price and other ordering information may also be passed by the library  to the subscriber.","c. The Viewer",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0112","num":"0111"},"figref":["FIG. 11","FIG. 11","FIG. 6"],"b":["266","266","266","266","266","602","607","740","728","736","603","604","611","267","268","608"],"i":"b"},"(1) A high resolution LCD screen , of VGA quality, may be used by the viewer  to display text and graphic images. The screen may be the size of one page of an electronic book. A two page screen or two screens may also be used with the viewer .","(2) Digital circuitry that includes a secure microprocessor , instruction memory , and digital logic. Data is transferred to the viewer  in compressed and encrypted format. The secure microprocessor  compares the ID number of the viewer  with the incoming data stream and only stores the text data if the ID number of the viewer  matches that within the incoming data stream. The viewer  may be configured to not output text data or other data and that the data is decompressed and decrypted only at the moment of viewing and only for the current page being viewed. These measures provide additional security against unauthorized access to data.","(3) A video graphics controller \u2032 that is capable of assisting and displaying VGA quality text and graphic images is included in the viewer . The graphics controller \u2032 is controlled by the digital circuitry described above. Text may be displayed in multiple font sizes.","(4) The viewer  of  has touch panel controls . These unique and novel controls  allow the consumer to select stored electronic books and electronic books from catalogues, move a cursor, and turn pages in an electronic book. Typically, the controls  include forward and reverse page buttons , , a ball  for cursor movement, one or more selection buttons , a current book button  and a bookmark button  (see ).","The controls  should be easy to use and conveniently located. Referring to , the controls for the viewer  may be located below the screen  at the bottom portion of the viewer . The next page turn button  is the most used button  and is located towards the right edge of the page. The subscriber is likely to use right hand thumb movements to work the controls particularly the page turn buttons , . Therefore, the buttons may be arranged in such a manner that the buttons are easily controlled by a subscriber's right thumb. Generally, this can be accommodated either on the lower portion of the viewer  (as shown) or along the right hand margin of the viewer  (not shown). The current book button  and bookmark button  are usually the least used of the controls . Therefore, in the example shown, those buttons ,  are located on the inside portion towards the binder of the viewer .","Locating the ball  or other cursor movement device (such as four pointer arrows not shown) in the bottom center of the viewer  is both easier for the subscriber to use and easier in manufacturing the viewer . The selection buttons for the cursor  may be located below the middle diameter of the cursor ball  on the right and left sides of the ball as shown. If pointer arrows are used for cursor movement, a selection button  may be located in the center of the four arrow buttons (not shown). Again, the most used controls  should be located where a subscriber's right hand thumb would normally rest.","(5) Book memory  for at least one electronic book or more of text is included in the viewer . The memory  stores text and any graphics, which represent pictures in a book. The memory  can also store menu graphics data. Two different memory  devices may be used in the viewer , one for the instructions for the microprocessor  in the digital circuitry and a second type of memory may be used for the book memory  (and graphics). Various memory devices available on the market may be used such as, ROM, RAM or a small hard disk. Since an electronic book requires approximately 0.6 megabytes of storage, a small hard disk providing approximately 60 MBytes of storage provides memory to store approximately 100 electronic books.","Text for electronic books may be displayed in various font sizes. To accommodate various fonts for display, a variety of fonts are stored in instruction  or book memory . Thus larger or smaller fonts may be recalled from memory ,  to create displays desired by the subscriber.","(6) Power supply circuitry  in the viewer  will accept power from either an AC power source or from an optional battery \u2032, or the library . The power supply circuitry  provides the necessary voltages to accommodate the various systems within the viewer .","(7) An optional battery \u2032 is provided in one embodiment. The battery \u2032 is automatically recharged when AC power is available.","(8) An optional RF transceiver  which provided two-way data link between the viewer  and other components of the home subsystem can also be included in the viewer .","(9) Also, the viewer  may include a cellular transceiver (not shown) for mobile communications.","(10) The optional wired (attached) keyboard  and wireless (e.g., RF) keyboard  (see ) may be used with the viewer  to provide communications between the subscriber and the viewer .","(11) The optional speaker and microphone \u2032 allow the viewer  to provide audio signals to the subscriber, and allow the subscriber to provide an audio input. The speaker and microphone \u2032 may be used in conjunction with the cellular transceiver  or other telecommunications equipment to provide for reception and transmission of telephony and data.","(12) The optional alternative communication interface devices allow the viewer  to make use of a variety of communication paths.","The viewer  of  has parts available for providing connections to: a library , electronic card memory , CD ROM units , and a portable memory unit  (such as that shown in as \u2032). Various electronic memory cards such as PCMCIA can be used with the viewer  to supply and store electronic books.","Security, low power consumption and excellent display technology are desired features of the viewer  design. The viewer  should be lightweight and portable. The viewer  contains a software operating system that allows electronic books to be stored, read and erased and includes the capability to order electronic books and retain them in memory  for a predefined period of time determined by the system operator. The software can be configured to allow the electronic book to be read during a period of time (i.e., two weeks) and then automatically erased, read once and erased, or held in memory permanently. Each viewer  may have a unique key . All of the data storage may be encrypted with the key  for an individual viewer  to prevent more than one viewer  accessing the text file or electronic book file.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0130","num":"0129"},"figref":"FIG. 12","b":["621","266","266","740","800","621"]},"In step S, if the subscriber requests a menu of available electronic books, the microprocessor  will select an electronic book menu. In step S, the microprocessor  will open the electronic files that list the electronic books which are available (related to the category of topic of the menu) and display the menu with the names of the available electronic books.","If the subscriber selects a particular book to read, then in step S, the microprocessor  will process the selection and determine the electronic file that contains the specific electronic book. In step S, the microprocessor  will open the file for that specific electronic book and normally access the first page. (If a pointer has already been set in that books electronic file, the process may default to that page.) In step S, the microprocessor  will then determine which page needs to be displayed. That is, the microprocessor  will determine whether a next page, previous page or a bookmarked page needs to be displayed. If the pointer for the electronic file is not in the correct location then in step S, the microprocessor  will move the pointer and obtain the previous page of data from the stored file. Otherwise, in step S, the microprocessor  will normally obtain the next page of text from the stored electronic file. In step S, the microprocessor  will decrypt and decompress the text data and send the data to the video display. The video display will generally have a video display memory associated with it. In step S, the microprocessor  will send the data directly to that video display memory. The circuitry for the display then completes the process of displaying the page of text.","If the subscriber, through the controls , requests (from step S) that the power be turned off, then in step S, the microprocessor  initiates power off. In step S, the microprocessor  saves the pointer in memory to the page number in the book that the viewer  is currently reading. In step S, the microprocessor  closes all the electronic files and signals the power circuitry to shut down the power to the various circuits in the viewer . With these examples of basic processes the viewer  is able to display book selections and display text from those electronic books.","d. Menu System","Referring generally to , the electronic book system  may have a menu system  for selecting features and books from the electronic book system . The operating software and memory required for the menu system  may be located at the viewer  (e.g., the instruction memory  and\/or book memory ). However, it can also be located at the library  (e.g., the instruction memory ) or the library  and the viewer  can share the software and memory needed to operate the menu system . Since the menus are usually displayed on the viewer, and since the viewer  may be capable of operating in the absence of the library , the basic software and memory to create the menus is more conveniently located at the viewer .","The menu system  allows sequencing between menus and provides menu graphics for graphical displays such as on the LCD display  of the viewer . In an electronic book system that uses a set top converter these menus may also be displayed on a television screen. In an electronic book system that uses a computer, these menus may also be displayed on the computer monitor. In an embodiment, the menus provide just basic text information from which the subscriber makes choices. In other embodiments, the menus provide visual displays with graphics and icons to assist the subscriber and allow for subscriber interaction and real-time ordering of electronic books or other content available to the subscriber.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0137","num":"0136"},"figref":"FIG. 13","b":["851","851","850","854","858","858","858","858","858","887","888"]},"An example of an introductory menu  is shown on . Generally the introductory menu  introduces the viewer  to the system and provides initial guidance, announcements and instruction. The introductory menu  is followed by a main menu , an example of which is shown in . The main menu provides the viewer  with the basic selection or features available in the system. is an example of a main menu  offering many additional features and submenus  to the subscriber. For example, shows that the viewer  is able to choose by a point and click method, many options including: (1) free previews, (2) books you can order, (3) books in your library, (4) your current book, (5) help, (6) on-line services and (6) other system features. Following a selection on the main menu , a corresponding submenu  is shown.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0139","num":"0138"},"figref":["FIG. 13","FIG. 14","FIGS. 14"],"b":["862","866","855","872","878","884","887","890","893","896","898","970","980","990","872","872","874","854","14","858","878"],"i":["c ","d ","e "]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0140","num":"0139"},"figref":"FIG. 14","i":"f ","ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0001","list-style":"none"},"li":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0001-0001","num":"0000"},"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0002","list-style":"none"},"li":["Your book order is now being processed using CABLE.","Your book will be delivered overnight and your VISA account will be charged $2.95.","Your book will be available for reading at 6:00 AM EST tomorrow. Make sure that:","1. your Library Unit and Cable Connection Unit are plugged in with aerials up tonight; and","2. you tune your cable converter to THE BOOK Channel. The TV set does not have to remain on.\n\nor similar language.\n"]}}}},"Examples of the \u201cAccount Set Up Menu\u201d  and further submenus  related to account set up (which provide instructions and account input ) are shown in and . These submenus  allow initialization of an account at the operations center  and orders to be charged to credit cards. The submenus  include the ability to enter data related to your desired PIN number or password, credit cards, phone numbers, etc. In one embodiment, the account set up be performed using the telephone system. A confirmation menu verifies that the account has been properly set up with the desired PIN or password and credit card. However, additional set-up methods are presented in Section VII.","Free previews for books  are also provided by submenus (, ). Examples of the free preview menus are shown in and . shows a menu depicting various books for which previews are available for viewing. Following a book selection, a screen submenu showing an excerpt of the selected book cover's description is provided along with an excerpt from a critic's review of the selected book. In one embodiment, this preview screen for a particular book also allows the subscriber to select a submenu which provides information about the author. The book preview submenu may also include a still video picture or graphics portraying a book cover or a scene from the book. An example of such a still video picture or graphics is shown in which depicts a preview screen  about the author. The author's preview screen  shows a picture of the author, provides a short biography, and may allow the subscriber to order the author's books. The price for ordering the authors various books may also be shown on the menu.","In addition to free previews, in other embodiments, the electronic book system  provides the subscriber with a book suggestion feature (see ). This is accomplished using the menu system  and the processor with associated memory located at the viewer , library  or at the distribution point ( or ). When necessary, information for the book suggestion feature is sent in the text data of the signal to the home system . With this feature, books or authors are suggested to a subscriber based upon historical data of the subscriber's previous orders, demographics or mood of the subscriber, other indicators, and\/or by text word searches.","In one book suggestion embodiment, text word searches of preview information (such as book cover descriptions, critics reviews and biographies about the author) and\/or text of books or other titles are performed by the library  using databases stored in the library memory . Personalized book or author suggestions are made to the subscriber by obtaining information from the subscriber indicative of general subscriber interests. Subscriber entries may be solicited from the subscriber using the book suggestion entry submenu . The system uses these subscriber entries either directly or indirectly to search for books or authors to suggest to the subscriber.","Generally, the electronic book suggestion methods may be categorized into two categories, either responsive methods (which respond to a series of subscriber menu entries), or intelligent methods (which analyze data to suggest a book). Using a responsive or intelligent method, the system  determines a list of suggested titles or authors and creates a second or third level submenu ,  to suggest the titles for subscriber selection.","Responsive methods of suggesting titles include, for example, the use of mood questions, searching for authors, and keyword searching. Using the instruction memory  and menu generation hardware (e.g., ) of the viewer , a series of mood questions can be presented on menus to determine a subscribers interest at a particular time. For this methodology, the operations center's  processor  and instruction memory  assign each title mood indicators (and sub-indicators) from a group such as light, serious, violent, short, long, dull, exciting, complex, easy-read, young theme, old theme, adventure, romance, drama, fiction, science-fiction, etc. These indicators are sent to the home system  with the text data and are stored in library memory . Based upon the subscriber entries, the processor associates a set of indicators with the subscriber's request and a set of books with matching indicators are located for suggesting to the subscriber.","Responsive searches for authors or keywords (a search word provided by the subscriber) are generally performed by the library processor  and instruction memory  on data stored in the library memory . For example, a keyword given by the subscriber may be searched for a match in library memory  storing the book reviews, critics and previews databases. Thus, if a subscriber provided an entry of the word \u201csubmarine\u201d on an appropriate submenu, the title \u201cHunt For Red October\u201d may be located by the microprocessor  using instruction from a routine in instruction memory .","Intelligent methods of suggesting programs include analyzing personal profile data on the subscriber and\/or historical data about the subscriber such as past books ordered by the subscriber (or buy data). This method may be performed at the distribution point or operations center  by the on-site processor  using subscriber databases stored in memory . The home system  receives the text data including program suggestion information from the distribution point or operations center  and generates the program suggestion submenus , ,  using the same text data receiving  and viewer menu generation hardware (e.g., , ) described above. Software routines and algorithms stored in instruction memories (e.g. , ) are used to analyze historical data and book ordered data to determine a line of books to suggest to the subscriber.","The algorithms for this powerful feature of suggesting books or authors to subscribers is disclosed in great detail in U.S. Pat. No. 5,798,785, entitled , filed Dec. 2, 1993, which is incorporated herein by reference.","Referring to , submenus  are shown on the \u201cBooks In Your Library\u201d submenu  and may be broken into shelf numbers with submenus for each shelf , . The submenus  for the \u201cBooks You Can Order\u201d submenu  is similarly broken out into submenus by shelves , . These shelves may each be a category or genre of books. Books may be grouped into categories such as best sellers, novels, fiction, romance, etc. See ","Referring to , the submenu  for \u201cYour Current Book\u201d  allows a subscriber to select a current book  and then determine what page to view. This selection is confirmed with a level two submenu . The help submenu  provides the subscriber with additional help screens . The submenus  for available features  may be broken out into a sequence of separate submenus for each feature , .","Referring to , messages can also be sent with the electronic book selection and delivery system . A level one message screen provides the subscriber with the ability to select from various messages the subscriber has pending . Each message is then shown on a separate submenu screen , . The message may contain text and graphics.","Referring to , account information is shown on a level one submenu  and then follow-on submenus  show the recent orders and your account balance . There is also a level one submenu for outgoing messages  which has a follow-on submenu used as an input screen .","In addition to the specific features and submenus described in  and through , many other variations and features are possible. When a book is finally selected for viewing the title page  will appear on the screen followed by a page of text.","III. The Billing and Collection System","In one embodiment, the billing and collection system  (shown in ) utilizes the latest technology in electronic transaction and telephone switching to track orders, authorize deliveries, bill consumers, and credit publishers automatically. The telephone calls initiated by the phone connector  are received by the billing and collection system  which responds immediately without human intervention by placing the order and charging the consumers credit card account. Data is compiled periodically and publishers  are credited for sales of their books or other text. The billing and collection system  may also connect with subscribers through two-way cable connections, cellular, or other communication means. These additional methods are detailed in Section VII.","The billing and collection system  communicates with the operations center to track changes in available books and to provide statistical data to the operations center .","IV. Public Library, School, and Bookstore System","The electronic book system can be modified to be used at public libraries, schools, bookstores, newsstands, or stand-alone kiosks.  shows one possible arrangement of components for the distribution location. The main unit is the file server . The file server  is a large electronic memory unit that can store thousands of books, newspapers, or periodicals. Various electronic storage means may be used in the file servers, such as hard disks, read-write CD ROMs and read-only CD ROMs.","The system comprises five components; the file server , a converter or video connector  or connector capable of interfacing to one of the alternative delivery systems presented in Section VII, a controller , a viewer , and a catalog printer . The software for controlling the system is primarily located in the controller . The converter or video connector  is similar to those described above. In this configuration the controller unit  monitors the data being transferred to the file server  by the converter . The controller  may be provided with a viewing screen and several control buttons. When it is necessary to have a larger screen to perform more sophisticated controlling of the system a viewer  may be connected to the controller  and the viewer screen and controls  may be used.","For security reasons, the controller  is only able to download books to public viewers  which are authorized to receive books from the particular file server . Also for security reasons it is not desirable that the public viewer  have access to more than one file server . In this way, security can be maintained over the text data for books. The public viewer  may be limited to receiving one or two books at a time from the controller . When the user of the public viewer  needs a new or additional book, the user returns the viewer  to the school or public library where the user receives a new book from the controller .","In order to track the books that are available on the file server , the titles of the available books may be printed on a catalog printer . The catalog printer  is connected to the library controller  and the titles of the books are downloaded to the catalog printer . For security reasons, the coded text for any of the electronic books may not be authorized for printing using the controller  and catalog printer . In order to maintain security over the data, none of the electronic book data may be allowed to be downloaded to the printer . Once a complete printout of available book titles, magazines, or other textual material is complete, a hard copy of the catalog  can be maintained at the file server .","The system shown may also be used at bookstores. The bookstores can rent the public viewer  to customers with the text for one or two books loaded onto the public viewer . The public viewer  may be provided with an automatic timeout sequence. The timeout sequence would erase the textual data for the books after a certain period of time, for example, two weeks. It is expected that after a period of time (perhaps within two weeks) the renter would return the public viewer  to the bookstore and receive additional books for viewing. Using this arrangement, it is also possible for the bookstore to (permanently) sell a viewer  to a regular customer. The customer then returns to the bookstore from time to time to receive textual data for a book which the customer can then store permanently on the customer's own viewer . Various other configurations are possible for bookstores, schools and public libraries using the file server  and public viewer  described.","V. Use of a Set Top Converter","Existing set top converter boxes such as those made by Scientific Atlanta or General Instruments are presently unequipped to handle the book selection system of the present invention. Although set top converters may be built which include the library functions, hardware modifications are necessary in order to use the book selection system with existing set top converter technology.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0163","num":"0167"},"figref":["FIGS. 16","FIG. 16","FIG. 16"],"i":["a ","b ","a","b"],"b":["16","601","1394","601"]},"A card addition  to a set top converter  is depicted in . The card  shown provides the additional functionality needed to utilize the book selection system with existing set top converter  technology. The card  may be configured to slip inside the frame of a set top terminal and become part of the set top terminal, an advanced set top terminal. The primary functions the card  adds to the set top converter  are the interpreting of data signals, generating of menus, sequencing of menus, and, ultimately, the ability of the subscriber to select a book using either the television or a viewer . The card  also provides a method for a remote location, such as the cable headend, to receive information on books ordered. The books ordered information and control commands may be passed from the cable headend to the card  using telephone lines or alternative ordering methods as presented in Section VII.","The primary components of the card  are a PC chip CPU , a VGA graphic controller , a video combiner , logic circuitry , NTSC encoder , a receiver , demodulator (not shown), and a connector \u2032, which consists of a dialer. The card  operates by receiving the data text signal from the cable headend through the coaxial cable. The logic circuitry  of the card  receives data , infrared commands , and synchronization signals (not shown) from the set top converter . Menu selections made by the viewer  on the remote control are received by the set top converter's  IR equipment and passed through to the card . The card  interprets the IR signal and determines the book (or menu) the subscriber has selected. The card  modifies the IR command to send the information to the set top converter . The modified IR command contains the channel information needed by the set top converter . Using the phone line  and dialer \u2032, the card  is able to transmit electronic books ordered information to the cable headend. It is also possible to receive the electronic books over the telephone lines and other telecommunications networks, including wireless networks, and by-pass the video distribution system.","These commands are passed through the interface linking the set top terminal's microprocessor with the microprocessor of the hardware upgrades. In this way, subscriber inputs, entered through the set top terminal keypad or remote control, can be transferred to any of the hardware upgrades for processing and responses generated therein can then be sent back to the set top terminal for display. In one embodiment the IR commands  are transferred from set top terminal  to hardware upgrade.","Hardware upgrades may include a microprocessor, interactive software, processing circuitry, bubble memory, and a long-term memory device. In addition to these basic components, the hardware upgrade may make use of an additional telephone modem or CD-ROM device.","An information download hardware upgrade  shown in allows the subscriber to download large volumes of information from the operations center  or cable headend using a set top terminal . The hardware upgrade  will enable subscribers to download data, such as electronic books and electronic magazines, to local storage. Primarily, the hardware upgrade  is an additional local storage unit  (e.g., hard disk, floppy, optical disk or magnetic cartridge and may include a microprocessor , instruction memory , and a random access memory , as shown in ). A small portable viewer may also provided with the upgrade  to enable downloaded text to be read without the use of a television.","The downloadable information may be text or graphics supplied by the operations center  or cable headend. With the upgrade , electronic books may be downloaded and read anywhere with the viewer . Using the upgrade , electronic books may be downloaded and stored in compressed form for later decompression. The electronic books may be decompressed only at the time of viewing. Important text that the public desires immediate access may made available through this system. Text such as the President's speech, a new law, or a recent abortion decision rendered by the Supreme Court may be made immediately available.","In one embodiment, electronic book ordering information is stored at each set top terminal  until it is polled by the cable headend using a polling request message format. An example of a polling request message format consists of six fields, namely: (1) a leading flag at the beginning of the message, (2) an address field, (3) a subscriber region designation, (4) a set top terminal identifier that includes a polling command\/response (or P\/F) bit, (5) an information field, and (6) a trailing flag at the end of the message. A similar response frame format for information communicated by the set top terminal to the cable headend in response to the polling request may be used.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0171","num":"0175"},"figref":["FIG. 17","FIG. 17"],"b":["610","617","1011","610","1011","617","1011","610"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0172","num":"0176"},"figref":"FIG. 17","b":["617","613","1013","1015","266","613","1017","1017"]},"Data targeted to individual set top terminals is received by the data receiver \u2032 according to each set top terminal's specific address or ID. In this way, each addressable set top terminal \u2032 only receives its own data. The data receiver \u2032 may receive set top terminal \u2032 specific data in the information field of the signal frame described or on a separate data carrier located at a convenient frequency in the incoming spectrum.","The received data includes information regarding electronic books and menus available for selection. The subscriber may enter a series of commands  using a keypad or remote control in order to choose an electronic book or menu. Upon receipt of such commands, the set top terminal's microprocessor  instructs the tuner to tune to the proper frequency of the channel carrying data and subsequently instructs the processing circuitry  to begin descrambling of this data.","Upon selection of an electronic book, the microprocessor  stores any selection information in local memory (not shown) for later data transmission back to the cable headend. The set top terminal's microprocessor  coordinates all CATV signal reception and also interacts with various upstream data transmission components. Typically, the data transmitter  operates in the return frequency band between 5 and 30 MHZ. In an alternative embodiment, the frequency band of 10 to 15 MHZ may be used. Regardless, however, of the frequency band used, the data transmitter  sends information to the cable headend in the information field of the response frame described. Those skilled in the art will recognize that a number of variations and combinations of the above-described set top terminal hardware components may be used to accomplish upstream data transmissions.","VI. Books-on-Demand System","The electronic book system  described may also be configured in a book-on-demand style. shows one example of a configuration for a book-on-demand system. A book on demand system requires more powerful two-way communications between the consumer's home, bookstore, school or public library and either the operations center  or a distribution site  such as the cable headend. In one embodiment, this type of two-way communication can be provided by the hardware shown in  and described above. Additional methods related to alternative communication paths are presented in Section VII.","Referring to , in a book-on-demand system, the subscriber selects the book to be download from an available menu of books (see for example and ). The data for menus of available books is usually sent to the subscriber location by the distribution site . After the subscriber's menu selection, information about the subscriber selection (or request) is then communicated to either a distribution point  (such as a cable headend) or the operations center . Upon receipt of this request, the needed textual and graphical information for the book is spooled and sent to the subscriber. In this manner, electronic books are only sent when requested by the subscriber and are sent immediately upon demand for the electronic book (or text).","In order to support such a demand system, the text delivery and distribution must be conducted on a strong nodal architecture distribution system, such as, a video-on-demand cable or telephone television system, through use of individual telephone calls on the public telephone system or cellular phone system, through the use of the Internet, or a number of other data network options.","The book-on-demand system allows for a greater selection of electronic books to the subscriber and limits the amount of communicated book data that is unnecessary or unneeded. It also provides the electronic book to the subscriber in a much timelier fashion.","In addition to a stronger distribution system, a book-on-demand system requires a distribution point  to have more sophisticated equipment to access and \u201cspool out\u201d the textual information. This can be accomplished using file server technology  for storing the books and distribution technology such as ATM  or telephone-type switching (not shown) to distribute the textual information. The file server  and distribution technology that can be used in configuring such a book-on-demand system is described in U.S. Pat. No. 5,262,875 and U.S. Pat. No. 5,218,695, cited above.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0181","num":"0185"},"figref":["FIG. 18","FIG. 18"],"i":["a ","a "],"b":["282","1032","1028","1036","1040","1024","1020","1044"]},"The library  can be connected to either a basic premium-type service cable system , a near video-on-demand type cable system (or pay-per-view (PPV) ) or a video-on-demand cable system . In connecting with either of these three systems the library  may access the cable directly or may access the system through a set top terminal \u2032, \u2033, or \u2033\u2032.","Using the two-way video-on-demand system , a subscriber is able to request a specific book title and receive that text immediately following its request. To accomplish this, the distribution point  transmits a list of available books through the cable delivery system to the library . The library  displays the list of available books on a menu or similar format. As described earlier, the library  may use menus which list categories of available books to form its request from the distribution point . After selecting a book the library  then sends a request signal on the two-way communication system  back to the distribution point . This request signal can be handled in two ways. The library  either initiates the request or the distribution point  polls the various libraries on to the two-way system . Upon receiving the request for the book title, the text associated with that book title is transmitted to the library  using the two-way cable system .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0184","num":"0188"},"figref":"FIG. 18","i":"b ","b":["250","250","250","1060","1060","1028","1036","1064","1068","1072","282","1072"]},"A system controller  provides control over the regional or national book-on-demand system. Books may be packaged into groups to provide feeds to various cable headends. In addition, scheduling and marketing research are conducted at the operations center . In order to handle the scheduling and market research, book buy data is received at the operations center  through a multiplexer . Book buy information can be provided by the operation center  to the billing and collection system .","The operations center  is also equipped to insert messages or advertisements into the file server. These messages or advertisements will eventually be received by the subscribers.","The master file server  uses an output multiplexer  and ATM  as well as satellite connections to distribute digital data. In one embodiment, cable headends receive text data on books from the master file server  through the output multiplexer  and an ATM system . After receiving the digital book data, the cable headends store the books in a local file server . 's distribution point  is an example of a cable headend which may receive data from the operations center  of through an ATM hookup  or satellite hookup.","VII. Alternative Delivery and Ordering Methods","Electronic books and related data, including electronic book menu data, may be provided to subscribers by use of an on-demand delivery system in which electronic books are delivered after an order is received by the delivery system. The delivery system may supply the electronic books in real time or near-real time (i.e., near on-demand), or after a delay period that allows the delivery system to process, package and transmit the electronic book. Alternatively, the delivery system may broadcast one or more electronic books in a continuous fashion. In this alternative, the subscriber indicates a desired electronic book from a list of the broadcast electronic books. The delivery system may include a billing system that debits a subscriber's account, or debits a credit card, for example, upon delivery of the electronic book. The delivery system, or a related authorization system, may provide a local authorization code that allows the subscriber to decrypt, store and view the desired electronic book.","a. Use of TV Program Broadcast Delivery System for Electronic Book Delivery","i. Delivery System Description","In addition to advances in television broadcast technology, government regulatory agencies have placed requirements on the broadcast television industry. In particular, the over-the-air broadcast television networks will soon transition to high definition television (HDTV)\u2014a digital broadcast television standard. These broadcasters may elect to provide a single HDTV digital signal in their allotted bandwidth, with the remaining bandwidth used for standard definition television (SDTV) digital programming. Alternatively, broadcasters may elect to make use of their bandwidth for data-related services, such as the delivery of electronic books.","This embodiment relates to an electronic book delivery system using a digital television program delivery system. This embodiment may be used in at least two domains: delivery of electronic books embedded in the broadcast digital multiplex signal using terrestrial, over-the-air media; and delivery of electronic books embedded in the broadcast digital multimedia signal over an existing cable television system. Over-the-air delivery includes standard terrestrial television broadcasts. Cable delivery systems include coaxial cable systems, fiber optic delivery systems, and telephone delivery systems (including T1 and T3 lines, Integrated Services Digital Network (ISDN) lines and Asymmetric Digital Subscriber Lines (ADSL)). In addition, electronic books may be delivered within the broadcaster's signal by direct satellite broadcast, by wireless broadcasts, and by other wired means including local area networks.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0193","num":"0197"},"figref":"FIG. 19","b":["1100","1110","1111","1112","1111","1112","1110","1111","1120","1120","1121","1122","1123","1120","1111","1112","258","258","258"]},"The broadcast affiliate  may provide digital multiplex television programming with embedded electronic book data  to intermediate locations such as local cable system . Alternately, the broadcast affiliates  may provide the programming with embedded electronic book data  directly to the subscriber's home systems \u2032, \u2033, and \u2033\u2032. The local cable system  that receives the programming with embedded electronic book data  may in turn provide the programming with embedded electronic book data  to the home systems \u2032, \u2033, and \u2033\u2032.","The home systems \u2032, \u2033, and \u2033\u2032 may receive digital television signals from any device capable of receiving digital TV signals, including digital televisions, digital set top boxes and personal computers, or any combination of these devices, or home subsystems may have a built-in digital TV receiver. The home systems \u2032 \u2033, and \u2033\u2032 may receive the programming with embedded electronic book data  by cable, including coaxial cable and fiber optic cable, by telephone cable (including T1 and T3 lines, Integrated Services Digital Network (ISDN) lines and Asymmetric Digital Subscriber Lines (ADSL)). Alternately, the home systems \u2032, \u2033, and \u2033\u2032 may receive the programming with embedded electronic book data  directly from the national broadcaster  using the satellite broadcast system . For example, the home system \u2033 \u2018receives direct broadcast satellite programming with embedded electronic book data using a backyard satellite antenna .","Also coupled to the home systems \u2019, \u2033, and \u2033\u2032 may be an Internet . The Internet  provides access to web sites such as the web site . The Internet  may also connect to the billing and collection system , or operations center , which is responsible for formatting and delivering the electronic book data to the broadcast affiliate  and the national broadcaster  to be embedded into their respective program signals for delivery. The operations center  may use the Internet  to post electronic book ordering menus, such as provided in the menu system  shown in . The billing and collection system  may use the Internet  to receive orders and payment for the purchases of electronic books. The electronic book ordering menu  may be provided as part of the broadcast from the national broadcaster , the broadcast affiliate , or the local cable system . Alternatively, the electronic book ordering menu  may be downloaded from an Internet web site or alternately viewed directly on the Internet web site. The use of the Internet  for these purposes will be described later in more detail.","In , the national broadcaster  may be a television program broadcaster. Alternately, the national broadcaster  may be a radio program broadcaster, or a combined television and radio broadcaster. The national broadcaster  may also broadcast any other type of data or communication, either separately or in combination. Likewise, the broadcast affiliate  may broadcast television or audio or both and may also broadcast any other data or communication, either separately or in combination. The national broadcaster  and the broadcast affiliate  may broadcast analog signals and any type of digital signals including packet data. Digital data broadcast by the national broadcaster  and the broadcast affiliate  may include high definition television and standard definition television signals.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0198","num":"0202"},"figref":"FIG. 20","b":["282","250","500","282","250","504","250","282"]},"In one embodiment, as shown in step S, files are broken into smaller packets of information. Header information is added to the packets. The bit stream is converted from a serial digital bit stream to a digital stream that is compatible for insertion into the broadcaster's video\/audio program multiplex signal. Step S shows the multiplexing of digital data into the appropriate data fields within the video\/audio program multiplex. The digital data may be treated as an ancillary MPEG2 service, being placed into the multiplex as private data, carried either in the adaptation header of the MPEG2 transport packets or in a separate transport stream altogether. Step S also shows the operations center  performing the necessary modification to the industry standard MPEG Program Map Table and Program Specific Information.","ii. In-Home Reception Options for a Broadcast Delivery System",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0201","num":"0205"},"figref":["FIGS. 21","FIG. 21"],"i":["a","g ","a"],"b":["21","258","1220","1220","1115","1112","1114","1110","1120","1220","1220","1120","1114","1112"]},"Also shown in is a telephone  that may be used to communicate with the billing and collection system , and a personal computer (PC)  and a modem  that may be used to communicate with the Internet . The personal computer  may be coupled to the set top terminal  using signal path . The signal path  may include a cable connection such as a RS-232 cable, USB format interface, Firewire interface, and connectors or by wireless means, such as infrared signaling and radio frequency signaling, for example.","The set top terminal  performs the necessary processing to send the programming with embedded electronic book data  to the home system . The set top terminal  may demultiplex the programming with embedded electronic book data  and supply the demultiplexed signal to the home system . To do this, the set top terminal  extracts the data related to the electronic book from the digital program multiplex signal.","The set top terminal  may receive commands from a remote control . The set top terminal  may include communication devices  that allow reception and transfer of data with external sources such as the Internet . For example, the set top terminal  may include a telephone modem, a cable modem, a wireless modem, a fiber optic connector, a LAN connector, or any combination of these devices. Using this connection to the Internet , the set top terminal  and PC  may access the billing and collection system  or alternatively connect to the Internet  to access the Internet web site  to view electronic book ordering menus  provided by the operations center .","The set top terminal  has input and output ports for communication with other local and remote devices. Although the local cable system  or terrestrial broadcast methods are the most prevalent transmission mediums for delivering programming with embedded electronic book data to the home, telephone lines (including T1 and T3 lines, Integrated Services Digital Network (ISDN) lines and Asymmetric Digital Subscriber Lines (ADSL)), cellular networks, fiber optics, local area networks, Personal Communication Networks, and analog and digital satellites and similar technology for transmitting to the home can be used interchangeably. The set top terminal  may have output ports that provide communications from the set top terminal  to the home system  and a television. Also, the set top terminal  may contain a phone jack that can be used for maintenance, trouble shooting, reprogramming and additional customer features. The phone jack may also be used to connect the set top terminal  with the Internet  for the purpose of ordering electronic books. Alternately, the set top terminal may support other communication interfaces using the appropriate interface device connector. The electronic book data embedded within the programming  contains data, such as the electronic book ordering menu  information, to advise the subscriber which electronic books are available for purchase. Once the electronic book ordering menus  have been received by the home system , the home system  can generate the appropriate menus. Alternately, menu retrieval or viewing and electronic book selecting and ordering may be achieved using the Internet web site  on the Internet , which is accessed using the provided modem interface.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0206","num":"0210"},"figref":["FIG. 21","FIG. 21"],"i":["b ","b"],"b":["1115","258","1171","1112","1115","1171","1115","1114","1120"]},"The digital television  may include an optional smart card  that performs the functions described above for the set top terminal . For example, the smart card  may include a cable modem, a telephone modem, a wireless modem, a fiber optic connector, or a LAN connector. Also shown in is the personal computer  and the modem , which function as before to connect to the Internet . The functions of the digital television  may be controlled by the remote control , using either infrared signals or radio frequency signals, for example. Using this connection to the Internet , the television  and PC  may access the billing and collection system  or alternatively connect to the Internet  to access the web site  to view electronic book ordering menus  provided by the operation center .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0208","num":"0212"},"figref":["FIG. 21","FIG. 21","FIG. 21"],"i":["c ","c","b"],"b":["1115","1171","1180","1115","1114","262","266","1171","1115","1112","1171","1180","1172","1171","1105","279","851","250","1900","1171","262","1171","1174","1171","1900","1174","1171","1174","1171","262","1171","1174","1171","1174","1171","262","1171","262","1154"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0209","num":"0213"},"figref":["FIG. 21","FIG. 21","FIG. 21"],"i":["d ","d","b"],"b":["1115","1171","258","1115","1114","258","1171","1115","1112","1171","258","1172","1171","1105","279","851","250","1900","1171","258","1171","1174","1171","1900","1174","1171","1174","1171","258","1171","1174","1171","1174","1171","258","1171","258","1154"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0210","num":"0214"},"figref":["FIG. 21","FIG. 21"],"i":["e ","e"],"b":["1115","1172","1180","1115","1114","262","266","1172","1115","1112","1172","1105","279","851","250"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0211","num":"0215"},"figref":["FIG. 21","FIG. 21"],"i":["f ","f"],"b":["1115","1172","258","1115","1114","258","1172","1115","1112","1172","1105","279","851","250"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0212","num":"0216"},"figref":["FIG. 21","FIG. 21"],"i":["g ","g"],"b":["1115","258","1613","1115","1114","258","1105","279","851","250"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0213","num":"0217"},"figref":["FIG. 22","FIG. 22","FIG. 22"],"b":["258","258","259","259","259","259","259","259","258","1220","1171","1172","1617","258","1613","1617","258","1619","609","258"]},"To receive and strip the data from the digital TV program signal at the consumer's home, the connector  is used.  is a flowchart of processes performed by the connector . The connector  receives the digital program multiplex signal in step S, removes the MPEG control information from the signal in step S, determines if the stream contains any electronic book data embedded within it in step S, extracts the electronic book data from the signal in step S, and communicates the extracted electronic book data stream to digital logic components  in step S.","iii. Electronic Book Ordering Process for TV Program Broadcast Delivery","As described in Section II above, a subscriber selects their desired electronic book from a menu system. This menu system and its contents are updated by the operations center  using information delivered to the home system  either periodically distributed over the TV program broadcast delivery system, or delivered to the home system  by the billing and collection system  upon ordering a new electronic book. Order requests for electronic books made from this menu are forwarded to the billing and collection system  for processing.","In the case where the delivery is done using a two-way cable system, the set top terminal  can be used to convey order request information to the local cable system . The local cable system  will in turn be in communication with the billing and collection system  or the operations center  that handle requests from the set top terminal  for electronic book ordering or billing purposes. Further, telephone lines with modems may be used to transfer information from the set top terminal  to the billing and collection system  or the operations center . Alternately, the set top terminal  may incorporate a cable modem, a wireless modem, LAN connectors, T1 and T3 connectors, Asymmetric Digital Subscriber Line (ADSL) Connectors, Integrated Digital Service Network (ISDN) connectors or other advanced communications interfaces for transmitting information to the cable system  or over alternate communication paths directly to the billing and collection system  or the operations center . Alternatively, the home system  may contact the billing and collection system  directly over any of these communication paths.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0218","num":"0222"},"figref":"FIGS. 24","i":["a","c "],"b":["24","1111","1115","1115","1114","1115","1112","1120"]},"In -, electronic book order requests may be provided over a variety of telecommunications media including using a cable modem to the billing and collection system ; over a proprietary two-way transmission system to the billing and collection system ; over a fiber optic cable system to the billing and collection system ; using a telephone modem to the billing and collection system , using existing telephone lines; using a cellular modem over wireless telecommunication systems; using T1 and T3 lines, Asymmetric Digital Subscriber Lines, Integrated Digital Services Network lines, and using a telephone and the POTS. Alternately, the electronic book order requests may also be provided over a LAN, such as an ethernet.","In , the national broadcaster  provides the programming with embedded electronic book data  to the broadcast affiliate . The broadcast affiliate  sends the programming with embedded electronic book data  to the local cable system . The local cable system  sends the programming with embedded electronic book data  to the home system . To receive the requested electronic book from the programming with embedded electronic book data at the home system , the subscriber may initiate an order request. In the embodiment shown in , the subscriber sends an order request  to the billing and collection system , which then initiates the delivery of the requested electronic book data from the operations center  for inclusion in the programming.","Electronic books may also be received at the home system  without the subscriber providing the order request. Another subscriber may provide an electronic book for delivery to the home system  as a gift, for example. Electronic books also may be sent to the home system  on a trial, or approval basis. For example, a trial electronic book may be sent to a home system  on a trial basis and the trial electronic book could include a code that prevents viewing after a set, elapsed time from receipt at the home system . To retain viewing privileges for the trial electronic book, the subscriber could indicate a desire to purchase the trial electronic book. The operations center  would then return an authorization code that permits the subscriber to retain the trial electronic book on a permanent basis. Alternatively, the delivery system  could provide a portion of an electronic book, in an unencrypted format, such as the first chapter, and the subscriber would have to purchase the electronic book to receive the authorization code to decrypt the remainder of the electronic book.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0222","num":"0226"},"figref":["FIG. 24","FIG. 24","FIG. 24"],"i":["b ","b ","a "],"b":["1190","278","1112"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0223","num":"0227"},"figref":["FIG. 24","FIG. 24"],"i":["c ","c"],"b":["1190","278","1110"]},"b. Operation of the Ordering System Using the Internet","In the one-way delivery environment typified by the TV program broadcast delivery environment, the use of the Internet can provide ubiquitous access to subscribers for ordering electronic books. The subscriber may log on to the Internet web site , using the PC  of , , , or , or the television \u2032 of or , or the home system  of . The subscriber may then enter a subscriber identification. The Internet web site  may then present an individualized menu to the subscriber. The subscribers may view the individualized menu on the PC , television \u2032 or home system , for example. The individualized menu may be based on subscriber specific data, such as past electronic books ordered, for example.","When the electronic book ordering is performed on the Internet web site , the Internet web site  may also recognize the subscriber , based on the subscriber's automatic number identification (ANI), user name, user identification, and Internet address (i.e., REMOTE_HOST, REMOTE_ADDR, and HTTP_NAME), for example. The subscriber may also be identified by a unique subscriber identifier that is provided to the subscriber upon subscribing to a broadcast television service. Other means for identifying a subscriber include special features such as browser cookies. A browser cookie is a mechanism that allows a web site server to store limited amounts of information on a browser. The information is typically information sent to a subscriber's terminal using a Set-cookie HTTP response field header. The Set-cookie field contains the cookie content as a name\/value pair, and can also contain information explaining when the cookie will no longer be valid (expires), the Internet domain for which the cookie is valid (domain), and the path portion of the URL within this domain for which the cookie is valid. Browsers that understand cookies will store the data on the set top terminal's hard disk, for example, and will return these data to the web site server from which the cookie originated within a cookie request header field. Cookies are useful for storing state information (when the subscriber last visited the web site, which resources the subscriber last used, for example) on the browser, in such a way that the information is not lost when the subscriber leaves the web site or shuts down the browser.","A web site, such as the web site , may use cookies to customize electronic book ordering for the subscriber. For example, the web site  may welcome a subscriber to the web site , based on the information in the cookie, and may navigate the subscriber to a menu, or individualized menu, based on previous orders provided by the subscriber. When the subscriber is identified, the web site  may create the individualized order menu, which the specific subscriber may download to the home system .","Once an order for an electronic book has been made, the billing and collection system  processes the order and initiates a request to the operations center  for the delivery of the requested electronic book for delivery over the TV program broadcast delivery system.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0229","num":"0233"},"figref":["FIG. 25","FIG. 19"]},"The process begins with step S. In step S, the PC  of , , , or , or the television \u2032 of or , or the home system  accesses the web site . The web site  may be accessed by entering the address of the web site  into a location window of a web browser, by activating a hypertext link provided on the home system  menu or within an actual electronic book being viewed in the viewer , or by activating a hypertext link received from a different web site. The process then moves to step S.","In step S, a data signal showing the web site  home page is transmitted to the set top terminal , and the web site  home page is displayed on the requesting device. The process then moves to step S. In step S, the web site  receives the order signal  for an electronic book selected by a subscriber. The order signal  includes an electronic book identifier and the address and identification of the requesting home system . The process then moves to step S.","In step S, the web site  transmits the authorization request  to the billing and collection system . The process then moves to step S. In step S, the billing and collection system  determines if the home system  from which the order signal  originated is authorized to receive the selected electronic book. The billing and collection system  may evaluate the past credit history of the requesting subscriber. The billing and collection system  may determine if the subscriber's account is delinquent. If the home system  is not authorized to receive the selected electronic book, the process moves to step S. Otherwise, the process moves to step S.","In step S, the billing and collection system  sends a message to the requesting home system  stating that the selected program cannot be accessed, along with the reason for no access. The process then moves to step S and ends.","In step S, the billing and collection system  sends an authorization signal  to the operations center . The process then moves to step S. In step S, the operations center  retrieves and embeds the requested electronic book data within the programming. The process then moves to step S and ends.","The method of ordering electronic books using the Internet is not limited to the TV program broadcast delivery embodiment. This ordering method is general in nature and may be used for ordering electronic books to be delivered using any of the delivery methods presented herein.","c. Internet Delivery Methods",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0237","num":"0241"},"figref":["FIG. 26","FIG. 26"],"b":["301","282","279","279","282","283","283","279","279"]},"The electronic books may then be transferred using a public switched telephone network (PSTN), for example, or other communications systems, direct to a subscriber , a library  and a bookstore . The library  and the bookstore  may also provide electronic books to the subscriber .","When electronic books are provided by the Internet web site , the billing and collecting functions may be incorporated into the Internet web site . For example, a subscriber may pay for an electronic book selection by entering a credit card number into a data field of a page of the Internet web site . In this configuration, a separate billing and collection system may not be required. Alternatively, the Internet web site  may communicate information with the billing and collection system .","Electronic book delivery over the Internet may be handled using a number of methods. In a method, the electronic book may be downloaded to the requesting home system  immediately after the order has been processed. Alternatively, the electronic book may be e-mailed to an e-mail address that is entered as part of the ordering process. In another embodiment, as part of the ordering transaction process, the subscriber is provided with location and authorization information that allows the subscriber to retrieve the ordered electronic book at the subscriber's convenience. For delivery of subscription electronic book products, like newspapers, magazines or other periodicals, the Internet web site  can deliver the latest version of the product to the subscriber automatically immediately upon logon by the subscriber to the Internet web site . Electronic book data may also be embedded into continuous multicast streaming video, audio, or data feeds.","d. Other Delivery Methods","A number of embodiments for the delivery of electronic books have been addressed above. This subsection calls out these specific delivery embodiments, as well as presents other delivery embodiments supported by this invention. Section I presented a description of the operations center  and the uplink  used to transmit the electronic book data over the video distribution system , using the use of an encoder . The embodiments presented below use a modular encoder , which inserts the electronic book text into the delivered signal and modular transmission subsystem , which transmits the actual signal. Together, the modular encoder  and modular transmission subsystem  support the transmission functionality for each unique delivery method embodiment. Section II presented a video connector  used to convert the electronic book data embedded in the video signal to a format usable by the home subsystem. The embodiments presented below use a modular connector  that receives the delivered signal with embedded electronic book data, extracts the electronic book data, and provides the electronic book data to the digital logic  for further processing. The modular connector  supports the receive functionality for each unique delivery method embodiment.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0243","num":"0247"},"figref":["FIG. 27","FIG. 1","FIG. 4"],"b":["2701","1258","2541","174","2542","254","2701","1258","278","250","2701","2702","1258","700","1258","2705","700","700","609"],"i":"b "},"In another embodiment, the signal delivered over the cable system is a video signal. In one embodiment, the video signal is an analog video signal. In another embodiment, the video signal is a digital video signal. The home system  may contain an internal cable receiver\/tuner\/demodulator  to process the signal, and provide the embedded electronic book data to the modular connector , which is identical in the embodiment as video connector  in . A set top terminal , or other device capable of receiving a cable video signal, such as a cable ready TV, or PC with cable tuner (not shown), may process the video signal and deliver the video signal to the connector  in the home system  which extracts the embedded electronic book data. Alternately, the set top terminal , or other such device, may extract the embedded electronic book data from the video signal and provide the electronic book data to the modular connector  in the home system .","In another embodiment, electronic book data may be embedded within the audio signal, requiring an appropriate audio-capable modular connector  in the home system  to extract the electronic book data from the audio signal for processing by the digital logic . In one embodiment, the audio signal is an analog audio signal. In another embodiment, the audio signal is a digital audio signal.","In yet another embodiment, the signal is a spread spectrum signal containing a digital data stream, requiring an appropriate spread spectrum receiver and modular connector  in the home system  to extract the electronic book data for processing by the digital logic . In this embodiment, the spread spectrum signal is transmitted in the same bandwidth as the video or audio signal, but below the noise level.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0247","num":"0251"},"figref":"FIG. 28","b":["2801","1260","2541","2542","2801","1260","278","250","2802","1260","700","1260","2805","1260","700","700","609"]},"In another embodiment, the signal delivered over the wireless broadcast system is a video signal. In one embodiment, the video signal is an analog video signal. In another embodiment, the video signal is a digital video signal. The home subsystem  may contain an internal wireless receiver\/tuner\/demodulator  to process the signal, and provide the embedded electronic book data to the modular connector . A wireless set-top terminal , or other device capable of receiving a wireless video signal, such as a TV, or PC with a wireless receiver and tuner, may process the video signal and deliver the video signal to the modular connector  in the home system , which extracts the embedded electronic book data. Alternately, the set top terminal , or other such device, may extract the embedded electronic book data from the video signal and provide the data to the modular connector  in the home system .","In another embodiment, electronic book data may be embedded within the audio signal, requiring an appropriate audio-capable modular connector  in the home system  to extract the electronic book data from the audio signal for processing by the digital logic . In one embodiment, the audio signal is an analog audio signal. In another embodiment, the audio signal is a digital audio signal.","In yet another embodiment, the signal is a spread spectrum signal containing a digital data stream, requiring an appropriate spread spectrum receiver modular connector  in the home system  to extract the electronic book data for processing by the digital logic . In this embodiment, the spread spectrum signal is transmitted in the same bandwidth as the video or audio signal, but below the noise level.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0251","num":"0255"},"figref":"FIG. 29","b":["2901","1280","2541","2542","2901","1280","278","250","2901","2902","1280","700","1280","2905","1280","700","700","609"]},"In another embodiment, the signal delivered over the satellite broadcast system is a video signal. In one embodiment, the video signal is an analog video signal. In another embodiment, the video signal is a digital video signal. The home system  may contain an internal satellite video receiver  to process the signal, and provide the embedded electronic book data to the modular connector . A satellite receiver , or other device capable of receiving a satellite video signal, such as a TV, or PC with satellite receiver, may process the video signal and deliver the video signal to the modular connector  in the home system , which extracts the embedded electronic book data. Alternately, the satellite receiver , or other such device, may extract the embedded electronic book data from the video signal and provide the data to the modular connector in the home system .","In another embodiment, electronic book data may be embedded within the audio signal, requiring an appropriate audio-capable modular connector  in the home system  to extract the electronic book data from the audio signal for processing by the digital logic . In one embodiment, the audio signal is an analog audio signal. In another embodiment, the audio signal is a digital audio signal.","In yet another embodiment, the signal is a spread spectrum signal containing a digital data stream, requiring an appropriate spread spectrum receiver modular connector  in the home system  to extract the electronic book data for processing by the digital logic . In this embodiment, the spread spectrum signal is transmitted in the same bandwidth as the video or audio signal, but below the noise level.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0255","num":"0259"},"figref":["FIG. 30","FIG. 30"],"b":["3001","1290","2541","2542","3001","1290","278","250","3001","1290","700","3002","3003","3003","3005","3006","3007","3008","3009","3010","3011","3012","1290","3013","1290","700","1290","700","609"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0256","num":"0260"},"figref":"FIG. 31","b":["3101","1310","2541","2542","3101","1310","278","250","3102","1310","700","1310","3103","1310","700","700","609"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0257","num":"0261"},"figref":"FIG. 32","b":["3201","1310","2541","2542","3201","1320","278","250","3202","1320","700","258","3203","1320","700","700","609"]},"Returning to , several embodiments are shown associated with the delivery of electronic books using a national or local television broadcaster's signal. The signal from the national broadcaster  can be delivered to the home subsystem \u2032, \u2033, or \u2033\u2032 using a satellite system , using a broadcast affiliate  terrestrially, or using a local cable system . Alternatively, the local television broadcast affiliate  can originate the signal which can be delivered to the home system \u2032, \u2033 or \u2033\u2032 terrestrially, or using a local cable system . In one embodiment, the video signal is an analog video signal and the electronic book data is embedded in the video signal. In another embodiment, the video signal is a digital video signal and the electronic book data is carried as an independent data stream. In another embodiment, electronic book data may be embedded within the audio signal. In one embodiment, the audio signal is an analog audio signal. In another embodiment, the audio signal is a digital audio signal.","In yet another embodiment, the signal is a spread spectrum signal containing a digital data stream, requiring an appropriate spread spectrum receiver modular connector, such as the connector  of , in the home system \u2032, \u2033 or \u2033\u2032 to extract the electronic book data for processing by the digital logic . In this embodiment, the spread spectrum signal is transmitted in the same bandwidth as the video or audio signal, but below the noise level.","Alternatively, several embodiments are associated with the delivery of electronic books using a national or local radio broadcaster's signal. The signal from the national radio broadcaster can be delivered to the home system \u2032, \u2033 or \u2033\u2032 using the =satellite system , or using a broadcast affiliate . Alternatively, the radio broadcast affiliate  can originate the signal, which can be delivered to the home system \u2032, \u2033 or \u2033\u2032, terrestrially. In one embodiment, the audio signal is an analog audio signal and the electronic book data is embedded in the audio signal. In another embodiment, the audio signal is a digital audio signal and the electronic book data is carried as an independent data stream. In yet another embodiment, the electronic book data is embedded in a sub-carrier of the analog audio broadcast. In a final embodiment, the signal is a spread spectrum signal containing a digital data stream, requiring an appropriate spread spectrum receiver modular connector  in the home system \u2032, \u2033, or \u2033\u2032 to extract the electronic book data for processing by the digital logic . In this embodiment, the spread spectrum signal is transmitted in the same bandwidth as the audio signal, but below the noise level.","In any of the delivery methods above, the delivery path may be used to establish connectivity to the Internet, allowing Internet delivery of electronic book data as presented early in this section.","In an alternative delivery embodiment, the electronic book system can be modified, as was presented in  and discussed above, to be used at public libraries, schools, bookstores, newspaper stands or stand-alone kiosks, for example. Public newsstands for electronic books and periodicals may be conveniently located, such at the corner store on a New York City street corner, at an airport, or even on an airplane. The main unit at the public library, school, bookstore, newsstand, or kiosk may be the file server  as shown in . The file server  is a large electronic memory unit that can store thousands of books, newspapers, or periodicals. Various electronic storage means may be used in the file servers, such as hard disks, read-write CD ROMs and read-only CD ROMs. The controller  in  is able to download books to public viewers . The bookstores or libraries can rent the public viewer  to customers with the text for one or two books loaded onto the public viewer . Alternatively, the customer may own the viewer. The customer returns to the file server  from time to time to receive textual data for a book, which the customer can read and delete or store permanently on the customer's own home system . Based on the specific information known about a customer, advertisements contained in the electronic books may be customized, creating a unique version of the downloaded newspaper, magazine, or book for each customer.","Electronic book data also may be delivered as content stored on physical devices like a floppy disk, magnetic tape, Smart Card device, Memory Stick device, or any other portable memory storage device and provided to a subscriber for transfer to the home system . Each electronic book memory storage device can contain a unique identifier, one or more electronic book files, and associated viewing authorization information. Viewing of any electronic book file from the memory device may be supported without restriction. Alternatively, some or all electronic book files on the memory device may be available for limited viewing or may require authorization from the billing and collection system  prior to being viewed. In this case, the home system  may contact the billing and collection system  for authorization prior to viewing.","When the electronic book is delivered on a portable storage medium, such as the Smart Card device or the Memory Stick device, the electronic book and its storage medium may be packaged in a manner that protects the storage device, and also provides a simulation of an actual book.  is an example of a storage device  that stores an electronic book portable storage medium. A Smart Card  is held in place in a recess  in a back panel  of the storage device . A front panel  is attached to the back panel  by a hinge  that is placed at a back spine  of the storage device . The front panel  may be operated to close over the back panel  to completely cover the storage medium . The front panel  may incorporate a clasp, or similar locking device, that engages a corresponding detent  in the back panel  so as to securely close the storage device .","The front panel  of the storage device  may include a cover  that replicates a front cover, or dust jacket of a hard copy book corresponding to the electronic book. Similarly, the back panel  may include a display similar to that existing on a back cover, or dust jacket of the corresponding hard copy book. A cover such as the cover  may be a piece of paper or similar material that is inserted into the front panel , for example. Alternately, the cover  may be a permanently fixed replication of the front cover of the corresponding hard copy book. The resulting storage device  may thus emulate the corresponding hard copy book, and may be stored on an actual bookshelf, or other storage area, in the same manner as the corresponding hard copy book.","Electronic book data may also be delivered from a machine or other device to the home system .  shows a system  of machines  that are coupled by a communications network . The communications network  may be any wired or wireless system previously described herein. The communications network  may also be an electrical distribution system, such as a home wiring system that is rated at 110 and 220 volts, for example. The system  may include an interface  through which the viewer  communicates with the machines . For example, the interface  may be a plug-in device that may be inserted into a 110-volt wall socket. Such a device  may include a wired or wireless interface to the viewer .","The machines  may include a microprocessor , a memory , and a transceiver , which may be incorporated in VLSI, for example. Included in the memory  may be one or more electronic books that may be downloaded to the viewer , or otherwise viewed by the viewer  using the interface . For example, a home appliance could include in its memory, an electronic technical manual related to the home appliance. To access the electronic technical manual, the viewer , through the interface , may transmit a code or similar \u201chandshake\u201d to cause the microprocessor  to transmit the electronic technical manual, using the transceiver , to the viewer .","The electronic book system  may also incorporate a book preview mechanism. Such a preview mechanism may provide the look and feel of browsing through a selection of books or magazines in a bookstore. Thus, the subscriber may browse electronic books, electronic magazines, and electronic newspapers, for example, before purchasing the electronic books, newspapers or magazines. Electronic book previews were previously described with respect to and . Such electronic book previews may be provided as an on-line service, an off-line service, or both.","The on-line electronic book preview mechanism may use an Internet web site, such as the web site , to display electronic book previews. To obtain an electronic book preview, the subscriber may communicate with, or access, the web site  using the viewer , or one of the other devices shown in -including the set top terminal , the personal computer  and the television , for example. Once in communication with the Internet web site , the subscriber may select an electronic book preview to view from a list or menu, such as the menu  shown in , for example, of available electronic book previews. The selected electronic book preview may then be displayed on a web page of the Internet web site , and may be viewed on the viewer, , the television  or the personal computer , for example.","Other on-line sites may be used to display electronic book previews. In general, any addressable node, such as an e-mail address, for example, in a telecommunications network may be used as a display site for electronic book previews.","The electronic book previews may also be provided off-line, to be downloaded to the home system , for example. The subscriber may access the Internet web site  and download an electronic file that includes the electronic book preview. The electronic book preview may be stored in the library or the viewer, for example. The subscriber may then view the electronic book preview using the viewer , the television , or the personal computer , for example.","When the electronic book previews are provided for downloading to the home system , the electronic book previews may be provided in encrypted format or in unencrypted format.","The delivery methods discussed above that allow for dedicated, full time delivery can be used to provide continuous distribution of electronic book data including requested electronic books from subscribers, electronic books to be broadcast to all subscribers, updated menu contents, and updated advertising. For the delivery methods discussed above that allow for non-dedicated or user established connectivity, the operations center  may manage the timing and delivery of content by delivering the electronic book only when requested, or periodically, to ensure delivery for those home systems that may not be able to receive the delivery. Finally, the delivery methods discussed above that are capable of two-way communication may be used to provide a return path to the operations center  or billing and collection system  for the purpose of ordering or requesting updated electronic book information.","Additionally, although the home system  is presented as an independent device that directly interfaces with the delivery system , the home system  may connect to the delivery system  through a set top terminal, TV, PC, radio, or any other device capable of receiving the signal provided by the delivery system . Additionally, the home system  may not be an independent apparatus, having some or all of its functionality supported within the set top terminal, TV, PC, radio, or any other device capable of receiving the signal provided by the delivery system. e.","f. Alternative Ordering Methods","Any of the delivery methods described in the section above are viable embodiments for providing access from the home system  to the billing and collection system  or operations center . In an embodiment, the modular connector , as shown in and , may be used to provide the specific protocol formatting and transmission processing to allow the home system  to use the communication path. In the embodiment where the PSTN is used to provide access, the modular connector  includes the phone connector  and the modem  as depicted in . In the embodiment where the cellular phone system is used to provide access, the modular connector  includes the cellular phone or PCN phone \u2032 as depicted in ","g. Mobile Environments","A feature provided by the delivery methods using a wireless broadcast system , satellite broadcast system , wireless personal communication system , or terrestrial television broadcast system, is mobility of the electronic book home system or viewer . This mobility allows for ordering and receiving electronic book data anytime or anywhere, from sitting on a beach in Florida to sitting on a bus in New York City. This mobility allows for the delivery of electronic book data subscription products such as daily newspapers, monthly magazines, or books from book-of-the-month clubs. These subscription products may be delivered automatically to the appropriate home system  or electronic book viewer . Enhanced end-to-end error correction techniques can be added to the transmission system to ensure higher probability of receipt for these mobile environments. Additionally, transmission methods may be implemented that resend packets of electronic book data, changing their delivered order on each resend, to improve likelihood of receipt. For lower bandwidth mobile environments, an electronic book file may be broken up into packets and the packets sent a limited number of times. If the electronic book file is not received completely, the electronic book viewer  may initiate a request to the operations center  to resend only that portion of the electronic book file yet to be received.","A variety of delivery mechanisms, systems and methods have been described for ordering and delivery of electronic books. One of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that the above description is that of preferred embodiments of the invention and that various changes and modifications may be made thereto without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined in the following claims."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 1","i":"a "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 1","i":"b "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 5","i":"a "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 5","i":"b "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 6","i":"a "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 6","i":"b "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 11"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":"FIG. 12"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":"FIG. 13"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIG. 14","i":"a "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":"FIG. 14","i":"b "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":"FIGS. 14","i":["c","d","e","f","g","h","i ","j "],"b":["14","14","14","14","14","14","14"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":"FIG. 15"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":["FIG. 16","FIG. 16"],"i":["a ","b "]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":"FIG. 17"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"figref":"FIG. 18","i":"a "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0034"},"figref":"FIG. 18","i":"b "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"figref":"FIG. 19"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0037","num":"0036"},"figref":"FIG. 20"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0037"},"figref":"FIGS. 21","i":["a","g "],"b":"21"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0039","num":"0038"},"figref":"FIG. 22"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0040","num":"0039"},"figref":"FIG. 23"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0041","num":"0040"},"figref":["FIG. 24","FIG. 19"],"i":["a","c "],"b":"24"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0042","num":"0041"},"figref":"FIG. 25"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0043","num":"0042"},"figref":"FIG. 26"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0044","num":"0043"},"figref":"FIG. 27"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0045","num":"0044"},"figref":"FIG. 28"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0046","num":"0045"},"figref":"FIG. 29"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0047","num":"0046"},"figref":"FIG. 30"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0048","num":"0047"},"figref":"FIG. 31"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0049","num":"0048"},"figref":"FIG. 32"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0050","num":"0049"},"figref":"FIG. 33"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0051","num":"0050"},"figref":"FIG. 34"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
