---
title: Apparatus and method for converting an object display description document
abstract: There is provided an apparatus for converting an object display description document, which enables to reduce load for displaying an image and a capacity necessary for storing document data. A browser including the apparatus is also provided. The apparatus comprises a generating means for generating, from a set of source objects in a document, a set of new objects to obtain a display image equivalent to a display image obtained from the set of source objects. The new objects are fewer than the set of source objects.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07667716&OS=07667716&RS=07667716
owner: NEC Corporation
number: 07667716
owner_city: Tokyo
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 19991206
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS"],"p":["1. Field of the Invention","The present invention relates to an apparatus and method for converting an object display description document having functions of spatial synchronization and time synchronization and more particularly, to an apparatus and method for converting an object display description document in conformity with such a standard as MHEG (Multimedia and Hypermedia Expert Group)-5, DHTML (Dynamic Hyper Text Markup Language), and SMIL (Synchronized Multimedia Integration Language).","2. Description of the Prior Art","JPA 9-503088 entitled \u201cAPPARATUS AND METHOD FOR BROWSING INFORMATION\u201d discloses a conventional system for optimizing data obtained at a viewer or browser for a document described with an object display description language.","As shown in , this reference exemplifies information browsing system  for browsing and organizing information from plural information sources . Knowledge base , which includes information source description , worldview  and system network view , is used for establishing a query plan including a sub plan. When the query sub plan is executed, the query plan is optimized by pruning redundant sub plans in accordance with information browsed by the executed sub plan. Graphical user interface  includes a hypertext browser integrated at a knowledge base browser\/editor. Graphical user interface  allows a user to store an information source description in knowledge base  via a graphic operation and to browse information source descriptions previously stored. System  provides the use of query results that are constructed for avoiding of inquiring on constructed information sources and of concentrating queries from hypertext browsers on associated data sources that are not constructed. According to the above method, such an object is attained that information needless to inquire is fetched from the information source as seldom as possible.","With respect to an arrangement of sending optimized data from a server, JPA 10-171730 entitled \u201cMETHOD OF TRANSFERRING IMAGE\u201d discloses an image transfer method capable of reducing the network load to transfer image data when a high resolution data is required at a client. As shown in , data received at the client is converted into an optimized high-resolution image using image conversion plug-in module . In this case, screen resolution setting program  is employed to check a resolution of a display device at the client. The result from program  is sent to image conversion program . The sent data becomes the most easy-to-view and high-qualified image at a browser watched from a reader. Although the optimization at the server side is considered in such a manner, all of servers do not send optimized data. Thus, users are required to display or store received data.","The above conventional technology has the following disadvantages.","A first disadvantage may be caused when the user selects necessary data with reference to its contents and obtains minimal necessary data while the minimal data contains data unnecessary to output or display for the user to the last. In such a case, the viewer or browser is loaded to work for analyzing and displaying the data unnecessary for showing the user. Therefore, a display output is delayed, and a data capacity is increased in case of storing data that also includes unnecessary data.","This is because the conventional viewer\/browser has been developed to interpret the data sent from the server and make a display output. Therefore, thus configured viewer\/browser analyzes all the obtained data and makes a display output even if all of the data are not required to be displayed because of introduced functions of spatial synchronization and time synchronization.","A second disadvantage is that although the server optimizes individual object data including an image as far as possible, the server does not perform optimization in consideration of a combination of data to be displayed. In this case, the data simply becomes a motion picture (object) group with a plurality of motion pictures (objects) but does not become substantially optimized data when images overlap with each other as the whole data.","This is because the server can superimpose the motion pictures and the like at the same time by the functions of spatial synchronization and time synchronization. In addition, when the server makes data to send, it sends the data with information, which indicates superimposition of the corresponding plural motion pictures, to the user.","In order to overcome the aforementioned disadvantages, the present invention has been made and has an object to provide an apparatus and method for converting an object display description document, capable of reducing load for displaying an image and reducing a capacity necessary for storing document data, and a browser including the apparatus.","According to a first aspect of the present invention, there is provided an apparatus for converting an object display description document, comprising a generating means for generating, from a set of source objects in the document, a set of new objects fewer than said set of source objects, to obtain a display image equivalent to the display image obtained from said set of source objects.","According to a second aspect of the present invention, there is provided a method for converting an object display description document, comprising a generation step of generating, from a set of source objects in the document, a set of new objects fewer than said plurality of source objects, to obtain a display image equivalent to the display image obtained from said set of source objects.","According to a third aspect of the present invention, there is provided a computer program for causing a computer to execute a method for converting an object display description document, said method comprising a generation step of generating, from a set of source objects in the document, a set of new objects fewer than said set of source objects, to obtain a display image equivalent to the display image obtained from said plurality of source objects.","Other features and advantages of the invention will be apparent from the following description of the preferred embodiments thereof.","In case where a user (client) displays data sent from a sender (server) at a browser or viewer, or the user stores the data, the present invention automatically optimizes the data sent from the sender after it is input. Thus, the present invention provides a system configuration capable of displaying the same contents as the incoming data at a higher speed and of storing the incoming data to a storage with smaller data capacity.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 3"],"b":["1","2","3","4","5","6","7","8","9","10"]},"Selection means  allows the user to select whether or not to work an optimization function. When the user selects from user input means  to put on the optimization function, optimization analysis means  analyzes if there is a portion capable of being optimized in the data saved in input data saving means . Optimization means  performs an optimization process and thereafter saves optimized data into optimized data saving means . In case of displaying the saved data, it is analyzed by data analysis means  and displayed at output means . In case of storing the saved data, it is stored in storage means . When the user selects to put off the optimization function, the input data is analyzed by data analysis means  and displayed at output means  or stored in storage means . The optimization processes herein mean optimization processes corresponding to the time synchronization\/spatial synchronization, which include a process for deleting objects hidden behind the other object that is spatially displayed at the uppermost location and hides the objects to be deleted in time and spatially, for example. It also includes a process for deleting an object to be displayed in a range exceeding a time for display in time, and a process for making one motion picture object from plural superimposed motion picture objects.","Thus, by automatically optimizing the obtained data at the viewer or browser to improve the data in consideration of display by the viewer or browser, the very same contents as the obtained data can be displayed at a high speed and stored in compact.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0034"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":["1","2","3","4","5","6","7","8","9","10"]},"An operation of each part will be described next.","Data input means  inputs data of contents. Input data saving means  saves the input data. Data analysis means  analyzes the data based on a format with which the data was produced. Output means  displays or prints out the analyzed data. Optimization analysis means  performs an analysis for searching data to optimize and optimization means  optimizes the data. Optimization analysis means  and optimization means  operate in multi-process in association with each other. Optimized data saving means  saves the optimized data. Selection means  outputs information associated with allowing the user to select whether or not to employ the optimization as a function and reflects the user's selection. User input means  accepts the selection input that indicates whether the user employs the optimization function from the user. Storage means  stores the data and is such as a hard drive and the like.","The whole operation of the embodiment will be described in detail with reference to  next.","First, it is executed to input data from data input means  (at step A). Next, it is executed to save the input data in input data saving means  (at step A).","The optimization function has been previously selected to put on or off by the user from selection means  and user input means . If the user selected to put on the optimization function (YES at step A), optimization analysis means  and optimization means  operate in association with each other so that optimization analysis means  searches data to be optimized among the data saved in input data saving means  and optimization means  optimizes the data to be optimized (at step A). When optimization analysis means  finally detects that no data remains to be optimized, the optimized data is saved in optimized data saving means  (at step A). If the user selected to put off the optimization function (NO at step A), steps A and A are omitted. Next, it is executed to determine to display or not (at step A). If determined to display, a display process is performed (step A). If determined not to display, the process advances to a determination of saving (at step A). If determined to save, a saving process is performed (at step A) and then the process ends. If determined not to save, the process directly ends.","An embodied example will be described next.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0042","num":"0041"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 6","FIG. 7","FIG. 8","FIG. 9","FIG. 10","FIG. 11"],"b":["8","10","5","6","2","7"]},"The case where the optimization function is OFF will be described first employing an embodied example. It is executed to input data from data input means  (A). The input data, which is referred with numeral  as shown in , includes:","<Start of data>","<Display all of the following data from 0 to 10 min.>","<Still picture file AAA, Display from 5 min. to 10 min., Coordinates (10, 10), Size 20\u00d730, Priority 2>","<Text file BBB, Display from 7 min. to 9 min., Coordinates (10, 10), Size 10\u00d710, Priority 3>","<Motion picture file CCC, Display from 5 min. to 10 min., Coordinates (10, 10), Size 20\u00d740, Priority 1, Translucent>","<Motion picture file DDD, Display from 15 min. to 20 min., Coordinates (0, 0), Size 10\u00d710, Priority 1>","<End of data>","Input data saving means  saves this data (A). If the optimization function is OFF (NO at A), then the process advances to the determination of display (A). If the display is not required, then the process advances to the determination of saving (A). If the display is required, then the display process is performed (A).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0045","num":"0044"},"figref":"FIG. 5","b":["8","1","2","3","3","4","4","5"]},"In this case, data analysis means  analyzes the data contents of <Start of data> as that \u201cdata starts here\u201d. It also analyzes the data contents of <Display all of the following data from 0 to 10 min.> as that \u201cstart to display the whole contents from here at 0 min. and finish to display at 10 min.\u201d. It further analyzes the data contents of <Still picture file AAA, Display from 5 min. to 10 min., Coordinates (10, 10), Size 20\u00d730, Priority 2> as that \u201cdisplay a still picture file AAA on a location at coordinates (10, 10) with a size of 20\u00d730 from 5 min. to 10 min. with the second priority from the top\u201d. It also analyzes the data contents of <Text file BBB, Display from 7 min. to 9 min., Coordinates (10, 10), Size 10\u00d710, Priority 3> as that \u201cdisplay a text file BBB on a location at coordinates (10, 10) with a size of 10\u00d710 from 7 min. to 9 min. with the third priority from the top\u201d. It further analyzes the data contents of <Motion picture file CCC, Display from 5 min. to 10 min., Coordinates (10, 10), Size 20\u00d740, Priority 1, Translucent> as that \u201cdisplay a motion picture file CCC in translucent on a location at coordinates (10, 10) with a size of 20\u00d740 from 5 min. to 10 min. with the first priority from the top\u201d. It also analyzes the data contents of <Motion picture file DDD, Display from 15 min. to 20 min., Coordinates (0, 0), Size 10\u00d710, Priority 1> as that \u201cdisplay a motion picture file DDD on a location at coordinates (0, 0) with a size of 10\u00d710 from 15 min. to 20 min. with the first priority from the top\u201d. Data analysis means  further analyzes the data contents of <End of data> as that \u201cdata finishes here\u201d and output means  displays the contents of these analyzed results. Next, it is executed to advance to the saving process determination (A). If not required to save, then a series of process finishes. If required to save, then the process advances to the saving process (A).  provides a flowchart showing saving process A. As the optimization saving is determined NO (C), it is executed to select the data from input data saving means  (C) and to store the selected data into storage means  (C). Then, the storing process finishes and the series of process terminates.","An embodied example of the case where the optimization function is ON will be described next.  is an imaging diagram of user display message  for allowing the user to select ON or OFF of the optimization function through selection means  from user input means . In this case, \u201cUse of optimization function\u201d is selected ON, \u201cUse for display\u201d ON, and \u201cUse for saving\u201d OFF. The data denoted with reference numeral  of  is input from data input means  (A) and saved in input data saving means  (A). Then, the process advances to YES through determining if the optimization function being ON (YES at A). Optimization analysis means  analyzes to optimize and optimization means  performs the optimization process. An embodied example of the optimization analysis performed by optimization analysis means  is shown in  with reference numeral , by which the contents are analyzed in consideration of time synchronization and spatial synchronization.","If the analysis contents are that \u201c1. Plural objects superimpose, display times for other objects are completely included within a display time for the uppermost object, a size of the uppermost object is larger than sizes of other objects, and the uppermost object hides other objects even considering display locations\u201d, 1-1 or 1-2 is adaptive:","1-1. If the uppermost object is not transparent nor translucent, then Process  is selected for other objects (see ); and","1-2. If the uppermost object is transparent or translucent, then it is executed to remove the uppermost object and analyze analysis contents 1 for the remaining plural objects. The term \u201cremoving\u201d herein differs from the term \u201cdeleting\u201d used in Process  and means to remove from objects to be analyzed.","If the analysis contents are that \u201c2. Plural objects superimpose in time and spatially, and the uppermost object is translucent or transparent\u201d, 2-1 or 2-2 is adaptive:","2-1. If a motion picture is contained, it is executed to select Process  for all objects over the entire superimposing time; and","2-2. If no motion picture is contained, it is executed to select Process  for all objects over the entire superimposing time.","If the analysis contents are that \u201cN. A display time for an object is completely in excess of the whole display time range\u201d, Process  is performed for that object.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0055","num":"0054"},"figref":"FIG. 9","b":["71","1","2","3"]},"The data in the above-embodied example corresponds to the optimization analysis and optimization process (at step A in ) as below. The optimization analysis contents of the data with numeral  in  include three object descriptions:","<Still picture file AAA, Display from 5 min. to 10 min., Coordinates (10, 10), Size 20\u00d730, Priority 2>; <Text file BBB, Display from 7 min. to 9 min., Coordinates (10, 10), Size 10\u00d710, Priority 3>; and <Motion picture file CCC, Display from 5 min. to 10 min., Coordinates (10, 10), Size 20\u00d740, Priority 1, Translucent>. The condition for the data corresponds to \u201c1-2. If the uppermost object is transparent or translucent, then it is executed to remove the uppermost object and analyze analysis contents 1 for the remaining plural objects\u201d. Then, it is executed to remove the object at the uppermost priority: <Motion picture file CCC, Display from 5 min. to 10 min., Coordinates (10, 10), Size 20\u00d740, Priority 1, Translucent>, and analyze objects: <Still picture file AAA, Display from 5 min. to 10 min., Coordinates (10, 10), Size 20\u00d730, Priority 2> and <Text file BBB, Display from 7 min. to 9 min., Coordinates (10, 10), Size 10\u00d710, Priority 3> by the analysis contents 1. In this case, the process: \u201c1-1. If the uppermost object is not transparent nor translucent, then selecting Process  for other objects\u201d is attached. As a result, the deleting process is performed to the object, <Text file BBB, Display from 7 min. to 9 min., Coordinates (10, 10), Size 10\u00d710, Priority 3>, as the contents of Process : \u201cDeleting object\u201d is applied.","The optimization analysis: \u201c2. Plural objects superimpose in time and spatially, and the uppermost object is translucent or transparent\u201d, is adapted to two remaining objects: <Still picture file AAA, Display from 5 min. to 10 min., Coordinates (10, 10), Size 20\u00d730, Priority 2> and <Motion picture file CCC, Display from 5 min. to 10 min., Coordinates (10, 10), Size 20\u00d740, Priority 1, Translucent>. When adapting 2-1 or 2-2, the result is that \u201c2-1. A motion picture is contained\u201d. Then, \u201cProcess  for all objects over the entire superimposing time\u201d is performed. The contents of Process  are \u201cMaking a new moving picture from a moving picture consisting of plural superimposed objects\u201d. Then, it is executed to make a new motion picture file XXX by superimposing the translucent motion picture file CCC and the still picture file AAA and make a new object: <Motion picture file XXX, Display from 5 min. to 10 min., Coordinates (10, 10), Size 20\u00d740, Priority 1>.","In spite of the whole display time, <Display all of the following data from 0 to 10 min.> in the input data file with the reference numeral , <Motion picture file DDD, Display from 15 min. to 20 min., Coordinates (0, 0), Size 10\u00d710, Priority 1> is included in the described objects. Therefore, this object is adaptive for the analysis contents: \u201cN. A display time for an object is set completely excessive the whole display time range\u201d, and corresponds to \u201cProcess  for that object\u201d. Here, the contents of Process  is \u201cDeleting object\u201d. Therefore, the object: <Motion picture file DDD, Display from 15 min. to 20 min., Coordinates (0, 0), Size 10\u00d710, Priority 1> is deleted.","The optimization is finished at the time of exhausting objects to be applied to the optimization analysis contents during the flow as above, and the optimized data is saved in optimized data saving means  (A). The optimized data has such contents as shown in  with reference numeral :","<Start of data>;","<Motion picture file XXX, Display from 5 min. to 10 min., Coordinates (10. 10), Size 10\u00d710, Priority 1>","<End of data>","Next, if it is determined to display the data at the display determination (YES at step A), the process advances to the display process (step A). As shown in , since the user selection is the optimization display, the process advances from step B to step B, and it is executed to select the optimized data with reference numeral  saved within optimized data saving means . Then, data analysis means  analyzes the data (at step B), and output means  displays the analyzed data (at step B).","Next, if it is determined to save the data at the saving determination (YES at step A), the process advances to the saving process (step A). Since the user selection is not to perform the optimization saving (saving the optimized data) as shown in , the process advances from step C to step C, and it is executed to read out the input data from input data saving means  to store the input data to storage means .","As described above, it is realized that the input data is subjected to automatically optimized display instead of direct display and to direct store. The selections of the input data and the optimized data for display and storing can be freely combined.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0064","num":"0063"},"figref":"FIG. 12"},"The second structure comprises CPU , main memory , external storage , input device , interface , display , printer , and bus  connecting CPU , main memory , external storage , input device , interface , display  and printer .","CPU  is such as a microprocessor, a microcomputer, and a DSP. Main memory  is such as a RAM. External storage  is such as a hard drive, an optical disc, and a magnetooptical disc. Input device  is such as a computer mouse, a keyboard, and a data tablet. Interface  is such as a communication interface connected to a Web server through the Internet. The display is such as a CRT, and a LCD.","CPU  functions as data analysis means , optimization analysis means , and optimization means  by executing instructions in a computer program. The computer program has been stored in external storage , and is temporarily loaded in main memory  to be fetched from CPU  at the execution time. Main memory  not only temporally stores the computer program but also functions as input data saving means , and optimized data saving means . External storage  not only stores the computer program but also functions as storage means . Input device  functions as user input means . Interface  functions as data input means . Display  functions as output means  and selection means . Printer  functions as output means .","As described above, according to the present invention, the following effects are achieved.","A first effect is as below. If the data obtained by the user contains unnecessary data to output or display to the last for the user, the viewer or browser is not required to analyze or display the unnecessary data. Therefore, extra load is not produced and an appropriate display output speed can be achieved. In addition, the obtained data can be stored without the unnecessary data in an appropriate capacity if required. This is because an optimization routine in consideration of time synchronization and spatial synchronization is integrated in the client such as the viewer\/browser. Therefore, all data given from the server are not directly output to display at the viewer or browser. In stead, the optimization, for example, deleting is performed to the objects unnecessary to display over time to the last and the objects hidden behind other object. Thus, the optimized data can be displayed or stored.","A second effect is that a motion-picture (object) group consisting of plural superimposed motion-pictures (objects) sent from the server can be displayed at a comfortable speed and a storing capacity can also be reduced. This is because the viewer\/browser performs an optimization to make one object from plural objects including motion pictures in consideration of time synchronization and spatial synchronization before display or saving. Thus, a high-speed display and a small data capacity for storage can be achieved.","Having described the embodiments consistent with the present invention, other embodiments and variations consistent with the present invention will be apparent to those skilled in the art. Therefore, the invention should not be viewed as limited to the disclosed embodiments but rather should be viewed as limited only by the spirit and scope of the appended claims."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The present invention will be more fully understood from the following detailed description with reference to the accompanying drawings in which:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 4"],"b":"8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 4"],"b":"10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 7","b":"8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":["FIG. 8","FIG. 3"],"b":"5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":["FIG. 9","FIG. 3"],"b":"6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":["FIG. 10","FIG. 3"],"b":"1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":["FIG. 11","FIG. 10"],"b":["5","6"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":"FIG. 12"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
