---
title: Personal smart pointing device
abstract: A personal smart pointer device comprises a conventional computer mouse or like pointing device equipped with additional hardware and software for increased functionality. The personal smart pointer device readily connects with any computer and is provisioned with hardware and software for facilitating network computer-like applications, including enabling receipt and storage of information, and transfer of information to adjunct devices such as a PC, a mobile computer, and other pervasive devices such as a cellular phone and PDA. Information to be transferred includes those personal preferences, features and customizations of applications/programs used by the user on his/her own personal device, in order to facilitate use of the application/program on an adjunct device. The communication of personal preferences and customizations may be accomplished wirelessly.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=06980175&OS=06980175&RS=06980175
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 06980175
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20000630
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS"],"p":["Field of the Invention","This invention relates generally to computer display pointing devices such as a mouse, and more specifically, to a smart pointing device having intelligence for providing user interface customization when employed with other devices not owned by a user including PCs, personal digital assistants, cell phones, etc.","Discussion of the Prior Art","It is often difficult for a person to use another person's personal computing device (PCs) as another person's PC most likely possesses a different set of customizations and default options than the first person.","It would be highly desirable to provide a system for customizing a PC for a user that includes a portable device that would retain that user's set of preferences and customizations and that may be employed to transfer the preferences and customizations to the PC that can recognize the portable device. Such customizations may include shortcuts on the desktop, bookmarks for browsers, the browser history, icon settings for applications, encrypted passwords for web sites, etc.","It would further be highly desirable to provide a system for customizing a PDA and cell phone for a user that includes a portable device that would retain that user's set of preferences and customizations and that may be employed for transferring the preferences and customizations to any PDA and cell phone that can recognize the portable device. Such cell phone customizations may include a set of phone numbers that would personalize the cell phone. As known to skilled artisans, PDA customizations may include power management settings, list of active applications, wireless service provider, etc.","It would additionally be highly desirable to provide such a portable device that retains a user's set of preferences and device customizations with wireless communication capability such that it may wirelessly connect with a recipient device such as a PC, PDA, cell phone etc.","It is an object of the present invention to provide a device that enables customization of a PC for a user by retaining the user's set of personalized data including application preferences and customizations and which may be transferred to a visited device such as a PC, PDA, cell phone, etc.","According to the principles of the invention, there is provided a personal smart pointer device capable of interfacing with a computer device enabling a user to interface with an application executing on said computer device, said pointer device comprising: memory storage device for enabling storage of personalized user preferences relating to user customized aspects of a user application executing on a first computer device; a control mechanism for controlling transfer of said personalized user preferences from the first computer device to the memory storage device for storage therein when said pointer device is interfaced with said first computer device; and, a mechanism for interfacing with a second computing device, and in response to entering a same user application executing on said second computing device, said control mechanism further initiating transfer of said personalized user preferences from said memory storage device to said same application for altering said user application in accordance with said user customized aspects wherein the pointer device is transportable for transferring user customized aspects of many user applications of first computer devices to subsequent personalized use of same applications executing on said second computer devices.","Advantageously, the personal smart pointer device is able to retain original user application preferences currently existing in the second device prior to altering the user application with the user customized aspects and restore the user application preferences for the user application after disconnecting the pointer device from the second device.","In a preferred embodiment of the invention, a conventional computer mouse or like pointing device is equipped with additional hardware and software for increased functionality. The mouse is a desirable form factor as it doubles as a pointing device and readily connects with any computer. More particularly, the \u201csmart personal pointing\u201d device, as now referred to herein, is provisioned with hardware and software for facilitating network computer-like applications, including enabling receipt and storage of information, and transfer of information to adjunct devices (\u201cvisited device(s)\u201d) such as a PC, a mobile computer, and other pervasive devices such as a cellular phone and PDA. Preferably, as will be explained, information to be transferred includes those personal preferences, features and customizations of applications\/programs used by the user on his\/her own personal device, in order to facilitate use of the application\/program on a visited device, such as colleague's PC, a phone rented with a car, etc. As will be described herein, the communication of personal preferences and customizations may be accomplished wirelessly.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["10","12","13","13","13","14","21","10","20","15","18","19","19","19"],"i":["a,b,c ","a ","c "]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 2","FIG. 2"],"b":["10","20","50","50","55","57","50","58","59","10","60","50","55","50","10","50","65","66"]},"With further reference to , the main card  has no audio capability but is equipped with a PCM audio interface in expansion tabs (not shown) for an accessory card, i.e., either card  or , in the Personal pointer designs that support PCM audio. Particularly, the accessory card ,  implemented includes a speaker and a microphone combination ,  respectively, with the microphone functioning to record voice input which may be processed by the processor subsystem or stored in a storage subsystem for subsequent playback, and the speaker functioning to provide voice output, produce customized tones, and enable acoustic coupling with other listening devices, etc.","As shown in , each speaker\/microphone combination .  is connected to a respective pulse-coded modulation PCM coder\/encoder devices (CODECs) ,  which are controlled by a respective PCM interface ,  to the CPU . The accessory card ,  is additionally equipped with various communications subsystem including low power and intermediary power radio frequency communications devices that support a Wireless Application Protocol (\u201cWAP\u201d) used to provide communications links to mobile computers, mobile phones, portable handheld devices and, connectivity to the Internet. In one embodiment, the specific communications subsystem include circuitry for supporting BlueTooth  or like small-factor, low-cost radio solution circuitry, e.g., an RF-modem , and may include other lower power radio and Flex-paging communications circuits (not shown), etc. For instance, as shown in , the auxiliary communication card  implements the BlueTooth industry standard for Radio Frequency (RF) communication, however, it is understood that other standards such as IEEE 802.11 or other RF protocols may be implemented as well. Moreover, portions of these communication protocols may be implemented on the processor on the main board  so that the total number of the components required is minimized. The CPU system on the main card  preferably employs a first Universal Asynchronous Receiver Transmitter (UART) device (not shown) for supporting either the RF-modem  or Bluetooth  communications functionality and, may be equipped with a second UART device (UART) providing support for data download functionality, e.g., from a PC or network server. It is understood that any like data transfer mechanism or data exchange interface device may be implemented to provide data download and RF communications support functionality.","For purposes of interacting with the device, the Personal pointer system  is provided with a touch sensitive screen\/panel , and also a roller wheel mechanism, i.e., jog encoder . The touch sensitive screen enables the direct launching of applications by physical user entry of a graffiti \u201csquiggle\u201d in the manner such as described in commonly-owned co-pending U.S. patent application No. 09\/607,596 entitled GRAFFITI BASED APPLICATION LAUNCH ON A SMART WATCH, the whole contents and disclosure of which is incorporated by reference as if fully set forth herein, and may initiate other applications\/actions\/events by physical touching of certain Personal pointer display areas. In one embodiment, the touch sensitive screen panel is provided with a four (4) position touch screen. For instance, forward and back navigation for Personal pointer display is enabled by physically touching certain areas of the touch sensitive panel. The roller wheel mechanism  may be rolled up or down (i.e., clockwise and anticlockwise) to simulate a display cursor scrolling function for text and graphics, and specifically generates signals that are A\/D converted for receipt by the processor to enable movement of the Personal pointer device display cursor, and more particularly, movement of an arrow cursor or other displayed indicators providing appointment update and browsing functions.","As further shown in , various Analog to Digital converters (ADC)  support an interface with the touch screen display panel , and an interface with the jog encoder or button for the roller wheel mechanism . An interface  is provided for a unit  housing a high resolution (VGA equivalent) emissive Organic Light Emitting Diode (OLED) high contrast display . Further, the main card  for the basic shell interfaces to a buzzer  controlled directly by the CPU  using its buzzer interface and timer counters. To detect the posture of the personal pointing device, a mechanical four-way tilt sensor  is further provided comprising mechanical switches (for detecting degree of tilt) producing signals which may be detected by the CPU. This sensor may be used for the various purposes such as power management, display control, etc. In a preferred embodiment, additional sensors may be attached to the Personal pointer device over an interface.","With more particularity, the high contrast display  of  does not need a backlight to make the display visible. Thus, the power consumed by the display is proportional to the number of pixels that are turned on in the display. Since the pixels preferably comprise light emitting diodes, the display is automatically visible at night and a user does not need to press any buttons to see the display. Moreover, the OLED display  may be viewed clearly at a wide variety of angles with the brightness of these displays being controlled by limiting the amount of current supplied to the diodes. In one embodiment, the OLED chip  is a high-resolution pixel addressable display, e.g., 640\u00d7480, for enabling the display of various textual and graphical items, similar to what may be displayed on a computer screen or a Palm Pilot\u00ae. Example displays may include icons indicating usage status for example, or display of text indicating location and context of the smart personal pointing device usage.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":["200","10","210","212","214","216","218","220","222","224","226","228","229","230","240","250","255","260","250","270","270"]},"As further shown in , the Personal pointer device  is equipped with application software  provided on top of the basic graphics, communication and synchronization subsystems. One key application supported is the microbrowser which enables access to a WAP-supporting Web site and receives Web-based communications written in, for example, the Wireless Markup Language (\u201cWML\u201d) using the XML standard. WML particularly is designed to optimize Internet text data for delivery over limited-bandwidth wireless networks and onto small device screens, and particularly, is devised to support navigation with limited input mechanisms, e.g., buttons. Details regarding the implementation of WML in a Wrist Watch device may be found in commonly-owned, co-pending U.S. patent application No. 09\/608,042 entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD EMPLOYING WML ANNOTATIONS FOR USER INTERFACE CONTROL OF A WEARABLE APPLIANCE the contents and disclosure of which is incorporated by reference as if fully set forth herein. Other supported applications include Personal Information Management (PIM) applications software .","In accordance with the principles of the invention, the user device from which data is to be transferred is provided with software executable as part of a control mechanism for initiating transfer of selected personalized data such as preferences and customizations associated with the user, i.e., from the user device e.g., that user=s personal Windows7 desktop to the personal pointer device. In an alternate embodiment, a user may initiate the transfer from the personal pointer device itself. For example, a user may have set some preferences in Microsoft Power-point, or even a Netscape browser, and even may have specially created icons which are sorted to the user's smart mouse for subsequent transmission to another device when the user does not have access to his\/her own PC. This may be accomplished by a wireless communication or cabling  via the smart mouse port of the user device. Other types of personalization data may include profile information such as desktop profile (list of applications on the main desktop), screen resolutions, screen savers, menus on start button, preferred settings for various applications, browser bookmarks, history of web sites visited, history of files last viewed, registry settings, passwords for various web sites and applications used by the owner. Furthermore, a personalized menu such as the bar of icons used for Freelance Graphics, Powerpoint, and related preferred settings such as font, document style, and dictionaries, may also be communicated to the smart personal pointing device for storage and subsequent transmission according to the invention. Preferably, these preferences are all stored in preference files in the device memory corresponding to a particular application. It is understood that other personalized preferences like click speeds and mouse (tracking ball) rolling rates may additionally be stored in preference files for implementation in the visited devices. Furthermore, a microdrive may obviously be used store other items such as traditional files, presentations, images, etc.","Via the system display  on the personal smart pointer device, a main menu comprising selectable icons for launching applications may be chosen. Alternately, as application may launched by a graffiti squiggle via the touch screen panel. One icon selection (not shown) would enable launch of an application for transmitting the personalized data including preferences and customizations, e.g., that user's personal Windows\u00ae desktop, to the desktop of a visited device , i.e., another person's PC. This may be accomplished by a wireless communication or via a smart mouse port of the visited device . In an alternate embodiment, a user may initiate the transfer of data from the personal pointer device  to the visited device  from the personal pointer device itself. Thus, in one example, when interacting with visited devices  such as phones and PDAs, data such as address books, power management options, etc., may be transferred to the particular device to personalize them. In the preferred embodiment, the personal pointer device  maintains the notion of the current application that the user has access to or is executing on the visited PC , and thus, knows which icons or preferences to transfer for that particular application and is able to perform the transfer on demand. That is, some applications like Lotus Notes, Lotus Freelance Graphics, Microsoft Power Point, Netscape Navigator, etc., allow the user to build custom icons in the menu area of the screen, e.g., below the File Edit View menus. For example, in Netscape Navigator a special icon on the menu bar may take the user to a specific web site instead of having to type the URL for the web site. Thus, the icon list may be transmitted to the smart point and, the list of icons for a particular application may change utilizing the icon list received from the smart pointer . Thus, if multiple versions of applications exist such as Office 97, Offices 2000, etc., the smart pointer holds data specific to each version. In accordance with the transfer mechanism, when the user disconnects from the visited device, e.g., PC, all traces of the user's personalization are removed from the PC  so that the integrity of the person's data is preserved. That is, appropriate application software is provided to remove the user's preferences once that user disconnects the device from the visited PC. Thus, preferences associated with the original (visited) PC will not get corrupted.","With greater specificity, )\u2013() illustrate the method  for transferring preferences between devices in accordance with the present invention. As shown in ), a first step  is to detect the attachment of a personal pointer device with the visited device, e.g., a PC, by a process executing on the visited device. Once attachment of a smart mouse is detected, at step , a determination is made as to whether the personal pointer device mouse includes any personalized profile and preferences, and, if they exist, the step of building a list of applications that have been personalized. Then, at step , for each application determined at step , the process stores away the current settings in a temporary directory located in the visited device, with the optional step of encrypting the data files. Next, the step , the process includes copying the preferences from the smart mouse for the commonly used applications such as Windows\u00ae desktop, and registering these preferences with the applications. Continuing to step , ), a determination is made as to whether the smart personal pointer device cursor is on the application for which the smart pointer has a preferred profile. If the smart mouse pointer cursor is on the application for which the smart pointer has a preferred profile then, the process continues to step  which comprises the step of determining whether the preferred profile has been previously uploaded from the smart pointer. If the preferred profile has been previously uploaded from the smart mouse pointer, then the process returns to step ; otherwise, the process continues to step  where preference and profile data for that application is loaded from the smart pointer into the device. Finally, at step , the new settings are registered with the application. The process for restoring preferences on the visited device is performed in accordance with ). As illustrated in ), a first step  is to detect the detachment of the smart personal pointing device with the visited device, e.g., a PC. Once detached, at step , the current settings for the applications that were customized by the smart pointer are removed by deleting the profile customization files. Then, at step , the original settings that were present before the smart pointer was attached are decrypted (i.e., if previously encrypted) and re-copied to the respective application with these settings then being registered for each application that had been modified as indicated at step .","With further regard to the transfer application, the smart personalized pointer device is additionally provided with a mechanism by which the application on which a display cursor is presently located exchanges information with the smart mouse on a regular basis so as to enhance the user experience. Such data may include information about when the user last used the application, in what room the smart mouse is located, what the ambient room temperature and pressure is, etc., This will enable applications to be context and location aware. Thus, the smart personal pointer device is equipped to gather a lot of input from sensors around it and send it to the applications which can then use that data and adapt to it. The smart personal pointer device will be able to gather such data from all the environments it visits, hallways, conference rooms, etc.","By using a personalized smart mouse, the user is thus provided with a more personal experience with any standard computer or device, not just the computer at his desk. By keeping personal profile data in the personalized mouse the data such as passwords, etc., may be kept more securely. In accordance with a preferred embodiment, the smart personal pointer device is equipped with a password protection mechanism, such as that described in commonly-owned co-pending U.S. patent application No. 09\/608,110 entitled PASSWORD PROTECTION USING SPATIAL AND TEMPORAL VARIATION IN A HIGH-RESOLUTION TOUCH SENSITIVE DISPLAY, the whole contents and disclosure of which is incorporated by reference as if fully set forth herein, in order to render the mouse useless for anyone other than the owner.","While the invention has been particularly shown and described with respect to illustrative and performed embodiments thereof, it will be understood by those skilled in the art that the foregoing and other changes in form and details may be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention which should be limited only by the scope of the appended claims."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["Further features, aspects and advantages of the apparatus and methods of the present invention will become better understood with regard to the following description, appended claims, and accompanying drawings where:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIGS. 4(","i":["a","c"],"b":"4"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
