---
title: Multifunctional, multi-input, missile signal measurement apparatus
abstract: A printed wiring board includes an input conditioner having a plurality of analog dc inputs and a plurality of analog dc outputs; a switching circuit having an analog dc output, the switching circuit being connected to the plurality of analog dc outputs of the input conditioner; a sample and hold converter having an analog dc output, the sample and hold converter being connected to the analog dc output of the switching circuit; an A/D converter having a digital output, the A/D converter being connected to the analog dc output of the sample and hold converter; a microprocessor connected to the digital output of the A/D converter; a timer circuit connected to the microprocessor; a random access memory connected to the microprocessor; and a VME interface connected to the microprocessor. The printed wiring board further comprises an ac multiplexer; a plurality of rms to dc converters connected to the ac multiplexer, the rms to dc converters being connected to the switching circuit; a zero crossing detector connected to the ac multiplexer; a phase detector connected to the zero crossing detector and to the microprocessor; a filter connected to one of the outputs of the zero crossing detector; and a frequency measurement circuit connected to the filter and to the microprocessor.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=06925428&OS=06925428&RS=06925428
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 06925428
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20000519
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"GOVINT":[{},{}],"heading":["STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENT INTEREST","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS"],"p":["The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for government purposes without the payment of any royalties therefor.","The invention relates in general to a signal measurement apparatus and in particular to a signal measurement apparatus for a missile.","Prior methods used to perform the objectives of the present invention are inefficient and costly. Because the invention is multifunctional, many of the objectives were performed in the past by many different modules and circuit boards. To sample a large quantity of analog signals, multiple analog to digital (A\/D) converter boards were used, or a single board with very slow multiplexing switching times was, used. Different modules were needed to handle signal conditioning, dc signals, ac signals, frequency, and three phase power lines.","Using the old methods, the system processor board would process the signals received and significantly slow down the whole system. In the present invention, all the processing is performed locally on board thereby relieving the system processor of these duties. This provides for a much faster and efficient system. In the past, missile input data was only stored when received or removed. With the onboard random access memory (RAM) and storage algorithm of the present invention all the data throughout the launch can be stored.","In accordance with the present invention, a printed wiring board includes an input conditioner having a plurality of analog dc inputs and a plurality of analog dc outputs; a switching circuit having an analog dc output, the switching circuit being connected to the plurality of analog dc outputs of the input conditioner; a sample and hold converter having an analog dc output, the sample and hold converter being connected to the analog dc output of the switching circuit; an A\/D converter having a digital output, the A\/D converter being connected to the analog dc output of the sample and hold converter; a microprocessor connected to the digital output of the A\/D converter; a timer circuit connected to the microprocessor; a random access memory connected to the microprocessor; and a VME interface connected to the microprocessor.","The printed wiring board further comprises an ac multiplexer having a plurality of analog ac inputs and a plurality of analog ac outputs; a plurality of rms to dc converters having a plurality of analog dc outputs, the rms to dc converters being connected to a plurality of analog ac outputs of the ac multiplexer, the analog dc outputs of the rms to dc converters being; connected to the switching circuit; a zero crossing detector having three outputs, the zero crossing detector being connected to three analog ac outputs of the ac multiplexer; a phase detector connected to the three outputs of the zero crossing detector and to the microprocessor; a filter connected to one of the outputs of the zero crossing detector; and a frequency measurement circuit connected to the filter and to the microprocessor.","Another aspect of the invention is a method of processing analog ac and analog dc signals comprising reducing voltages of the analog dc signals from a maximum of about plus or minus 52 volts to a maximum of about plus or minus 15 volts; converting the analog ac signals to analog dc signals; converting analog dc signals to digital dc signals; and for each channel, time tagging and storing only the digital dc signals that change in value.","Further objects, features and advantages of the invention will become apparent from the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the following drawing.","The present invention is capable of measuring and storing both alternating current (ac) and direct current (dc) signals, ac frequency, time tagging signals and detecting proper 3 phase ac orientation. The invention can be used in many other applications than its use in missile simulators. The invention can be used in any system requiring ac voltage, dc voltage, and frequency measurements as well as 3 phase detection and data storage. Because the printed wiring board (PWB) has an on board microprocessor and Eproms, software can be modified to make the invention extremely versatile and adaptable to the target system. The PWB has a VME bus interface, which is one of the most standard busses used in industry today. With the VME interface, the invention can be integrated into any VME system.","The purpose of the invention is to provide a single PWB that encompasses a multitude of functions as outlined below:\n\n",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["10","12","14","16","18","20","16","12","19","18","22","24","20","18","26","28","24","22","30","28","26","32","34","36"]},"The PWB  further includes an ac multiplexer  having a plurality of analog ac inputs  and a plurality of analog ac outputs . Block  represents a plurality of rms (root mean square) to dc converters. Preferably, the number of rms to dc converters is four. The rms to dc converters  have a plurality of analog dc outputs  and are connected to a plurality of analog ac outputs  of the ac multiplexer . The analog dc outputs  of the rms to dc converters  are connected to the switching circuit ; A zero crossing detector  has three outputs  and is connected to three analog ac outputs  of the ac multiplexer . A phase detector  is connected to the three outputs  of the zero crossing detector  and to the microprocessor . A filter  is connected to one of the outputs  of the zero crossing detector . A frequency measurement circuit  is connected to the filter  and to the microprocessor .","The number of analog dc inputs is preferably 41 and the number of analog ac inputs is preferably 12. The input conditioner  accepts dc voltages in the range of \u00b152.5 volts dc and converts them into dc voltages in the range of \u00b115 volts dc. The input conditioner  reduces the voltages using voltage divider circuits. The ac outputs  feed into both the zero crossing detector  and the rms to dc converters . The rms to dc converters  convert the ac signals into their equivalent dc rms values. The dc signals ,  pass through a unique switching circuit  that quickly and efficiently switches the inputs to the sample and hold converter .","The sample and hold converter  retains the voltage level of the signal on its output while the A\/D converter  converts it into a digital value. Simultaneously, the multiplexers  (See ) in the switching circuit  set up the next input signal on the input of the sample and hold converter . The microprocessor  processes the data read from the A\/D converter  and takes appropriate action. The microprocessor  reads the time from the timer circuit  and time tags the data.","The zero crossing detector  converts the ac signals  into a dc TTL square wave. The filter  filters any noise created by the zero crossing detector  and provides a clean signal for the frequency measurement circuit . The frequency measurement circuit  converts the frequency into digital data that is read and processed by the microprocessor . The microprocessor  uses the RAM  to store the data captured by the A\/D converter . Preferably, the RAM  comprises 3 Mb of static RAM. The VME interface  is used by the microprocessor  to communicate with other VME circuit boards on the VME bus.","The input conditioner  accepts a very wide input voltage range. Typically A\/D boards accept either \u00b15V or \u00b110V. The present invention accepts a much more flexible and wider input range of \u00b152V. The invention also has a large number of input channels ( dc and  ac). Multiplexers  () are used to switch the input channels to the A\/D converter . An inherent problem of very slow switching times exists when trying to multiplex a large number of channels with wide voltage swings such as the \u00b152V of the PWB . To resolve this problem and reduce the switching time of the input channels, the invention uses the unique switching circuit  shown in FIG. .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0029"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":["18","58","58","58","60","58","60","60","58","60","58","26"]},"The invention also provides a circuit which detects proper phase orientation for three phase power lines. FIG. (A) is a schematic drawing of the phase detector  of the invention and FIG. (B) shows the associated signals. The zero crossing detector  converts the ac sine waves into TTL (transistor-transistor logic) level signals. The TTL signals then feed into the phase detector . The phase detector  is an Erasable Programmable Logic Device (EPLD) which decodes the three phases into a three bit TTL word using flip flops . If the three phase orientation is correct (i.e., each phase 120 degrees apart), the output of all the flip flops  will be a logic level \u201c1\u201d. If the phases are out of orientation, one or more of the outputs of the flip flops  will be at a logic level \u201c0\u201d. The microprocessor  reads the bits and determines proper three phase orientation.","The capability of the invention to time tag signals, store the data in local RAM, and process the data locally on board enables the use of a method that greatly increases the amount of data that can be stored locally. The basis of the method is to store only those readings for each channel which change in value. Because the microprocessor time tags each reading from the A\/D converter , the original waveforms can be recreated from the data and their time tags.","FIGS. (A) and (B) are diagrams of an analog waveform. As shown in FIG. (A), the vertical lines represent the samples taken by the microprocessor  from the A\/D converter . Using the aforementioned method, only samples 1, 4, 10, and 14 and their associated time tags need to be stored to recreate the waveform. Because the waveform did not change in between these four readings, a straight line can be constructed to recreate the waveform as shown in FIG. (B). In this example, only 4 out of 14 samples need to be stored in RAM . This greatly increases the amount of data that can be stored while reducing the size of RAM  needed to store the data.","While the invention has been described with reference to certain preferred embodiments, numerous changes, alterations and modifications to the described embodiments are possible without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined in the appended claims, and equivalents thereof."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWING","p":["Throughout the Figures, reference numerals that are the same refer to the same features.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},"FIG. (A) is a schematic drawing of the phase detector of the invention and FIG. (B) shows the associated signals.","FIGS. (A) and (B) are diagrams of an analog waveform."]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
