---
title: Price paid database method and system
abstract: A novel price paid database, method, system, and computer program product in which checkout items are scanned at a plurality of stores, and a checkout computer identifies the purchased items. The checkout computer determines a price paid for each purchased item. A central computer records in a price-paid database an item identification and price-paid for each purchased items. The central computer publishes the price-paid database. The checkout computer recurrently updates the price-paid database in the central computer with the price paid for each purchased item, the customer identification (if available), the store identification, and a list price for each purchased item.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08756154&OS=08756154&RS=08756154
owner: Catalina Marketing Corporation
number: 08756154
owner_city: St. Petersburg
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20001207
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS"],"p":["1. Field of the Invention","This invention relates to a database, method, and system whereby accurate prices paid for products in stores are captured even at a frequent shopper card level and archived for consumer access and market analysis.","2. Discussion of the Background","Consumer purchases these days are becoming increasingly more competitive. To entice consumers to buy a particular product, many retailers and discounters are using a frequent shopper card which, when presented at the time of purchase, substantially reduces the price of the item from that available to members of the public who have no frequent shopper card. These price discounts can vary as merchants use discounts to entice sales in items which will soon expire, be superceded by other items, or in which the distributors or manufacturers have themselves added promotional incentives. While such discount incentives are apparently mutually beneficial to the seller and buyer, knowledge of the actual price paid is critical in determining price margins and the price-acceptance by a customer.","Thus, data reflecting not the inventory list price nor the advertised sales price but rather the actual price paid is needed from across many sources to enable reliable statistical determinations to be valid.","Obtaining this data presents several problems. First, while there are syndicated sources which list prices of individual items, such as for example the manufacturer's suggested retail list price, data indicating the actual price of a product is only readily available at a local level such as the store or retail shop where the item is purchased. Further, consider the problem of relying on inventory price lists. Frequently, prices are negotiated between a seller and a buyer. While this is frequently associated with the purchase of expensive items, such as for example automobiles, price negotiations occur frequently during the purchase of not so expensive items. Price negotiations are also frequently made at a retailer during clearance, inventory reduction, and close out conditions. In these circumstances, the prices are quite elastic, as merchants are driven by other considerations besides prices on the individual items. For example, a merchant needing to clear old inventory to make sales space for new product will reduce prices to clear the old products. Merchants have discretion in setting prices. The economic restraint for the merchant is to pay the distributor or, in some cases, the manufacturer a contracted price. Even with the responsibility to pay the constructed price, it may be advantageous for the merchant to discount below wholesale and loose money on some products, if the discounted price enables the promotion of more profitable goods in the store.","Consider also situations where retailers do on-floor promotions to attract customers into a store. Here, again data showing price acceptance is potentially available, but only through capture of the actual prices paid for the purchased items.","Yet, capturing of data in these situations of extraordinary price elasticity in which marketing data is perhaps the most decisive in determining price acceptance by the customer is not provided for in syndicated sources. Further, the syndicated sources do not capture discounts from frequent shopping card programs.","As a consequence, data bases formed from syndicated price lists reflect average prices which have been set by historical supply and demand factors. Such databases do not necessarily reflect the reality of the sells market today, unless the market is unchanged from when the price lists were created.","Thus, the prices paid for purchased items are nowhere captured in an aggregated, pseudo-real-time database which monitors the price paid and records price history and price paid variations.","Accordingly, one object of the invention is to provide a pseudo-real-time database to capture actual prices paid for individual items across an aggregate number of stores.","Another object of the present invention is to update recurrently a price-paid database with information on customer purchases such as for example product identification, an actual price-paid, a customer identification, a store identification, a list sells price, and the price differential between the list sales price and the price paid. In one embodiment, customer identification is obtained from scanning a frequent shopper card, a credit card, a club member card, a debit card, a fingerprint, retinal scan, or a signature.","Still a further object of the present invention is to publish the price-paid database in a format in which users can access.","Another object of the present invention is to provide the user with a user-defined (i.e. user-specified) district in which to obtain information on the prices paid. In one embodiment, the user selects parts of the price paid database (within a specified district) to display the prices paid by store selection, by customer selection, by brand selection, or by sales category, such as for example paint, tires, lumber, food, clothes, computers, etc.","Accordingly, these and other objects are provided for in a novel price paid database, method, system, and computer program product in which checkout items are scanned at a plurality of stores, and a checkout computer identifies the purchased items. The checkout computer determines a price paid for each purchased item. A central computer records in a price-paid database an item identification and price-paid for each purchased items. The central computer publishes the price-paid database. The checkout computer recurrently updates the price-paid database in the central computer with the price paid for each purchased item, the customer identification (if available), the store identification, and a list price for each purchased item.","The price paid method is included on a computer program product which stores data to implement the price paid process on the computer such as a general purpose computer or a network of general purpose computers.","Thus, the present invention provides users such as market analysts, manufacturers, and retailers with near real time information on the price acceptance of individual items in a local, district, state, regional, or national basis.","Referring now to the drawings, wherein like reference numerals designate identical or corresponding parts throughout the several views, and more particularly to  thereof,  is a block diagram showing the price-paid database system.","A user interface  is provided. The user interface can be a personal computer or other devices such as telephones for accessing a user-side network . The user-side network  is any suitable hardware and software for communicating to the user interface  including, for example, the communications controller  and the network  shown in the computer system  of , or any suitable Internet connection.","The user interface  has a display  and can be connected to a printer  which enables items in the price-paid database to be printed. The user side network  is connected to a central computer . The central computer  is any suitable personal computer, workstation, server, or other device, such as the computer system  of . The central computer  communicates to the user interface  using any suitable protocol and may be implemented using the computer system  of  for example. The central computer  includes a web page  or other electronic page for communicating with the user and a central price-paid database .","The central computer  is further connected to a retailer-side network  which networks the central computer  to retail stores participating in the price-paid database system of the present invention. The retailer-side network  is any suitable hardware and software for communicating to the checkout computer  including, for example, the communications controller  and the network  shown in the computer system  of , or any suitable Internet connection.","Each retail store in the retailer-side network has a checkout computer . The checkout computer  is any suitable personal computer, workstation, server, or other device, such as the computer system  of .","At the retail stores, the prices paid for individual items are captured, and the prices paid uploaded from the checkout computer  to the central computer  and stored in the price-paid database . The checkout computer  and a scanner  identify and capture the prices paid for purchased items. The scanner  may be implemented as any conventional scanning device for reading product information such as an item code (e.g., UDC, EAN, or JAN) from bar codes or other indicia on the product. Information read by the scanner  is transmitted to the checkout computer . The checkout computer  includes a local price paid database  which contains a similar structure to the central price paid database , but the local price paid database  only records price paid information associated with that particular retailer. The broken connection in  between the retailer side network  and the checkout computer  indicates that there are multiple checkout computers and that the price paid database system of the present invention is available to new retailers.","In one embodiment of the present invention, the checkout computer  stores a list of purchased items and recurrently uploads the list to the central computer  over the retailer-side network . Software for implementing the present invention can reside anywhere on the network, but preferably resides in the central computer .","In general, it can be seen that a price-paid database system of the present invention includes a user interface device  which logs a user onto the web page , permitting the user to interrogate the central price-paid data-base . The user interface device  includes an input device (not shown) such as a keyboard or a mouse which receives input from the user, a display device  which displays information to the user and a printer  which prints selected items from the central price-paid database . The user-side network  and the retailer-side network  can be the same computer network simultaneously functioning as both the user-side and the retailer-side network. The central computer  accesses storage devices (not explicitly shown in ) to store the web page database  and the central price-paid database . The checkout computer  is interfaced to the scanner . The price-paid database system identifies purchased items and captures the price paid for each item. Through the retailer-side network, information about items purchased is returned to the central computer  recurrently to update the price-paid database.","The present invention stores information relating to a customer's shopping history as well as availability and prices of individual products. This information is stored in one or more memories such as a hard disk, optical disk, magneto-optical disk, and\/or RAM, for example. One or more databases, such as the central price-paid database , may store the information used to implement the present invention. The databases are organized using data structures (e.g., records, tables, arrays, fields, graphs, trees, and\/or lists) contained in one or more memories, such as the memories listed above or any of the storage devices listed below in the discussion of , for example.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":["201","201","201","201","108","201","112","108"]},"The price-paid table  includes a field  for storing retailer identification, a field  for storing product descriptions of the products in the field , a field  for storing the prices paid for the products, and a field  for storing list prices of the products. The central computer  selects from the central price paid database  only those retailers within a specified shopping district and enters those retailers along with the actual prices and availability status into the price-paid table . The user can then determine from the price-paid table  the actual prices paid for the purchased products.","Other fields, as shown in , which are included in the price paid database include customer identification, time of purchase, shopping card member discount. The price-paid table  includes a field  for storing retailer identification, a field  for storing product descriptions of the products in the field , a field  for storing the prices paid for the products, a field  for storing list prices of the products, a field  for storing the customer identification, a field  for storing the time of purchase, and a field  for storing the shopping card discount. The central computer  selects from the central price paid database  only those purchases within a specified shopping district. The user can then determine from the price-paid table  the prices paid and customer information regarding purchases in the specified shopping district.","Records in the price-paid database contain fields together with a set of operations for searching, sorting, recombining, and other database functions. One or more of U.S. Pat. Nos. 5,832,457; 5,649,114; 5,430,644; and 5,592,560 describe techniques for collecting consumer purchase history information and for storing such information in databases such as the central price-paid database , for example. U.S. Pat. Nos. 5,832,457; 5,649,114; 5,430,644; and 5,592,560 are incorporated herein by reference. Additionally, techniques for collecting consumer purchase information and for storing such information in databases, such as the central price-paid database , are described in other patents owned by Catalina Marketing and\/or Catalina Marketing International. Each patent owned by Catalina Marketing and\/or Catalina Marketing International is incorporated herein by reference.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0040","num":"0039"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":["400","108","402","108","114","116","116","118","116","116","116","402","108","116","112","120","112","112","404","108"]},"In one embodiment of the present invention, the central computer  publishes the central price-paid database  through the web-page  which can be customer-selected to specify a particular district, sales category, product (e.g., CRESTS toothpaste in an 8 ounce container) or customer category (e.g., all customers within the state of Florida). Other publishing methods, such as for example the publication of indexed volumes of the price paid database, are generated according to the present invention by the central computer . The indexed volumes are available through a subscription which provides subscribers with current volumes of the price-paid database. In general, the publishing methods of the present invention disseminate information in the price-paid database to users in an electronic, magnetic, or paper format.","One way in which data in the central price paid database  is updated is by command from the central computer  which initiates updating on a recurrent basis to insure that data communication along the retailer-side network from the checkout computer  is not lost.  is a flowchart showing the steps by which the central computer  obtains the price paid information. At step , the central computer  initializes the price paid data base update routine and sets, in step , the STORE variable to \u201c1\u201d. At step , the central computer requests transfer of data files from a checkout computer at the first retailer and retrieves the price paid data information. At step , the central computer increments the STORE variable by 1. At step , the central computer compares the value of the STORE variable to see if it is equal to the number n of retail stores connected through the retailer-side network . If STORE is not equal to n, the central computer proceeds back to step  and retrieves data from a checkout computer at the next retail store. If STORE is equal to n, the central computer exits, at step , the price-paid database update routine.","Another way in which data in the central price paid database is updated is by receiving updates from a network of checkout computers .  is a flowchart showing the steps by which the central computer  receives information from the local price paid databases . At step , the checkout computer  sets a TRANSACTION variable to \u201c1\u201d. The checkout computer  increments, in step , the value of the TRANSACTION variable by 1 every time a customer purchases goods from the retailer. After a predetermined number N of times, such as for example corresponding the average number of transitions in 4 hrs of business, the checkout computer  in step  initializes a file transfer of the local price paid data base  to the central computer . The file transfer can occur using a number of standard communication protocols such file transfer protocol (FTP). Once the file transfer is complete, the TRANSACTION variable is reset to 1, and the process returns to step .","The aforesaid methods and devices for the price paid database are contained in according to this invention on a computer program product. The computer program product is a storage medium including instructions which can be used to program a computer or a plurality of network computers to perform a process of the invention. Storage medium can include, but is not limited to, any type of disc including floppy disc, optical disc, CD ROMs, and magneto optical disc, ROMs, RAMs, EPROMs, EEPROMs, magnetic or optical cards, or any type of medium suitable for storing electronic instructions.","This invention can be conveniently implemented easily in a general purpose digital computer or a network of general purpose digital computers and\/or microprocessors programmed to record the teachings of the present invention, as will be apparent to those skilled in the computer art from reading the above descriptions regarding the figures. Appropriate software coding can readily be programmed by skilled programmers based on the teaching of the present disclosure, as will be apparent to those skilled in the software art. The invention may also be implemented by preparation of applications specific integrated circuits or by interconnecting an appropriate network of conventional component of circuits, as will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art.","It is to be understood that the system in  is for exemplary purposes only, as many variations of the specific hardware and software used to implement the present invention will be readily apparent to one having ordinary skill in the art. For example, the functionality of the checkout computer  and the scanner  may be combined in a single device. These implementations and other implementations of computer systems are described in greater detail in one or more of U.S. Pat. Nos. 4,723,212; 4,910,672; 5,173,851; 5,612,868; and 6,026,370, each of which is incorporated herein by reference. To implement these variations as well as other variations, a single computer (e.g., the control computer of ) may be programmed to perform the special purpose functions of two or more of any of the devices shown in . On the other hand, two or more programmed computers may be substituted for any one of the devices shown in . Principles and advantages of distributed processing, such as redundancy and replication, may also be implemented as desired to increase the robustness and performance of the system, for example.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0047","num":"0046"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 7"],"b":["702","702","702","702","704","706","702","708"]},"The central processing unit  is configured for high volume data transmission for performing a significant number of mathematical calculations in processing the print jobs. A Pentium III microprocessor such as the 1 GHz Pentium III manufactured by Intel Inc. may be used for CPU . The processor employs a 32-bit architecture. Other suitable processors include the Motorola 500 MHZ Power PC G processor and the Advanced Micro Devices 1 GHz AMD Athlon processor. Multiple processors and workstations may be used as well.","The ROM  is preferably included in a semiconductor form although other read only memory forms including optical medium may be used to host application software and temporary results. The ROM  connects to the system bus  for use by the CPU . The ROM  includes computer readable instructions that, when executed by the CPU , perform different functions associated with printing and managing print jobs. An input control  connects to the system bus  and provides an interface with various peripheral equipment including a keyboard  and a pointing device such as a mouse  settles to permit user interaction with graphical user interfaces. The input controller  may include different ports such as a mouse port in the form of a PS2 port or, for example, a universal serial bus (USB) port. The keyboard port for the input controller  is in the form of a mini-DIN port although other connectors may be used as well. The input controller  may also include serial ports or parallel ports as well.","A disc controller  is in the form of an IDE controller and connects via driving cables to a removal media drive  which may be implemented as a floppy disc drive, as well as a hard disc drive  and a CD-ROM drive (not shown). In addition, a PCI expansion slide is provided on a disc controller , a motherboard that hosts the CPU . An enhanced graphic port expansion slot is provided and provides 3-D graphics with fast access to the main memory. The hard disc  may also include a CD drive that may be readable as well as writable. A communication controller  provides a connection to a network L. The network L may be a connection to the public switched telephone network (PSTN)  for providing Internet access, or to a network  such as a local area network, wide area network, a virtual private network (VPN), or an extranet. In one embodiment, the network L and the connection to the communication controller  are made by way of a plurality of connections including a cable-modem connection, digital subscriber line (DSL) connection, fiber optic connection, dial-up modem connection, and the like that connects to the communication controller .","An input\/output controller  also provides connections to the external components such as an external hard disc drive , a printer , for example, by way of an RS 232 port and a CSI bus.","A display controller  interconnects the system bus  to a display device, such as a cathode ray tube (CRT) . While a CRT is shown, a variety of display devices may be used such as an LCD (liquid crystal display) , or plasma display device. Display device permits displaying of graphical user interfaces.","Numerous modifications and variations of the present invention are possible in light of the above teachings. It is therefore to be understood that within the scope of the appended claims, the invention may be practiced otherwise than as specifically described herein."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["A more complete description of the present invention and many of the attendant advantages thereof will be readily obtained as the same becomes better understood by reference to the following detailed description when considered in connection with the accompanying drawings, wherein:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":"FIG. 7"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
