---
title: Method and apparatus for translating natural-language speech using multiple output phrases
abstract: A multi-lingual translation system that provides multiple output sentences for a given word or phrase. Each output sentence for a given word or phrase reflects, for example, a different emotional emphasis, dialect, accents, loudness or rates of speech. A given output sentence could be selected automatically, or manually as desired, to create a desired effect. For example, the same output sentence for a given word or phrase can be recorded three times, to selectively reflect excitement, sadness or fear. The multi-lingual translation system includes a phrase-spotting mechanism, a translation mechanism, a speech output mechanism and optionally, a language understanding mechanism or an event measuring mechanism or both. The phrase-spotting mechanism identifies a spoken phrase from a restricted domain of phrases. The language understanding mechanism, if present, maps the identified phrase onto a small set of formal phrases. The translation mechanism maps the formal phrase onto a well-formed phrase in one or more target languages. The speech output mechanism produces high-quality output speech. The speech output may be time synchronized to the spoken phrase using the output of the event measuring mechanism.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=06859778&OS=06859778&RS=06859778
owner: OIPENN, Inc.
number: 06859778
owner_city: New York
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20000316
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["FIELD OF THE INVENTION","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS","Table-Based Translation","Template-Based Translation","Phrase-Based Translation"],"p":["The present invention relates generally to speech-to-speech translation systems and, more particularly, to methods and apparatus that perform automated speech translation.","Speech recognition techniques translate an acoustic signal into a computer-readable format. Speech recognition systems have been used for various applications, including data entry applications that allow a user to dictate desired information to a computer device, security applications that restrict access to a particular device or secure facility, and speech-to-speech translation applications, where a spoken phrase is translated from a source language into one or more target languages. In a speech-to-speech translation application, the speech recognition system translates the acoustic signal into a computer-readable format, and a machine translator reproduces the spoken phrase in the desired language.","Multilingual speech-to-speech translation has typically required the participation of a human translator to translate a conversation from a source language into one or more target languages. For example, telephone service providers, such as AT&T Corporation, often provide human operators that perform language translation services. With the advances in the underlying speech recognition technology, however, automated speech-to-speech translation may now be performed without requiring a human translator. Automated multilingual speech-to-speech translation systems will provide multilingual speech recognition for interactions between individuals and computer devices. In addition, such automated multilingual speech-to-speech translation systems can also provide translation services for conversations between two individuals.","A number of systems have been proposed or suggested that attempt to perform speech-to-speech translation. For example, Alex Waibel, \u201cInteractive Translation of Conversational Speech\u201d, Computer, 29(7), 41-48 (1996), hereinafter referred to as the \u201cJanus II System,\u201d discloses a computer-aided speech translation system. The Janus II speech translation system operates on spontaneous conversational speech between humans. While the Janus II System performs effectively for a number of applications, it suffers from a number of limitations, which if overcome, could greatly expand the accuracy and efficiency of such speech-to-speech translation systems. For example, the Janus II System does not synchronize the original source language speech and the translated target language speech.","A need therefore exists for improved methods and apparatus that perform automated speech translation. A further need exists for methods and apparatus for synchronizing the original source language speech and the translated target language speech in a speech-to-speech translation system. Yet another need exists for speech-to-speech translation methods and apparatus that automatically translate the original source language speech into a number of desired target languages.","Generally, the present invention provides a multi-lingual translation system. The present invention provides multiple output sentences for a given word or phrase. Each output sentence for a given word or phrase reflects, for example, a different emotional emphasis, dialect, accents, loudness, pitch or rates of speech. A given output sentence could be selected automatically, or manually as desired, to create a desired effect. For example, the same output sentence for a given word or phrase can be recorded three times, to selectively reflect excitement, sadness or fear.","Changes in the volume or pitch of speech can be utilized, for example, to indicate a change in the importance of the content of the speech. The variable rate of speech outputs can be used to select a translation that has a best fit with the spoken phrase. In various embodiments, the variable rate of speech can supplement or replace the compression or stretching performed by the speech output mechanism.","The multi-lingual translation system includes a phrase-spotting mechanism, a translation mechanism, a speech output mechanism and optionally, a language understanding mechanism or an event measuring mechanism or both. The phrase-spotting mechanism identifies a spoken phrase from a restricted domain of phrases. The language understanding mechanism, if present, maps the identified phrase onto a small set of formal phrases. The translation mechanism maps the formal phrase onto a well-formed phrase in one or more target languages. The speech output mechanism produces high-quality output speech. The speech output may be time synchronized to the spoken phrase using the output of the event measuring mechanism.","The event-measuring mechanism, if present, measures the duration of various key events in the source phrase. For example, the speech can be normalized in duration using event duration information and presented to the user. Event duration could be, for example, the overall duration of the input phrase, the duration of the phrase with interword silences omitted, or some other relevant durational features.","In a template-based translation embodiment, the translation mechanism maps the static components of each phrase over directly to the speech output mechanism, but the variable component, such as a number or date, is converted by the translation mechanism to the target language using a variable mapping mechanism. The variable mapping mechanism may be implemented, for example, using a finite state transducer. The speech output mechanism employs a speech synthesis technique, such as phrase-splicing, to generate high quality output speech from the static phrases with embedded variables. It is noted that the phrase splicing mechanism is inherently capable of modifying durations of the output speech allowing for accurate synchronization.","In a phrase-based translation embodiment, the output of the phrase spotting mechanism is presented to a language understanding mechanism that maps the input sentence onto a relatively small number of output sentences of a variable form as in the template-based translation described above. Thereafter, translation and speech output generation may be performed in a similar manner to the template-based translation.","A more complete understanding of the present invention, as well as further features and advantages of the present invention, will be obtained by reference to the following detailed description and drawings.",{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00022","num":"00022"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":"100"},"As shown in , the multi-lingual time-synchronized translation system  includes a phrase-spotting mechanism , a language understanding mechanism , a translation mechanism , a speech output mechanism  and an event measuring mechanism . The multi-lingual time-synchronized translation system  will be discussed hereinafter with three illustrative embodiments, of varying complexity. While the general block diagram shown in  applies to each of the three various embodiments, the various components within the multi-lingual time-synchronized translation system  may change in accordance with the complexity of the specific embodiment, as discussed below.","Generally, the phrase-spotting mechanism  identifies a spoken phrase from a restricted domain of phrases. The phrase-spotting mechanism  may achieve higher accuracy by restricting the task domain. The language understanding mechanism  maps the identified phrase onto a small set of formal phrases. The translation mechanism  maps the formal phrase onto a well-formed phrase in one or more target languages. The speech output mechanism  produces high-quality output speech using the output of the event measuring mechanism  for time synchronization. The event-measuring mechanism , discussed further below in conjunction with , measures the duration of various key events in the source phrase. The output of the event-measuring mechanism  can be applied to the speech output mechanism  or the translation mechanism  or both. The event-measuring mechanism  can provide a message to the translation mechanism  to select a longer or shorter version of a translation for a given word or phrase. Likewise, the event-measuring mechanism  can provide a message to the speech output mechanism  to compress or stretch the translation for a given word or phrase, in a manner discussed below.","In a table-based translation embodiment, shown in , the phrase spotting mechanism  can be a speech recognition system that decides between a fixed inventory of preset phrases for each utterance. Thus, the phrase-spotting mechanism  may be embodied, for example, as the IBM ViaVoice Millenium Edition\u2122 (1999), commercially available from IBM Corporation, as modified herein to provide the features and functions of the present invention.","In the table-based translation embodiment, there is no formal language understanding mechanism , and the translation mechanism  is a table-based lookup process. In other words, the speaker is restricted to a predefined canonical set of words or phrases and the utterances will have a predefined format. The constrained utterances are directly passed along by the language understanding mechanism  to the translation mechanism . The translation mechanism  contains a translation table  containing an entry for each recognized word or phrase in the canonical set of words or phrases. The speech output mechanism  contains a prerecorded speech table (not shown) consisting of prerecorded speech for each possible source phrase in the translation table . The prerecorded speech table may contain a pointer to an audio file for each recognized word or phrase.","As discussed further below in conjunction with , the speech is normalized in duration using event duration information produced by the event duration measurement mechanism , and presented to the user. Event duration could be the overall duration of the input phrase, the duration of the phrase with interword silences omitted, or some other relevant durational features.","As previously indicated, the translation table , shown in , preferably contains an entry for each word or phrase in the canonical set of words or phrases. The translation table  translates each recognized word or phrase into one or more target languages. As shown in , the translation table  maintains a plurality of records, such as records -, each associated with a different recognized word or phrase. For each recognized word or phrase identified in field , the translation table  includes a corresponding translation into each desired target language in fields  through .","In an alternate implementation of the translation table , the present invention provides multiple output sentences for a given word or phrase. In this embodiment, each output sentence for a given word or phrase reflects a different emotional emphasis and could be selected automatically, or manually as desired, to create a specific emotional effect. For example, the same output sentence for a given word or phrase can be recorded three times, to selectively reflect excitement, sadness or fear. In further variations, the same output sentence for a given word or phrase can be recorded to reflect different accents, dialects, pitch, loudness or rates of speech. Changes in the volume or pitch of speech can be utilized, for example, to indicate a change in the importance of the content of the speech. The variable rate of speech outputs can be used to select a translation that has a best fit with the spoken phrase. In various embodiments, the variable rate of speech can supplement or replace the compression or stretching performed by the speech output mechanism. In yet another variation, time adjustments can be achieved by leaving out less important words in a translation, or inserting fill words (in addition to, or as an alternative to, compression or stretching performed by the speech output mechanism).","In a template-based translation embodiment, shown in , the phrase spotting mechanism  can be a grammar-based speech recognition system capable of recognizing phrases with embedded variable phrases, such as names, dates or prices. Thus, there are variable fields on the input and output of the translation mechanism. Thus, the phrase-spotting mechanism  may be embodied, for example, as the IBM ViaVoice Millenium Edition\u2122 (1999), commercially available from IBM Corporation, as modified herein to provide the features and functions of the present invention.","In the template-based translation embodiment, there is again no formal language understanding mechanism , and the speaker is restricted to a predefined canonical set of words or phrases. Thus, the utterances produced by the phrase-spotting mechanism  will have a predefined format. The constrained utterances are directly passed along by the language understanding mechanism  to the translation mechanism . The translation mechanism  is somewhat more sophisticated than the table-based translation embodiment discussed above. The translation mechanism  contains a translation table  containing an entry for each recognized word or phrase in the canonical set of words or phrases. The translation mechanism  maps the static components of each phrase over directly to the speech output mechanism , but the variable component, such as a number or date, is converted by the translation mechanism  to the target language using a variable mapping mechanism.","The variable mapping mechanism may be implemented, for example, using a finite state transducer. For a description of finite state transducers see, for example, Finite State Language Processing, E. Roche and Y. Schabes, eds. MIT Press 1997, incorporated by reference herein. The translation mechanism  contains a template-based translation table  containing an entry for each recognized phrase in the canonical set of words or phrases, but having a template or code indicating the variable components. In this manner, entries with variable components contain variable fields.","The speech output mechanism  employs a more sophisticated high quality speech synthesis technique, such as phrase-splicing, to generate high quality output speech, since there are no longer static phrases but static phrases with embedded variables. It is noted that the phrase splicing mechanism is inherently capable of modifying durations of the output speech allowing for accurate synchronization. For a discussion of phrase-splicing techniques, see, for example, R. E. Donovan, M. Franz, J. Sorensen, and S. Roukos (1998) \u201cPhrase Splicing and Variable Substitution Using the IBM Trainable Speech Synthesis System\u201d ICSLP 1998, Australia, incorporated by reference herein.","As previously indicated, the template-based translation table , shown in , preferably contains an entry for each word or phrase in the canonical set of words or phrases. The template-based translation table  translates the static components of each recognized word or phrase into one or more target languages and contains an embedded variable for the dynamic components. As shown in , the template-based translation table  maintains a plurality of records, such as records -, each associated with a different recognized word or phrase. For each recognized word or phrase identified in field , the template-based translation table  includes a corresponding translation of the static component, with an embedded variable for the dynamic component, into each desired target language in fields  through .","Thus, the broadcaster may say, \u201cThe Dow Jones average rose 150 points in heavy trading\u201d and the recognition algorithm understands that this is an example of the template \u201cThe Dow Jones average rose <number> points in heavy trading\u201d. The speech recognition algorithm will transmit the number of the template (1 in this example) and the value of the variable (150). On the output side, the phrase-splicing or other speech synthesizer inserts the value of the variable into the template and produces, for example \u201cLe Dow Jones a gagn\u00e9 150 points lors d'une sc\u00e9ance particuli\u00e8rement active.\u201d","In a phrase-based translation embodiment, shown in , the phrase spotting mechanism  is now a limited domain speech recognition system with an underying statistical language model. Thus, in the phrase-based translation embodiment, the phrase-spotting mechanism  may be embodied, for example, as the IBM ViaVoice Millenium Edition\u2122 (1999), commercially available from IBM Corporation, as modified herein to provide the features and functions of the present invention. The phrase-based translation embodiment permits more flexibility on the input speech than the template-based translation embodiment discussed above.","The output of the phrase spotting mechanism  is presented to a language understanding mechanism  that maps the input sentence onto a relatively small number of output sentences of a variable form as in the template-based translation described above. For a discussion of feature-based mapping techniques, see, for example, K. Papineni, S. Roukos and T. Ward \u201cFeature Based Language Understanding,\u201d Proc. Eurospeech '97, incorporated by reference herein. Once the language understanding mechanism  has performed the mapping, the rest of the process for translation and speech output generation is the same as described above for template-based translation. The translation mechanism  contains a translation table  containing an entry for each recognized word or phrase in the canonical set of words or phrases. The translation mechanism  maps each phrase over to the speech output mechanism .","The speech output mechanism  employs a speech synthesis technique to translate the text in the phrase-based translation table  into speech.","As previously indicated, the phrase-based translation table , shown in , preferably contains an entry for each word or phrase in the canonical set of words or phrases. The phrase-based translation table  translates each recognized word or phrase into one or more target languages. As shown in , the phrae-based translation table  maintains a plurality of records, such as records -, each associated with a different recognized word or phrase. For each recognized word or phrase identified in field , the phrase-based translation table  includes a corresponding translation into each desired target language in fields  through .","Thus, the recognition algorithm transcribes the spoken sentence, a natural-language-understanding algorithm determines the semantically closest template, and transmits only the template number and the value(s) of any variable(s). Thus the broadcaster may say \u201cIn unusually high trading volume, the Dow rose 150 points\u201d but because there is no exactly matching template, the NLU algorithm picks \u201cThe Dow rose 150 points in heavy trading.\u201d",{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00041","num":"00041"},"figref":["FIG. 8","FIGS. 1","FIG. 8"],"b":["150","250","450","650","2","4","6","150","150"]},"Thus, the exemplary event measuring mechanism  has an SMAPI interface  that extracts the starting time for the first words of a phrase, T, and the ending time for the last word of a phrase, T. In further variations, the duration of individual words, sounds, or intra-word or utterance silences may be measured in addition to, or instead of, the overall duration of the phrase. The SMAPI interface  transmits the starting and ending time for the phrase, Tand T, to a timing computation block  that performs computations to determine at what time and at what speed to play back the target phrase. Generally, the timing computation block  seeks to time compress phrases that are longer (for example, by removing silence periods or speeding up the playback) and lengthen phrases that are too short (for example, by padding with silence or slowing down the playback).","If time-synchronization in accordance with one aspect of the present invention is not desired, then the timing computation block  can ignore Tand T. Thus, the timing computation block  will instruct the speech output mechanism  to simply start the playback of the target phrase as soon as it receives the phrase from the translation mechanism , and to playback of the target phrase at a normal rate of speed.","If speed normalization is desired, the timing computation block  can calculate the duration, D, of the source phrase as the difference D=T.\u2212T. The timing computation block  can then determine the normal duration, D, of the target phrase, and will then apply a speedup factor, f, equal to D\/D. Thus, if the original phrase lasted two (2) seconds, but the translated target phrase would last 2.2 seconds at its normal speed, the speedup factor will be 1.1, so that in each second the system plays 1.1 seconds worth of speech.","It is noted that speedup factors in excess of 1.1 or 1.2 tend to sound unnatural. Thus, it may be necessary to limit the speedup. In other words, the translated text may temporarily fall behind schedule. The timing computation algorithm can then reduce silences and accelerate succeeding phrases to catch up.","In a further variation the duration of the input phrases or the output phrases, or both, can be adjusted in accordance with the present invention. It is noted that it is generally more desirable to stretch the duration of a phrase than to shorten the duration. Thus, the present invention provides a mechanism for selectively adjusting either the source language phrase or the target language phrase. Thus, according to an alternate embodiment, for each utterance, the timing computation block  determines whether the source language phrase or the target language phrase has the shorter duration, and then increases the duration of the phrase with the shorter duration.","The speech may be normalized, for example, in accordance with the teachings described in S. Roucos and A. Wilgus, \u201cHigh Quality Time Scale Modifiction for Speech,\u201d ICASSP '85, 493-96 (1985), incorporated by reference herein.","It is to be understood that the embodiments and variations shown and described herein are merely illustrative of the principles of this invention and that various modifications may be implemented by those skilled in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00014","num":"00014"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00015","num":"00015"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00016","num":"00016"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 2"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00017","num":"00017"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00018","num":"00018"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 4"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00019","num":"00019"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00020","num":"00020"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 6"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00021","num":"00021"},"figref":["FIG. 8","FIG. 1"],"b":["2","4","6"]}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
