---
title: Method and systems for accessing information on a network using message aliasing functions having shadow callback functions
abstract: The present invention provides methods and systems for accessing a network URL through a pre-assigned simplified network address, correlating to the URL, and for displaying the home page having the URL as its address. These methods and systems provide easier URL and home page access because persons wanting to access the home page need only input the simplified network address, thereby avoiding the need to know and input the URL character string. The simplified network addresses of the present invention include numbers. Methods are provided for selecting numbers for assignment to URLs. The URL and home page access and display methods of the present invention include: assigning a simplified network address such as a number to a URL, storing the URL and number conversion in a network accessible storage system, inputting the assigned number in a network accessible computer, communicating the inputted number to the storage system, converting the number to the URL, retrieving the home page corresponding to the URL and displaying the home page on the computer. Additionally, the invention provides methods for use in message passing operating systems wherein system level messages to specific objects are intercepted, creating an alias message. The invention further defines networked systems and methods for operating the networked systems that rely on the interception and rule-based modification of messages passing between system applications.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07058726&OS=07058726&RS=07058726
owner: Internet Number Corporation
number: 07058726
owner_city: Tokyo
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20000508
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATION","FIELD OF THE INVENTION","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION","Definitions","Introduction","Basic Network Access System","Correspondence Relation","Simple Table Lookup","Automatic Creation of Simplified Network Addresses","Assigned Numbers: A URL Numeric Code","Moving the Database to a Network","Improving Speed: Maintaining a Local Cache","Use of Windows","A Variety of Input and Pointing Devices","Message Aliasing","Message Aliasing for Simplified Network Addressing","Message Aliasing for Network Server Commanding","Correspondence Relation Table as a Searchable Database","Number Registration","Letter and Number Sequences as Simplified Network Addresses","Using a Firewall to Protect the Database","Defining Access Data","A Simplified Network Addressing System","A Storage Medium for Distributing a Network Access Process","ADDITIONAL EMBODIMENTS"],"p":["This application is a continuation-in-part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 08\/959,371, filed Oct. 28, 1997, now U.S. Pat. No. 6,061,738 which is a continuation-in-part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 08\/883,148, filed Jun. 27, 1997, abandoned.","The invention relates to the fields of information processing and communications systems, and in particular to a system and to methods for simplifying access to network information and for commanding network servers.","An Internet home page generally represents the top-level document at a particular Internet site. A Uniform Resource Locator (URL) provides the global address or location of the home page.","Currently, there are several well known techniques for accessing an Internet home page from a remote computer which is linked to the Internet. For example, a search engine, such as YAHOO!\u00ae (a registered trademark of Yahoo!, Inc.) can be used. Also, it is common for computer users to store a URL in a computer file generally known as a bookmark. The bookmark is then used for accessing a particular home page. Different URL addresses can be linked by Hyper Text Markup Language HTML) and these can be accessed through a description which is displayed on the computer. None of the above accessing techniques require any knowledge of the specific URL.","However, there are instances where a computer user who desires to access a certain home page needs to input a URL to a computer. For example, when the computer user obtains the URL from a printed publication. It has been found that this process presents unexpected difficulties because it requires computer inputting of the URL alphabetical characters which are usually in a long and complex character string. Also, it is difficult to remember these long and complex character strings, particularly when it is necessary to distinguish uppercase letters from lowercase letters.","Additionally, URLs are becoming more and more complex due to the unexpected increase in the number of home pages. As a result of the increasing complexity of URLs, a user may have difficulty inputting a URL from, for example, a newspaper advertisement while holding the newspaper in one hand. Let alone remembering the URL.","While applications exist which add functionality to a browser, no existing applications monitor input to the browser application's location (address) field in order to add extra functionality. A similar value adding application is QuickSeek\u2122 (a trademark used by Infoseek Corporation) from INFOSEEK\u00ae (a registered trademark of Infoseek Corporation), but rather than obtaining input from the browser's location field, it adds its own separate input field to the browser.","Accordingly, the need exists for methods and systems which facilitate accessing network home pages through URLs.","The present invention provides novel methods and systems for accessing a network URL through pre-assigned, simplified network addresses, often using a single number of one or more digits, and for then displaying the home page corresponding to the simplified network address.","In one embodiment, the present invention provides methods for using a simplified network address composed of characters or digits which are easy to remember and input. The methods permit a URL owner or other party to create a new simplified network address having a URL correspondence relation. Alternatively, methods are provided to assign a unique simplified network address to a URL.","In another embodiment, the simplified network address is a number having one or more digits. A variety of methods for selecting and for automatically assigning such a number are presented.","In another embodiment the current invention provides methods and systems for storing the URL numeric code and the corresponding URL in a network accessible storage system.","In still another embodiment the present invention provides methods and systems which include inputting the URL numeric code in a network accessible computer, communicating the inputted number to the storage system, converting the number to the URL and sending the URL to the computer.","In a further embodiment the present invention provides methods and systems which include inputting the URL numeric code in a network accessible computer, communicating the inputted number to the storage system, converting the number to the URL, retrieving the home page corresponding to the URL and displaying the home page on the computer.","Another group of embodiments presents methods for use in message passing operating systems. The methods provide that system level messages to specific objects are intercepted and an alias message is created and substituted in place of the original message. Such message aliasing methods are used to provide simplified network addressing and also simplified commanding of a network server.","Further embodiments of the invention define networked systems and methods for operating the networked systems that rely on the interception and rule-based modification of messages passing between system applications. One group of embodiments relates to intercepting a simplified network address number, entered by a user, examining the number to determine which of several networked servers to send the number to for conversion to a corresponding URL. One embodiment examines the most significant digits of the number and compares these with stored digit patterns associated with each of the several number conversion servers.","Another group of embodiments relates to the collection, storage, and selective release of user personal information. One embodiment intercepts the user-entered simplified network addressing number and attaches user personal information to the number before sending the combined number\/information to a number conversion server. A related embodiment applies a set of rules, either locally or at a remote server, to adjust the level, type and amount of user information according to access permissions of the intended recipient.","While describing the invention and its embodiments, certain terminology will be utilized for the sake of clarity. It is intended that such terminology include not only the recited embodiments but all equivalents which perform substantially the same function, in substantially the same manner to achieve substantially the same result.","\u201cURL numeric code\u201d as defined herein includes a number which is assigned to a URL, this term can also be referred to as an \u201cassigned number\u201d, a \u201cnumerically expressed URL\u201d or an \u201coriginal number\u201d.","\u201cUser\u201d as defined herein includes a person or party accessing or intending to access a network to access network information, such as a URL or a Web home page.","\u201cClient\u201d as defined herein includes hardware and software which is utilized by a user to access a network to receive a URL or a Web home page.","\u201cSimplified network address\u201d also referred to as SNA as defined herein includes alphanumeric characters, including URL numeric codes, control characters and special characters, such as ASCII characters having a standard control function, which a user inputs in a client to access network information, such as a URL or a Web home page, through a conversion of the simplified network address to a URL.","\u201cSimplified network addressing\u201d as defined herein includes methods of using a simplified network address for accessing network information.","\u201cPlatform\u201d as defined herein includes a computer system's hardware and software.","\u201cURL conversion domain\u201d as defined herein includes a network domain name which identifies an address for accessing the conversion of a simplified network address to a URL.","Existing methods for accessing homepages via a network browser necessitate the typing of a long URL string. This operation can be especially inconvenient and difficult for users of Internet Televisions and other keyboard-less devices. According to the present invention it has been discovered that the use of network URLs is greatly facilitated by assigning a number or other character string to a specific URL and then using this number or other character string to connect the user to the network home page site. By assigning a shorter, easier to type and to remember number to a corresponding URL, a user of the present invention can simply type in a number and have a corresponding homepage returned to the client display screen.","Internet browsers currently assume that any number input to the location (address) field is intended to be an IP address in the form <nnn.nnn.nnn.nnn>. Therefore, any number input to the location field which is not an IP address will cause the browser to return an error. For example, if a user enters a string <888> into a browser location field, an existing browser application will attempt to connect to the URL <http:\/\/888\/>, which will result in an error since the string <888> is not a valid IP address. In several embodiments of the present invention which follow, a service program, monitoring user input, intercepts a message as it is sent to the browser location field. The service program recognizes that the string <888> is not a valid IP address and substitutes the following URL and forwards the substitute URL to the browser: <http:\/\/www.hatchusa.com\/search.p?number=888&start=0>.","The substitute URL causes the browser to contact a www server in the hatchusa.com domain and to run the program <search.p> passing <888> as a parameter. Wherein hatchusa.com is an example of a URL conversion domain for accessing the conversion of a user's number input to a URL. A server side program <search.p> converts the number into a URL by looking up <888> in a database table and obtaining a corresponding URL and necessary HTTP formatting characters which are returned to the browser's location field. The browser, in turn, uses the returned HTTP-formatted URL to access the Internet homepage identified by the input string <888>, and displays the homepage on the client browser. String <888> is an example of a simplified network address of the current invention. A detailed examination of various features of the present invention follows.","With respect to  there is shown a block diagram illustrating a system according to one aspect of the present invention. The system is designated generally by the numeral  and includes a platform , an input device , a display monitor , and a converter . The platform  is connected to a network  for accessing network information. In general, the system  receives a simplified network address (SNA)  via the input device  and forwards the simplified network address  to the converter . The converter  converts the simplified network address to a Uniform Resource Locator (URL)  and returns the URL  to the platform . The platform  then combines the returned URL  with additional symbols according to a network protocol to form a network access command  (e.g., http:\/\/URL\/) for accessing information from a network resource (not shown). The network resource returns the accessed information  (e.g., an HTML page) to the system , where it is received by the platform  and processed for display on the display monitor .","In a related embodiment of the system  (not shown), the converter  converts the simplified network address  directly to the already formatted network access command , e.g. http:\/\/URL\/.","The simplified network address  is typically a concatenation of symbols such as alphanumeric or purely numeric characters. These symbols are typically entered via an input device  such as a keyboard or a 10-key pad by a user. It is common to refer to the system  as a client. Typically, the client includes a programmable digital computer having a keyboard input device, a mouse pointing device, a CRT monitor display, internal memory (RAM) for storage of temporary results such as data, and external storage in the form of one or more hard disks for storage of programs and long-term results such as database tables. For purposes of the discussion which follows it is convenient to think of the system  as such a computer-based system. However, it should be kept in mind that the invention is not limited to the common desktop computer system and may find application in diverse platforms such as hand-held computing devices, for example so-called smart telephones.","A process for using the system  to access information located at a network resource uses a string which defines a simplified network address. For example, assume the user types the string <patent-search> on the input device . Assume the string <patent-search> is a simplified network address for accessing a patent database server at the United States Patent and Trademark Office. Thus, the user does not have to remember that the actual Uniform Resource Locator for the patent database is <http:\/\/patents.uspto.gov\/>. The platform  receives the string  and sends it to the converter . The converter  accepts the simplified network address <patent-search> and converts the string to the URL <patents.uspto.gov>, using a pre-defined relationship between this URL and the simplified network address <patent-search>. The platform now uses the returned URL to form a complete network access command <http:\/\/patents.uspto.gov\/>. In an alternate embodiment, the converter  converts the simplified network address to a fully formatted network access command, e.g. <http:\/\/patents.uspto.gov\/>. Now, the system  issues the network access command  to the network . In due course, connection is established between the system  and a patent database server (not shown) which returns the patent database homepage  expressed in the HTML format. The platform receives the homepage , processes the HTML information permitting the homepage to be displayed on the system display monitor . In this example, the http:\/\/URL\/ format is used for accessing information from a network such as the Internet and its World Wide Web (Web). In another specific embodiment, the network access command uses a different network protocol command for retrieving network information (e.g., a different TCP\/IP protocol command).","In one embodiment, the conversion of a simplified network address  to a URL  is accomplished by a database having storage and a search engine. Such an embodiment is illustrated in the block diagram of . The database is designated generally by the numeral , and it should be understood that the database  performs the functions assigned to the converter  of . The database  includes storage  and a search engine . The database  receives a simplified network address  provided by the platform  of , and returns a URL , which corresponds to the URL on line  of . In an alternate embodiment (not shown), the database  receives a simplified network address  and returns a fully formatted network access command, as described above.","The database  shown in  defines a correspondence relation between a received simplified network address  and a corresponding URL . Correspondence relations are stored in the database storage . The correspondence relation can be thought of as a database entry having two parts: a simplified network address portion and a corresponding URL portion. Such a correspondence relation is illustrated in the schematic diagram of . The correspondence relation is designated generally by the numeral . The correspondence relation  has a simplified network address portion  and a corresponding URL portion . An example of a specific embodiment of a correspondence relation is illustrated in . The correspondence relation is designated generally by the numeral . The simplified network address portion  is <patent-search>, while the corresponding URL portion  is <patents.uspto.gov>.","In general, such a correspondence relation means that when the database  () receives a particular simplified network address, such as <patent-search> it will examine the correspondence relations within the database storage , and when it finds one having a string portion equal to the received simplified network address<patent-search> it will return the corresponding URL portion <patents.uspto.gov>. The database storage is searched using a search engine  which accepts the received simplified network address  and uses the simplified network address as a search key. In another embodiment of the correspondence relation  (not shown), the corresponding URL portion  includes all necessary network protocol formatting characters, e.g. <http:\/\/patents.uspto.gov\/>.","The simple pair correspondence relation used in the foregoing example and shown in  are a specific embodiment of a correspondence relation. In other embodiments of the present invention, the correspondence relation, though easily understood in terms of the pair illustrated in  is not actually stored in the database storage as a simple pair. But the process of using the search engine  to locate a URL corresponding to a received simplified network address  can still be relied upon for understanding the basic operation of the database .","One embodiment of the invention defines a process for converting a simplified network address to a URL using a database  having storage  of correspondence relations, and a search engine  for searching the database  and accepting a search key. The database  receives a simplified network address  which it provides to the search engine  as the search key. The search engine  searches the stored correspondence relations and returns a URL  corresponding to the search key. In this way, the received simplified network address  is converted to the corresponding URL . In terms of the example provided above, the search string <patent-search> is converted into the URL <patents.uspto.gov>. Again, in another specific embodiment of the database  (not shown) the search string <patent-search> is converted into a fully formatted network access command, e.g. <http:\/\/patents.uspto.gov\/>.","A related embodiment of the invention defines a process permitting an owner of a URL to input an actual address of network information in the form of a URL and the system automatically creates a simplified network address. A system which embodies such a process is shown in , a block diagram which illustrates a portion of a system designated generally by the numeral . The system portion  includes an input device , a platform , a display monitor , and a database system  having storage  for correspondence relations.","The process defined by the related embodiment accepts an actual network address in the form of a URL  from a URL owner via the input device . The platform  receives the URL  and forwards the URL via line  to the database . In the embodiment illustrated in , the database system  includes an element  for generating a simplified network address in the form of a string. The database system  combines the formed string and the received URL to form a new correspondence relation, designated generally by the numeral . The formed correspondence relation  includes the generated string  defining the simplified network address and the received URL . The database system  then inserts the newly formed correspondence relation  into the database storage  where it becomes available for converting simplified network addresses to actual network addresses.","In an alternative embodiment (not shown), the element  for generating a new simplified network address is located in the system , but not within the database system . In this alternative embodiment, the process forms a completed database entry having both the simplified network address portion and the corresponding URL portion. The competed entry is then sent to the database system .","In another related alternative embodiment, the database system  returns a copy  of the new simplified network address  to the platform so that the URL owner is aware of the new simplified network address which corresponds to the URL he provided.","In another specific embodiment (not shown), the user inputs a fully formatted network access command, e.g. <http:\/\/patents.uspto.gov\/>, and the system automatically creates a new simplified network address corresponding to the network access command.","In a preferred embodiment, the simplified network address generated by the element  is a number having one or more digits and defining an assigned number. The assigned number, also referred to as a URL numeric code, will be described in more detail with reference to .","The systems illustrated in  are expanded in another embodiment by moving the conversion database from the user's system out onto the network. An example of such an embodiment is illustrated in block diagram  which includes a client, designated generally by the numeral , and a network based conversion database, designated generally by the numeral . The client  includes a platform  having network access. The database  includes a server , a search engine , and database storage  providing storage for database correspondence relations.","One embodiment of the invention is a method for operating a simplified network addressing system using a conversion database which is accessible via the network. The method includes the steps of receiving a simplified network address and forming a network access command addressed to the conversion database . An example of such a command  is illustrated in . For this example it is assumed that the URL for accessing the conversion database  is <URL1>. The formed access command  incorporates URL with the received simplified network address to obtain an access command format<http:\/\/URL1\/simplified network address\/>, as will be described in more detail with reference to Function C of .","The server  receives the access command  via the network and presents a simplified network address portion  to the search engine . The search engine uses the simplified network address portion  as a search key  for searching the stored correspondence relations . The search engine  obtains a URL  which corresponds to the search key , which in turn represents a simplified network address for a network resource having a URL equal to URL. The search engine  returns the URL  to the server , and the server then returns the URL  to the client  via the network connection. The method now defines steps which use the returned URL to form a second network access command , which in this example has a form <http:\/\/URL2\/>. The second network access command  is directed to a network resource upon which is stored a network page, in this example an HTML page , which is returned to the client via a network connection. Thus, URL in  represents the URL for accessing the network database , while URL represents the URL for the Web page which the user wants to access.","In the embodiment illustrated in , the client  began with a simplified network address corresponding to the returned HTML page , and the conversion database  converted the simplified network address to the URL  which was needed to access the HTML page. The client  used the URL to form a network access command  and the network returned the desired HTML page .","In another embodiment of the simplified network addressing system, illustrated in the previous drawing figures, the conversion database ( of ) is partitioned among multiple server-based databases, each accessible via a network.","In yet another embodiment of the simplified network addressing system (not shown), the conversion database returns a fully formatted network access command which includes the URL , e.g. <http:\/\/URL2\/>.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0081","num":"0080"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 7","FIG. 7"],"b":["128","130","132","134","136","128","136","138"]},"One embodiment of the invention defines a method for operating a simplified network addressing system which uses the elements illustrated in . When a simplified network address is input to the client  for a network accessible resource, the simplified network address  is first passed to the client search engine  which uses the simplified network address as a search key  for searching the selected correspondence relations located on the client cache . If a correspondence relation matching the key  is located on the cache , the client search engine returns a corresponding URL , which in the present example we assume is URL. Having found a corresponding URL within the client cache , the client  uses the URL to form a network access command <http:\/\/URL2\/> which is addressed to a network resource having a copy of a network file corresponding to the simplified network address input by the user. The addressed network resource (not shown) returns the desired network file, in this example a HTML page .","When the correspondence relation matching the simplified network address  is not found within the client cache , the client uses the simplified network address to form a network access command  addressed to the network accessible conversion database . A search of the database  for a matching correspondence relation occurs as described above with respect to . If the search is successful, the conversion database  returns the URL to the client via the network connections  and the client  uses the returned URL to form the network access command , as described above.","The embodiment illustrated in  has several advantages over the simpler embodiment illustrated in . The first advantage is speed of operation: when the URL corresponding to the simplified network address is found within the client's local cache , the access command  can be issued without waiting for the remote conversion database  to respond. A second advantage is apparent when the network is unstable or unreliable, such as when long response delays are typical or network connections are routinely lost, as is often the case currently for the Internet and its World Wide Web. Under such unreliable conditions, if the needed URL is found in the local cache , the access command  can be rapidly formed.","In an alternative embodiment of the simplified network addressing system, the network accessible conversion database  of  is partitioned between multiple network accessible databases.","In another specific embodiment of the simplified network addressing system (not shown), the local cache  and the remote database  return fully formatted network access commands as previously described.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0087","num":"0086"},"figref":["FIGS. 1 and 5","FIG. 1","FIG. 1","FIG. 1","FIG. 8","FIG. 8"],"b":["16","12","16","152","153","154","155","156","157","158"]},"A specific embodiment of the invention defines a method which first displays a user input  () simplified network address in the address window . The user input simplified network address is monitored  by the operating system  which passes  the simplified network address to the HATCH APPLICATION . The HATCH APPLICATION  determines that the user input represents a simplified network address, then forms a conversion request command including a copy of the simplified network address, as previously described, sends the formed command to a conversion database ( of ) and eventually obtains from the database a fully formatted network access command, e.g. <http:\/\/URL2\/> ( of ), for retrieving the desired network information. The browser application  continues to display the user input simplified network address in the address window  during the conversion. When the network access command is available, the HATCH APPLICATION  replaces  the previously displayed simplified network address with the formed network access command (e.g., <http:\/\/URL2\/>) in the address window . The browser application  then uses the network access command to access the desired network information. When the accessed network information ( of ) is available, it is displayed in the network window .","Various input and pointing devices are usable for inputting a simplified network address. Some, such as a keyboard, can operate alone. Others, such as a pointing device or a TV remote controller, must cooperate for inputting a simplified network address.  is a block diagram illustrating a client platform  and a variety of input devices, designated generally by the numeral . These devices include, but are not limited to, any one or more of the following: a standard keyboard , a 10-key pad , a telephone key pad , a computer mouse , a computer trackball , a touch panel , a pen pointing device , a bar-code reader , an OCR  which optically reads a medium containing, in an encoded form, the simplified network address, an OCR  which mechanically reads a medium containing, in an encoded form, the simplified network address, a TV remote control attached to a TV set , a remote control attached to a game set , a remote control attached to a Karaoke set , and a voice input device  for accepting the simplified network address in spoken form.","Several of the input and pointing devices mentioned here normally operate in conjunction with a display device ( of ) for inputting a simplified network address.  is a schematic diagram illustrating an example of cooperation between a pointing device, an operating system, and a windowed display of symbols from which a simplified network address is to be constructed.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0091","num":"0090"},"figref":"FIG. 10","b":["198","200","202","204","206","208","198","206","204","210","212","198","206","208","210","206","202","214","216","208","216"]},"A person having an ordinary level of skill in the art to which this invention pertains will appreciate that a single button mouse, a three button mouse, or other equivalent computer pointing device may be substituted for the two button mouse in the above example without materially altering the scope of the invention. The example is intended to illustrate features of the invention in a practical manner and is not intended to limit the scope of the invention.","The next group of embodiments of the invention are defined in an operating system environment which provides objects having procedures, storage, and using message passing for invoking procedures, i.e., an environment using an object oriented programming style. There are a number of well known operating systems of this type.  is a schematic diagram illustrating interactions between a user interface , an application program referred to as a Hatch application  which includes Functions A, B and C and a message passing operating system .","These embodiments add functionality to existing applications, such as Internet browsers, by monitoring messages to applications. As one practical example, the Hatch application  allows it to implement services which are not implemented by the browser application, by monitoring messages to the browser's location (address) field.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0095","num":"0094"},"figref":["FIG. 11","FIG. 6","FIG. 11","FIG. 6"],"b":["218","222","1","102","102"]},"The message aliasing process illustrated in  is initiated by the user inputting a message  to start the Hatch application . The start message  is forwarded to the Hatch application  and creates an object, Function A . Function A, in turn, creates an entry  in an operating system Message Control Table . An example of a message control table is the Hook Table defined in the Microsoft Windows\u00ae (a registered trademark of Microsoft Corporation)  and Windows\u00ae NT operating systems. At this point, the message aliasing process pauses, waiting for the user to send another message.","A user input message  in the form of a simplified network address is forwarded to the Hatch application  which forwards the message to the operating system . There, the message is forwarded via the Message Control Table entry  back to the Hatch application where it invokes a Function B . The purpose of the Function B is to create a new entry  in an operating system Call Back Process . A person skilled in the art will recognize the Call Back Process  as a typical operating system solution for forwarding operating system level messages within the system. The message  is intended ultimately for a network browser, referred to here as target Navigator A .","The user intends the<simplified network address> message to go to target Navigator A , but target Navigator A does not recognize the <simplified network address> in its present form. Function B  forms a new entry  in the Call Back Process  the first time the user sends a message to a new recipient. Thus when the user sent the message <simplified network address>  to the target Navigator A , having not previously sent a message to target Navigator A, the Function B  removes target Navigator A's original callback function from the Call Back Process , saves the original callback function, and replaces the original callback function with a shadow callback function . The shadow callback function  is used to forward the <simplified network address>  to a Function C  in the Hatch application . Function C converts the <simplified network address>  into an alias message , e.g., <http:\/\/URL1\/simplified network address\/>, which is acceptable to the target Navigator A , and forwards the alias message  to the intended target Navigator A .","Function B  and the Message Control Table entry  cooperate to define a two-state machine which keeps track of a first time any <simplified network address> is sent to an intended target. In a first of the two states, an <simplified network address>  which is intended for the target Navigator A  results in the creation of the shadow callback function  and the conversion of the <simplified network address> to the alias Navigator-acceptable form <http:\/\/URL1\/simplified network address\/>. After creating the shadow callback function, the state machine is advanced to the second state, where it remains until the Hatch application  is turned off. While in the second state, subsequent <simplified network address> messages  directed to the same target Navigator A , are sent directly by the shadow callback function  to the Hatch application Function C . The Function C converts the <simplified network address> to the alias acceptable form <http:\/\/URL1\/simplified network address\/> and forwards this alias message  to the intended recipient .","When the user inputs a message to turn off the Hatch application, the shadow callback functions  are replaced by the previously saved browser application original callback functions, and a previous operating system behavior is resumed.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0101","num":"0100"},"figref":["FIG. 12","FIG. 12"],"b":["246","248","250","252","254","256","258","260","248","264","258","258","266","258","266","268","256","260","260","270","254","250"]},"Existing Internet browsers implement a limited number of Internet protocols such as mail <mailto:\/\/>, FTP <ftp:\/\/>, and news <news:\/\/>. A service program monitoring user input can recognize and implement a whole set of newly defined protocols or commands not implemented by a browser. One such example is direct access to Internet search engines from the browser's location field. For example, if the user enter the string <yahoo:\/\/hatch\/> an existing browser will attempt to connect to the URL <http:\/\/yahoo:\/\/hatch\/>, which will result in an error since <http:\/\/yahoo:\/\/hatch\/> is not a valid URL. A service program monitoring user input can recognize the string <yahoo:\/\/hatch\/> as a request to search for the string <hatch> in the YAHOO!\u00ae search engine, and as a result will send the following URL to the browser: <http:\/\/search.yahoo.co.jp\/bin\/search?p=hatch>. This URL causes the browser to contact the search engine at <search.yahoo.co.jp> and to initiate a search for the keyword <hatch>. The search engine will return the results of the search back to the browser. With this introduction providing a frame of reference, a detailed description of a specific embodiment is provided as follows.","A related embodiment of the invention is shown in  which is a schematic diagram illustrating the use of the message aliasing process to simplify the commanding of a remote server. In the specific example illustrated in , the user inputs a simplified network address <yahoo:\/\/olympic> and the YAHOO!\u00ae Internet search database returns the results of a search on the keyword <Olympic>. Since YAHOO!\u00ae does not recognize the string <yahoo:\/\/olympic>, the message aliasing process is used to construct a network access command that is recognized. The user input string <yahoo:\/\/olympic> includes a command portion <yahoo:\/\/> and a parameters portion <olympic>.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0104","num":"0103"},"figref":["FIG. 13","FIG. 11"],"b":["272","274","276","278","280","282","284","272","274","240","278","284","282","284","286","280"]},"There are an increasing number of network servers capable of responding to predefined commands such as the <http:\/\/URL\/ . . . \/search?p=parameters \/> command defined for the YAHOO!\u00ae system. Presently only the <http:\/\/URL\/ . . . \/>, <mailto:\/\/ email address\/>, <ftp:\/\/ . . . \/> and <news:\/\/ newsgroup address \/> are defined. As new server commands are defined, the message aliasing process defined above can readily be adapted to create and substitute a properly formatted alias message for the user input simplified command. For example, the Hatch application can be customized to support a variety of search engines such as: <altavista:\/\/ . . . \/>, <infoseek:\/\/ . . . \/>, <yahoo:\/\/ . . . \/>, etc (ALTAVISTA\u00ae is a registered service mark of Digital Equipment Corporation).","The embodiments above have been described primarily from the viewpoint of the user who inputs a simplified network address or server command and eventually receives a desired Web page. The focus now shifts to embodiments representing the network accessible database which stores correspondence relations used to convert a simplified network address to a specific URL. The database itself becomes an embodiment of the invention. Previous examples of the present focus are the network based conversion database  of , the network accessible conversion database  of , and the network accessible conversion database  of . The database  illustrated in  will provide the necessary background for the discussion which follows.","The first embodiment is a server-based, network-searchable database system, designated generally by the numeral  of . The database  includes a server  providing a communication connection to a network. The server  receives a search request  via the communications connection, and the received search request includes a simplified network address: <http:\/\/URL1\/simplified network address\/>. The storage  includes a correspondence relation table defining a correspondence relation between a network Uniform Resource Locator and a simplified network address. The database also includes a search engine  which uses a received simplified network address  as a search key  to search the stored correspondence relations  for a correspondence relation matching the received simplified network address. If the search engine  finds a matching correspondence relation, it returns a corresponding URL ,  to the server . The server, in turn, returns the corresponding URL  to the requester, in , a client . The database  defines an embodiment of the invention.","In a practical sense, the server-based, network-searchable database system of  does not exist in isolation of the network nor the client systems  which use the database to convert simplified network addresses to URLs. Thus in a specific embodiment the database system includes a client system which originates search requests  via the network and which receives the accessed network information  via the network.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0109","num":"0108"},"figref":["FIG. 14","FIG. 14"],"b":["288","290","292","294","296","288","296"]},"In a specific embodiment, such as the URL registration process  of , a URL owner enters a simplified network address such as a URL numeric code. The URL numeric code is passed to the search engine  and is used as a search key of the registration process . The search engine  is used to examine the previously registered URL numeric codes in the database  to determine whether the received URL numeric code has already been used. If it has not been previously registered, the received URL numeric code is registered temporarily as a registered resource . The new correspondence relation between the URL and the URL numeric code is then submitted to the registration process  which enters the new correspondence relation into the URL database . The URL database  corresponds with the stored correspondence relations  of . If it is determined that the URL numeric code has been previously registered, the URL owner starts the registration process  with a new URL numeric code.","A URL owner can register a preferred simplified network address, such as a URL numeric code, which can be selected on the basis of, for example, a telephone number, a birth date, a vehicle number, a house number, a room number and the like. In a specific embodiment, a URL owner selects a sequence of musical tones from a predetermined set of tones for defining a simplified network address in terms of musical tones. The system includes an element for converting the sequence and a corresponding URL into a simplified network address. The database uses the simplified network address to form a new correspondence relation in which the simplified network address was initially specified in terms of the sequence of musical tones. These numbers are generally assigned on a \u201cfirst come, first served\u201d basis.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0112","num":"0111"},"figref":"FIG. 15","b":["306","306","308","310"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0113","num":"0112"},"figref":"FIGS. 16 through 20"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0114","num":"0113"},"figref":"FIG. 16","b":["312","314","316","318","320","314","316","318","320"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0115","num":"0114"},"figref":"FIG. 17","b":["322","322"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0116","num":"0115"},"figref":"FIG. 18","b":["334","334","322","334"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0117","num":"0116"},"figref":"FIG. 19","b":"340"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0118","num":"0117"},"figref":"FIG. 20"},"A specific embodiment of a URL numeric code includes a number of digits, for example ten digits. The digits are grouped as shown in , according to their function in the URL numeric code. The first (upper) digit  can be assigned either through a process of utilizing the first letter of the URL name, or by selecting alternatively the number <0> or the number <1>. A first derivative number is obtained using the first letter of the URL name in combination with a reference number, as shown in . For example, the name <ntt> has a first letter <n>. In , the letter <n> is found in the row <mno> . Next, the appropriate Reference Number () is selected. Since <n> is the first letter of the name, the appropriate Reference Number is <1>. As a result of <n> being in row <mno> and column 1, the first derivative number <6> is obtained (see  in ). Therefore, the first digit of the URL numeric code is <6>. Alternatively, the URL provider can chose a first digit from the numbers <0> and <1> instead of the first derivative number which results from the above exemplified use of .","The method of assigning the second through fifth digit ( of ) utilizes  as follows. A four digit number is obtained by using the first derivative numbers obtained through the use of  and converting these first derivative numbers through Rule Assignments in  into second derivative numbers. For example, a URL name <ntt> is processed using . The first letter <n> has a first derivative number <6> as described above. The second letter <t> is found in row <tuv>  and is combined with Reference Number <2> ( of ), resulting in a first derivative number <7> ( of ). Similarly, the third letter <t> in row <tuv> is combined with a Reference Number <3>, resulting in first derivative number <6>.","Next, the first derivative numbers thus obtained are converted to second derivative numbers through Rule Assignments in  as follows. The first derivative number of each letter is placed in the row corresponding to this letter, thereby showing whether the first derivative number corresponds to the second, third, fourth or fifth digit. The first derivative numbers in each row () are added. If the addition results in a two digit number, the first digit is canceled.","Returning to the <ntt> example, first derivative number <6> (for <n>) is placed in the <ncjfrlx> row ( of ) indicating that this is the third digit. First derivative numbers <7> and <6> (for <t>) are placed in the <tkpgwz> row ( of ) indicating that these represent the fourth digit. The addition of first derivative numbers <6> and <7> in this row results in a total of <13>. The cancellation of the first digit <1> of the total of <13> provides a <3> for the fourth digit. There are no alphabetical letters corresponding to the second and fifth digit of , consequently the second and fifth digit are each assigned the number <0>. The second through fifth digits of the URL numeric code  () are thus <0630> when using the name <ntt>. The numbers resulting from the Assignment Rules of  are referred to as the second derivative numbers. Thus the second derivative numbers of the second, third, fourth and fifth digits are <0>, <6>, <3> and <0> respectively.","In a specific embodiment, numbers are assigned to the sixth and seventh digit to make the URL numeric code unique. This step is accomplished by summing the individual digits of the first derivative number and assigning the sum to the sixth and seventh digits. Thus, in the case of a URL name <ntt> the first derivative numbers are <6>, <7> and <6> when using  as described above. The sum of these three digits is <19>, in which case the sixth and seventh digit are assigned a <1> and a <9> respectively. In another specific embodiment, random digits are selected for the eighth, ninth and tenth digits; if it is determined that the seven digit URL numeric code already exists.","The above processes are utilized in assigning a URL numeric code to a corresponding URL having a typical character string which includes the transmission protocol <http:\/\/> followed by a domain name, a subdomain name and a directory. This process is illustrated in the flowchart of . The URL character string is divided into a subdomain name, a domain name and a directory as shown in step  of . The domain conversion is then started in step . A filtering procedure (step ) is performed wherein information such as codes of classification, country name, name of the information service, symbols, etc. are removed.","In step  second derivative numbers are assigned to the second through fifth digit according to the above described methods for calculating a second derivative number. Additionally, the numbers <0> or <1> can be assigned to the first digit. In step  () a comparison is made between the number assigned in step  and numbers which have previously been assigned. If the is found to exist already, an auxiliary number is added (in step ) to the five digit number by assigning numbers to the sixth and seventh digit. If the number comparison step  shows that the does not exist, the numbering of the domain name is completed at this point as a First-stage Assignment (Step ).","Following First-stage Assignment, the directory string of the URL is filtered in Step , similar to the filtering step  of the domain name string. In step  of  numbers are assigned to the directory in a similar manner as described in connection with the assignment of numbers to the domain name in step . The number which is obtained in step  is compared (step ) with existing URL numeric codes. If the number exists already, consecutive numbers are added in step . Finally if the number which is assigned to the sixth through tenth digit does not already exist, the URL numeric code which is thus obtained is registered in step  as the number corresponding to the character string of the URL.","As described above, the URL goes through a pretreatment before it is converted to a number in this numbering system. The URL is filtered and its domain name is then converted in a first-stage assignment. Subsequently, the directory part of the URL is converted thereby generating a unique number of ten digits or less.","In another specific embodiment as illustrated in , numbers for a URL numeric code are assigned by a combination of automatic numbering and the selection of preferred numbers. For example, the numbers for the Nth digit to the Kth digit are assigned using the nth through kth number by a method similar to the method described above with respect to . In a specific embodiment, the automatic numbering is carried out by a public agency using a character allocating method of 10 digits and employing a computer.","Numbers are selected without the use of automatic numbering by assigning numbers which are a URL owner's preferred number (simplified network address corresponding to a specific URL). Specific examples are, a number which by analogy suggests a company, a number which is decided by secondarily-inscribed letters on an application interface, a number according to voice data mapping on an application interface, an already assigned number such as a telephone number, security papers numeric code, a zip code, a number related to a birth date or a company founding date.","A detailed example is as follows. A number suggesting a company can for example be the number <0101> as corresponding with a Japanese name <Marui-marui>, since <01> can be read as <marui> in Japanese. An example of a number which is selected by secondarily-inscribed letters on an application interface is the number <525>, corresponding with the letter string JAL which is an abbreviation of Japan Airlines Co., Inc. An example of a suitable application interface is the key pad having letters and numbers shown in . As an example of voice data mapping on an application interface, the numbers may be allocated to respective sounds on a music scale wherein 1=do, 2=re, 3-mi and so on. Using this technique, the number <135> is registered corresponding to the melody <do-mi-sol>. By mapping to voice, a user can also detect an input error through hearing.","Thus, by assigning a relative short number of ten or fewer digits to a URL automatically or by preference, in addition to the examples provided above, a more unique number of ten or fewer digits can be assigned to correspond to a URL.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0132","num":"0131"},"figref":["FIG. 21","FIG. 21"],"b":["366","368","370","372","374","376","368","378","366","380","366","370","368","372","368","374","376"],"sup":["xx","xx"]},"In addition to numeric strings which are assigned to a URL, in a specific embodiment, the database saves value added information. Such information includes ranking by groups or themes. This means that information concerning the use of the URL is saved when a user accesses the Internet using a simplified network address. Thus, both the URL owner and the user can obtain valuable information. Specific examples of value added information are:","(1) the number of times a specific search requester has accessed the database;","(2) the number of times a specific search requester has submitted a specific registered simplified network address;","(3) the total number of search requests received for each registered simplified network address; and","(4) the total number of search requests received by the database.","Referring to , each time a USER accesses the URL database , a copy of the access request is intercepted by a process . Portions of the access request are extracted and collected (step ) and added to stored Access Data Resources . On the basis of the stored Access Data Resources, a statistical analysis is performed in a ranking step , and the results of the statistical analysis are stored as part of the URL database  as one of the characteristics of the URL numeric code. Additionally, theme information can be developed at step  and thus becomes part of the URL database.","The access data, once analyzed and made part of the URL database , represents both a valuable property and information about private concerns of users. In a specific embodiment, the access data relating to a particular user is available to the user via the network. The firewall  of  provides a means for protecting the privacy of the access data. Once the identity of a requester has been successfully authenticated, access data relating to the requester is provided to the requester.","In another embodiment, portions of the access data define an audience rating for a particular URL and its corresponding simplified network address, usually a URL numeric code.","In another embodiment, predetermined and non-sensitive portions of the access data are distributed to all requesters.","A specific embodiment of the invention defines a system for accessing network information using a simplified network address. The system includes a software\/hardware platform which accepts inputs for accessing network information. The platform includes an input device for accepting a user input of the simplified network address in the form of a simplified network address, such as a URL numeric code. The system also includes a server-based, network-searchable database storing correspondence relations between the simplified network addresses and corresponding URLs. The server-based database includes a search engine for searching the correspondence relations. When a user inputs a simplified network address, the address is sent to the server-based database and there the simplified network address is used as a search key. The database search engine looks for a correspondence relation having a simplified network address portion matching the simplified network address, and returns the corresponding URL. The system platform uses the returned URL to form a network access command for accessing the network information. Such a system is illustrated in ,  and . All the elements and relationships defined by this embodiment have been discussed above with respect to those drawing figures.","A final embodiment of the invention provides a storage medium, for example floppy disks, removable hard drive systems, CD ROM, and magnetic tape, for storing and distributing an encoded expression which embodies a process for accessing network information using simplified network addresses. The encoded expression is executable on a platform such as described above with respect to , ,  and  in which a database of correspondence relations is partitioned between a local cache and a remote server-based system. The process will be further discussed below with respect to additional .","In a specific embodiment, the process is stored on the medium in an encoded form, such as in a compressed object code which is expanded after being loaded onto the platform. The stored process is what is normally distributed by a software developer to users. The process presupposes the existence of (1) a suitable hardware\/software platform for execution of the process, (2) a network having network accessible resources, including the server-based database of correspondence relations as described above, and (3) a platform connection to the network for accessing the resources.","In particular, the platform provides network access and accepts simplified network addresses for accessing network information. The network includes a network server-based database defining a correspondence relation between simplified network addresses and corresponding URLs. The server-based database includes a search engine using a search key for searching the database. The database is organized such that a search of the database using a simplified network address as the search key returns a corresponding URL. The platform also includes a local cache for storage of selected correspondence relations. In a specific embodiment, the contents of the local cache are organized in a manner similar to the organization of the database correspondence relations. In another embodiment of the local cache, the contents are organized in the form of bookmarks. The platform provides a search engine for searching the local cache, and a windowed operating system displaying a composite window having an address window portion and a network window portion.","In a specific embodiment, the stored process permits the local user to place selected correspondence relations into the local cache. The USER inputs a simplified network address for a particular network resource and the simplified network address is displayed in the platform address window. The simplified network address is forwarded to the local cache search engine and forms a search key used to determine whether the cache includes a matching correspondence relation. If the cache does contain a matching correspondence relation, the URL corresponding to the simplified network address is used to form a network access command of the <http:\/\/URL\/> type. This command is sent onto the network and eventually the desired network resource is returned and displayed in the platform network display window.","When a matching correspondence relation is not located within the local cache, a copy of the simplified network address is used to form a network access command of the <http:\/\/ . . . \/simplified network address \/> type. This command is sent onto the network to the server-based database of correspondence relations. The server-based database search engine uses the <simplified network address> as a search key and examines the contents of the database for a correspondence relation matching the search key. The server-based database then returns a URL corresponding to the simplified network address. The platform receives the corresponding URL and uses it to form another network access command of the <http:\/\/ . . . \/> type. This command is sent onto the network to access the desired network resource. When the resource is eventually returned via the network, it is displayed in the platform network display window.","Various additional embodiments of the invention will now be described with respect to .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0149","num":"0148"},"figref":"FIG. 22","b":["392","394"]},"Generally, the client  first accesses its own simplified network addresses, such as URL numeric codes. When conversion to a URL is not possible on the client side, the client  accesses the database on the side of the server . This procedure is exemplified in . A client  includes an original parent browser  for assisting navigation, a common WWW-type child browser , which can be called from the parent browser, and a search engine . The client  also includes a user registration table  which the user can utilize to register shortened URL numeric codes, having a pre-assigned correspondence relationship with the respective URL numeric codes, an index table  containing the URL numeric codes, a real data table  having URL numeric codes corresponding to the indexes. The parent browser  on the client side  includes a direction part in which the alphabetical letters are allocated as shown in detail in  and a display part for displaying the contents in the direction part.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0151","num":"0150"},"figref":"FIG. 22","b":["394","408","410","412","414"]},"When the user inputs a shortened number in the system, the search engine  searches for this number in the user registration table  and when found, converts it to a URL. The Internet  is then accessed through the parent browser  using the corresponding URL. As a result, a home page corresponding to the URL is displayed on the child browser  on the basis of the HTML data sent through the Internet . When the user inputs a URL numeric code, the search engine  obtains an offset value from the index table  and then converts the URL numeric code into the URL using this offset value and the real data table  of the URL numeric codes. The resulting URL is then delivered to the parent browser , and information which is obtained through the Internet  is displayed as described above. Thus, when the conversion of a URL numeric code to a URL is executed on the client side , the access speed is similar to the usual access speed.","However, when the conversion of a URL numeric code to a URL is not possible on the client side , the search engine  on the client side transmits the URL numeric code to the search engine  on the server side  through the internet . In that case, an offset value is obtained from index table  on the basis of the URL numeric code input, and the transmitted number then is converted to a URL by using the real data table  for all URL numeric codes on the basis of that offset value. The resulting URL is then sent from the server to the client . The client  obtains the information through the Internet  and the home page is displayed in the same manner as described above in the method wherein the URL is delivered to the parent browser .","Thus, when a user inputs a shortened number which is personally registered by the user, or when the user inputs a URL numeric code, or even if the user inputs a URL numeric code which cannot be converted to a URL on the client side , it is still possible to convert the URL numeric code to URL and to access the Internet  through the parent browser  and to thereby display a home page corresponding to a URL on the child browser .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0155","num":"0154"},"figref":"FIG. 23","b":["416","418","420","422","422","424","426","428","430"]},"When the number which is searched in step  is a URL numeric code, the index information is searched in the Index Table (step ). In step , it is decided if the index is found or not. If the index is found, the client table is searched (step ) to obtain a URL corresponding to the URL numeric code in step . The URL which is thus acquired is then used to access the Internet (step ), and the home page is displayed (step ) using the home page HTML data. If however, no index number is found in step , the number is then delivered (step ) to a server which is connected to the Internet. The search engine of this server receives the number (step ). This server then searches the index information in its Index Table in step . If an index is not found in step , the number is not registered in this server and a home page is displayed in step  which indicates that the required URL was not found. On the other hand, if an index is found, a server table is searched in step , and a URL corresponding to the URL numeric code is returned to the client in step . The URL which is thus acquired is then used by the client to access the Internet (step ) and to display the home page (step ) corresponding to the URL on the basis of the HTML data sent through the Internet.","As described above, a number which is inputted as a shortened number or a URL numeric code can be converted to a corresponding URL. Additionally, this conversion can be executed by searching the database of a server if the conversion can not be executed on the client side. The present invention is thus based on assigning a number of relatively few digits, referred to as a URL numeric code, to a URL having a long and complex character string. This makes it possible to access the Internet by inputting the URL numeric code to eliminate the user's inconvenience. The invention thus provides access to the Internet by persons who are not accustomed to using a keyboard because the user does not need to know and to use a long and complex URL character string.","Additionally, when a URL numeric code is inputted, data concerning URL access corresponding to the URL numeric code can be saved. It is then possible to utilize access frequencies for statistical information in order to develop ranking information which sums up how often a URL numeric code is used. This can also be used to develop statistical information which is gathered according to themes and the like, to determine and to analyze audience ratings on the Internet. It is also possible to provide a URL numeric code on a paper medium such as a business card, to provide a more complete media link between the Internet and the media according to the URL owner's needs. As a result, updated information associated with a URL can be efficiently printed and provided. For example, if a URL owner changes the URL, such as when a company owning a URL changes its name, the existing URL numeric code can be maintained even if the URL string changes, by updating the database such that the existing URL numeric code now corresponds to the new URL.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0159","num":"0158"},"figref":["FIG. 24","FIG. 24","FIG. 24"],"b":["458","460","462"]},"Using the above method, a user can obtain knowledge regarding his favorite genre on a timely basis. Also, a URL owner can provide his target users with his URL numeric code in accordance with a user's profile, and can thereby increase the likelihood that the home page will be seen by many users. Additionally, the URL owner can further increase the likelihood that his home page will be accessed, by providing the URL numeric code through radio announcements or by displaying the URL numeric code on the TV. This provides URL numeric codes by radio voice announcement or TV display.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0161","num":"0160"},"figref":"FIG. 25","b":["464","466","468","470","472","474","478","476","478","476","464","478","464","470","464","470"]},"Examples of suitable client interfaces are as follows. An original telephone type interface which is a plug-in type method. Various other forms of interfaces can be adapted for clients  through  such as an independent telephone type of application, a home page having a frame for inputting within the home page, etc. A basic principle of the number input interfaces is that a URL numeric code is inputted to the original Web server from clients such as  through , and a URL corresponding to the URL numeric code is returned to a browser of the client. An example of a suitable browser for this application may be an Internet navigator which is owned by the user, providing it can provide the URL to the browser.","Accordingly, access to the Internet is described as follows. One part includes an interface on the side of a Web server  which gives a desired result for a given parameter. Another part in which the parameter is provided to receive the result on the client side of clients  through . An additional part in which the received URL is provided to the browser. Following are examples of these applications.","For example, the client can include a plug-in telephone interface such as client  depicted in . This is achieved by installing on client  software which is stored, for example, on a storage medium such as a floppy disk or on a CD-ROM. The software includes the computer processing steps of receiving a number, such as a URL numeric code, accessing the Internet  by adding the number to a method of using an access protocol, sending the number to the Web server , receiving the URL corresponding to the number, and providing the corresponding URL to the client . Instead of using software which is available on a storage medium the invention is equally operable when the software is downloaded from a network and installing the software on a client, such as client . The invention is also equally operable when the software is available from an application library, known as applets which are located on a network. When applets are used, the software is not installed in the client but is used by executing the desired applet on the network. The use of applets is particularly suitable for use with devices which do not have a memory function or which can not use a floppy disk. Examples of these devices include an Internet TV, a game machine and a Karaoke set.","Client  () illustrates an additional example, wherein an Internet TV can have a search navigator home page for the Internet. The navigator can have a component (plug-in) for inputting a number. This component can be a remote controller for the TV. A method can be used to input a URL numeric code in the remote controller to obtain the URL corresponding to the URL numeric code.","In the number input interfaces of the current invention the method is adapted for various forms of interfaces. Namely, there is a publicly open method using as one parameter in the <GET> command of the HTTP protocol, data of <no=123> for example are given as the URL numeric code, upon which the corresponding URL is returned. This <http:\/\/> is a notation in the HTTP protocol for transferring hyper text in HTML. This protocol includes methods such as <GET> for receiving a parameter and <POST> for transferring a file. Thus a URL numeric code can be converted using existing techniques.","In the present example, the conversion data for converting a URL numeric code to a URL are held on the side of client such as client  through client  (), unlike embodiments wherein the conversion can be carried both in a client and in an original Web server. For example, when the user inputs a URL numeric code <123>, the corresponding URL <www.123.co.jp> is obtained from an original Web server. Subsequently, if the user inputs the same <123> number again, the Web server is not accessed and the conversion is executed on the client side, by using a cache which is present in the client memory. This cache is capable of holding data such as a URL numeric code inputted in the cache and the corresponding URL. When a user inputs a URL numeric code the cache is searched for this number. If the number exists in the cache, the URL can be obtained on the side of a client such as clients  through  without accessing the Web server .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0168","num":"0167"},"figref":["FIGS. 26 and 27","FIG. 27","FIG. 26","FIG. 25","FIG. 25"],"b":["480","480","482","478","482","472","474"]},"When a URL owner registers a URL numeric code additional information is obtained and added to the database of registered URL numeric codes such as technical information or the home page topic. For example, if a child accesses a home page having sexually explicit material, the original Web server  () identifies this and returns the message <not found> without displaying the home page. If a limited type of browser is used such as an Internet TV or the like, it is possible that the latest technical information can not be displayed. Thus, before accessing an information providing server  () in the step of accessing an original Web server ( of ), users can be identified, and access to certain home pages can be limited such that access is provided only to specific users. In addition to limiting home page display, data stored in log file  () can also be limited for certain users.","A client such as client  () accesses a Web server  through the Internet  as shown in . When the client accesses the Internet an identification can be added to the HTTP protocol, or a part of the URL numeric code can be used such that conversion of the URL numeric code to a URL can be executed either in the Web server  or in another Web server  () which is connected through the Web server . For example a classification code can be used such that an identification code <888> causes the Web server  to convert the URL numeric code to the URL, but when the classification code <001> is used another Web server  (), connected to the original Web server  processes the conversion. Thus, management of URLs corresponding to URL numeric codes can be executed in a Web server  which is different from the Web server .","The invention includes a variety of special device interfaces as input devices of a client such as client  through client  (). These special device interfaces include a remote controller for operating a TV, a remote controller attached to Karaoke set, in addition to a keyboard interface and a mouse interface. Additionally, a voice input interface can be used such that a user inputs a URL numeric code in a voice command or by using the sounds of a musical scale which correspond to the URL numeric code. Also, a voice input interface can be used wherein an original number is expressed in letters which correspond to specific numbers.","Additive services can be provided by means of the present invention, which differ from the functions of the Internet. For example, when accessing a Web server such as  () with a URL numeric code, a free-of-charge service can be provided occasionally through a lottery system based on the URL numeric code. Or, by accessing a hidden number, a prize can be given to the user who has accessed the hidden number. Further, access data can be utilized as statistically processed information in order to derive a frequency of use by users and to analyze an audience rating through the Internet.","Details concerning the conversion part of the Web server are shown in . An application programming interface (API)  is built in an existing high-speed Internet server . The API  includes a server module which provides the URL numeric code to a database server such as SYBASE\u00ae (a registered trademark of Sybase, Inc.) . The database server then returns the corresponding URL to the API. This results in a high speed conversion of the URL numeric code into a URL.","As shown in , a conversion part of a client  includes a client component , having a memory such as a cache , and a browser  for home pages. A URL numeric code is communicated to the client component , which then accesses the internal cache  to obtain a URL corresponding to the URL numeric code. The URL is then provided to the browser . However, the URL numeric code is communicated to Web server  () if the URL numeric code is not present in the internal cache .","As shown in , a client's access information can be stored in a log file . Information in log file  is accumulated and then sent to log file  () of the Web server . The information which is contained within log file  can be utilized by an information providing server  or  () to analyze the log data. This analysis can include ranking information or audience rating by frequency of user access. Such information can also be classified according to genre, user's sex, equipment details, etc.","In the above embodiments of the present invention, a URL owner exemplifies the person or entity which requests or registers a simplified network address having a correspondence relation with a URL. However, the invention is equally operable if any other person, party or entity requests or registers this correspondence relation.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0177","num":"0176"},"figref":"FIG. 28","b":["600","602","604","606","608","610","612","614"]},"In general, when a user inputs a simplified network address (also referred to above as a URL numeric code, and referred to hereafter simply as a \u201cnumber\u201d) into the client , the client attempts to convert the number to a corresponding URL for addressing a specific content server. This process is referred to generally as \u201cnumber conversion,\u201d and when carried out by a specialized number conversion subsystem, is referred to also as \u201cnumber resolution.\u201d When the client lacks information necessary to complete the conversion on its own, the client sends the number to a number-resolution server, e.g., to the remote number-resolution server . The number-resolution server  receives the number, completes the conversion of the number to a corresponding URL (also simply \u201cURL\u201d), and returns the URL to the client . The client then uses the URL to address a request to a specific content server, e.g., the remote content server , to obtain a desired homepage.","It is desirable to have more than one number-resolution server within the system . The use of a plurality of such servers avoids the congestion and slowdown arising from reliance on a single remote number-resolution resource when many clients are attempting number conversions simultaneously. It is also desirable to have the number conversion process be transparent to the user so that the user is unaware that a number conversion is taking place. In a transparent process, the user simply types in a number known to the user to access a particular content server, and after a minimal delay, the desired content is displayed on the user's browser. The present invention defines such a transparent process.","A specific embodiment of the invention permits the client  to store user profile information, and to attach edited forms of such information to the URL when issuing a request to a remote content server. In general, the remote content server uses the user profile information to maintain statistical information related to the specific user, and to better meet the user's information needs. The amount and type of personal user information sent to the remote content server is regulated both by the user and by the type of content server being accessed. In a specific embodiment of the invention, the regulation of the amount and type of personal information is embodied in a set of rules implemented within the system.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0181","num":"0180"},"figref":"FIG. 28"},"In a specific embodiment, the invention defines a method whereby a client  includes information permitting the client to send a number entered by a user to a specific number-resolution server \u2013 for conversion of the number to a corresponding URL. The client  decides which of the several number-resolution servers to use by consulting a connection rules table  () accessible to the client. In this specific embodiment, the table permits the client  to make the decision based on a portion of the number entered by the user. This technique permits the client to classify the numbers so that different numbers are sent to different number-resolution servers to distribute the load on each server.","For example, assume a user inputs a 10-digit number beginning with the digits \u201c03\u201d. The client searches the connection rules table  and finds that numbers beginning with the digits \u201c03\u201d should be sent to a telephone directory server (number-resolution server) based in Tokyo. Alternatively, assume that the user inputs a 10-digit number beginning with the digits \u201c06\u201d, indicating that the client should send this 10-digit number to a telephone directory server located in Osaka. An example of such a table of connection rules is shown here:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0184","num":"0183"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00001","num":"00001"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"21pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"77pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"119pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]},{"entry":[{},"Number Pattern","Number-Resolution Server URL"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"03xxxxxxxx","www.tokyo.com"]},{"entry":[{},"06xxxxxxxx","www.osaka.com"]},{"entry":[{},"2121xxxx","hatch.kachimai.co.jp"]},{"entry":[{},"104xxxxx","www.104web.com."]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}}}}},"Numbers fitting the pattern shown on the left hand side of the table are sent to a corresponding number-resolution server whose URL is shown on the right hand side of the table. Numbers not fitting any of the defined patterns are sent to a default number-resolution server  for conversion. One point worth noting with respect both to the default number-resolution server , and any number-resolution server \u2013: these servers usually perform many diverse tasks within the system ; one of those tasks is converting a number to a corresponding URL.","In the preceding example, the \u201cpattern\u201d is the \u201c03\u201d, the \u201c06\u201d, the \u201c2121\u201d etc., while the \u201cx's\u201d represent additional digits of the number input by the user. Also, in the example, some of the numbers are 10 digits in length, while other numbers are less than 10 digits in length. The concept here is that a client-side table  is used by the client to send numbers matching the left hand \u201cpattern\u201d to the corresponding number-resolution servers whose URL's are shown on the right hand side. It will be appreciated that the \u201cpatterns\u201d are exemplary only, and that digits other than the leading, or most significant digits, can be used to define a pattern also.","Again, the purpose of this method is to distribute number conversions among several number-resolution servers, rather than requiring a single, central server to make all number conversions. The method distributes the number conversion load among the available number-resolution servers \u2013 to prevent overload during periods of peak activity. Other advantages include protecting the distributed system  against failure of any single part of the system, a failure which would cripple the system if a failed server was required to handle all number conversions.","In a specific embodiment of the invention, each number-resolution server \u2013 is responsible for maintaining its own database of number\/URL correspondences, with no need for complex replication of data between all the servers in the network. There is no need for all the data to be stored at a central server. This approach results in smaller individual databases, and faster access for users.","A person skilled in the relevant arts will appreciate that it is difficult to create a system in which keyword shortcuts are directed to different servers based on patterns. Thus, keyword systems always contact a central server to have the keyword converted to a corresponding URL. Numbers, on the other hand, can be grouped naturally, making it much easier to send requests for numbers falling into different ranges\/patterns to separate servers, and reducing the reliance on a central server. The present invention employs this natural characteristic of numbers to solve an otherwise difficult problem within the context of a simplified network addressing system.","A second group of embodiments of the present invention relates to the gathering and the selective dissemination of personal information related to a user, e.g., a user's age, address, online activity, buying preferences, etc.","With continued reference to  and to system , one such embodiment defines a method whereby a client  contacts a central server  upon initial startup to receive a unique user identification number that will be saved by the client . Thereafter, this user identification number will be sent to a number-resolution server \u2013, along with a simplified network address number, each time a user requests a number conversion. The unique user identification number permits a number-resolution server to identify a user making the request, and is a separate number from the simplified network address number. In other words, the client  will obtain and save an identification number at startup, and when a user inputs a simplified network address number into the client, the client will send both numbers to an appropriate number-resolution server. The number-resolution server will convert the simplified network address number to its corresponding URL and return the URL to the client, and will use the unique user identification number to track usage, and, alternatively, to respond in a way specific to the identified user.","Another specific embodiment of the invention using the unique user identification number defines a method whereby a user can provide personal information which is sent by the client  to be stored at a central server  along with the unique user identification number for the purpose of generating meaningful statistics about the client software usage, and for delivering more meaningful information to the user based on a user profile.","In another specific embodiment of the invention, the client  stores a copy of user information in a table  located at the client. The stored user information defines a user profile.","In another specific embodiment of the invention, varying levels of user information can be communicated to content servers on the Internet, not only when an Internet number is inputted, but also when the user clicks any link within a homepage, or enters a URL directly into the browser location field.","In a specific embodiment, a message intercepting mechanism of the client software detects when a link is clicked (or when a URL is entered into the browser location field), captures the generated message and modifies the URL within that message to include user information before sending the request to a content server ,  (). Therefore, user information is transferred to the content server along with each URL request.","Another specific embodiment of the invention defines a method permitting a client  to determine what level of user information to send to different content servers consisting of two tables. One table  containing the level code and the domain names with access to that level of user information. Along with another table  defining rules for different access levels, and information available to sites according to their access level. Information sent to a central server  is detailed, but information sent to content servers ,  is modified to be less identifying, based on rules stored on the client , for example: ages changed to age-ranges, addresses changed to country, state, or suburb, etc. A person skilled in the art will appreciate that, though restricted, such modified information is still useful to the content servers.","The following example illustrates the use of user personal information in the above-described embodiments. Assume the user is 23 years old and lives in the suburb of Shinjuku in the city of Tokyo, Japan, and has registered his personal information. Assume the user clicks on http:\/\/www.yahoo.com\/. The client software captures the message before it reaches the browser and extracts the domain name portion. Following this, it looks up the domain \u201cyahoo.com\u201d to determine the level of user information to send to this site, using the domain level table :",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0198","num":"0197"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00002","num":"00002"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"49pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"70pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"98pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]},{"entry":[{},"Level","Domain"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"1","ibm.co.jp"]},{"entry":[{},"1","geocities.com"]},{"entry":[{},"2","yahoo.com"]},{"entry":[{},"3","compaq.com."]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}}}}},"After determining Yahoo has access to level 2 information, the client extracts level 2 personal information from a separate table of level rules  () as shown below:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0200","num":"0199"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00003","num":"00003"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"4"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"70pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"63pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]},{"entry":[{},"Level","Address","Age"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"1","Shinjukyu","20\u201325"]},{"entry":[{},"2","Tokyo","20\u201330"]},{"entry":[{},"3","Japan","15\u201335."]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}}}}},"Using such a table of level rules, the client software can modify the user information stored on the client according to rules  associated with the access level of a specific content server. The client can append user information to the URL (www.yahoo.com) and pass a message to the browser causing it to redirect the user to the URL thus passing along user information. In this specific example, the final URL sent to the content server would appear something like http:\/\/www.yahoo.com\/#age=20\u201330&Address=Tokyo.","In a specific embodiment, the user personal information is encrypted before being sent across the network to further protect the privacy of the individual user.","Finally, another group of specific embodiments relates to the automatic updating of software. One embodiment defines a method for the client software component to communicate with a group of central servers  on a regular basis in order to download updates to itself. Typical downloads include: (1) a table of new servers  added to the system and their associated number ranges; (2) a table of content servers  and the level of user information they are to receive; (3) a table of rules  regarding the type\/range of user information to send to content servers of specific access levels; and (4) various additional client updates\/features.","The client  is also capable of uploading information (such as user information, and shortcuts) to the server.","Another specific embodiment defines a method whereby a user can assign a number to identify a networked resource. This nickname or shortcut is saved locally by the client. Upon input of a number, the local database of shortcuts  is searched for a match, if a match is obtained, the user is redirected to the matching resource, if not, the client chooses a server to search for a match depending upon the pattern\/range of the number entered via the Connection Rules table , as described above.","As has been previously mentioned, message interception and modification play a central, if often hidden, role in many of the embodiments of the present invention.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0207","num":"0206"},"figref":["FIG. 29","FIG. 28"],"b":["700","702","704","706","708","710","712","714","716","718","720","722","724"]},"When a hyperlink is clicked within the browser , or a URL is entered into the browser's location field , to initiate a visit to a content server , the client software  intercepts the resulting message  before it reaches the browser.","From the message , the client software  extracts a domain name  of the server the user intends to visit (in this case, content server ), and matches the extracted domain name  against a table of domain levels  which indicate the level of detail of user information the domain (content server ) has access to. If a match is found in the table , a corresponding level code  is returned to the client software . If no match is found, then a default level of user information is available to the content server .","When a match is found, the level code  is then used by the client software  to lookup rules in a level rules table . Once a set of rules is obtained, the client can modify the user profile  according to the rules. The modified user profile  is then combined with the content server URL and passed as a composite message  back to the browser . The browser now uses this composite message  to access the content server , passing the modified user profile  to the content server with the URL.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0211","num":"0210"},"figref":"FIG. 30","b":["800","800","802","804","806","810","812","816","818","822","826","828","830","832","836","842"]},"When a number  is entered into the location field  of the browser , the resulting message  is intercepted by the client software .","The client software  first attempts to look up the number entered  in the client side cache . If a result is found, then the resulting URL  is sent to the browser  which uses the URL  to connect to the appropriate resource on the Internet (content server ). If a result is not found, the client software  checks the number  against a table of user defined shortcuts . If a match is found, the resulting URL  is sent to the browser  which connects to the appropriate resource on the Internet (content server ).","If no match is found in the shortcut table , the client software  checks the number  against number patterns\/rules in a connection rules table . If the number  matches a pattern in the connection rules table , then the URL of a number-resolution server (in this example ) is obtained by the client software .","The client software  next retrieves the user's profile from a user profile table , and combines the URL  of the number-resolution server , the user profile , and the number  originally entered by the user, to create a composite message , and sends the composite message to the browser . The browser uses this composite message to create a request  to connect to the number-resolution server , and passes the user profile  and the number  to be resolved.","The number resolution server  uses a number table  to convert the number  into a corresponding URL . From the corresponding URL  the number-resolution server  extracts a domain name portion , and uses the domain name portion to look up the level of access the named domain  has to user information from a domain levels table .","Based on the value of a level code , the number-resolution server  modifies the user profile  accordingly. The modified user profile and the resolved URL are combined to create an HTTP redirect request  that is sent to the browser . This request  causes the browser to connect to the content server , passing the modified user profile. The content server then returns the URL-requested content to the browser , completing the process.","The embodiments described above with respect to ,  and  emphasize the client software component's ( ) ability to intercept a message intended for browser applications, modify the intercepted message according to some rules, and then forwarding the modified message to the browser. A person having an ordinary level of skill in the relevant arts will appreciate the client software can monitor messages for any application, not just browser applications. For example, a specific embodiment of the client software can monitor messages intended for an e-mail program, intercept and extract an e-mail address entered by a user, modify the address and then forward the modified address to the e-mail program.","The invention has been described in terms of specific embodiments. One skilled in the art will recognize that it would be possible to construct the elements of the present invention from a variety of means and to modify the placement of components in a variety of ways. While the embodiments of the invention have been described in detail and shown in the accompanying drawings, it will be evident that various further modifications are possible without departing from the scope of the invention as set forth in the following claims."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 2"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 3"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 2"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 1","FIG. 6"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":["FIG. 8","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":["FIG. 9","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIG. 10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":"FIG. 11"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":"FIG. 12"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":"FIG. 13"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":"FIG. 14"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":"FIG. 15"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"figref":"FIG. 16"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0034"},"figref":"FIG. 17"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"figref":"FIG. 18"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0037","num":"0036"},"figref":"FIG. 19"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0037"},"figref":"FIG. 20"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0039","num":"0038"},"figref":"FIG. 21"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0040","num":"0039"},"figref":"FIG. 22"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0041","num":"0040"},"figref":"FIG. 23"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0042","num":"0041"},"figref":"FIG. 24"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0043","num":"0042"},"figref":"FIG. 25"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0044","num":"0043"},"figref":"FIG. 26"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0045","num":"0044"},"figref":"FIG. 27"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0046","num":"0045"},"figref":"FIG. 28"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0047","num":"0046"},"figref":["FIG. 29","FIG. 28"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0048","num":"0047"},"figref":["FIG. 30","FIG. 28"]}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
