---
title: Broadband network system configured to transport audio or video at the transport layer, and associated method
abstract: A broadband network system configured to transfer user datagram protocol with value-added (UDPVA) packet from to a broadband interface unit (BIntU) transceiver. The broadband network system may comprise a data distribution center and the BIntU transceiver. The BIntU transceiver is configured to generate the UDPVA packet. The BIntU transceiver includes an encoder/decoder (codec) configured to alternatively code or decode UDP frame information and a digital signal processor (DSP) portion. The DSP portion is coupled to the codec. In one aspect, the DSP portion includes a stack that temporarily stores the UDPVA packet within the stack. In one aspect, the UDPVA packet is in a form to be transmitted directly to a network destination address device. In another aspect, the UDPVA packet is available to delivery to a network destination address or storage located on a local area network or a wide area network. In certain aspects, the BIntU transceiver is configured to transmit the UDPVA packet to the data distribution center.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07124195&OS=07124195&RS=07124195
owner: Velcero Broadband Applications, LLC
number: 07124195
owner_city: Moorestown
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20011017
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["FIELD OF THE INVENTION","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE EMBODIMENTS"],"p":["This invention relates to networks and more particularly to broadband networks.","Network usage, network technologies, and the number of broadband applications involving networks have been growing at an explosive rate in recent years. The use of such applications as multimedia and teleconferencing involving networks is similarly expanding. Multimedia and teleconferencing applications typically include the transfer of a large bandwidth of video, audio, and perhaps other data types between the source of the transmission and a transceiver located at each one of the end users. Video transfer, audio transfer, and possibly other types of data transfer over networks involve the use of considerable bandwidth. One challenge for network designers and service providers is thus providing sufficient high bandwidth to its end user transceivers for high-bandwidth applications. Another challenge is to maximize the utilization of the bandwidth of existing network infrastructures by maximizing the efficiency of protocols that transfer data between locations.","The Internet has become the medium for the distribution for a variety of multimedia and teleconferencing communications. The Internet has enabled the emergence of such communications and information technology devices as personal computers, laptop computers, Internet phones, and handheld computer devices. These communication and information technology devices have been utilized for the distribution of data among users in either a local area network environment or a wide area network environment. The demands resulting from the convergence of telecommunications, computing, and video distribution technologies also drive technology development.","Transceivers, in addition to its other tasks, append packet header information using a computer processor to packets to be transmitted over the network. The processing time required for the computer processor to route the packet is included in the time required by the transceiver to transmit the data. Therefore, the processing time of the computer processor associated with the end user transceivers contributes to the latency of the transceivers of the network system in transferring data. This increased transceiver latency reduces the data transfer rate between the end user transceivers. Additionally, irregular packet transmission through the computer processor may result in jitter at other end users.","Data distribution centers control and monitor the transmission of such data as audio and video to (or between) end user transceivers. Data distribution centers allot a fixed bandwidth for service, regardless of the application. Even if the application is, for example, a high bandwidth teleconferencing application that requires considerable bandwidth, then the bandwidth allotted to the application is similar to a lower bandwidth application.","Both connection-oriented and connectionless-oriented protocols transfer data (e.g., packets) in different embodiments of communication systems. The user datagram protocol (UDP), for example, is a connectionless transport layer protocol commonly used to transmit packetized data over the Internet. UDP is considered a connectionless protocol since no connection is established between the data source and the end user transceivers; as such packets transmitted between the same data source and the same end users for the same call may follow different paths. Additionally, UDP may provide the packets to the receiver in a different order from which the packets were transmitted. UDP is considered a relatively light protocol since little header information (data) is appended to the packet. Using such a connectionless, best-effort protocol as UDP to transfer data such as audio or video on a broadcast network is somewhat unreliable since an end user transmitter cannot guarantee that an end user receiver will receive the packets. UDP is thus a best-effort protocol that does not guarantee packet transmission or a quality of service (QOS) to its end user transceivers. UDP does not require the use of a time-stamp.","However, providing a more reliable connection-oriented protocol (e.g., one that indicates at the transmitting transceiver that the receiving transceiver received a certain packet) is not effective for retransmitting video or audio applications since the replacement packet would be stale as a result of the round-trip latency necessary to request, and provide, the replacement packet. A stale packet cannot be integrated in an ongoing audio\/video program because the stale packet does not accurately reflect the current digital state.","It would therefore be desirable to provide a broadband network system for transferring video\/audio data in which the data provided by an end user transmitting transceiver is transmitted directly to the network node (and then to the end user receiving transceiver) without the packet being processed by a computer processor. Passing data through the computer processor associated with the transmitting transceiver necessitates additional processing and header information-appending time. In one aspect, it would be desired to provide a connection-oriented communications protocol that provides a bandwidth selected for any application that guarantees to an end user transmitter a session having a prescribed QOS. The QOS would ensure that the end user receiving transceiver has received and continues to receive transmitted packets. In another aspect, it would be desired to provide security between the transceiver and the data distribution center to ensure that a person communicating from any transmitting transceiver or any receiving transceiver is actually the intended party.","The present invention is directed to a broadband network system configured to transfer user datagram protocol with value-added (UDPVA) packet from to a broadband interface unit (BIntU) transceiver. The broadband network system may comprise a data distribution center and the BIntU transceiver. The BIntU transceiver is configured to generate the UDPVA packet. The BIntU transceiver includes an encoder\/decoder (codec) configured to alternatively code or decode UDP frame information and a digital signal processor (DSP) portion. The DSP portion is coupled to the codec. In one aspect, the DSP portion includes a stack that temporarily stores the UDPVA packet within the stack. In one aspect, the UDPVA packet is in a form to be transmitted directly to a network destination address device. In another aspect, the UDPVA packet is available to delivery to a network destination address or storage located on a local area network or a wide area network. In certain aspects, the BIntU transceiver is configured to transmit the UDPVA packet to the data distribution center.","Throughout the figures, unless otherwise stated, the same reference numerals and characters are used to denote like features, elements, components or portions of the illustrated embodiments.","One embodiment of a broadband network system  as shown in  is used to transmit video, audio, and\/or a variety of data utilized by applications across interactive boundaries of reference to establish at least one virtual channel, each virtual channel extends between a data distribution center  and a broadband interface unit (BIntU) transceiver . The BIntU transceiver  is a device that may be used by end users in such varied applications as transmitting and\/or receiving audio, video, and\/or other data; communications between multiple end users each located at a distinct BIntU transceiver; and remote monitoring of a location in which BIntU transceivers are located at both the monitoring location and the monitored location. A computer processor does not have to process data transmitted and\/or received by any particular BIntU transceiver. As such, data can be directly transmitted or received between a network node and the BIntU transceiver. Limiting the computer processing of video, audio, or other data allows data to be transmitted at a higher transfer rate, and limits the jitter associated with data processing. Stacks may thus be provided at either the data distribution center and\/or the BIntU transceiver to transmit and receive a very large amount of data rapidly. Certain embodiments of data distribution center  act as a host, monitor and control of data transmitted and\/or received by BIntU transceiver, and provides security for sessions or calls involving one or more BIntU transceivers . The receipt or non-receipt of the data transferred between the data distribution center to\/from multiple BIntU transceivers  can be monitored by the data distribution center .","There are two aspects of communications between the BIntU transceiver  and the data distribution center . One aspect involves the BIntU transceiver receiving data stored in the data distribution center. This aspect involves sessions set-up or establishment in which a connection-oriented channel (e.g. a virtual channel) is established between one or more end user BIntU transceivers and the data distribution center. Another aspect involves communications between a plurality of BIntU transceivers  via the data distribution center. The latter aspect involves data transfer in which audio, video, and\/or other data is transferred at a high data transfer rate between the end user BIntU transceivers  via one or more connection-oriented channels. The set-up aspect is provided using the request reply protocol that triggers, e.g., an Internet Control Message Protocol (ICMP) return packet. The data transfer aspect is provided using user datagram protocol with value added (UDPVA). Return control packets for UDPVA are provided using a light weight protocol, e.g., ICMP.","Two general goals of transmission of high bit-rate applications over the broadband network system  are: (a) to increase the transfer rate of data over the broadband network system ; and (b) to ensure transmission of data, within a reasonable period, over the broadband network system  under guaranteed Quality of Service (QOS). Certain embodiments of broadband network system  achieve one or both of these goals. Certain multimedia, audio\/video data transfer, virtual reality, teleconferencing, and\/or artificial intelligence applications can be utilized in communications between the BIntU transceiver(s)  and the data distribution center .","The broadband network system  creates an integrated communication, computing, and information systems infrastructure that will enable the delivery, management, processing, and presentation of converged broadband information among a variety of BIntU transceivers  used as an end user device. The transmittal of high quality broadband multimedia information is relied on for data transmission. As such, each end user can receive a distinct program not limited by time and\/or distance. The broadband network system  guarantees a quality of service (QOS) of sessions involving the BIntU transceiver, dynamic bandwidth allocation, and management to compensate for BIntU transceivers running applications that demand different bandwidths, consistent media synchronization, and low latency. One consideration that allows for the increased bandwidth is data storage and transmission via embedded and DSP controlled stacks, and not computer processors, in running applications. The broadband network system  provides interactive and distributive video, audio, and\/or other data converge in a robust, flexible, and open system design.","The components of the broadband network system  extend between the data distribution center  utilized by service providers and one or more end user BIntU transceivers . The broadband network system  is intended to transfer time-dependent media data (such as text, video, voice, images, and\/or multimedia information). The design and deployment of the broadband network system  infrastructure allows BIntU transceiver access to high-end value-added broadband applications. These applications will provide access of such broadband applications as were, in prior systems, run on personal computers or set-top boxes to end users.","1. Systems Architecture Overview:","An applications entity  illustrates certain functional components utilized by the BIntU transceiver . The applications entity , in general, includes software and\/or hardware associated with the applications that can be run by the BIntU transceiver . In one embodiment, the applications entity  describes the software related to the operation of the BIntU transceiver . The applications entity  includes a media decoder\/demultiplexer , a digital storage control , an input driver , an operating system , a session management portion , a compressed data (e.g., Motion Pictures Expert Group (MPEG) compatible) stream , a digital storage control , device drivers , a security portion , and a descrambling\/security portion . The media decoder\/demultiplexer  is configured to decode or demultiplex data received over the broadband network system at the BIntU transceiver . The digital storage controls ,  control the memory and buffering within the BIntU transceiver. The input driver  includes the device drivers for the BIntU transceiver . The operating system controls the end user interface to the BIntU transceiver. The session management control provides for interaction with the data distribution center to establish and breaks down sessions between one BIntU transceiver , the data distribution center , and perhaps one or more additional BIntU transceivers using the request reply protocol (RRP). The compressed data (MPEG) stream provides for the compression and\/or decompression of audio, video, and\/or other data between the BIntU transceiver and the data distribution center. The security  and the descrambling\/security  provides for those aspects of security that are associated with the BIntU transceiver as described herein. The applications entity includes the device drivers , the session management , the operating system , the security , , and the other aspects of running the application portion .","The application portion  of the broadband network system  describes the applications that are utilized that involve data transfer between one or more broadband interface unit transceivers  and the data distribution center . A few non-limiting examples of applications that can use the broadband network system  include teleconferencing, movies, video games, and interactive entertainment systems.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1"],"b":["100","100","104","106","108","110","108","106","100"]},"The broadband network system , including the data distribution center  and the BIntU transceiver , could be applied to a variety of other applications, including, but not limited to, media collaboration applications, education applications, training applications, entertainment applications, and medical applications. Examples of media collaboration applications include visual communications, data collaborations, and voice communications. A variety of sub-applications will serve the commercial and other environments including telework, hosted virtual malls, management meetings, design collaboration, hosted virtual meetings, etc.","Examples of education and training applications include hosted corporate training suites, digital library services applications, interactive visual education applications, and distance learning applications. Examples of entertainment applications include video on-demand applications, movie on-demand applications, television, cable television, high-definition television, live event broadcasts, and alternate cable distribution systems. Examples of medical applications include tele-medicine applications, medical management support applications, health insurance management applications, and emergency response applications.","There are many possible data transmission path configurations of a prescribed bandwidth and deliver mechanism that may be established after a virtual circuit is established over the broadband network system  so that all the data provided by the data distribution center provided to the BIntU unit. These embodiments of broadband network system including the BIntU transceiver and the data distribution center are referred to as unidirectional or bi-directional. The data transmitted over either unidirectional or bi-directional broadband network systems could either be live or could be digitally stored media. previously taped and stored.","In the bi-directional embodiments, communications are provided simultaneously between multiple BIntU transceivers. In this embodiment, data generated at a first BIntU transceiver  to a second BIntU transceiver is initially transmitted over a virtual circuit established in the broadband network system  to the data distribution center . The data can be transmitted over a second virtual channel extending from the data distribution center to a second BIntU transceiver . Simultaneously, data can be transmitted to the second BIntU transceiver  over a virtual circuit to the data distribution center  and over another virtual channel circuit to the first BIntU transceiver .","In another embodiment of broadband network system  virtual connections circuits are set-up and data are transmitted unidirectionally from the data distribution center  to the BIntU transceiver . In this case, data (e.g., audio and\/or video) may be stored in a database located in a server, and stored data can be accessed from the database and transmitted at a high bit rate to the BIntU transceiver . This embodiment is used when an end user at a BIntU transceiver  wishes to unilaterally access data from a database or audio\/video from a remote server (with the database and the remote server located at the data distribution center ). The end user at the BIntU transceiver  initiates a session with the data distribution center. To establish a session, an application programming interface  in  requests setting up an application by requesting availability of a channel hosted by the data distribution center . Regardless of the embodiment of session established within the broadband network system, one or more virtual circuits are established between one BIntU transceiver  and one data distribution center . The data distribution center  acts as a host or moderator to control the presentation of the data or information to\/from each participating BIntU transceiver . Data is transmitted from the data distribution center to the BIntU transceiver .","The broadband network system  comprises multiple core areas of reference. These areas of reference are compiled to form an embodiment of collaborative convergence services architecture (CCSA) as diagramed in . The areas of reference include, but are not necessarily limited to, the end user (BIntU transceiver ) reference, the access network  reference, the core network  reference, and the data distribution center  reference. Each of these referenced areas introduces a methodology in designing and deploying effective quality of service (QOS) parameters to ensure that the broadband network system  is allotted sufficient bandwidth to guarantee the data quality for the application for each BIntU transceiver  or communicating groups of BIntU transceivers .","The end user reference at the BIntU transceiver  represents the recipient of the data provided by the technology of the broadband network system that ensures that guidelines for QOS and open systems compatibility are maintained. The core element for the end user reference is the BIntU transceiver . The BIntU transceiver  represents a system-layer end user transceiver that incorporates the functionality of an encoder, a decoder, a high-level digital signal processing (DSP) platform, a network interface connection, and a router. The best available components optimized for speed and reliability are integrated into the BIntU transceiver . The BIntU transceiver  represents an essential connectivity element to the end user for the broadband network system . The methodology in designing the end user interface of the BIntU transceiver is driven by the need to ensure that processing of differing media types is effectively handled by components specifically created for that purpose. For example, an efficient codec is provide to encode and\/or decode data in the form of compressed data; a DSP portion is provided for the effective processing of a large amount of data; and a stack portion is provided to transfer large volumes of data.","In another embodiment, assuming a session is established between multiple BIntU transceivers , it may be desired to extend the session to other BIntU transceivers . For example, assume that two individuals, Fred and Jane, are conversing using their individual BIntU transceivers  in an established session. Assume that it is desired to further include Mary in this session. This inclusion of Mary can be provided as described herein.","The network portion of the Broadband network system  is structured to provide effective and rapid data transfer between the BIntU transceiver and the data distribution center. With reference to the core network  includes a variety of servers  (or other computers) that provide an interface between the BIntU transceiver  and the data distribution center . In one embodiment, the data distribution center  is connected directly to the core network  so that data or other information generated by the data distribution center  may be applied directly to the core network  to provide the transfer of a large volume of data to the BIntU transceivers. In another embodiment, an access network is provided between the core network and the data distribution center. Switches or hubs  (which are open system interconnect (OSI) network layer 2 devices) may be included in the core network  in addition to routers  (that are OSI network layer 3 devices). The switches or hubs  and routers  are used to direct or route data between the BIntU transceiver  and the data distribution center  to the desired location within the broadband network system .","Databases  may be included in the core network . The databases  store such data as, e.g., video, audio, or other stored packets. The data in the databases  may be accessed, distributed, and\/or stored by the data distribution control center. Alternatively, the databases  may be located within the data distribution center.","The core network  typically utilizes such high-speed network protocols as asynchronous transfer mode (ATM), ATM over Internet, synchronous optical network (SONET). The core network  is also known in the industry as the \u201cbackbone\u201d since it carries an extremely large amount of data within areas of heavy usage. The core network  is configured to transmit video, audio, and\/or other data at exceptionally high rates. The bandwidth of the core network is dynamically allocated to provide a QOS to end users. The QOS is related to the applications that the BIntU transceivers used by the end users. For example, most (convergence) teleconferencing applications require a considerably larger data transfer bit rate than most data specific file transfer applications. As such, if two end users are teleconferencing over their respective BIntU transceivers , the data rate allocated over the broadband network system  necessary to provide a QOS for a teleconferencing application is relatively large compared with the necessary data rate to provide a similar QOS for a file transfer application. As such, one embodiment of the data distribution center  can allocate a virtual channel of a controllable bandwidth between each BIntU transceiver  and the data distribution center. In other embodiments of the data distribution center , the bandwidth of the controllable channel is dynamically allocated so additional applications can be added, other applications can be removed, and\/or the bandwidth allotted to certain applications can be adjusted.","As more sophisticated applications that require greater bandwidth are used by the broadband network system , it is desired to increase the bandwidth of the data being transmitted between the data distribution center  and the BIntU transceiver . Conversely, as more bandwidth is provided, more data can be transmitted between the data distribution center  and the BIntU transceiver .","The access networks  include a plurality of servers  that are configured as computers to store and\/or access data. The servers  include a central processing unit, a memory, and input\/output devices as other computers. Switches or hubs, in addition to routers, are switching devices that may be included and utilized in the access networks  to direct data to the desired location within the broadband network system  (i.e., to the desired servers ). The OSI network layer of the broadband network system  is configured to establish network routing, addressing, call set up, and call tear down, as generally known in network technology. The access networks  operate to route packets to or from the core network . There is a plurality of access networks  associated with each core network , the access networks allow the end users to access the core network. Access networks  connect the core network  to one or more of such network devices as the BIntU transceiver . The access network  is sometimes known in the industry as \u201cthe last mile\u201d since it provides the connections between the core network  and network devices such as the BIntU transceiver  and the data distribution center . The data distribution center  may be connected directly to the core network  to provide enhanced bandwidth. In one embodiment, the BIntU transceiver  is included as a standalone unit. Each end user or group of end users in a network configuration can utilize a devoted BIntU transceiver .","One embodiment of the data distribution center  is configured to include a variety of servers (or other computers) to interface with the BIntU transceiver , the core network , and the access networks . The data distribution center  is configured to transmit video, audio, and\/or other data at exceptionally high rates while guaranteeing a QOS to end users. The data distribution center  preferably utilizes such network protocols as frame relay, xDSL, or other such high-speed access network protocols to transmit large amounts of data within a large bandwidth.","The embodiment of the BIntU transceiver  shown in  includes an operating system , a user multimedia system , a terminal output , the application programming interface (API) , a media plug-in , a processor portion , a network interface card (NIC) port , an audio port , a video port , and a display . The user multimedia system  generates, or receives, raw audio and\/or video data from such a device as a teleconferencing unit or video camcorder that include services such as may be transmitted over the broadband network system to one or more BIntU transceivers . BIntU transceivers are configured as end user devices in which certain embodiments allow end users to interface with each other using, e.g., teleconferencing applications while other embodiments allow end users to access video, audio, and\/or other data from the data distribution center. The user multimedia system can, depending on the application, display audio, video and\/or other data from other remote BIntU transceivers . Multiple applications and services may be transmitted between the data distribution center  and the BIntU transceivers  over cable, satellite, hard wires, optical systems, or any known transmission system or computer network. The user multimedia system  therefore, typically, integrates a large variety of services that may be transmitted as a broadband signal. The operating system  allows a human network manager to interface with, repair, or control the overall operation of the BIntU transceiver .","The terminal output  overviews the transmission of data to the data distribution control center. The user multimedia system  interfaces with the API  to allow the BIntU transceiver  to interface with the data distribution center . The media plug-in  allows the BIntU transceiver  to interface with the data distribution center  by means of whichever particular program the BIntU transceiver  is utilizing. For example, a video system would require that a particular video embodiment of the media plug-in  be installed in the BIntU transceiver  to allow the BIntU transceiver  to transmit data to the data distribution center  over, and receive data from the data distribution center , over the network (including the combination of the access networks  and the core network , e.g., the Internet).","In a similar manner, the audio port  of the BIntU transceiver  is configured to transmit data over the access networks  and the core network  to\/from the data distribution center . The NIC port  contains hardware and\/or software so the BIntU transceiver can interface with the data distribution center  to transmit, e.g., user datagram protocol with value-added (UDPVA) packets as described herein. The content and structure of value-added information that differentiates UDPVA packets from user datagram protocol (UDP) packets is described herein. The UDPVA packets are transmitted from the BIntU transceiver  via the core network  and the access networks  to the data distribution center . The processor portion  controls the overall operation and programming of all processes of the data distribution center .","An embodiment of processor portion  of the BIntU transceiver  as shown in  may be provided within the broadband network system  shown in . The processor portion  includes an encoder\/decoder (codec) \u2032, a digital signal processor (DSP) \u2032, a computer processor , user inputs  including, e.g., infrared (IR) port , USB port , RS-232 port , and network access ports . The DSP  allows the BIntU transceiver  to process the raw data to be input to, or received from, the access network . Additionally the DSP  processes data provided by the codec . The codec  allows for the encoding\/decoding of data being transmitted in different forms between the access networks  and the data distribution center . The processor portion  utilizes various software algorithms to maximize the amount of video, audio, and\/or other data that are transmitted from the codec  via the DSP  to the network access ports . The network access ports  may be considered as the entry to the broadband network system  from the BIntU transceiver . The network access ports  are configured to allow interfacing with a variety of network protocols, for example, the Internet Protocol (IP), T, or DSL. The network access ports  are configured to provide a local area network (LAN) interface. The CPU  is typically located within such a computer system as a server, a personal computer, or a laptop. The user inputs  allow a variety of BIntU transceivers  to interface with the data distribution center  shown in .","The processing demands of transferring a packet within the broadband network system  between the data distribution center  and the BIntU transceiver  must be addressed to facilitate an acceptable QOS for deployed applications, regardless of the bandwidth required by each application. The BIntU transceiver  is therefore configured to dedicate processing to a single capable DSP  that is able to rapidly transfer a very large bandwidth of data directly to a network access port . One embodiment of the DSP  that is configured to provide such a high bandwidth is the TMS32OC6000 DSP Series  or TMS32OC6414 DSP , both produced by Texas Instruments. (Each DSP is typically referenced by their series).","The embodiment of DSP  in  includes the DSP processing platform , the memory control , and the TCP\/IP stack . The DSP processing platform  receives compressed audio, video, and other data from the codec . The memory control  includes memory and\/or data that are used by the DSP processing platform  in transmitting the compressed audio, video, and other data from the codec  and outputs all of this data into the TCP\/IP stack . The TCP\/IP stack  acts as a very rapid buffer (i.e., memory) that allows compressed audio, video, and other data to be output directly to the network access ports  typically in the transport layer of the OSI model. Although the stack discussed in this disclosure is identified as a TCP\/IP stack , it is envisioned that any type of stack operating at the transport layer that can be applied to this application is within the intended scope of the present invention. Data transmitted from the TCP\/IP stack  to the network access ports  are in the form of information such as data packets. The data packets output from the TCP\/IP stack  are in a form which in different embodiments can be transmitted over Ethernet, Token Ring, DSL and\/or other LAN transport protocols. The DSP  sends the UDP when an audio\/video packet is being transmitted. The audio\/video packet transmitted from the codec  via the DSP  to the network access ports  therefore does not have to travel from the TCP\/IP stack  in the DSP  via a computer processor  when travelling to the network access ports . The TCP\/IP stack  is an indicator for UDP delivery sent at the TCP\/IP stack  level. Since the transmission of the packets occurs at (i.e., is pushed to) the transport layer and lower-level layers instead of at the application layer, the amount of processing necessary to transfer the packets between the BIntU transceiver  and the data distribution center  is less than if application layer protocols were involved in transferring the packets.","The embodiment of the DSP  that can be used for such applications as teleconferencing is provided with a powerful DSP processing platform  (that interfaces with memory control ) and a robust TCP\/IP stack . In general, the TCP\/IP stack  may be considered to be relatively small, indicating that the purpose of the stack is to transfer a large volume of data quickly, not to store the data. The DSP  is configured, in a preferred current embodiment, to offer an extremely high performance of, e.g., up to 2000 million instructions per second (MIPS) at 250 MHz and is designed for the development of multi-channel, multi-functional applications.","Any other embodiment of DSP  that is configured (e.g., with a TCP\/IP stack) to provide an increase in system integration and a simplified design for embedded systems needing network connectivity is within the scope of the DSP  of the present disclosure. The DSP  can be configured to operate by running an extra duty (e.g., another application) on the same DSP  as other applications. This system integration limits the need for a separate network processor and uses a more cost effective media access control (MAC) physical layer (PHY) device instead. In addition, latency through the DSP  is limited.","The BIOS of the DSP  provides the basic framework of the DSP  chipset. The DSP  is designed to support the construction of extensive operating environments. A TCP\/IP software package that supports the TCP\/IP stack  and accompanies the embedded environment of the chipset is designed to be a transparent add-on to the BIOS of the DSP. The DSP is preferably configured to transfer a large amount of data through the stacks. The TCP\/IP software package is adaptable to being run in different operating modes with varying types of scheduling and exclusion methods. The TCP\/IP stack  offers a wide variety of customizing options that makes maintaining QOS over a range of convergence applications an achievable goal. In essence, the TCP\/IP stack  is designed to provide a fully functional environment that includes routing and is based on an effective memory controlled small footprint.","The TCP\/IP stack  is designed with a small footprint that enables the utilization of small amounts of program memory and data memory for running several protocol-type services. The TCP\/IP stack  preferably has a small footprint, and the resultant controlled utilization of data memory thus ensures efficient use of memory buffers. UDP and RAW sockets use limited service options to maintain a controlled memory state. This results because a bucket-based memory manager is included. The bucket-based memory manager eliminates memory fragmentation and tracks memory leaks. The TCP\/IP stack library includes a thin operating system adaptation layer that allows it to work with multiple flavors of BIOS configurations. The TCP\/IP stack , which utilizes considerable software, also includes a hardware abstraction layer (HAL), a scheduling control module, and an operating system abstraction. Many customization options that may be required by varying applications may be configured for use through manipulation of the hardware drivers in the HAL interface to the operating system. This potential for customization also enhances the of the TCP\/IP  stack appeal to a cross-platform of available operating environments. Because of its flexible, but robust, design and the range of customizable options available, the TCP\/IP stack  can also be used as a TCP\/IP client, a TCP\/IP server, a protocol server, or a fully functional router.","The codec  included in the BIntU transceiver  includes a compressed video (e.g., Motions Picture Expert Group (MPEG) compatible) encoder , a compressed audio (e.g., MPEG compatible) encoder , a transport layer multiplexer , a demultiplexer , a compressed audio (e.g., MPEG) compatible decoder , a compressed video (e.g., MPEG compatible) decoder , a frame buffer , a scaler , a video object engine (e.g., flicker reduction unit) , and a pixel blend . The term \u201cMPEG\u201d is used in this disclosure to describe one well-known and standardized embodiment of audio\/video compression. Any other audio\/video compression system may alternatively be used instead of MPEG compression and still remain within the intended scope of the present invention. The transport layer multiplexer  multiplexes the encoded video signal from the compressed video (MPEG) encoder  with the encoded audio MPEG information from the compressed audio (MPEG) encoder . It is envisioned that one or multiple compressed video (MPEG) encoders  and one or multiple compressed audio (MPEG) encoders  as shown in  may be provided to enhance the data transfer rate of the broadband network system . The transport layer multiplexer  transmits compressed data to the DSP . The program demultiplexer  receives compressed data and transmits the demultiplexed data respectively out to the compressed audio (MPEG) decoder  and the compressed video (MPEG) decoder .","One aspect of embedded systems is that the functionality of the codec and the DSP can be combined and optimized using a single development kit. Therefore, the codec and the DSP chip together become a package using the development kit. The development kit actuates the functionality of the codec and DSP, and is integrated in the DSP. It is envisioned that the codec provides encoding and\/or decoding function associated with such audio and video data compression schemes as motion pictures expert group (MPEG), as defined by standards. As MPEG technology becomes popular through standardization, different flavors of MPEG have been developed (and delineated by different numbers such as MPEG 2, MPEG 4, MPEG 7 etc.) depending on the particular application. In certain embodiments of the broadband network system , MPEG 4 functionality can be provided using the same family of DSP (e.g., the TI C6000 family) as the DSP that provides the MPEG 2 functionality. MPEG 4 is supported by the 6414 DSP, for example. MPEG 2 is supported by the 6717 DSP. As such, flavor of MPEG can be selected based on the particular DSP selected.","The MPEG 4 functionality is especially suited for compression within certain embodiments of the broadband network system . MPEG 4 provides the same product functionality plus additional functionality compared to MPEG 2. This permits the use of data transfers. Using this improved functionality, the broadband network system can go as low as 64K. The rate transfer using existing technology is about 8,800 MIPS using the 6414 DSP.","MPEG 2 ranges up to 50 Mbits per second. MPEG 2 is thus designed for use, and is most prevalently, for normal video and audio. MPEG 4 is used mostly at a lower rate of transfer. At the lower transfer rate, MPEG 4 provides better image and audio quality. MPEG 4 can also manipulate objects in a background. The background can also be manipulated. For example, MPEG 4 permits an object located in a first scene to be transplanted by inserting the object in another unrelated or manipulated scene using the paint function.","The transfer rate for MPEG 4 is not too low to allow for effective transfer of quality video. The transfer rate is, however, relatively low in terms of the quality of image required a particular application. Thus, while the quality provided by MPEG 2 for certain applications may be relatively high the quality provided by MPEG 4 is even higher. The transfer rate of MPEG 4, however, is lower. Commercial applications in particular can use a standard application on MPEG 4 video\/audio compression with the same QOS as MPEG 2. With MPEG 4, less bandwidth can be used compared to MPEG 2 because the user can obtain a finer image using the same bandwidth as for MPEG 2. Using less bandwidth is desired for the broadband network system  since it is envisioned that a large volume of data will be transferred.","The end users at the BIntU transceivers  are provided with better control of the screens displayed over the display . As such, the end user can better utilize the screens displayed over the display . MPEG permits providing interaction between sockets in the data distribution center  and sockets on the BIntU transceiver . Using the different screens displayed on the display , different video screens can be provided and selected.","MPEG 4 allows a sweep that involves the same encoding and decoding processes. The sweep is an example of an enhancement provided by MPEG 4. A chipset is used in the codec for the encoding and decoding processes since hardware can encode\/decode packets faster than software performing the same functionality. The use of one embodiment of codec  such as the ITVC15 by GlobeSpan, Inc.\u2122 permits the encoding\/decoding processing to be varied depending on the selected application. The codec  allows the existing functionality to remain the same, but added functionality to be added to the overall BIntU transceiver .","MPEG 2, MPEG 4, MPEG 7, MPEG 21, other MPEG, and other audio\/video data compression schemes can each be supported in different embodiments of the broadband network system . The selected codec  and DSP  largely define the operation of the BIntU transceiver. MPEG 7 is focused largely on improving quality of service. Thereby the applications utilized by the BIntU transceiver can be changed while maintaining the quality of service. MPEG 21 focuses largely on data management techniques. MPEG 21 also focuses largely on security.","The embodiment of the data distribution center  shown in the embodiment of the multimedia network system  of  includes an operating system , a user multimedia system , a terminal output , an application programming interface (API) , a media plug-in , a processor portion , a network interface card (NIC) port , an audio port , a video port , and a display .","The operating system  allows end users at the BIntU interface to interface with the data distribution center  and to control the overall operation of the data distribution center , such as running an application, altering lists of customers, adding or removing audio, video, and\/or other data on databases and\/or servers. The user multimedia system  stores audio, video, and\/or other data on a database and\/or server. The terminal output  is configured to allow the data distribution center  to access the audio, video, and\/or other data in the user multimedia systems . The user multimedia system  interfaces with the API  to configure the data distribution center  to allow interfacing with the BIntU transceiver . The media plug-in  provides an interface between the data distribution center  and the particular application being accessed by the BIntU transceiver . For example, if an end user is using a video application, then a corresponding video plug-in loaded in the media plug in  of the BIntU transceiver  would have to communicate with a video plug-in loaded in the media plug-in  loaded in the data distribution center . This interaction between the media plug-ins ,  would allow the BIntU transceiver  to interface with a video and audio application, and thereby display a particular video image projected from either the data distribution center  or another BIntU transceiver . The video port  is configured to be connected to a display  to allow a user to view information obtained by the BIntU transceiver . At the application layer of the data distribution center , an the API  allows for a packet to be transmitted by the BIntU transceiver  in a manner intended for the packet to reach its destination point.","The audio port  is configured to receive the audio packet transmitted over the access networks  and\/or the core network  from the data distribution center . Audio at the data distribution center  is transmitted to, or received from, the BIntU transceiver  over the broadband network system . The NC port  contains hardware and\/or software that allow the BIntU transceiver  to interface with the access networks  and the core network . In one embodiment, the processor portion  controls the overall operation and programming of the BIntU transceiver . The codec allows for the encoding\/decoding of data being transmitted from the data distribution center  over the core network  and the access network(s)  to\/from the BIntU transceiver . The processor portion  allows the BIntU transceiver  to process the raw data input by the access networks  using the DSP portion.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0069","num":"0068"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIGS. 1 to 3"],"b":["100","402","404","406","408","410","412","414","412","410","100","410"]},"The physical layer  is configured to provide the physical interface connections to transmit data over a single connection between adjacent nodes. The data-link layer  provides for the control of the transmission of data over a data link. The transport layer  provides end-to-end message transfer. It is therefore the function of the transport layer  to allow data to be transmitted over the network (e.g., the Internet) regardless of the protocol being utilized in the particular network. The session layer provides for dialogue between and synchronization control of application entities. The session layer controls the setting-up and breaking-down of sessions between the BIntU transceiver  and the data distribution center . The presentation layer provides for transfer of syntax negotiations to the application layer . The application layer  provides file transfers, access and management, document and message interchange, job transfer, and manipulation for the end user. The particular BIntU transceiver  is attached to the application layer  at a point indicated at the user I\/O interface layer . The OSI protocol layer model is generally known, and a more detailed description is provided in \u201cData Communications, Computer Networks and Open Systems,\u201d by Fred Halsall, Addison-Wesley Publishing, 1992 (incorporated herein by reference).","The IP layer  is chiefly used for control of network packet setup within the broadband network system . The IP layer  allows for a free mode of control which acts to manage the IP. Header information can be inserted at the network (i.e., IP) layer, but the (IP) information has to be maintained within a small slot. The header information is the same prior to transport of the packets and after the transport of the packet. In the broadband network system , the role of the IP layer  is limited to setting up the management system that indicates whether the packets are being properly routed.","The user I\/O interface layer  includes an audio interface , a video interface , a control interface , and a user data interface . The audio interface , the video interface  and the user data interface  are configured to interface with I\/O devices of the respective audio, video, and user device variety. The audio, video, and user I\/O device may be, for example, an input camcorder that takes images for audio from an individual, a computer that end users can apply a variety of input to, or other similar devices. The control interface , that is typically under the control of the end user BIntU transceiver or alternatively data distribution center. The control interface allows an end user to control the sessions setup and breakdown, registration, admission, etc. of the broadband network system .","The applicant application layers  include an audio codec , a video codec , a real time protocol (RTP), application , registration, admission and session level , a RT real time session protocol (RTSP), session call and setup level , a system control level , a share data applications , and an MCS . The audio codec , may include the compressed audio (MPEG) encoder  and the compressed audio (MPEG) decoder  as shown in  of the codec . The video codec  may include the compressed video (MPEG) encoder  and the compressed video (MPEG) decoder  in the codec  shown in . A text application  may also be included that relates to audio codec  and the video codec . The real time protocol application  is further described herein, as is the real time session protocol (RTSP) . The registration, admission and session level  relate to the control of the sessions in which virtual circuits are established between the BIntU transceiver and the data distribution center. The system control level  relates to the applications that handle the overall system operations between the BIntU transceiver and the data distribution center. The shared data applications  relate to those applications in which the data can be accessed by, or stored by, a plurality of distinct end users.","The transport layer  includes, in different embodiments, the user datagram protocol (UDP)  and the transfer control protocol (TCP) . The transport layer  relates as transportation of data between end users. The UDP  is a connectionless protocol that can be modified as described herein to form UPDVA that is a connection-oriented protocol. The transfer control protocol  is a connection-oriented protocol.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0075","num":"0074"},"figref":"FIG. 5","b":["110","104","104","104","509","509"]},"As more sophisticated applications (e.g., multimedia or teleconferencing) are being applied in the broadband network system , it is highly desired to increase the bandwidth of data being transmitted between the data distribution center  and the BIntU transceiver . As more bandwidth is provided to the broadband network system , more data can be transmitted between the data distribution center  and the BIntU transceiver  while ensuring a session satisfying a prescribed QOS. In addition to it being desired to use the UDPVA protocol to transmit an increased bandwidth, it is also desired to limit the number of processes required to transmit data. In other words, an increased bandwidth provided by the UDPVA protocol can be translated to an improved signal quality, an improved image that is refreshed more frequently, or an increased number of signals to enable data to be transmitted more efficiently.","As shown in the embodiment of BIntU transceiver  shown in , the compressed video (MPEG) decoder  outputs audio information to the scaler . The scaler  is a hardware component of the codec . The scaler  functions to either increase the scale, decrease the scale, or maintain the scale of the decoded MPEG images that are either transmitted via the data distribution center  to BIntU transceivers or  are displayed at the receiving BIntU transceiver . The codec  interfaces with the API  to control the scaling process. The frame buffer  outputs to the video object engine . The frame buffer  reduces irregularities in the image. Data in the frame buffer  are dynamically assigned based on the application requirements, such as best user quality. The video object engine  includes a flicker reduction unit, and outputs data to the pixel blend . The video object engine  may be a hardware or software component of the codec . The video object engine  limits the \u201cjerkiness\u201d or \u201cflicker\u201d that may result during the decoding process. The video object engine  thus ensures that the resulting decoded signal is consistent with established guidelines for video quality. The pixel blend  receives input from the scaler  and the video object engine  and blends the various adjacent pixels to provide a less disjointed image. The pixel blend  outputs a video signal to the DSP .","The codec  may also encompasses a 64-bit CPU  operating at 300 MHz. The host interface for the codec  can be configured either as a PCI interface or as a microcontroller interface. The data path of the PCI interface is a 32-bit wide bus and can sustain a maximum transfer rate of 132 Mbytes per second at 33 MHz. The codec  may include an on screen display OSD (not shown) that is designed to overlay graphics layered on top of decoded video. Examples of the graphics include the broadcasting of a channel guide, video playback status and web pages. During the decoding process, flicker filtering is first enabled through the process performed by the OSD, and the video is then mixed into the main picture display.","The ITVC15 embodiment of codec  may be used in the broadband network system  to provide an integrated technology with high level encoding and decoding functionality. The BIntU transceiver  communicates with the codec  to ensure that the desired quality in digitally processed voice, video and differing data types is maintained between the data distribution center  and the BIntU transceiver . The ITVC15 codec  provides compressed bit rates of up to 448 Kbits\/second. The codec  also provides MPEG video encoding and decoding (e.g., MPEG 1, 2, 4, and\/or other audio\/video compression schemes) that result in transfer rates of up to 720 times 480 at 30 frames per second (fps), or up to 720 times 576 at 25 fps. In addition, certain embodiments of the codec  provide for integration options for devices such as smart card readers, an Ethernet 10\/100 BaseT port, and V.90 modem module support.","The codec  is built upon a robust firmware architecture that supports multiple generalized operational codec units. The operational codec units include the MPEG encoders (including both the compressed audio and compressed video encoders), the MPEG decoders (including both the compressed audio and the compressed video decoders), and the display. In addition, the codec  supports code for three different Java processors. These are the video processing unit (VPU), the audio processing unit (APU), and the system processing unit (SPU). These three areas form the nucleus of the high level Java programming necessary to provide a guarantee of operational QOS within the many flexibly enabled functionalities of the codec .","Compressed video or audio encoding as well as compressed video or audio decoding requires intense interaction between high-level applications for multimedia convergence and low-level firmware functions. Application function calls from the higher level are met by precision responses at the firmware level that introduce sometimes dynamic parameter allocations depending on the QOS requirements for a session involving a particular application (e.g., an application including teleconferencing, data-transfer, video transfer, etc.). It is these precise requirements that must be pre-programmed based on a flexible architecture, and this is accomplished through the Java programming engine. API function calls serve as the interface between high-level applications and low-level firmware functions. In this way a level of abstraction is generated for hardware details that may have been affected due to direct register calls on hardware whose addresses may have been altered. API functions are also encapsulated into \u201cmailboxes\u201d that serve as the residence for API requests. These mailboxes can be sent via the PCI bus. Mailboxes are 80 bytes in length, and up to 10 mailboxes are supported within the codec .","One embodiment of a technique by which packets are transmitted between the data distribution center  and the BIntU transceiver  is encoded is now described relative to . The video encoding session targets the establishment of QOS parameters that enable an efficient session. These QOS parameters target key points that may determine the successful outcome of a functional request and may include video resolution, video frame rate, and video bit rate.","The physical output port serves the data distributed from the codec . The data is routed through this port after being multiplexed through the system's multiplexing parameters. The output data port provides data in either a continuous mode or a handshake mode. The continuous mode serves transport stream (TS) formatted data that are used for transmission applications, while the handshake mode is intended for program stream or MPEG stream (MIS) formatted data. Data can be routed through the called API to the PCI interface or through the streaming port.","The functionality of the codec  can be seamlessly interfaced for interconnection with digital signal processing devices for application transport layer data. The power of implementing the previously mentioned application options based on the BIntU interface  is a direct result of the unique and flexible processing features of the codec .","One embodiment of the encoding process enabled by the codec  involves multiple distinct steps as shown in a method  in . The method  begins at step  in which the encoding engine configures the data to facilitate flexible compression formatting parameters. The method  continues to step  in which the audio input peripheral and the video input peripheral are configured in preparation for the encoding process. In step , the codec  performs run-time control of the encoding session. In step , the codec encodes the engine configuration to facilitate flexible compression formatting parameters. The above relate to audio\/video capture.","The compressed video (MPEG) encoder , the compressed audio (MPEG) encoder , and the system level multiplexing unit  of  are configured as precursors for an encoding session or a capture process as shown in step . A video pre-processing unit includes a video input module, as its driver, to provide extensive pre-processing for a highly efficient encoding session. The pre-processing session involves video capture, including frame rate definition; noise reduction, including an automated process that provides leverage in noise reduction; sharpness control through a control mechanism that enhances the quality of picture according to application requests; scene change detection, which provides the capability to detect scene changes; adjustment of the location of intra-image frames (e.g., MPEG I-frames) to limit the amount of data while reducing fade artifacting; reducing fade detection (which provides automated fade in\/fade out functionality for encoding efficiency); providing inverse telecine (which provides the ability to detect repeated fields and create added efficiency by eliminating the encoding of duplicate fields); and providing vertical blanking intervals (VBI) that allow the individual lines of pre-sliced VBI to be captured.","To configure the audio and video input peripherals in preparation for the encoding process as shown in step , the encoding process must work with set parameters for audio\/visual (A\/V) input peripherals. Configuration of these peripherals will determine the audio sampling rate, the video parameters inclusive of the frame rate, frame size, and video (e.g., VBI) capture.","Effective control of the run-time operations of an encoding session that is important to provide consistent QOS is performed in step . Through flexibly designed API calls, the run-time control parameters can provide functionality to either start or stop the encoding session. The codec  has multiple operational modes for the capture process. These operational modes include: an MPEG capture mode; a video and audio capture mode; an audio only capture mode; a video only capture mode; a video grab mode; and an audio grab mode.","The MPEG capture mode provides normal audio\/video capture and compression. The video and audio capture mode captures both provide audio and video capture without compression. The audio-only capture mode targets time-shifting specific radio and non-video applications. No video encoding session is generated during the audio-only capture mode. The video-only capture mode is typically targeted specifically to data broadcasting applications. The audio and video encoders are not used and the encoding process is not started. The video grab mode captures still frames and provides quality compression to a single I-frame. The audio grab mode is used for diagnostic purposes, where a specified number of audio samples are captured within the confines of the allocated internal memory.","In addition to the aforementioned modes of operation, the codec  includes additional control or feedback mechanisms that provide status information on an encoding session. The codec  also provides decoding functionality. Similar to the encoding process, the decoding process of the codec  encompasses multiple steps. Within these steps, the interaction between the data distribution center  and the codec  must be flawless to continue delivery of consistent QOS to the BIntU transceiver . The decoding process includes programming the codec  for the decode mode in which the codec  is configured to accommodate an optional platform of audio and data formats.","One embodiment of the decoding functionality uses the decoding programs of the codec  included in the audio\/video output peripherals as shown in method  of . The audio and video output peripherals are configured in step  of method  to accept formatted uncompressed data output from the codec . The codec  controls the decoding session by performing run-time control of the decoding session in step  of method .","To program the codec  to operate in the decode mode as shown in step , data is input to the codec  through either the PCI interface port or the MPEG streaming data port. Data is provided to the codec  in either the continuous mode or the handshake mode, similar to the functionality of the encoding process. An API is generated to determine the mode of data input. Data can be routed either through the PCI interface port or the MPEG streaming data port, respectively depending on the whether data is input to the codec  through the PCI interface port or the MPEG streaming data port, respectively. The codec  can decode compressed data that has been multiplexed in several ways by different applications. For instance, transport streams, elementary streams and MIS streams can all be accommodated by the codec  regardless of the timing or synchronization process by which the data was encoded.","To program audio\/video output peripherals, information regarding the contents of a bit stream is used as a control parameter in setting up the output peripherals for a decoding session. Using that information, there are two methods for configuring the audio\/video peripherals. One method utilizes the codec  to complete parsing functions. Unfortunately, using the codec  for parsing increases the latency for packet transmission. The second method for configuring the audio\/video output peripherals dictates that the driver completes the parsing functions. Using the driver limits or eliminates the latency.","There are many API-driven states that affect the decoding process. The states include start, stop, pause, fast forward, step and slow motion. Another control area is the graphics control engine that works closely to impact the OSD. As mentioned in the description of the encoding process above, the OSD works to produce graphics data such as an on-screen channel guide, video playback status, buttons and icons.","One important area for decoding is the video output control. This control feature enables several key modes of operation. The modes of operation includes the video display mode, the video scaling mode, and the event notification mode. The codec  provides a seamless interface for interconnection to almost any device. This methodology, which integrates the best functional platforms to maintain consistent QOS in application deployment areas, is driven by this seamless option. The resulting transportation of data streams toward a signal processing corridor will consequently be maintained under the umbrella of consistent QOS.","The video\/audio packet is transmitted from the codec  to the DSP  directly to the network access ports , as shown in . The TCP\/IP stack  transmits information packets while limiting the combined codec  and DSP  from operating any higher than the physical layer , as shown in . The TCP\/IP stack  provides digital signal processing services and utilizes an abstracted operating system layer to provide TCP\/IP stack  functionality. The codec  provides encoding and decoding services. All services accomplished through the codec  are based on the data-link layer  and physical layer  (in the OSI model). All other areas on the OSI protocol layers are serviced through the services provided by the TCP\/IP stack  (one embodiment is fashioned as a chipset).","By comparison, in prior-art systems, the information output from the codec  to the DSP  traditionally passes via a separate computer processor . Processed packet is then forwarded from the computer processor  to the network access ports . As such, the prior-art systems must formulate the audio\/video information packets to a form that can be handled by the computer processor . The duration that the packets are processed in the computer processor in prior-art systems adds considerably to the latency. Allowing the information packets to be maintained within the physical layer  in certain embodiments of the present invention allows for the form of packet as indicated in , described herein, to be used.","Considering  (including ) initially, the function calls from the user inputs  via the computer processor  are generated and forwarded via the TCP\/IP stack  to the DSP processing platform . These function calls may be generated within the data distribution center . The function calls may alternatively represent signals transmitted from a BIntU transceiver . The function calls are then forwarded from the DSP processing platform  to the appropriate portion of the codec . The codec  modifies the function calls to allow the codec  to operate in the manner desired. Based upon the new configuration of the codec  and the DSP  as disclosed, video, audio, and other data is transmitted from the codec  to the DSP  and thus is translated directly into the information packets that can be directly applied to the network access ports .","Therefore, the TCP\/IP stack  is utilized by the routers to route the packets using the actual IP address. Using the source port packet field, the route of the packet can be determined. The TCP\/IP stack  provides network access, etc., that is maintained to the adjacent pier and that the representation of the IP diagram are in the UDP packet. The routing path over which the packets are transmitted between the BIntU transceiver  and the data distribution center  are transparent to end user BIntU transceivers .","The data distribution center  is concerned with providing data information transmission between the BIntU transceiver  and the data distribution center . To accomplish this packet transmission, the data distribution center  transmits a copy of the packet and saves a copy of the packet. The copy of the packet that the data distribution center  saves serves as a monitor of an encoding or decoding session, but does not act as the encoding or decoding session. The copy of the packet that the data distribution center  transmits serves as the encoding or decoding session. The data distribution center  also ranks the priority of multiple routes between the data distribution center  and the different BIntU transceivers .","2. User Datagram Protocol with Value-added (Transfer Layer Protocol)","One embodiment of user datagram protocol with value-added (UDPVA) is described in this portion. UDPVA is a connection-oriented version of the UDP protocol, the latter being a connectionless protocol. Certain aspects of UDP, as well as UDPVA, are described in this portion.","UDP and UDPVA transfer layer  protocols that are used to transmit data from one end user to another end user within the transfer layer . Transfer control protocol (TCP) and user datagram protocol (UDP) are two standard transfer layer protocols used for Internet connections. TCP is a connection-oriented protocol and UDP is a connectionless protocol. Instead of using TCP for data transmission, one embodiment of the present invention uses a modified version of UDP that includes value-added information. The UDP with value-added (UDPVA) allows for slight frame manipulation of the UDP packets to integrate the value-added information, such as header information , within the UDP packets. The value-added information included in the UDPVA packets is added to the standard UDP packet (due to the uncertainties of signal transmissions) to provide for some applications an indication to the data distribution center  that the BIntU transceiver  received the signal. The value-added information is transmitted within the UDP packets in the broadband network system  from the data distribution center  to the BIntU transceiver .","UDP is a connectionless protocol. UDPVA may be considered as modifying the connectionless UDP to a connection-oriented protocol. UDP is considered a very light protocol since UDP packets do not require a lengthy header information. UDP is used as one embodiment of medium for data. UDP utilizes the underlying IP header information to send messages from one end user to another. UDP, however, provides header information as part of its encapsulation. That header information includes the source port information field and the destination port address field and is divided into four 16-bit fields that contain the message length and a UDP checksum.","The embodiment of IP packet  shown in  includes an IP header information  and an IP data portion . The IP packet  is the form of packet in which data is transmitted between end users over the Internet. The IP data portion  includes a UDP datagram . The UDP datagram  includes a UDP header information  and a UDP data portion . The embodiment of UDP datagram  shown in  is envisioned to be a relatively light protocol, and as such transmits packets of a size of approximately 500-plus bytes that may be transmitted and\/or processed quickly. The UDP data portion  includes UDP datagram contents . The UDP datagram contents  include a data portion field , a message length field , a source port packet field , a destination port packet field , and a checksum field . The UDP header information  is pushed out of the IP layer  during normal operations of the application.","The UDP datagram contents  include the packet that is used to route data between end users. The data portion field  includes the data that are being transmitted, e.g., audio and\/or video packets. The source port packet field  is the port address of the source application protocol. The destination port packet field  is the port address of the intended recipient application protocol. The source port packet field  is optional. The message length field  is the total number of octets in a complete UDP datagram , including the UDP header information . The checksum field  is optionally used to provide a mechanism to announce the delivery of a datagram back to its source. The use of the checksum field  provides a guarantee of notification of delivery. The checksum field  is computed through an accumulation of a 16-bit ones complement sum of the UDP packet.","The routing information is handled as part of the DSP . All the interfaces from one end user represent the codec , the DSP , and the routing. The appending of the UDP header information  to provide for the routing of the packets occurs in the DSP . The TCP\/IP stack notification that is an OSI layer  (e.g., the IP layer ) operation also occurs in the DSP . The routing is accomplished at the IP layer . The routing from another end user occurs in the data distribution center . Therefore, the routing header information can be provided if the data distribution center  and\/or the BIntU transceiver  knows the system configuration and the condition of the network at the destination. The link state protocol (e.g., OSPF or MOSPF) establishes links to accomplish the routing between routers. A routing path is thus established from the data distribution center  via the access networks  and core network  to the BIntU transceiver .","In , the combination of the UDP datagram  and the UDP datagram contents  can be viewed as the transport layer , depicted in . The transport of the UDP datagram in the transport layer  allows additional control over the packets. In most prior-art networks, control is applied at the application level using such protocol as RTP and RCPT. The broadband network system  allows for the adding of additional controls in the transport layer using the UDPVA protocol that allows for more control and more integrity of BIntU transceiver .","The routing information of the UDPVA packets can be integrated as the data integrity check  included the UDP data portion . In one embodiment, the data integrity check  includes 8 bytes. The data integrity check  thus represents a relatively small amount of data. The data integrity check  acts to place the control in the transport level . The data integrity check  may be viewed as a protocol that provides embedded functionality within the UDPVA packet. The control ensures that there is a degree of integrity of the transmitted UDPVA packets since the UDPVA packet is encapsulated. Once the transmitted UDPVA packets are received, the request will act as a buffer. The overhead of the UDPVA packets is relatively small compared with other transfer layer protocols since UDPVA packets are basically modified UDP packets. The 8-byte data integrity check  section of the packet presses transfer of the UPDVA packets down to the transport layer from the application layer.","The TCP\/IP stack  in itself is small and relies on the extremely rapid transfer of audio and\/or video packets. The TCP\/IP stack is not more than, e.g., 512 Kbits, and as such there is very quick data transfer through the TCP\/IP stack . Small portions of the TCP\/IP stack  can be used for control since there is sufficient space in the TCP\/IP stack to establish control.","The first hub in the access networks  is the network access router , as shown in . The network access router  looks at a multimedia access table, an access table, or a routing table and determines the optimal route based on a partnership of the tables, as described below. The switches, routers, and hubs in the broadband network system  can be considered as operating together in partnership. The partnership of routing tables stored in the routers identifies the shortest route to an end user. The partnership of tables is pre-established during set-up because once a connection is established, a virtual connection is provided between the BIntU transceiver and the data distribution center. The data forming the return packets are transmitted from the BIntU transceiver  to the data distribution center , as determined in an established routing table. The combined routers then provide a connection as per the routing table. Thus, UDPVA is a connection-oriented protocol.","During operation, once an end user located at a BIntU transceiver  logs onto, or starts to use, the virtual circuit is established between the BIntU transceiver  and the data distribution center . Once the virtual circuit is initialized, UDPVA data can be transmitted between the BIntU transceiver  and the data distribution center . The first UDP packet that travels along the virtual circuit registers a preferred path onto the routing table of the router. For subsequent UDPVA packets being transmitted from the BIntU transceiver  to the data distribution center , the routers can derive the routing information derived from the location of the source, and thereby route the return packets to the source. The packets will then be transmitted through to the source that is the appropriate destination. At the data distribution center , the information includes a request for some prescribed amount of bandwidth. There is a maximum transfer (MTA) rate of data being transmitted to between that BIntU transceiver  and the data distribution center . Therefore, the data distribution center  and the BIntU transceiver  each know the network bandwidth allotted to transfer datagrams. Once the route is established, the subsequent information searches for an address using routing tables utilizes the routing setup by the initial packet. The routing is thus temporally set up and the connection on the network is cleared. The routing of the first UDPVA packet creates the virtual channel (or pipe) for datagrams to be used to be transferred to that end user.","To create the interface that allows for a desired amount of data to be transferred between the BIntU transceiver  and the data distribution center , the source is transmitted to establish the required devoted bandwidth to provide the QOS for a specific application provided by the data distribution center . Because the required bandwidth may vary, the bandwidth is dynamically controlled. The BIntU transceiver  receives the data, but the destination has been coordinated by receiving the data. As such, a data channel or virtual channel is considered as established between the data distribution center  and each active BIntU transceiver . The connection between the data distribution center  and each of its associated BIntU transceivers  is recorded in the routing table maintained by the data distribution center  or the routers. The establishment and maintenance of the channel results from recording the connection at each router included in the channel.","This establishing of a channel does not establish a wide area of connectivity outside the Internet. The channel may be established using so-called routing trees. Certain channels stored in of the network that define the channel may be pruned after a period of inactivity. The pruning, in effect, removes those routing paths from the routing table that are not the shortest. The use of UDPVA increases the effective bandwidth of the broadband network system  because of the ability of the broadband network system  to transfer data very rapidly using the TCP\/IP stacks  that output data directly to a network node. The power of the interface provides an increase in the transfer rate of the data information.","Java processes (i.e., processes that use Java programming language) are utilized to provide one embodiment of connection that provides for data transfer between the data distribution center  and the BIntU transceiver . Though the return packet is created using Java, it is envisioned that any application that can be used to create the return packet that indicates to the data distribution center  that the BIntU transceiver  has received the UDPVA packet is within the scope of the present invention. The return packet can be referred to as an \u201cecho\u201d or \u201cping.\u201d Java can be programmed as a web browser in the TCP\/IP stack  within the UDPVA packets. Java supports a wide variety of platforms, operating systems, and application programs. Java processes control the receipt of packages between source and destination.","There are a variety of embodiments of the broadband network system by which the timing of the receipt of a UPD package can be controlled. Java can control timing of a receipt through a checksum  as shown in  (through the TCP\/IP stack itself) and can indicate when the UDP packet has arrived. The checksum  includes an ordering algorithm . The ordering algorithm orders the packets at the receiving BIntU transceiver  or the receiving data distribution control device  based on the time-stamp of the UDPVA packet. UDP packets do not necessarily arrive at a receiving BIntU transceiver in the correct order. The checksum  is therefore used to control the ordering of the received UDPVA packets, as well as ensuring that the transmitting order of the return (ICMP) packets agree with the transmitting order of the original UDPVA packets. Another way to control the timing of the receipt is by using a Java applet created as the transmitted packet is received on the application side. One embodiment of a method  that uses the Java applet to ensure correct transmission of packets is shown in . The method  begins with step  in which the BIntU transceiver  requests service from the data distribution center . The method  then continues to step  in which the routing channel of a prescribed bandwidth for UDPVA packets is established between the BIntU transceiver  and the data distribution center . This routing channel is established using the routing tables in each of the routers that are arranged along the channel. As such, any packet routed through an input leg to the router with the corresponding destination address will be forwarded to the output leg of the corresponding destination address.","The method  continues in step  in which a series of UDPVA packets are transmitted to form a continuous audio\/video stream from the data distribution center  to the BIntU transceiver . A record of each UDPVA packet that has been transmitted from the data distribution center  to the BIntU transceiver  is maintained at the data distribution center . The method  continues to step  where for each UDPVA packet transmitted from the data distribution center  to the BIntU transceiver , a corresponding return packet is generated from a Java applet and the return packet is transmitted to, and received by, the data distribution center . The return packet is transmitted from the BIntU transceiver  to the data distribution center .","The method  continues to step  in which each one of the series of UDPVA packets in the continuous audio\/video stream is compared to the return packets to determine which UDPVA packets were received at the BIntU transceiver  for each UDPVA packet. The broadband network system  operates under the assumption that a certain number of UDPVA packets will be lost. The QOS provided by the broadband network system  is maintained, even if a number of packets are lost, by the use of such compression techniques as MPEG. For example, if a packet including an MPEG I-frame is lost, then the particular packet relating to that I-frame is not provided to the BIntU transceiver . Provided that the lost I-frame is relatively small compared to the overall image, using the packet from the previous I-frame will be a perfectly satisfactory substitute for the lost I-frame. As soon as the next complete I-frame is transmitted, a complete image will be displayed using technology used in video compression such as MPEG.","MPEG, and other associated video compression technologies, allows for a relatively small number of frames included as frame information to be lost without appreciably detracting from the quality of the image provided to the BIntU transceiver . However, if a considerable number of frames are lost, the resulting image will degrade, and the image provided to the BIntU transceiver  will not accurately reflect the image (or audio) transmitted from the data distribution center . A loss of a large number of frames or frame information (encapsulated within the UDPVA packets) will be indicated by a considerable number of return packets not being received by the data distribution center  from the particular BIntU transceiver .","The method  continues to step  in which each of the series of UDPVA packets being transmitted from the BIntU transceiver to either a remote BIntU transceiver or a remote data distribution center in a continuous audio\/video stream is compared to the corresponding return packet to determine which UDPVA packets were received at the BIntU transceiver . This process is performed for each UDPVA packet transmitted from the data distribution center  to the BIntU transceiver . The method  next continues to decision step  in which the broadband network system  determines whether a suitable number of return packets returned to the data distribution center  over the prescribed period to indicate that satisfactory service is being provided to the BIntU transceiver . If the answer to decision step  is yes, then the method continues to step  in which the transmission of the UDPVA packets is maintained. Following step , the method  continues to step  and the method  is performed once again.","If the answer to decision step  is no, then the method  continues to step  in which the reason for the one or more missing packets is considered, and the faulty transmission and\/or reception of the packets is corrected. Such correction can be performed automatically or manually, using known network management techniques. If the reason for the missing packet(s), as determined in step , can be easily corrected and\/or the broadband network system  has corrected itself so that a regular stream of UDPVA packets is being transmitted and received as indicated by the return packets, then the transmission is maintained. If, by comparison, no return packets are received to indicate that UDPVA packets are not being received and\/or the reason for the malfunction of the broadband network system  that resulted in the return packets not being returned is not understood, then a more complete analysis of the broadband network system may be performed.","The method  can be performed automatically with a computer tool, such as a network management tool, that would be included in the broadband network system . Alternatively, the method  can be performed manually by, e.g., alerting a human network operator. By using Java a request reply protocol is created at the application layer. Java already includes the classes to perform a dual operation and perform a request sent. In Java, the network processors form an abstraction layer operating system. Whenever the data distribution center  transmits a UDPVA packet to a BIntU transceiver , associated packet is returned to the data distribution center  from the BIntU transceiver . The associated packet returning to the data distribution center  from the BIntU transceiver  provides proof to the data distribution center  that the BIntU transceiver  has received the UDPVA packet.","With Java, when the UDPVA packet is received at the receiving BIntU transceiver  or receiving data distribution center , a return (ICMP) packet is created and sent back to the data distribution center . The UDPVA packet may thus be considered as a request packet. Therefore, return packet is transmitted for each application that is transmitted by the data distribution center  and received by the BIntU transceiver . In certain embodiments of BIntU transceivers , the maximum packet size that could be transmitted from the codec  may be, e.g., 188 bytes. This packet size is sufficient in terms of streaming and the quality of streaming and how fast it streams based on the processor. On the codec , the DSP  can be used to increase the packet transfer rate to, e.g., 132 megabytes per second. The codec  creates a stream of packets, and then encapsulates the data included in the stream of packets through the DSP  into the IP packet being transmitted out of the TCP\/IP stack  from the codec . The term streaming is not to be confused with the term streaming as used relative to video transfer on computers. With video, the term streaming relates to a data compatible stream.","At the application layer, the specific application is effectively being transmitted to the end user. The data distribution center is transmitting video and other high bandwidth data. The transfer of the return packet does not slow down the overall operation of the broadband network system . The return packet can be viewed as creating a connection using a call back. By transmitting the return packet, the virtual channel (e.g., a pipe) is established with some bandwidth available to transmit data from the data distribution center to the BIntU transceiver. The router in one embodiment uses Java, Java Beans, or some other similar computer program to transmit applets that can be run by a variety of different computers over a distributed computer system. The data distribution center transmits the applet to the BIntU transceiver that indicates to perform a computer operation.","Performing an operation in Java includes multiple basic steps as indicated in the embodiment of . The first step as shown in  is to request a reply (i.e., the return packet) be transmitted from the BIntU transceiver  to the data control center . Another step is to request the name or identification of the end user at the BIntU transceiver . In another step, the return packet is transmitted from the BIntU transceiver  to the data control center  as shown in step . Java's operation in which an applet is generated at the BIntU transceiver  occurs at the application layer. During the generation of the applet, a datagram is produced that drops the packet to the UDPVA data area. With Java included in the UDPVA packet, that applet works closely with the transfer level because UDPVA is sending the data and the source port. Java works in sockets. In Java, sockets and ports work together and in parallel to provide the addressing functionality between the data control center  and the BIntU transceiver . Specific ports that utilize the UDPVA packets are referred to as sockets. Assume that a specific port is devoted to a specific router. The socket works through the port. The method  is used to establish socket connection to that port connection. The use of sockets and ports is well known in the UDP protocol, and will not be further detailed. UDPVA protocol interfaces with sockets and packets in a manner similar to the UDP protocol. However, UDPVA packets may also include the functionality of the Java applets integrated in the UDPVA packets that are used to generate the return packets, as described herein. The checksum is uses by an algorithm to check the information in the packet after transmission to determine if it is consistent with the information in the packet prior to transmission.","This checking of the information in the packet is typically performed using application layer programs. The indicator is included to compute the checksum. The UDPVA establishes if the checksum is non-zero, and if so, it sends out the checksum. If the checksum value at the transmitting BIntU transceiver  or the data distribution center does not match that at the destination BIntU transceiver , the packet is dropped and no acknowledgement (return packet) is returned. On the other hand, if the checksum at the transmitter matches that at the BIntU transceiver , then the BIntU transceiver  transmits the return packet. That return packet is the indicator to indicate that a suitable packet transmitted from the data control center reached the BIntU transceiver  in the UDPVA protocol. The use of the return packet is not necessary because it involves a small amount of overhead, and it is desired that the UDPVA packet be as light as possible. In certain embodiments of the broadband network system , only certain UDPVA packets generate return packets to limit the overhead.","The construction of the UDPVA packet performs an additional function in UDPVA, by acting at a higher level as a source for value-added information. The construction of the UDPVA packet which would bring about added value to UDP is a result of the way the application layer is used to transmit and receive each UDPVA packet. The UDPVA packet is processed at the BIntU transceiver . To generate such a UDPVA stream of packets as occurs in step , a function call originates from the BIntU transceiver  to the data control center . The function call requesting a signal (e.g., video service) is transmitted from the computer processor  via the DSP  to the codec . The codec  then tunes the received video, audio, and other data within the respective compressed video (MPEG) encoder  and compressed audio (MPEG) encoder  to form signal packets including the requested data (e.g., a video\/audio program) that are transmitted to the transport slayer multiplexer . The received signal packets are appropriately filtered at the compressed video (MPEG) encoder  and the compressed audio (MPEG) encoder  to transmit the appropriate signal.","The bandwidth of the virtual channels are dynamically allocated using the ICMP packets during set-up. The UDPVA packets (including the data and value-added information) are formed as separate data streams out of the transport layer multiplexer . The distinct audio, video, and other data streams including the value-added information are then transmitted to the DSP . The data streams are initially processed in the DSP processing platform . The DSP processing platform  may provide a range of signal processing services. The TCP\/IP stack  provides a platform for high speed computation of signals being generated through the encoding and decoded processes or the code . The DSP processing platform  may also provide TCP\/IP stack  services that filter the necessary packet streams for transport over the network. The DSP processing platform  then outputs a separate video bitstream, audio bitstream, and data bitstream to the TCP\/IP stack .","The flow of the majority of data within the processor portion  is generally from the data control center  to the BIntU transceiver  since this represents the direction that the video program is transmitted. The rate of data transfer of UDPVA packets is identical to that of UDP packets (since UDPVA packets are identical to UDP packets except for the embedded value added information), and higher than that of TCP packets. Transferring the UDPVA packets can be considered as identical to transferring UDPVA packets UDPVA for purposes of this discussion. The signal that is sent to the TCP\/IP stack  is formed from consistent UDPVA packets that are allocated properly. The TCP\/IP stack  uses the same timing and synchronization for UDPVA packets as for UDP packets to ensure that the UDPVA packets are properly transmitted. The UDPVA packets are transmitted directly through, e.g., the Internet to the BIntU transceiver .","A request for a particular service is transferred from BIntU transceiver  in the form of a function call. The function call originates from the BIntU transceiver  via user inputs  and the computer processor  to the DSP , and is received by the codec . The function call requests a packetized stream of data encapsulated as a UDPVA packet. A base stream including UDPVA packets is transferred from the codec . The DSP  is configured to look for either UDPVA packet or TCP packets. Transferring the packets via the TCP\/IP stack  directly as information packets to the network access ports  to the network results in the packets being transferred at the transfer or data link layers.","A connectionless connection is traditionally used for audio and\/or video packets, and therefore the DSP  will process UDPVA packets in a manner similar to UDP packets rather than TCP packets. The embodiment of broadband network system  using UDPVA packets, as shown in , represents one embodiment of connection oriented protocol. The value-added information (e.g., the Java applet) encapsulated in each UDPVA packet triggers the return packet that indicates, upon receipt at the transmitting BIntU transceiver , that the packet has been delivered to and processed at the receiving BIntU transceiver  or the receiving data distribution center. Such value-added information is a function of the Java program that add control to the type of information that is being sent. The value-added information is included in the UDPVA packets that are stored in the TCP\/IP stack . The value-added information is then transmitted from the TCP\/IP stack  as information within the UDPVA packets to the network access ports . The value-added information should not be considered as an acknowledgement (ACK) because the returned value-added information cannot cause a retransmission of a replacement packet in a sufficiently short time to allow the ACK to travel round-trip across the network to perform the typical ACK control function. Though the embodiment described in this disclosure characterizes the BIntU transceiver  as transmitting only UDPVA packets to the data control center , it is envisioned that in a video\/audio signal stream, the UDPVA packets may be interspersed with standard UDPVA packets. For example, one of the two, three, or ten packets may include a single UDPVA packet that triggers the return packet while the remainder of the packets is UDP packets that do not trigger return packets.","In one embodiment, the BIntU transceiver  will be registered with the service provider when the associated software for the BIntU transceiver  is downloaded into the computer. The service provider can monitor usage by the BIntU transceiver . The bandwidth provided would be dynamically established once a BIntU transceiver  signs on the network. The service provider receives information that can be used relative to metering the use at that BIntU transceiver . As such, the software in the BIntU transceiver  will communicate with the service provider and indicate that the BIntU transceiver  is being used. When a computer that includes the BIntU transceiver  is booted up, the computer registers back at the data control center  of the service provider.","The BIntU transceiver  could be configured in one embodiment as a PCIO card that can be used by a laptop personal computer, computer, or set-top box. The BIntU transceiver  may include a video card so that the end user will be able to communicate to the data control center  and\/or a remote BIntU transceiver. The data control center  will authorize, and usually know how long the end user will be on, a particular session from a particular BIntU transceiver . Also, the service provider may be configured to act like a cable company to the BIntU transceiver  which can then observe different video channels.","If a client (e.g., a company organization that is associated with multiple BIntU transceivers ) of the service provider wants to perform video training, video communication, or some other video application, the client can send to the videos to the service provider in certain embodiments of broadband network system . The service provider will manage the videos, and will thus be able to push the video content out to the BIntU transceiver  (and thus to any employee, customer, etc. of the client who desires access to the video application). As such, third party companies or organizations can use the data control center  to distribute confidential or non-confidential video or other data to its employees or members.","Maintaining QOS begins once the packet is created on a digital or packet switch type network. Once the appropriate bandwidth is allocated for a certain type of application (and that is established and that BIntU transceiver side) it is important to consider how the packet is transported. The transmission of the UDPVA packets establishes the QOS (the QOS is initiated once the BIntU transceiver  initiates an application). The formatting for the QOS for data transfer is set up on the signal side in one embodiment. At the commencement of service, assume the broadband service allocates a prescribed number of megabits to the virtual channel devoted to the application as required by the selected application.","If, during use, the BIntU transceiver  requires more bandwidth to, e.g., receive a signal effectively or run an additional application, more bandwidth is allocated using a similar process as the original application. The bandwidth requirement may be a result of actual or anticipated heavy usage by the BIntU transceiver . The bandwidth allocation is controlled and set up by the application of the BIntU transceiver  (including the installed board and associated software included in the BIntU transceiver ). In one embodiment, the BIntU transceiver  can physically allocate as many as, in one embodiment, approximately 150 megabits per second. Use of MPEG audio\/video compression technology could increase the effective bandwidth further, but the actual allotted capability of the chipset remains constant. The values for the allocation of the bandwidth are calculated based on the particular application requirements.","In the case of certain embodiments of the BIntU transceiver , several aspects relate to the bandwidth allocation process. These aspects include the application options menu (that in one embodiment is fashioned as one type of graphical user interface) that provides the user to a host of application services that are provided. The dynamic and interactive bandwidth allocation approach utilizes a database of application types associated with an accompanying bandwidth reference for QOS delivery. Once a user selects an application, the interface unit provides the necessary adaptation for a required bandwidth. For example, assume that an application requires 10 Mbps of bandwidth allocation to meet QOS guidelines. The interface unit adjusts the transfer rate to provide such allocation. The quality of the transmitted signal for MPEG 2 that was originally designed, for example, for set-top boxes varies according to the application specifications. Consequently, the allotted bandwidth for MPEG will vary. MPEG 2, for example, requires a bandwidth allocation of approximately 4 Mbps MPEG 4 can also be used as other MPEG or other data compression algorithms. Higher-end services, such as high definition television (HDTV) have bandwidth requirements of as high as 80 Mbps.","The components described in the different embodiments of BIntU transceiver  provide multiple signal processing stages over various layers and the ability to fine-tune the quality requirement down to the various signal levels. The BIntU transceiver  provides a combination of DSP  functionality with an on-board codec  that outputs signals to a network access ports . The BIntU transceiver provides for extremely rapid data transfer having a QOS guarantee. The benefit of using UDPVA is that the signal quality is enhanced since the value-added information indicates when the BIntU transceiver  is or is not receiving the signal. The design of the BIntU transceiver  allows manipulation of processing signals to deliver convergence to the desktop. The UDPVA packets are otherwise transmitted through the broadband network system  as if it were a normal UDP packets (without value-added information). As such, the broadband network system  does not have to expend much effort in transmitting the UDPVA packets beyond simply delivering the packets.","The value-added information is included in the header information  of the UDPVA packet. The TCP\/IP stack  functions as if they were transmitting normal UDP packets since the value-added information is added to the header information  of the UDPVA packet in a form that is consistent with the standard UDP packet format. UDP, being a connectionless protocol, has some degree of inherent unreliability. However, UDP is the best available protocol to use for the transfer of information data such as video. The manipulation of the header information  in UDP packets to provide the UDPVA protocol provides additional levels of feedback on the reliability of the delivery of data. UDPVA includes means to provide return packets back to the source is an example of such manipulation of standard UDP packets to provide value-added information.","During normal operation, the broadband network system  assumes that TCP is being used to run the application. Once the BIntU transceiver  determines that UDPVA is being used for convergence, a function call is provided to the data control center  as indicated at  in . In response, the application layer of the data control center knows to insert the IP address to transmit the UDPVA packets including the value-added information to the desired BIntU transceiver . That process is captured within the data control center . Data transmitted from the data control center  to the BIntU transceiver  passes through the codec  in the BIntU transceiver  where the data is encoded. The audio\/video packets are encoded and packetized at the data control center . This process requires fast processing so the audio and\/or video information does not become stale during transfer. In this manner, the connectionless UDP protocol is modified to the connection oriented UDPVA protocol. If the BIntU transceiver  needs additional compression at (e.g., for text transmission purposes), a parallel text stream is run to provide the additional compression at the required level. This compression is provided using suitable processing. The UDPVA packets are transferred across the network at the IP layer.","The end users at the BIntU transceiver  do not know whether UDPVA packets or simply UDP packet is being transmitted, except if the network stops transmitting. Under these circumstances using the UDPVA protocol, the data control center  will indicate the network transmission problem (and may fix the problem using network management algorithms, or notify the network operator). With UDP, there will be no indication through the network that the packet transmission has failed.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0141","num":"0140"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIGS. 7A and 7B","FIGS. 1 and 2","FIG. 7A","FIG. 7B","FIG. 7A","FIG. 7B","FIG. 3"],"b":["100","110","110","104","702","108","106","702","104","110","702","110","702","704","706","707","708","710","712","714","706","714","306","302","374","304","302","314"]},"The function call  cleared within the user interface  to select those services that are requested. For example, in one embodiment of dataflow, a compressed video\/audio signal will be received at the device interfaces . The device interfaces  represent the operating system , the user system , the terminal output , the application programming interface , and the media plug-ins , as shown in . The audio\/video signal from the device interfaces  will continue through the codec functionality, which cores in the processor portion  shown in . The codec functionality  includes digital signal processing, as performed by DSP  in , MPEG (MPEG 2 or MPEG 4) compression, and a set of QOS parameters.","Additional functionality is indicated by block  in  (including ). An output of the codec functionality  continues to the real-time control protocol . The request for a QOS that was input by the function call from block  into the user interface  also continues to the real-time control protocol . The signal and real-time protocol  as well as the request for the QOS in the real-time control protocol  are applied to the UDPVA payload  in the form of packets. The user datagram protocol  undergoes header information customization for QOS consistency, then is applied as datastream into the physical layer at the IP portion . Addition of the customization for QOS consistency is input by  to the UDP payload  in what is referred herein as UDPVA.","UDPVA packets are in a form that can be transmitted as a video\/audio\/data bit stream, and can be temporarily stored in the TCP\/IP stacks  to be transmitted as information packets, as shown in . UDPVA packets are transmitted from the TCP\/IP stack  directly via the network access ports  to the access networks  and\/or the core network . UDPVA packets can be transmitted across the Internet, intranet, extranet, or other network in this form, through the various access networks  and the core network , to be received by another host device , such as the BIntU transceiver . The host device  in  may be the BIntU transceiver . The received UDPVA packets are transmitted across the Internet  at the IP layer  and then uploaded to UDPVA payload  as shown in . The dataflow of the UDPVA payload  then continues toward real-time protocol \u2032 as well as real-time control protocol \u2032. An output source that indicates the output destination could be used by the network to route the packets. Instead of the packets being delayed within the computer processor  by processing that occurs within computer structures, the packets are inserted directly into the TCP\/IP stack . The packets can then be quickly transmitted as a stream from the TCP\/IP stack .","The control messages of the UDPVA payload \u2032 travel to the real-time control protocol \u2032 and eventually to the user interface \u2032. By comparison, the payload including UDPVA packets continue upward to the real-time protocol \u2032 into the audio\/video codec \u2032, and eventually into the device interfaces \u2032. The host device \u2032 then uses the audio\/video signal received at the device interface \u2032, and, for example, displays the received signal over a suitable display .","In certain embodiments, a router is located in the broadband network system  (in either the access networks  or the core network ) to control the bandwidth that can be transmitted from the data control center  to the BIntU transceiver . The router provides security, encryption, and other operations relating to data transfer. The data control center  to operates like a host controller because it is important to use the router to provide communication in the broadband network system . The BIntU transceiver  interfaces with the data control center  to accept this connection.","It is important to indicate how a routing scheme and\/or tree structure is established for routing purposes. In one embodiment, parallel trees can be provided for hops. For example, if the packet is located in a wide area network and the end user enters another region of the network such as a remote local area network (LAN), some of the packet information is backed out. A routing tree will be established from the data control center ID back to the BIntU transceiver . The routing tree has to be established using short hops. The use of short hops necessitates the use of considerable routing to establish the communications between the data control center  and the BIntU transceiver .","The BIntU transceiver  in certain embodiments may be considered as being located at a LAN. At the network or IP layer, the packets are routed using a routing table indicating the address with which the BIntU transceiver  interfaces. The routing table is accessed, the corresponding destination address is appended to the packet header information, and the packet is then transmitted over the network using the destination address. For example, assume that the network address of the BIntU transceiver  that is returned from the routing table is the URL (i.e., in the form of a number such as 192.38.38.100). The role of the routers is to determine the routing path (such as using a shortest path algorithm) of the packets passing through the devices based on the addresses of the packets to deliver the packets to the remote network devices.","Using the destination address derived or stored in the routing table as derived by the routing algorithm, the UDPVA header information is appended to the UDP packet. The BIntU transceiver  then sends the UDPVA packets out via the network to the distribution control center . Initially, a copy of the information included in the packet is transmitted over the network to establish a record for the routing table. This copy is not used for data transfer purposes; however, a connection to the destination is established based on the source request of the initial copy.","Upon the establishment of a connection, multicasting can be used. When multicasting is used, multiple representations of the request for connection are transmitted because multiple packets go in multiple connections, so each copy is processed and the number of links traveled by each packet determines the shortest path to the first router.","The router checks the routing table to follow the algorithm for the short dispatches destination, and determine where the next route happens and these will hops and it defines what the shortest hop to its destination. If there are multiple routers connected to the same destination, the router intelligently determines what is the shortest path between the street the same copy of that package and initially saves all the routes. The router then discards those paths that are not the shortest using a pruning technique. During pruning, the records of routes that are not the shortest are not maintained in the routing table. In the router, the route that is connected to the shortest route is stored and maintained. This represents a rating algorithm with intelligence. With multicasting, the router prunes a route from the routing table if it does not see a fit and it establishes a route in the routing table if it does fit.","In one embodiment, a standard router that knows how to transfer UDPVA packets can be used to transfer UDPVA packets. It is important to know the specific type of routing protocol that is in use, and to apply UDPVA packets that can be transferred using the standard routing algorithm. Alternatively, the routers can be modified to handle UDPVA packets. If the routing is used to share data, the broadband network system  can be configured to use standard open protocol shortest path first (OSPF). If the broadband network system  is using multicasting or video-type routing, a protocol such as multicast open protocol shortest path first (MOSPF) or a similar protocol can be used. In one embodiment, a combination of routing from the BIntU transceiver 's end and then at the data control center end provides the power to route the packet (using dynamic allocation) with sufficient bandwidth to provide such applications as multimedia and the desired software.","In different embodiments, the BIntU transceiver  is located in an end user computer or set-top box. Software that permits the end user computer or set-top box to interface with the BIntU transceiver  may be loaded using typical installation and loading techniques. Many of these services can be arranged as upgrades. The billing associated with each BIntU transceiver  contains records that indicate the upgrades for each BIntU transceiver . The software of the end user computer, when the end user computer boots up, identifies the BIntU transceiver  and provides suitable service to the BIntU transceiver . The software thus provides a degree of manageability for the service provider.","As such, the service provider should be aware of how the displayed data would appear (e.g., the font and color of text, etc.) to the end user. One service provider can \u201crent\u201d the use of BIntU transceivers  (including the circuit board and associated software) to another service provider. An effective business model of the broadband network system  allows for effectively renting access to the network. Additionally, video, audio, or other data owned by a client can be stored at a database or server located at the data control center , and the data can be accessed by customers, employees, or members of the client.","The broadband network system  can be applied to the entertainment industry in such areas as sporting events. For example, BIntU transceivers  can be located in luxury boxes that provide the ability to view concurrent games at different centers while at the same time viewing an event live. A BIntU transceiver  might be physically located at a sporting venue in one city and be configured to display another game being played in another city or country.","The treatment of the UDPVA data stream is important for understanding certain embodiments of the broadband network system . The signal carrying audio\/video information can be managed as it emanates from the data distribution center  to the BIntU transceiver . Software is designed to be included with the hardware of the BIntU transceiver . In one aspect of the present invention, a method for registering the end users of the BIntU transceiver  (including the BIntU transceiver board and associated software). As a result of such a method of registration, the BIntU transceiver  is connected, and they are will have the ability to connect through a private network to another user. This can be performed over a public network as well as over a private network. A QOS may be used to establish such a connection.","The broadband network system  can provide wide area entertainment because there is a potentially huge population of end users. Normally, in a multicasting type of environment, there are multiple signal copies being used, and there are certain protocols being used to establish copies of certain transmissions. The copies of signals are established based on IP model and using a backbone that is based on the network. The embodiments of the present invention allow for pulling down packetized information from satellites, and distributing the packets over a wide area utilizing multimedia systems. This aspect is especially directed to managing satellite transmission, actively controlling the buying of satellite time, and allowing the satellite distribution channel, perhaps 512 Bytes per second to be allocated to each end user. Higher layers and higher rates of mass communications can thus be allocated over a wide area. As such, the broadband network system  provides for dynamic allocation of transport rates over a satellite. The downstream link has the bandwidth to support a range of transport rates.","The whole physical operative platform of the broadband network system  as shown in  includes two BIntU transceivers and . Each BIntU transceiver , is configured similarly to the embodiments of BIntU transceiver  described, in e.g., , , and . By way of further description r of the flow of data through the BIntU transceiver , , each BIntU transceiver , is provided with a control system description  and a flow description . The flow description  for each BIntU transceiver , is located to the right of the corresponding block in the control system description  that performs that function.","As shown in , the functionality of blocks , , , and\/or  is performed by functional block . Similarly, the functionality of block  is indicated by functional block ; the functionality of block  is indicated by functional block ; the functionality of block  is indicated by functional block ; and the functionality of block  is indicated by functional block . During a session created between two BIntU transceivers  (where a first BIntU transceiver  initiated a session with a second BIntU transceiver while no other BIntU transceivers were communicating with the first BIntU transceiver), both BIntU transceivers are configured as indicated by BIntU transceiver . If, during a session between two BIntU transceivers , one of the BIntU transceivers decided to initiate a three-way conversation with a third BIntU transceiver, then the third BIntU transceiver would include the functionality as indicated by BIntU transceiver .  describes the functionality that is embedded within BIntU transceiver and BIntU transceiver ","Consider what occurs when BIntU transceiver initiates a normal session with another BIntU transceiver or the data distribution center , using such an application as teleconferencing, file transfer, or any other communication application. Initially the session is commenced by a virtual channel being established between the data distribution control center(s) and each BIntU transceiver connected thereto using ICMP technology. After the virtual channel is set-up, data can be transmitted via the virtual channel. Assume that the session involves a teleconferencing application in which audio, video, and\/or other data is transmitted between end users at BIntU transceivers . The video I\/O , the audio I\/O , and the abstract operating system  in BIntU transceiver capture their respective data. Assume, for example, that a video camera with audio associated with the teleconferencing application is connected to video I\/O  and audio I\/O .","For teleconferencing applications, a display  is provided. The end user at a BIntU transceiver can thus see the end user at BIntU transceiver or , and vice versa.","Functional block  involves the capture of data, the request for capture of data, or other API operatives. Operatives are the requests that are made by the respective application programming interfaces. These APIs generate an application in functional block , and the BIntU transceiver  attempts to make a connection to perform such an application.","The application captured at blocks , , and  is defined through the specifications on the lower-level programming language, so that the captured data flows downward, as shown in , toward the codec  that encodes the captured packets as indicated by functional block . The engine of the codec  can use any desired type of compression. In one embodiment, the codec  is represented by the ITVC15 code . For example, video and\/or audio compression such as MPEG (e.g., MPEG 2, MPEG 4, or any other flavor) is performed in the codec .","As the codec operatives are complete, the engine of the DSP  performs the processing of such codec operatives, which is shown functionally at . One embodiment of the DSP  may include the TI-CS6X. The signal and stream processing take place in the DSP .","The streams that have been encoded are now ready to be transmitted over the medium in a manner that will ensure suitable bandwidth to control the QOS for the transmission of the packets. The ordering and consistency of the packets are controlled by the stack . An important part of the stack , where the functionality of the UDPVA protocol is provided, is being able to provide the composite UDPVA packets and protocol that works on top of the standard UDP packets and protocol. The value-added is provided in the stacks . The stack  also acts to control that interface with the application to ensure that data does not overwhelm the stacks . The stack  is necessary because the stack  configures the packets so that they can be transported rapidly over the media.","Consider the embodiment of stack  outline shown in . The representation of the application level, the session level, and the presentation level collectively, the ASP levels is shown at . When considering the ASP levels  utilizing a request to use an application, the application could be physically located anywhere in the broadband network system . The application relies on content stored in a memory relying on processors. The stacks provide the benefit to the end users of data transmitting a processor. It is difficult for prior systems stored in a memory to quickly process the type of conversion information to deliver it over a network backbone. This delivery of the conversion information is one of the major benefits of certain embodiments of the broadband network system . The BIntU transceiver provide the two core elements that enable the converged distribution. The data distribution center  is a hosting and control facility. The data distribution center  controls which BIntU transceiver  is allowed access to any specific data, and when it is allowed access. The medium to transport the data is controlled by the particular BIntU transceivers , ","Considering the stack operatives in , the application level is used, the real time protocol  is used, the real time control protocol  does standard network control. As such, time stamping parameters, header information parameters, and flow-control parameters are provided. The composite control level  commences the customization that provides composite protocols that generate additional flow control and packet ordering operatives. Packet ordering operatives enhance the use of UDPVA packets. This is the big part here at the composite control level  and the UDP level .","The direct relationship between the composite control level  and the standard UDP level  results in better flow control of the packets at the composite control level  and better ordering of the packets at the UDP level . This is why it is mentioned here as such. There is a relationship between the header information of the and the UDP datagram level . The UDP level  includes the contents shown as the UDP datagram level . The UDP datagram  includes the checksum field  having the encapsulated ordering algorithm  as described in the embodiment of  that acts on the transmitting side to timestamp the packets, and on the receiving side to order the packets according to their timestamp.","The UDPVA packets continue to carry the IP datagram with UDP encapsulation . The UDP encapsulation is provided by the data encapsulation portion  included in the IP datagram with UDP encapsulation portion . The UDPVA packets are transmitted as a data link frame  by appending a frame header  to the encapsulated frame data . The UDPVA packets continue to be transmitted via a gateway access  to the access network  and\/or the core network . The UDPVA packets returning to a host via one of the access networks  and\/or the core network . The UDPVA packets that enter the host via the access network  travels in the return direction, and performs the inverse operations through portions , , , , , and  to the operations as described herein. Different embodiments of host, as shown in , may be physically located in either the BIntU transceiver of the data distribution center. The  embodiment may be considered as a more detailed description of, or an alternate embodiment, of that shown in .","Referring to , continuing to the data link level, which is the link operatives . At this point, we have put in additional feature here, to ensure that initiation of the session commences with an external BIntU transceiver (similar to the BIntU transceiver shown) or BIntU transceiver . The external BIntU transceiver or is signaled in an effort to create a session. The first request for any remote confirmation of a session to be commenced takes place at the link operatives , which indicates with a flow request to its gateway server  an effort to connect with prescribed flow specifications based on the application(s) in terms of the . After the request has been made, the request goes out and indicates to the external BIntU transceiver or a request for communication based on input\/output at the video I\/O , the audio I\/O , the display , and the abstract operating system . This relates to control by the data distribution center. The data distribution center  acknowledges true authentication, and authenticates that the transmitting BIntU transceiver is a true BIntU transceiver used by a particular end user, and other specific information that identifies to the gateway server .","The request generally follows the flow paths  and  through to the data distribution center . The acknowledgement or confirmation of such a request returns through a virtual channel shown at  and  to ensure communication between the data distribution center  and the BIntU transceiver setting up the session. A similar virtual channel shown at  and  is established to the BIntU transceiver or with whom the session is being created. The path of the acknowledgement or confirmation corresponds to the path over which the data is transmitted. The data distribution center  stores packets that have been formatted into e.g., an MPEG format for distribution, which formatting occurs in the BIntU transceivers , . The data distribution center  acts as the hosting facility where the connections between the BIntU transceivers and are established. The control, the hosting, the bandwidth and the protocols are transmitted from the data distribution channel; sort of like what we are doing, it is an internal hosting","Once the requests and the acknowledgement or confirmation are completed, virtual channel is established that provides particular type and bandwidth of application requested is put in place. Based on the type of application is being used, the size and route of the virtual channel is dynamically allocated. For example, the application could be a unilateral application between one BIntU transceiver and the data distribution center . Examples of such unilateral applications include the BIntU transceiver accessing data originating from the database  that can be accessed by the data distribution center , or video stored in servers . The data distribution center  can act as a distributor of formatted stored content. The stored content is formatted so that the data can be distributed. The data distribution center is provided with the bandwidth to distribute the data.","Alternately, the application could be a bilateral application involving a plurality of BIntU transceivers or communicating with one another. The data distribution center  controls and monitors the bilateral applications between the plurality of BIntU transceivers , . Once the data distribution center  determines that it is allowable for a requesting end user at a BIntU transceiver or to have access to the data, a virtual circuit is created to each participating BIntU transceiver , . The concept of a virtual circuit is known generally relative to asynchronous transfer mode (ATM) communication systems. It is envisioned that the term \u201cvirtual circuit\u201d as described herein relates to any circuit, including ATM and other protocols, in which the allowable bandwidth of the circuit is determined based on the particular application. It is important to ensure that the virtual circuit can provide a QOS link between the data distribution center  and each BIntU transceiver , ","In other words, the particular application establishes the link between each BIntU transceiver , and the data distribution center . One aspect of an application is content that is being transmitted compared to the stored content. For example, if there is an encyclopedia of data residing in the database , or a video residing in the server , an end user at the BIntU transceiver can request a unilateral session in which only that BIntU transceiver is communicating with the data distribution center  and accessing the data. However, if an end user at a BIntU transceiver wants to collaborate with another end user at another BIntU transceiver or , and share information therebetween, a bilateral session can be created between each participating BIntU transceiver , . The virtual circuits with prescribed flow specifications established to each BIntU transceiver , are thus set up based on a particular application.","BIntU transceiver and BIntU transceiver have considerably different functionality (note that boxes  and  do not match boxes , , , , and ). BIntU transceiver is more related to the additional routing that must take place in a session being extended compared to BIntU transceiver . The BIntU transceiver requests the data distribution center  to connect to the BIntU transceiver . BIntU transceiver is the initiator. Once the session is set up, the data distribution center  monitors the entire conversation between the participating BIntU transceivers and . Once the setup of the session is completed, the bandwidth provided at the virtual circuits is monitored. A request for tear down of the session can take place at either party and can be generated by either party.","As described herein, if one end user at a BIntU transceiver initially establishes a session with one or more remote BIntU transceivers, the flow of the communications between each BIntU transceiver will be as illustrated by the BIntU transceiver . The BIntU transceiver displayed lower in  is relevant only once a session has been created between one or more BIntU transceivers and a data distribution center . Once a session is established involving one or more BIntU transceivers , it is not torn down unless an end user at a participating BIntU transceiver terminates the session, indicating that it no longer requires the application associated with the session. Certain embodiments of broadband network system , however, can accommodate additional applications and sessions. A hypothetical situation will serve to illustrate the importance of the BIntU transceiver . Suppose in the hypothetical that two BIntU transceivers that initially set up a session are communicating over the broadband network system . Data is thus streaming between the two BIntU transceivers across the broadband network system . The streaming data can be simultaneously redirected to a BIntU transceiver . So, lets theoretically say, a first BIntU transceiver has streaming video to a second BIntU transceiver . But now, assume that one of the BIntU transceivers wants to collaborate based on that subject content with another end user at a BIntU transceiver . The BIntU transceiver could be included in a second session following the establishment of an initial session with an application of one or more BIntU transceivers . The second session uses the same application setup as the initial session. One of the end users at the BIntU transceivers may want to show the end user at BIntU transceiver some of the content of the shared application, and this content can be transmitted to the BIntU transceiver ","To establish a session, the request for connection and authentication transmit value added information that generate the reply. That value added information travels a certain distance across the broadband network system, but does not travel all the way to the output facility. The value added information is received into the network operative facility and the stack operatives , and indicates that the UDPVA protocol has accepted all the requirements requested from this level. The packet is then temporally ordered using a time stamp, and the packet processed at the BIntU transceiver through the presentation layer, the application layer , and the session layer. The transportation of that value added information takes place at the transport layer . The presentation layer, the application layer , and the session layer therefore represent the formatting of the packets, the transmission of the packets, and also the session operatives .","The transmitted data is authenticated and can be used in this connection. When a conversation or session is in full swing, and this person needs to respond with video and voice between BIntU client A and BIntU client B, the UDPVA packets travel to the data distribution center, the packets then return to the receiving BIntU transceiver. At the receiving BIntU transceiver, the UDPVA packets are reversed processed, decoded, that is extends through , , , , and \/ in the BIntU transceiver . The received video data is displayed over display . Levels of interactivity of stack accepting connection and the user has a second interactive point where the actual application output at display . Initiation, beyond a client, takes place if the client is sending bulletins, for security reasons, from the data distribution center to live clients. Such as, if a network operator wants to send a message that a server relating to certain BIntU transceivers  is going to be down for maintenance purposes, then the network operator can generate a packet from the data distribution center  to the live clients at the BIntU transceiver.","The data distribution center  facilitates the connection to the BIntU transceiver . The data distribution center  determines the flow characteristics required for the communications to each participating BIntU transceiver , from the data distribution center . For example, the data distribution center  knows following initial set-up of the session that each BIntU client is connected. A signal is transmitted to the data distribution center  indicating that one of the BIntU transceivers desires to include BIntU transceiver in that session. A virtual circuit is established between the data distribution center  and BIntU transceiver to tie in BIntU transceiver . The commencement of the virtual circuit being set up over the core network and a new delivery system is shown as . All BIntU transceivers , require similar circuit specifications to allow communications therebetween. That is, the structure of the BIntU transceiver is similar to the structure of the BIntU transceiver . Once the end user at the BIntU transceiver is recognized at the point of contact (through security techniques), a request reply is transmitted across  back to the data distribution center .","This call set-up and break-down is all going on in the lower levels or the protocols. Once a session is established, an access server of the BIntU transceiver establishes a link between that BIntU transceiver and any other participating BIntU transceivers . Any end user at a called BIntU transceiver or has to accept the call for in order to be included in the session. Once the BIntU transceiver or accepts, the acceptance is authenticated back through the data distribution center . Once the authentication is completed, the session becomes complete in terms of connecting the end users at the participating BIntU transceivers , ","Another aspect of the broadband network system involves a security system . Certain embodiments of broadband network system  having a security system  includes a first security portion  located at each BIntU transceiver  and a second security portion  located at the data distribution center  as shown in . The security system  relates to providing a secure interface between the BIntU transceiver  and the data distribution center  for each virtual channel. Security allows the data distribution center  to positively identify an end user at the BIntU transceiver as the correct end user. The BIntU unit thus uses the security system  to authenticate the identity of an end user. In one embodiment, the security system provides verifiable, undeniable proof of the identity of the end user.","Most prior-art embodiments of network systems use user ID pass code to provide security. It is envisioned that certain embodiments of the broadband network system  may use a smart card reader, a bio-metric, or another security device to provide a security system . Encryption systems rely on private and public key. The private key in certain embodiments of the security system  is located at the first security portion  included in the BIntU transceiver. The first security portion  represents the private key (software and\/or hardware) associated with the bio-metric, retinal scan, or smart card of the end user. The security system allows for replacing the user ID and pass code in the current network, using a biometric, smart card, retinal scan, etc. to log on.","The public key and private key combine to provide an alternative PKI infrastructure. One embodiment of data distribution center may thus be considered as an alternative PKI infrastructure to end users. The broadband network system thus acts to provide alternative distribution for video and data, but also provides an alternate PKI infrastructure for security and authentication for transactions. The security system  is involved with allowing a connection to be established between the BIntU transceiver  and the data distribution center  to provide a quality of service. The security system thus acts as the delivery system.","The data distribution center  is the host repository for the public key (which is the hardware\/software associated with the bio-metric, smart chip, retinal scan, or other security device). The first security portion  at the BIntU unit  includes a reader, used in combination with the end users' fingertip, smart card, etc., that provides the private key.","The security system provides authorization that allows the broadband interface unit to interface with the data distribution center. When an end user plugs in their BIntU transceiver, they download the associated software and register themselves as an authorized user of the broadband network system. Security  adds the requirement to register the end-user's private key (e.g., a bio-metric, a retinal scan, the smart card, or another private key). Such end user registration allows the end user to become an authorized user in the PKI type in the broadband network system . With the broadband network system , the end user is authorized to register their bio, smart card, or retinal scan to become an authorized user. So that if an end user at one BIntU transceiver is transmitting secured packets to another BIntU transceiver end user, the bio-metric, smart card, or retinal scan is registered and the data distribution center will not send that information until it authorizes the end user as an authorized user of the network. As such, the end user at the receiving BIntU transceiver will know the identity of the end user at the transmitting BIntU transceiver.","Certain embodiments of the broadband network system  can be used as an intelligent agent device that provides intelligent agent functionality. Intelligent agent devices are especially useful where it is desired to be able to accurately monitor, and precisely control, the operation of BIntU transceiver. For example, in order to be able to monitor suspicious-looking boxes at airports, or alternatively to be able to monitor the conditions at certain locations within a nuclear power plant, the BIntU transceivers may be utilized effectively. For example, a single BIntU transceiver may have a plurality of camcorders attached thereto. Each of the camcorders may be directed at a different location, for example, within an airport, within a nuclear power plant, or within, e.g., a bank, store, or office building that is being monitored. Remote monitoring individuals can monitor the locations throughout the location where the BIntU transceiver is located by interfacing with that BIntU transceiver at a remote BIntU transceiver. Though the camcorders may be continuously operating, the monitoring end users can select which of the camcorders to view by selecting one of the plurality of channels, for example. Each channel would correspond to a distinct one of the camcorders at the monitoring BIntU transceiver. Audio data as well as video data can also be captured at a plurality of locations using the intelligent agent device for such applications.","The BIntU transceiver can be used in a variety of applications, such as use in a security area. Today, great significance is placed on surveillance, etc. Capturing video and voice at a first BIntU transceiver is desirable. Lets assume a suspicious box is left in an airport. A BIntU transceiver unit that can be configured to reposition itself can generate signals at a remote sentry BIntU transceiver based upon inputs from the sentry perceptions and input. For example, an end user at the remote sentry BIntU transceiver may indicate to generate a session.","The BIntU transceiver can act by itself. Just suppose there are six camcorders connected to the BIntU transceiver now and an end user at a receiving BIntU transceiver wishes to monitor the BIntU transceiver at an airport or in a remote location, that would necessary come back to the data distribution center and an end user at a remote BIntU transceiver could monitor the data. This application is generated by the BIntU transceiver client; therefore the \u201csurveillance application\u201d is under the control of that BIntU transceiver client. However, notice of the application being operative is recorded by the data distribution center, since metering for billing purposes will be calculated at the data distribution center.","While the principles of the invention have been described above in connection with the specific apparatus and associated method, it is to be clearly understood that this description is made only by way of example and not as a limitation on the scope of the invention."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The accompanying drawings, which are incorporated in and constitute part of this specification, illustrate the presently preferred embodiments of the invention.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIGS. 2A and 2B","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIGS. 3A and 3B","FIG. 2"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIGS. 1 to 3"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIGS. 1 to 3"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIGS. 6A and 6B","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIGS. 7A and 7B","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":["FIG. 10","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 11"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 12"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
