---
title: Determining logon status in a broadband network system and automatically restoring logon connectivity
abstract: A system, computer program product and method for automatically restoring logon connectivity in a broadband network system. Upon establishing a connection between a client and Internet gateway (INTERNET GATEWAY), the status of the connection, i.e., connected or disconnected, may be checked by issuing a request to an INTERNET GATEWAY utilizing a protocol that is normally blocked when the client is disconnected. By issuing a request utilizing a protocol that is normally blocked when the client is disconnected, the status of the connection may be determined by whether the request may be serviced. If the request cannot be serviced, then a subsequent connection may be established automatically by terminating the logon procedure associated with the preceding connection, e.g., initial connection, and executing the logon procedure associated with the subsequent connection.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07702801&OS=07702801&RS=07702801
owner: Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.
number: 07702801
owner_city: Sunnyvale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20010419
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["TECHNICAL FIELD","BACKGROUND INFORMATION","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["The present invention relates to the field of broadband network systems, and more particularly to automatically restoring logon connectivity in a broadband network system.","A broadband network system, e.g., Digital Subscriber Line (DSL) system, cable system, provides subscribers with many benefits, including greater bandwidth, more efficient use of bandwidth and the ability to integrate voice, data and video communications.","A broadband network system may comprise a host machine, e.g., server computer on the Internet commonly referred to as web server, connected to one or more computers commonly referred to as clients via the Internet. The Internet may refer to a network of computers. Users of clients, commonly referred to as subscribers, may be connected to the Internet through an Internet gateway, e.g., Internet Service Provider (ISP). An Internet gateway may provide access to the Internet for a monthly fee. Typically, a subscriber accesses the Internet through the Internet gateway by logging onto the network of the Internet gateway using an identifier, e.g., jdoe, and a secret password. Once a connection is established between the Internet gateway and the subscriber, the subscriber may access the Internet and \u201cbrowse\u201d, i.e., navigate around, the World Wide Web (\u201cWWW\u201d) by utilizing a suitable web browser, e.g., Netscape\u2122, Internet Explorer\u2122. A web browser allows the subscriber to specify or search for a web page on the WWW and subsequently retrieve and display web pages on the subscriber's computer screen.","Unfortunately, the connection between an Internet gateway and a subscriber may be disconnected due a time-out or an error. Generally, there is no warning to the subscriber other than an unidentified lost connection to the Internet gateway. In a shared network environment where a plurality of subscribers are connected to an Internet gateway through a router, e.g., Network Address Translation (NAT) router, the loss of connectivity to an Internet gateway results in the loss of service to all subscribers connected to the router. The connection to the Internet gateway remains lost until a new connection to the Internet gateway is manually made which may result in subscribers being unconnected to the Internet for hours. Typically, a new connection to the Internet gateway is manually made by re-logging onto the network of the Internet gateway at the router.","It would therefore be desirable to restore lost connectivity to an Internet gateway automatically instead of manually re-logging onto the network of the Internet gateway thereby diminishing the amount of time a subscriber is unconnected to the Internet.","The problems outlined above may at least in part be solved in some embodiments by a client or router issuing a request to an Internet gateway, e.g., Internet Service Provider (ISP), utilizing a protocol, e.g., HyperText Transport Protocol (HTTP), telnet protocol, file transfer protocol, that is normally blocked when the client is disconnected to determine whether the connection between a client and the Internet gateway has been disconnected. If the request cannot be serviced, then a subsequent connection may be established automatically by terminating the logon procedure associated with the preceding connection, e.g., initial connection, and executing the logon procedure associated with the subsequent connection.","In one embodiment of the present invention, a method for automatically restoring logon connectivity in a network system may comprise the step of establishing an initial connection between a client and an Internet gateway. Upon establishing an initial connection, the status of the initial connection, i.e., connected or disconnected, may be checked by issuing a request to an Internet gateway utilizing a protocol that is normally blocked when the client is disconnected. By issuing a request utilizing a protocol that is normally blocked when the client is disconnected, the status of the connection may be determined by whether the request may be serviced. If the request can be serviced, a first period of time, e.g., 300 seconds, may transpire before the status of the established connection may be checked. If the request cannot be serviced, then a subsequent connection may be established automatically by terminating the logon procedure associated with the preceding connection, e.g., initial connection, and executing the logon procedure associated with the subsequent connection. Upon attempting to establish a subsequent connection, a second period of time, e.g., 60 seconds, may transpire before the status of the attempted subsequent connection is checked. The second period of time may be less than the first period of time in order to check the status of an attempted connection in less time than in checking the status of a previously established connection. As stated above, a connection may be checked by issuing a request to the Internet gateway utilizing a protocol that is normally blocked when the client is disconnected. If the request can be serviced then a first period of time, e.g., 300 seconds, may transpire before the status of the established connection is checked. If the request cannot be serviced, then an attempt to establish a subsequent connection may be established automatically.","In one embodiment of the present invention, one or more clients may be directly connected to the Internet gateway. Subsequently, the steps in the above method may be executed by a client. In another embodiment of the present invention, one or more clients may be coupled to a router configured to forward packets of data from the one or more clients to Internet gateway. In this embodiment, the router may be configured to execute the steps in the above stated method.","The foregoing has outlined rather broadly the features and technical advantages of the present invention in order that the detailed description of the invention that follows may be better understood. Additional features and advantages of the invention will be described hereinafter which form the subject of the claims of the invention.","The present invention comprises a system, computer program product and method for automatically restoring logon connectivity. In one embodiment of the present invention, upon establishing a connection between a client and an Internet gateway, e.g., Internet Service Provider (ISP), the status of the connection, i.e., connected or disconnected, may be checked by issuing a request to the Internet gateway utilizing a protocol that is normally blocked when the client is disconnected. By issuing a request utilizing a protocol that is normally blocked when the client is disconnected, the status of the connection may be determined by whether the request may be serviced. If the request cannot be serviced, then a subsequent connection may be established automatically by terminating the logon procedure associated with the preceding connection, e.g., initial connection, and executing the logon procedure associated with the subsequent connection. It is noted that even though the following discusses the present invention in connection with a broadband network system, the present invention may be implemented in any network system where logon connectivity may be restored by issuing a request utilizing a protocol that is normally blocked when the client is disconnected.","FIG. \u2014Network System",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":["FIG. 1","FIG. 1"],"b":["100","100","101","106","105","104","105","100","101","104","100","103","101","101","104","101","101","101","100","101","103","104","106","101","104","101","104","106"]},"Referring to , each client A-C may comprise a web browser A-C, respectively, which may be configured for communicating with the Internet  and for reading and executing web pages. Browsers A-C may collectively or individually be referred to as browsers  or browser , respectively. While the illustrated client engine is a web browser , those skilled in the art will recognize that other client engines may be used in accordance with the present invention.","Web server  may comprise a web page engine  for maintaining and providing access to an Internet web page which is enabled to forward static web pages as well as web pages dynamically created by servlets  to web browser  of client . A servlet may be a program typically written in the Java object-oriented programming language. Servlets  typically are server-side applications (often implemented using the Java\u2122 programming language) that may be used to create web pages that contain dynamic or run-time information. Server  then delivers the page to client , for example via the Internet .","As stated in the Background Information section, clients  may be connected to the Internet  through Internet gateway . Internet gateway  provides the network interface and computer service functions which enables the user of client , i.e., subscriber, to establish a connection to the Internet , and request and receive information from Internet World Wide Web (WWW) sites. Unfortunately, the connection between Internet gateway  and a subscriber may be disconnected due to a time-out or an error. Generally, there is no warning to the subscriber other than an unidentified lost connection to Internet gateway . In a shared network environment where a plurality of clients  are connected to Internet gateway  through router , the loss of connectivity to Internet gateway  results in the loss of service to all subscribers connected to router . The connection to Internet gateway  remains lost until a new connection to Internet gateway  is manually made which may result in subscribers being unconnected to the Internet  for hours. Typically, a new connection to Internet gateway  is manually made by re-logging onto the network of Internet gateway  at router . It would therefore be desirable to restore lost connectivity to Internet gateway  automatically instead of manually re-logging onto the network of Internet gateway  thereby diminishing the amount of time a subscriber is unconnected to the Internet .","In the embodiment of network system  where one or more clients  are directly connected to Internet gateway , client  as illustrated in  may be configured to automatically re-log onto the network of Internet gateway  upon a loss of a connection between Internet gateway  and client  as will be explained in greater detail in the discussion of . In the embodiment of network system where network system  is a shared network environment as illustrated in , router  as illustrated in  may be configured to automatically re-log onto the network of Internet gateway  upon a loss of a connection between Internet gateway  and clients  as will be explained in greater detail in the discussion of .","FIG. \u2014Hardware Configuration of Client",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 2","FIG. 4","FIG. 4"],"b":["101","101","210","212","250","210","260","104","250","260","216","212","101","214","218","234","212","250","260","214","218","220","240","101","104","220","260","234","212","103","101","106","212","222","236","224","228","226","230","212","222","101","238","212","236","101","224","228","226","101","238","230"]},"Implementations of the invention include implementations as a computer system programmed to execute the method or methods described herein, and as a computer program product. According to the computer system implementation, sets of instructions for executing the method or methods are resident in the random access memory  of one or more computer systems configured generally as described above. Until required by the computer system, the set of instructions may be stored as a computer program product in another computer memory, for example, in disk drive  (which may include a removable memory such as an optical disk or floppy disk for eventual use in the disk drive ). Further, the computer program product can also be stored at another computer and transmitted when desired to the user's work station by a network or by an external network such as the Internet. One skilled in the art would appreciate that the physical storage of the sets of instructions physically changes the medium upon which it is stored so that the medium carries computer readable information. The change may be electrical, magnetic, chemical, biological, or some other physical change. While it is convenient to describe the invention in terms of instructions, symbols, characters, or the like, the reader should remember that all of these and similar terms should be associated with the appropriate physical elements.","FIG. \u2014Router",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 3","FIG. 3","FIG. 4","FIG. 4"],"b":["103","103","310","312","340","310","350","104","340","350","316","312","103","314","318","334","312","340","350","314","318","320","104","320","350","334","312","104","103","104"]},"Implementations of the invention include implementations as a computer system programmed to execute the method or methods described herein, and as a computer program product. According to the computer system implementations, sets of instructions for executing the method or methods are resident in the random access memory  of one or more computer systems configured generally as described above. Until required by router , the set of instructions may be stored as a computer program product in another computer memory, for example, in disk drive  (which may include a removable memory such as an optical disk or floppy disk for eventual use in disk drive ). Furthermore, the computer program product can also be stored at another computer and transmitted when desired to the user's workstation by a network or by an external network such as the Internet. One skilled in the art would appreciate that the physical storage of the sets of instructions physically changes the medium upon which it is stored so that the medium carries computer readable information. The change may be electrical, magnetic, chemical or some other physical change.","FIG. \u2014Method for Automatically Re-Logging onto Internet Gateway to Restore Lost Connectivity",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":["400","101","104","101","400","101","103","400"]},"start LOGON.EXE","logevent \u2212S i \u201cBroadband is re-logged on\u201d",":START","now","httpping www.anysite.com 80","if %ERRORLEVEL% EQU 0 goto :SLEEP","logevent \u2212S w \u201cBroadband is logged off\u201d",":RESTART","kill LOGON.EXE","start LOGON.EXE","sleep 60","now","httpping www.anysite.com 80","if %ERRORLEVEL% NEQ 0 goto :RESTART","logevent \u2212S i \u201cBroadband is re-logged on\u201d",":SLEEP","sleep 300","goto :START","In step  an initial connection between client  and Internet gateway  may be established by executing an initial logon procedure as illustrated by the line \u201cstart LOGON.EXE\u201d in the script above. In the embodiment of network system  where one or more clients  are directly connected to Internet gateway , client  may be configured to execute the initial logon procedure to establish an initial connection between client  and Internet gateway . In the embodiment of network system  where network system  is a shared network environment as illustrated in , router  may be configured to execute the initial logon procedure to establish an initial connection between router  and Internet gateway . When router  establishes a connection between router  and Internet gateway , the other clients  connected to router  are then connected to Internet gateway  as well. Upon executing the initial logon procedure, the initial logon procedure may be logged into a file storing a list of the events transpired as illustrated by the line \u201clogevent \u2212S i \u2018Broadband is re-logged on\u2019\u201d in the script above.","In step , the status of the connection between client  and Internet gateway , i.e., connected or disconnected, is checked by issuing a request, e.g., http:\/\/www.amd.com, to Internet gateway  to access web server  utilizing a protocol, e.g., HyperText Transport Protocol (HTTP), telnet protocol, file transfer protocol, mail protocol, that is normally blocked when client  is logged off. An example of the issuance of a request to access web server  is illustrated by the line \u201chttpping www.anysite.com \u201d in the script above.","A determination may be made in step  as to whether or not client  is connected or disconnected to Internet gateway . By issuing a request utilizing a protocol that is normally blocked when client  is logged off, the status of the initial connection, i.e., connected or disconnected, may be determined based on whether web server  may be accessed. If client  is logged off, i.e., client  is disconnected to Internet gateway , then the request to access web server  utilizing a protocol that is normally blocked when client  is logged off will be denied. If client  is logged on, i.e., client  is connected to Internet gateway , then the request to access web server  utilizing a protocol that is normally blocked when client  is logged off will be accepted. In the embodiment of network system  where one or more clients  are directly connected to Internet gateway , client  may be configured to issue a request, e.g., http:\/\/www.amd.com, to Internet gateway  to access web server  utilizing a protocol, e.g., HyperText Transport Protocol (HTTP), telnet protocol, file transfer protocol, mail protocol, that is normally blocked when client  is logged off. In the embodiment of network system  where network system  is a shared network environment as illustrated in , router  may be configured to issue a request, e.g., http:\/\/www.amd.com, to Internet gateway  to access web server  utilizing a protocol, e.g., HyperText Transport Protocol (HTTP), telnet protocol, file transfer protocol, mail protocol, that is normally blocked when client  is logged off Router  may then be able to determine whether the one or more clients  connected to router  are connected or disconnected to Internet gateway .","Referring to step , if there is a connection between client  and Internet gateway  then method  may wait for a first period of time, e.g., 300 seconds, in step  before checking the status of the connection in step  as illustrated by the lines","\u201cif %ERRORLEVEL% EQU 0 goto :SLEEP",":SLEEP","sleep 300\u201d","in the script above.","Referring to step , if there is not a connection between client  and Internet gateway , i.e., client  has become disconnected to Internet gateway , then an attempt to establish a subsequent connection between client  and Internet gateway  may be established automatically in step . The disconnection may be logged into a file storing a list of the events transpired as illustrated by the line \u201clogevent \u2212S w \u2018Broadband is logged off\u2019\u201d in the script above.","Step  may comprise sub-steps as illustrated in . Referring to , the logon procedure associated with a preceding connection, e.g., initial connection in step , may be terminated in step . In step , a logon procedure associated with a subsequent connection may then be executed. In the embodiment of network system  where one or more clients  are directly connected to Internet gateway , client  may be configured to execute steps  and . In the embodiment of network system  where network system  is a shared network environment as illustrated in , router  may be configured to execute steps  and . Execution of steps  and  is illustrated by the lines","\u201c:RESTART","kill LOGON.EXE","start LOGON.EXE\u201d","in the script above.","Referring to step  in , upon attempting to establish a subsequent connection between client  and Internet gateway , method  waits for a second period of time, e.g., 60 seconds, in step  as illustrated by the line \u201csleep 60\u201d in the script above. The second period of time, e.g., 60 seconds, may be less than the first period of time, e.g., 300 seconds. The second period of time may be less than the first period of time in order to check the status of an attempted connection in less time than in checking the status of a previously established connection.","In step , the status of the attempted subsequent connection between client  and Internet gateway , i.e., client  connected or disconnected to Internet gateway , is checked by issuing a request, e.g., http:\/\/www.amd.com, to Internet gateway  to access web server  utilizing a protocol, e.g., HyperText Transport Protocol (HTTP), telnet protocol, file transfer protocol, mail protocol, that is normally blocked when client  is logged off. An example of the issuance of a request in step  is illustrated by the line \u201chttpping www.anysite.com 80\u201d in the script above. A determination may be made in step  as to whether or not client  is connected or disconnected to Internet gateway . By issuing a request utilizing a protocol that is normally blocked when client  is logged off, the status of the subsequent connection, i.e., connected or disconnected, may be determined based on whether web server  may be accessed. If client  is logged off, i.e., client  is disconnected to Internet gateway , then the request to access web server  utilizing a protocol that is normally blocked when client  is logged off will be denied. If client  is logged on, i.e., client  is connected to Internet gateway , then the request to access web server  utilizing a protocol that is normally blocked when client  is logged off will be accepted. In the embodiment of network system  where one or more clients  are directly connected to Internet gateway , client  may be configured to issue a request, e.g., http:\/\/www.amd.com, to Internet gateway  to access web server  utilizing a protocol, e.g., HyperText Transport Protocol (HTTP), telnet protocol, file transfer protocol, mail protocol, that is normally blocked when client  is logged off. In the embodiment of network system  where network system  is a shared network environment as illustrated in , router  may be configured to issue a request, e.g., http:\/\/www.amd.com, to Internet gateway  to access web server  utilizing a protocol, e.g., HyperText Transport Protocol (HTTP), telnet protocol, file transfer protocol, mail protocol, that is normally blocked when client  is logged off. Router  may then be able to determine whether the one or more clients  connected to router  are connected or disconnected to Internet gateway .","As stated above, a determination may be made in step  as to whether client  is connected to Internet gateway . If there is a connection between client  and Internet gateway  then method  may wait for a first period of time, e.g., 300 seconds, in step , as illustrated by the line \u201csleep 300\u201d in the script above, before checking the status of the connection in step . If there is a connection between client  and Internet gateway , the event is logged into a file storing a list of the events transpired as illustrated by the line \u201clogevent \u2212S i \u2018Broadband is re-logged on\u2019\u201d in the script above.","If there is not a connection between client  and Internet gateway , i.e., client  has become disconnected to Internet gateway , then an attempt to establish a subsequent connection between client  and Internet gateway  may be established automatically in step  as illustrated by the lines","\u201cif %ERRORLEVEL% NEQ 0 goto :RESTART","RESTART","kill LOGON.EXE","start LOGON.EXE\u201d","in the script above.","It is noted that method  may be executed in a different order presented and that the order presented in the discussion of  is illustrative.","Although the system, computer program product and method are described in connection with several embodiments, it is not intended to be limited to the specific forms set forth herein, but on the contrary, it is intended to cover such alternatives, modifications, and equivalents, as can be reasonably included within the spirit and scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims. It is noted that the headings are used only for organizational purposes and not meant to limit the scope of the description or claims."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["A better understanding of the present invention can be obtained when the following detailed description is considered in conjunction with the following drawings, in which:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 5"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
