---
title: Method and apparatus for time-based reception of transmissions in a wireless communication system
abstract: Method for segmented message transmission wherein each message is first divided into segments and the segments are fragmented. A segment parameter is applied to each segment, and a segment identifier to each fragment. The fragments are provided to a lower level for preparation into frames for transmission. One embodiment is applied to the transmission of short duration messages, such as control messages. A timer is used to detect an erasure within a plurality of transmission frames, wherein the timer uses an average inter-arrival time period between transmitted frames to determine a missing frame. In one embodiment, the time period is given as α*AIT, wherein α is a constant value, and AIT is the average inter-arrival time of frames.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=06839566&OS=06839566&RS=06839566
owner: QUALCOMM, Incorporated
number: 06839566
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20010816
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["RELATED APPLICATION","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["The following U.S. patent application is filed concurrently herewith as related to this application: \u201cMETHOD AND APPARATUS FOR MESSAGE SEGMENTATION IN A WIRELESS COMMUNICATION SYSTEM,\u201d U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10\/137,042, filed Apr. 30, 2002, entitled \u201cSecurity Method and Apparatus\u201d.","1. Field","The present invention relates to communications systems. Specifically, the present invention relates to methods for segmenting and transmitting messages in a wireless communication system.","2. Background","In a wireless communications system messages are transmitted from a transmitter to a mobile receiver. Messages are transmitted in frames, wherein a frame defines a predetermined period of time and a protocol is the set of procedures used to perform a given set of operations, such as the exchange of information, wherein a protocol defines the constituent information transmitted in a frame. As wireless communications are performed through a shared air interface, reception quality is interference limited. Poor quality reception at the receiver may result in the loss of a transmitted frame of data, i.e., received signal is not recognizable due to the addition of interference signals. When a frame is lost, typically, the entire message (multiple frames) is retransmitted. Retransmission of an entire message uses bandwidth otherwise used for additional messages. Additionally, retransmission adds to the delay time of a system, and may result in unacceptable performance of the wireless communication system.","Therefore, there is a need for an accurate method of transmitting messages in a wireless communication system. Additionally, there is a need for an efficient method of retransmitting information in a wireless communication system.","Embodiments disclosed herein address the above stated needs by providing a method and apparatus for detecting an end of segment or end of message in a transmission. On receipt of a frame erasure, the receiver initiates a timer. The timer is used to determine a missing end of frame. Multiple timers may be implemented, wherein each timer stops any previously running timers.","According to one aspect, in a wireless communication system having a base station controller and a plurality of base stations, each of the plurality of base stations adapted for communication with a plurality of mobile stations, a method includes receiving a plurality of transmission frames, each of the plurality of transmission frames having an identifier, detecting a first frame erasure within the plurality of transmission frames, initiating a first timer, and on expiration of the first timer determining the identification of the first frame erasure.","According to another aspect, a wireless apparatus includes a receiver for receiving a plurality of transmission frames, a means for detecting a frame erasure, a first timer means responsive to detection of a first frame erasure, and a second timer means responsive to detection of a second frame erasure.","The word \u201cexemplary\u201d is used exclusively herein to mean \u201cserving as an example, instance, or illustration.\u201d Any embodiment described herein as \u201cexemplary\u201d is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other embodiments. While the various aspects of the present invention are presented in drawings, the drawings are not necessarily drawn to scale unless specifically indicated.","In a spread spectrum system, such as a Code Division Multiple Access, CDMA, communications system, signals are spread over a wide bandwidth via the use of a code, such as a Pseudorandom Noise, PN, spreading sequence. The \u201cTIA\/EIA\/IS-95 Mobile Station-Base Station Compatibility Standard for Dual-Mode Wideband Spread Spectrum Cellular System,\u201d hereinafter referred to as \u201cthe IS-95 standard,\u201d and the \u201cTIA\/EIA\/IS-2000 Standards for cdma2000 Spread Spectrum Systems,\u201d hereinafter referred to as \u201cthe cdma2000 standard,\u201d detail spread spectrum CDMA systems.","Wireless communication systems are widely deployed to provide various types of communication such as voice, data, and so on. These systems may be based on code division multiple access (CDMA), time division multiple access (TDMA), or some other modulation techniques. A CDMA system provides certain advantages over other types of system, including increased system capacity.","A system may be designed to support one or more standards such as: (1) the \u201cTIA\/EIA\/IS-95-B Mobile Station-Base Station Compatibility Standard for Dual-Mode Wideband Spread Spectrum Cellular System\u201d referred to herein as the IS-95 standard; (2) the standard offered by a consortium named \u201c3rd Generation Partnership Project\u201d referred to herein as 3GPP; and embodied in a set of documents including Document Nos. 3G TS 25.211, 3G TS 25.212, 3G TS 25.213, and 3G TS 25.214, 3G TS 25.302, referred to herein as the W-CDMA standard; (3) the standard offered by a consortium named \u201c3rd Generation Partnership Project 2\u201d referred to herein as 3GPP2, and TR-45.5 referred to herein as the cdma2000 standard, formerly called IS-2000 MC, or (4) some other wireless standard. The standards (1), (2), and (3) cited hereinabove are hereby expressly incorporated herein by reference.","Each standard specifically defines the processing of data for transmission from base station to mobile, and vice versa. For example, speech information may be coded at a particular data rate, formatted into a defined frame format, and processed (e.g., error correction and\/or detection encoded, interleaved, and so on) in accordance with a particular processing scheme. As an illustration of this, the W-CDMA standard defines an Adaptive Multi-Rate, or AMR, speech coding scheme whereby speech information may be encoded based on one of a number of possible data rates and the coded speech data is provided in a particular format that depends on the selected data rate. The codec, frame formats and processing defined by a particular standard (e.g., cdma2000 standard) are likely to be different from those of other standards (e.g., W-CDMA standard).","There are any numbers of communication systems capable of supporting multiple transport formats, i.e., variable length transmission frames. One such system is defined by the cdma2000 standard. While a CDMA type system is used as an exemplar throughout the following discussion, the present methods and apparatus are applicable to any system that transmits messages in frames, and supports retransmission of frames and\/or portions of a frame. Additionally, the methods described herein may be applied to forward link and reverse link, as well as downlink and uplink. For convenience, the descriptions herein use terminology consistent with a CDMA type system. For application to a W-CDMA type system, an uplink communication refers to a communication from a User Equipment, UE, to a node B, i.e., transmitter.","While some of the terminology used to describe a conventional CDMA type spread spectrum system is consistently used with respect to a W-CDMA type system, there are several terms having specific definitions in each type of system.","In a CDMA system, a mobile user is referred to as a Mobile Station. Multiple MSs communicate through a Base Station having a fixed location in the wireless communication system. The Reverse Link, RL, in a CDMA system refers to transmissions from a mobile user or Mobile Station, MS, to a Base Station, BS. The Forward Link, FL, refers to transmissions from the BS to a MS.","The terminology specific to a W-CDMA system refers to the mobile users as User Equipment, UE. Multiple UEs communicate through a \u201cNode B\u201d having a fixed location in the wireless communication system. Transmissions from the UE to the Node B are referred to as Up Link, UL. Down Link, DL, refers to transmissions from the Node B to the UE.",{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00040","num":"00040"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["100","100","104","106","100","106","100","106","106","104","100"]},"As shown in , base station A communicates with remote terminals A, B, C, and D, and base station B communicates with remote terminals D, E, and F.","A system controller  couples to base stations  and typically further couples to other systems, including, but not limited to, a Public Switched Telephone Network, PSTN, the Internet, or other communication network. System controller  provides coordination and control for the base stations coupled to it. System controller  further controls, via base stations , the routing of telephone calls among remote terminals , and between remote terminals  and the users coupled to other systems. System controller  is also referred to as a Base Station Controller, BSC.","For an HDR system, the MAC layer  includes scheduling capabilities to balance users or connections. Such balancing typically schedules low throughput for channels with poor coverage, thus freeing up resources allowing high throughput for channels with good connections. The next layer, the Link Access Control, LAC, layer , provides an access procedure for higher layer applications. In alternate architectures, a radio link, the Radio Link Protocol, RLP, layer (not shown) may provide retransmission and duplicate detection for an octet-aligned data stream in place of or in parallel with the LAG layer . In the context of a packet service, the LAG layer  carries Point-to-Point Protocol, PPP, packets. The High Level Data Link Control HDLC layer  is a link layer for PPP and Multi-Link PPP (ML-PPP) communications. Control information is placed in specific patterns, which are dramatically different from the data in order to reduce errors. The HDLG layer  performs framing of the data prior to PPP processing. The PPP layer  then provides compression, authentication, encryption and multi-protocol support. The Internet Protocol, IP, layer  keeps track of Internet work addressing for different nodes, routes outgoing messages, and recognizes incoming messages.","The layered structure illustrated in  is designed to provide voice, packet data, and voice and packet data services simultaneously. The physical layer  performs coding, interleaving, modulation and spreading functions for the physical channels. The MAC layer  and the Link Access Control, LAC, layer  together form a link layer to provide protocol support and control mechanisms for data transport services. The link layer further maps the data transport needs of higher layers into specific, capabilities and characteristics of the physical layer . The link layer also maps logical and signaling channels into code channels specifically supported by the coding and modulation functions of the physical layer . As used herein, signaling refers to the transmission of control information, but may be extended to include data information or other information transmitted as messages in a communications system.","For an HDR system, the MAC layer  includes scheduling capabilities to balance users or connections. Such balancing typically schedules low throughput for channels with poor coverage, thus freeing up resources allowing high throughput for channels with good connections. The next layer, the Link Access Control, LAC, layer , provides an access procedure for higher layer applications. In alternate architectures, a radio link, the Radio Link Protocol, RLP, layer (not shown) may provide retransmission and duplicate detection for an octet-aligned data stream in place of or in parallel with the LAG layer . In the context of a packet service, the LAG layer  carries Point-to-Point Protocol, PPP, packets. The High Level Data Link Control HDLC layer  is a link layer for PPP and Multi-Link PPP (ML-PPP) communications. Control information is placed in specific patterns, which are dramatically different from the data in order to reduce errors. The HDLG layer  performs framing of the data prior to PPP processing. The PPP layer  then provides compression, authentication, encryption and multi-protocol support. The Internet Protocol, IP, layer  keeps track of Internet work addressing for different nodes, routes outgoing messages, and recognizes incoming messages.","For an HDR system, the MAC layer  includes scheduling capabilities to balance users or connections. Such balancing typically schedules low throughput for channels with poor coverage, thus freeing up resources allowing high throughput for channels with good connections. The next layer, the Link Access Control, LAC, layer , provides an access procedure for higher layer applications. In alternate architectures, a radio link, the Radio Link Protocol, RLP, layer (not shown) may provide retransmission and duplicate detection for an octet-aligned data stream in place of or in parallel with the LAC layer . In the context of a packet service, the LAC layer  carries Point-to-Point Protocol, PPP, packets. The High Level Data Link Control HDLC layer  is a link layer for PPP and Multi-Link PPP (ML-PPP) communications. Control information is placed in specific patterns, which are dramatically different from the data in order to reduce errors. The HDLC layer  performs framing of the data prior to PPP processing. The PPP layer  then provides compression, authentication, encryption and multi-protocol support. The Internet Protocol, IP, layer  keeps track of Internet work addressing for different nodes, routes outgoing messages, and recognizes incoming messages.","Protocols running on top of PPP, such as IP layer , carry user traffic. Note that each of these layers may contain one or more protocols. Protocols use signaling messages and\/or headers to convey information to a peer entity on the other side of the air-interface. For example, in a High Data Rate, HDR, system, protocols send messages with a default signaling application.","The architecture  is applicable to an Access Network, AN, for providing data connectivity between an IP network, such as the Internet, and access terminals, including wireless mobile units. Access Terminals, ATs, provide data connectivity to a user. An AT may be connected to a computing device such as a laptop personal computer or may be a self-contained data device such as a personal digital assistant. There are a variety of wireless applications and an ever-increasing number of devices, often referred to as LP appliances or web appliances. As illustrated in , layers above the LAC layer  are service network layers and layers below the HDLC layer  are radio network layers. In other words, the radio network layers affect the air-interface protocols. The radio network layers of the exemplary embodiment implement the \u201cTL80-54421-1 HDR Air Interface Specification\u201d referred to as \u201cthe HAI specification.\u201d The HAI specification is sometimes referred to as \u201c1\u00d7EVDO.\u201d HDR generally provides an efficient method of transmitting data in a wireless communication system. Alternate embodiments may implement the \u201cTIA\/EIA\/IS-2000 Standards for cdma2000 Spread Spectrum Systems\u201d referred to as \u201cthe cdma2000 standard,\u201d the \u201cTIA\/EIA\/IS-95 Mobile Station-Base Station Compatibility Standard for Dual-Mode Wideband Spread Spectrum Cellular System,\u201d hereinafter referred to as \u201cthe IS-95 standard,\u201d or other per-user connection systems, such as the \u201cANSI J-STD-01 Draft Standard for W-CDMA (Wideband Code Division Multiple Access) Air Interface Compatibility Standard for 1.85 to 1.99 GHz PCS Applications\u201d referred to as \u201cW-CDMA.\u201d","The use of a multiple access system for voice and data transmissions is disclosed in the following U.S. patents:","U.S. Pat. No. 4,901,307, entitled \u201cSPREAD SPECTRUM MULTIPLE ACCESS COMMUNICATION SYSTEM USING SATELLITE OR TERRESTRIAL REPEATERS;\u201d","U.S. Pat. No. 5,103,459, entitled \u201cSYSTEM AND METHOD FOR GENERATING WAVEFORMS IN A CDMA CELLULAR TELEPHONE SYSTEM;\u201d",{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00052","num":"00052"},"figref":"FIGS. 5A and 3B","b":["116","200","202","204","206","208","210","202","204","206","208","210"]},"The message  is transmitted in a number of fragments, labeled as 1, 2, . . . , X as is shown in FIG. A. Each fragment  includes a Start Of Message, SOM, indicator , and an information portion . In one embodiment, the SOM is a one to indicate a first fragment in the message, and a zero to indicate successive fragments in the message. The MER of the message  is given in equation (1). The fragments are then provided to the MAC layer , which arranges the fragments into frames for transmission. The MAC layer  may add information to the fragments and may reorder the fragments for transmission. Each fragment  may correspond to a transmission frame. On receipt of the message at a receiver, if any fragment is lost, the entire message is retransmitted. A lost fragment is typically referred to as an erasure, wherein the receiver receives signal energy but is unable to process and\/or decode the information. If a portion of a message is lost, the entire message may be considered lost if the receiver is not able to process the message without the lost portion. The lost portion may be referred to as an erasure or a missing portion.","The risk of losing a message, i.e., MER, increases with the length of the message. As the message length increases, the number of frames required for transmission of the message increases. As the loss of one frame will result in the loss of the entire message, the risk of losing the message is affected by the number of frames per message. Additionally, for a constant length message, increases in the FER directly impacts the MER as given in equation (1).",{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00055","num":"00055"},"figref":"FIGS. 3A and 3B","b":["116","200","202","204","206","208","210","202","204","206","208","210"]},"The message  is transmitted in a number of fragments, labeled as 1, 2, . . . , X as is shown in FIG. A. Each fragment  includes a Start Of Message, SOM, indicator , and an information portion . In one embodiment, the SOM is a one to indicate a first fragment in the message, and a zero to indicate successive fragments in the message. The MER of the message  is given in equation (1). The fragments are then provided to the MAC layer , which arranges the fragments into frames for transmission. The MAC layer  may add information to the fragments and may reorder the fragments for transmission. Each fragment  may correspond to a transmission frame. On receipt of the message at a receiver, if any fragment is lost, the entire message is retransmitted. A lost fragment is typically referred to as an erasure, wherein the receiver receives signal energy but is unable to process and\/or decode the information. If a portion of a message is lost, the entire message may be considered lost if the receiver is not able to process the message without the lost portion. The lost portion may be referred to as an erasure or a missing portion.","In one system, when the receiver receives a message and is able to decode and process the message, the receiver acknowledges the receipt of the message by transmission of an Acknowledgement, ACK, message. If the message is lost, the receiver does not respond to the transmitter. The transmitter waits for receipt of the ACK message from the target recipient. If the ACK message is not received at the transmitter within a predetermined wait time period, the transmitter retransmits the message. The transmitter has little or no information as to the lost portion(s) of the message.","The retransmission of a message on the loss of only a portion, or fragment, of the message and upon the expiration of a wait time incurs delay time to the receiver and consumes transmission bandwidth of the transmitter. To provide retransmission of the lost portion(s) or fragment(s) an exemplary embodiment of the present invention provides a method of message segmentation, illustrated in , that separates the message  into multiple segments . Each of the segments  is assigned a unique identifier. The first segment of the message is further identified by a Start Segment, SS, indicator. The last segment of the message is identified by an End Segment, ES, indicator. The segmentation process is defined as segmenting a given message into multiple parts. The multiple segments  may have varying lengths. The determination of the length of each of the segments  may be based on a channel quality estimate, or other criteria specific to a given communication system. The determination of the length of segments balances efficiency and performance. Shorter segment length incurs a greater total number of segments for the same message. Shorter segment length provides increased reliability and thus enhanced performance. A large total number of segments incur processing and storage overhead that reduce efficiency, e.g., generation of transmission of more segment parameter bits to identify the multiple segments. Ideally a system will optimize performance while maintaining low overhead.","As illustrated in , message  is segmented into K segments. Each of the K segments is then further divided into X fragments. According to the exemplary embodiment, the number of fragments X is variable for each of the segments . Alternate embodiments may specify a constant number X of fragments per segment within a given message. The determination of the length of each of the fragments  as well as the number of fragments X is determined by parameters of the physical layer  and the MAC layer . As illustrated in , SEGMENT  of segments  is divided into X fragments . The fragments  are then provided to the MAC layer  for transmission via multiple transmission frames (not shown).","As discussed hereinabove, each of the K segments  is segmented into X fragments, wherein the total number of fragments n is given as:\n\n\u2003\u2003(2) \n\nIn the exemplary embodiment, the total number of fragments is equal to the total number of frames generated by the MAC layer  for transmission on the physical layer , while alternate embodiments may provide the total number of fragments as a function of the total number of frames. The resultant message error is defined as a function of the Segment Error Rate, SER, as:\n\n1\u2212(1),\u2003\u2003(3) \n\nwherein the SER is defined as:\n\n1\u2212(1).\u2003\u2003(4) \n","As illustrated in , the X fragments  include fragments , , , and , wherein each fragment , , , and  includes a portion of message  and an SI. In the embodiment of , the system supports message segmentation as defined by the protocol of FIG. A. However for the example transmission message segmentation is inactive. For active segmentation, segment retransmission requests are supported. In other words, the receiver may request a retransmission of a segment or portion of the transmitted message. For inactive segmentation, segment retransmission requests are not supported. The receiver may request retransmission of the entire message, but not a smaller unit thereof.","In the embodiment of , each SI includes three bits. The significance of the SI bits is illustrated in . As illustrated in , the first bit of the SI, labeled SI, indicates whether segmentation is active or inactive, wherein a high logic value indicates segmentation is active, else segmentation is inactive. The second bit of the SI, labeled SI, identifies a segment start, wherein a high logic value indicates the start of a segment. The third bit of the SI, labeled SI, indicates a segment end, wherein a high logic value indicates the end of a segment. The significance of various bit combinations is provided in the table of FIG. C. Alternate embodiments may use any number of bits each having a predetermined significance. Additionally, alternate embodiments may implement an alternate polarity scheme for the SI bits.","Each of the X fragments (of fragments ) corresponds to a transmission frame of frames  for a total number of X frames per segment message. Each frame is referred to as containing a Service Data Unit, SDU. Each of the fragments  includes a Segment Identifier, SI, value appended as a prefix to a portion of the message . The fragment identifier is determined sequentially. Alternate embodiments may implement other methods of assigning identifiers to frames and segments. The identification is used to reconstruct the message at the receiver. Similarly, alternate embodiments may append the SI at the end of the segment information or may integrate the SI information with the segment information. In each of these embodiments, when the organization of the frame is known at the receiver, the receiver is then able to reconstruct the message accordingly.","As illustrated in , the X fragments  include fragments , , , and , wherein each fragment , , , and  includes a portion of message  and an SI. In the embodiment of , the system supports message segmentation as defined by the protocol of FIG. A. However for the example transmission message segmentation is inactive. For active segmentation, segment retransmission requests are supported. In other words, the receiver may request a retransmission of a segment or portion of the transmitted message. For inactive segmentation, segment retransmission requests are not supported. The receiver may request retransmission of the entire message, but not a smaller unit thereof.","In the embodiment of , each SI includes three bits. The significance of the SI bits is illustrated in . As illustrated in , the first bit of the SI, labeled SI, indicates whether segmentation is active or inactive, wherein a high logic value indicates segmentation is active, else segmentation is inactive. The second bit of the SI, labeled SI, identifies a segment start, wherein a high logic value indicates the start of a segment. The third bit of the SI, labeled SI, indicates a segment end, wherein a high logic value indicates the end of a segment. The significance of various bit combinations is provided in the table of FIG. C. Alternate embodiments may use any number of bits each having a predetermined significance. Additionally, alternate embodiments may implement an alternate polarity scheme for the SI bits.","Continuing with , the first fragment  (of fragments ) includes a segment identifier portion, SI , appended to a message portion MSG. The frame  is the first fragment in the transmission of message , and therefore the SI  is designated as 010, wherein SI=0, SI=1, and SI=0. As segmentation is inactive for this example, the second bit, SI, may be used to identify the start of the message, and the third bit, SI, may be used to identify the end of the message. The next fragment  includes SI portion  and information portion . The SI  indicates a middle transmission fragment. As last fragment  includes SI portion  and information portion . The SI  indicates an end of segment, or message.","Each of the fragments  corresponds to an SDU  generated by the MAC layer . Specifically, as illustrated, fragment  corresponds to SDU , fragment  corresponds to SDU , fragment  corresponds to SDU , and fragment  corresponds to SDU . The SDUs  corresponds to transmission frames sent over the physical layer .","Continuing with , SI  indicates segmentation inactive for this transmission. Even though segmentation is inactive, the message  is divided to form fragments  resulting in SDUs . SDUs  are modulated and transmitted. In one embodiment, an error checking mechanism is also applied to the SDUs . As the frames are received at the receiver, the error checking is evaluated to find frame errors. On detection of a frame error, the receiver is not able to request a particular segment for retransmission as segmentation is inactive. Instead the receiver will request retransmission of the entire message . As discussed hereinbelow, and particularly with respect to , when segmentation is active, the receiver is provided sufficient information to request the segment in which a frame error was detected. In this way, bandwidth is conserved and transaction time is reduced.",{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00074","num":"00074"},"figref":"FIGS. 5D and 5E","sub":["1","2"],"b":"5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00075","num":"00075"},"figref":"FIG. 6","b":["400","402","404","412","414","414","416","418","420","402"]},"Returning to decision diamond , if message segmentation is inactive, processing continues to step  to divide the message into X portions. An SI is appended to each message portion to form a fragment at step . The fragments are then passed to the MAC layer at step . Processing returns to step  to process a next message.","At the receiver, the SI bits are extracted from the received fragment to determine processing of a transmitted message.  illustrate a method  of processing a transmitted segmented message at the receiver. The receiver receives a transmitted frame at step . The receiver determines if segmentation is active by evaluating the SI bits included in the frame. If segmentation is active processing continues to step  to process the fragment contained in the frame. Processing of the fragment is further detailed in FIG. B. The process then determines from the SI bits if the frame is a start of segment at decision diamond . If the frame is a start of segment, the receiver stores the information portion of the fragment in a memory storage buffer at step . Processing then returns to step  to receive a next frame.","Returning to decision diamond , if the received frame is not a start of segment, the receiver determines if the frame is an end of segment based on the SI bits at decision diamond . If the received frame is not an end of segment, the receiver stores the information from the fragment into the buffer and processing returns to step . If the frame is the end of a segment, the receiver reconstructs the segment and places the segment in order at step . If this segment completes a message at decision diamond , the receiver checks for missing segments at decision diamond . If there are no missing segments processing continues to step  to reconstruct the message. If missing segments are determined at decision diamond , the receiver sends a Negative Acknowledge, NACK, message at step  and processing returns to step . If the segment is not the end of the message at decision diamond , processing returns to step .","If segmentation is not active at decision diamond , processing continues to step  to process the fragment. Processing of the fragment is further detailed in FIG. B. The receiver then stores the information contained in the fragment into a memory storage buffer at step . The receiver determines if the frame marks the end of a message at decision diamond . If the receiver does not detect a message end, processing returns to step  to process a next frame. If the receiver detects a message end the message is reconstructed at step . The receiver then checks for errors in the message at decision diamond . On detection of an error, the receiver discards the message at step  and processing returns to step . If no error is detected in the message, the receiver delivers the message at step  to the corresponding application or service. The receiver sends an ACK message at step  and processing returns to step .","A portion of the processing of a fragment, as contained in a frame, is further detailed in FIG. B. The method  illustrates processing of a fragment in a wireless communication system supporting message segmentation. If the fragment is a start of segment, the receiver determines if the storage buffer is empty at step . If the buffer is not empty the method  flushes the buffer and stores the information from the received frame in the buffer at step . If the buffer is empty, the process stores the information in the buffer at step . If the fragment is not a start of segment, the receiver checks the status of the buffer at decision diamond . If the buffer is empty the receiver discards the received frame at step . For example, if the start of segment fragment is lost, the receiver will not process the remainder of the segment. If the buffer is not empty the information from the frame is stored in the buffer at step .","In comparison to ,  illustrates a message transmission with segmentation, wherein a segment retransmission is requested and completed. The transmitter transmits the message from time t1, and the receiver receives the message from time t2 to t3. A NAK message is sent from time t3 to t10, wherein the NAK identifies the missing segment of the transmitted message. The transmitter receives the NAK at time t11 and retransmits the segment, designated as SGM, at time t12. At time t14 the receiver receives the retransmitted segment, and sends an ACK at time t15. The transmitter receives the ACK from time t17 to t18. The retransmission of a segment or portion of a message reduces the latency of the entire message transmission and frees up transmitter resources for other transmissions. As illustrated, the segmented message transmission provides a reduction in the total transaction time.","Message segmentation allows retransmission of a portion of the message avoiding the time delays and resource allocation required by full retransmission of the entire message. A comparison of a method of message transmission without segmentation and a method of message transmission with segmentation is provided in .",{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00083","num":"00083"},"figref":"FIG. 9A"},"In comparison to ,  illustrates a message transmission with segmentation, wherein a segment retransmission is requested and completed. The transmitter transmits the message from time t1, and the receiver receives the message from time t2 to t3. A NAK message is sent from time t3 to t10, wherein the NAK identifies the missing segment of the transmitted message. The transmitter receives the NAK at time t11 and retransmits the segment, designated as SGM, at time t12. At time t14 the receiver receives the retransmitted segment, and sends an ACK at time t15. The transmitter receives the ACK from time t17 to t18. The retransmission of a segment or portion of a message reduces the latency of the entire message transmission and frees up transmitter resources for other transmissions. As illustrated, the segmented message transmission provides a reduction in the total transaction time.","A transmitter  is illustrated in  supporting segmented message transmission. A control processor  is coupled to a communication bus. The control processor  controls operation of a message generator . The message generator  provides a control and\/or signaling message, or other short duration message, for transmission to a segmentation unit . When segmentation is active, the segmentation unit segments the message and adds a segment parameter to each segment. The segmentation unit  further divides each of combination of SP and segment into fragments. The segmentation unit  determines a Segment Identifier, SI, applicable to each segment. The fragments are then modified to include the appropriate SI. The segmentation unit  provides the multiple modified fragments to a framing unit  where transmission frames are prepared. An error check generator  applies an error checking mechanism to the transmission frames. The transmitter  further includes a modulation unit  and a transmission unit  coupled to an antenna . The transmitter  further includes a buffer  for storing the message or portions of a message in preparation for transmission.","A receiver  is illustrated in  supporting segmented message transmission. The receiver  includes a control processor  coupled to a communication bus. Frames are received at antenna  and processed by receive unit . A demodulation unit  demodulates the received frames and error check unit  checks for transmission errors. A deframing unit  extracts the individual fragments from the received frames. Segment extract unit  determines the segments of each fragment and determines the ordering of the segments based on the SI and SP information. The message is reconstructed by placing the segments in order in the message reconstruct unit . If the received message has no missing segments, the message is then passed to higher layer applications in the receiver . If the received message has a missing segment(s), the receiver  requests retransmission of the missing segment(s).","In the example of , the first two frames are received and the next two frames are not. An erasure is received at time t3, and a first timer is started in response. A second erasure is received at time t17 prior to expiration of the first timer. The first timer is reset, and a second timer is started at time t17, wherein the timer period for expiration of the second timer is a function of the first timer value. Again, when any timer expires, the receiver is able to identify the last received erasure as an end of segment. Calculation of the number of erasures allows the receiver to calculate the number of frames per segment.","Continuing with method  of , if a frame is received at decision diamond , the information from the frame is stored in a memory storage buffer at step . The receiver updates an average inter-arrival time of segments referred to as AIT at step . At step  the receiver resets a timer i. At decision diamond , if the frame was the end of a segment, processing continues to step  to check for errors. If no segment errors are found the segment is processed as part of the message at step . If an error is found, the receiver requests a retransmission at step . If the frame was not the end of a segment at decision diamond , the index value i is incremented at step  and processing continues to decision diamond  to wait for a next frame. If no frame is received at decision diamond , the receiver checks for an erasure at step . An erasure is a message received that the receiver cannot process, such as due to a transmission error. If an erasure is received, the timer i is reset and a second timer i+1 is started. Processing then continues to step  to increment the index. If no erasure is found at decision diamond  the receiver checks for errors at decision diamond . If the timer i has not expired at decision diamond  processing returns to decision diamond  to wait for a next frame. If the timer has expired, the ordering of segments reflects the cumulative erasures.",{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00089","num":"00089"},"figref":["FIGS. 13A and 13B","FIG. 13A"]},"In the example of , the first two frames are received and the next two frames are not. An erasure is received at time t3, and a first timer is started in response. A second erasure is received at time t17 prior to expiration of the first timer. The first timer is reset, and a second timer is started at time t17, wherein the timer period for expiration of the second timer is a function of the first timer value. Again, when any timer expires, the receiver is able to identify the last received erasure as an end of segment. Calculation of the number of erasures allows the receiver to calculate the number of frames per segment.","Thus a variety of methods have been illustrated hereinabove for transmitting segmented messages in a wireless system. Each method finds application according to the design and resource requirements of a given system. While the various embodiments have been described with reference to a CDMA type spread spectrum communication system, the concepts are applicable to alternate spread spectrum type systems, as well as other type communication systems. The methods and algorithms presented hereinabove may be implemented in hardware, software, firmware, or a combination thereof. For example, the equations may be solved in software or using a Digital Signal Processor, DSP, to perform the calculations. Similarly, the adaptive algorithms may be implemented in software in the form of computer readable instructions stored on a computer readable medium. A Central Processing Unit, such as a DSP core, operates to perform the instructions and provide signal estimates in response. Alternate embodiments may implement hardware, such as an Application Specific Integrated Circuit, ASIC, where feasible.","According to an alternate embodiment, a method of using multiple timers to identify an end of segment or end of message (such as illustrated in ) is applicable to a Transport Communication Protocol, TCP, wherein the TCP protocol defines an end of message as a FIN field. The timers described hereinabove with details provided in equations (5) and (6), identify an end of message and any intervening missing segments and\/or fragments, thus avoiding the loss of an end of message in a transmission. Alternate embodiments may apply implementation of a timing mechanism to determine missing portions of a transmission, wherein multiple timing mechanisms may be implemented.","As disclosed hereinabove, a method for segmented message transmission is provided. Each message is first segmented and then the segments are fragmented. A segment parameter is applied to each segment, and a segment identifier to each fragment. The fragments are provided to a lower level for preparation into frames for transmission. The exemplary embodiment may be applied to the transmission of short duration messages, such as control messages, etc.","Thus a variety of methods have been illustrated hereinabove for transmitting segmented messages in a wireless system. Each method finds application according to the design and resource requirements of a given system. While the various embodiments have been described with reference to a CDMA type spread spectrum communication system, the concepts are applicable to alternate spread spectrum type systems, as well as other type communication systems. The methods and algorithms presented hereinabove may be implemented in hardware, software, firmware, or a combination thereof. For example, the equations may be solved in software or using a Digital Signal Processor, DSP, to perform the calculations. Similarly, the adaptive algorithms may be implemented in software in the form of computer readable instructions stored on a computer readable medium. A Central Processing Unit, such as a DSP core, operates to perform the instructions and provide signal estimates in response. Alternate embodiments may implement hardware, such as an Application Specific Integrated Circuit, ASIC, where feasible.","Those of skill in the art would understand that information and signals may be represented using any of a variety of different technologies and techniques. For example, data, instructions, commands, information, signals, bits, symbols, and chips that may be referenced throughout the above description may be represented by voltages, currents, electromagnetic waves, magnetic fields or particles, optical fields or particles, or any combination thereof.","Those of skill would further appreciate that the various illustrative logical blocks, modules, circuits, and algorithm steps described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented as electronic hardware, computer software, or combinations of both. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software, various illustrative components, blocks, modules, circuits, and steps have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. Skilled artisans may implement the described functionality in varying ways for each particular application, but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of the present invention.","The various illustrative logical blocks, modules, and circuits described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor, a digital signal processor (DSP), an application specific integrated circuit (ASIC), a field programmable gate array (FPGA) or other programmable logic device, discrete gate or transistor logic, discrete hardware components, or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor, but in the alternative, the processor may be any conventional processor, controller, microcontroller, or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices, e.g., a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor, a plurality of microprocessors, one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core, or any other such configuration.","The steps of a method or algorithm described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware, in a software module executed by a processor, or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory, flash memory, ROM memory, EPROM memory, EEPROM memory, registers, hard disk, a removable disk, a CD-ROM, or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium is coupled to the processor such the processor can read information from, and write information to, the storage medium. In the alternative, the storage medium may be an integral part of the processor. The processor and the storage medium may reside in an ASIC. The ASIC may reside in a user terminal. In the alternative, the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a user terminal.","The previous description of the disclosed embodiments is provided to enable any person skilled in the art to make or use the present invention. Various modifications to these embodiments will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art, and the generic principles defined herein may be applied to other embodiments without departing from the spirit or scope of the invention. Thus, the present invention is not intended to be limited to the embodiments shown herein but is to be accorded the widest scope consistent with the principles and novel features disclosed herein."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00011","num":"00011"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00012","num":"00012"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00013","num":"00013"},"figref":"FIG. 3A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00014","num":"00014"},"figref":"FIG. 3B","b":"3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00015","num":"00015"},"figref":"FIG. 4A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00016","num":"00016"},"figref":"FIG. 4B","b":"4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00017","num":"00017"},"figref":"FIG. 5A","b":"4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00018","num":"00018"},"figref":"FIG. 5B","b":"5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00019","num":"00019"},"figref":"FIG. 5C","b":"5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00020","num":"00020"},"figref":"FIG. 5D","b":"5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00021","num":"00021"},"figref":"FIG. 5E","b":"5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00022","num":"00022"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00023","num":"00023"},"figref":"FIGS. 7A and 7B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00024","num":"00024"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00025","num":"00025"},"figref":"FIG. 9A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00026","num":"00026"},"figref":"FIG. 9B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00027","num":"00027"},"figref":"FIG. 10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00028","num":"00028"},"figref":"FIG. 11"},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00029","num":"00029"},"figref":"FIG. 12"},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00030","num":"00030"},"figref":"FIGS. 13A and 13B"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
