---
title: System and method of tracking bill payment methods
abstract: A system and method of tracking bill payment methods which stores details about payment to develop promotions. The system includes a touch screen, keyboard, or other device for recording customer identification information. A display displays payment method options based upon the customer identification information. A touch screen or keyboard for records bill payer selection of one of the payment options. A cash acceptor, check reader, or card reader receives payment in accordance with the one payment option. Finally, a processor determines predetermined details about the payment and stores the details.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07437324&OS=07437324&RS=07437324
owner: NCR Corporation
number: 07437324
owner_city: Dayton
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20010910
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENT"],"p":["The present invention relates to self-service kiosks and more specifically to a system and method of tracking bill payment methods.","Kiosks provide a publicly accessible computing platform for displaying web pages and other web-delivered content from web sites. Kiosks may be located within a retailer's transaction establishment or elsewhere, such as in shopping malls. Kiosks may be easily networked to web sites using the TCP\/IP protocol. Web pages from web sites may be displayed using known and available web software, such as Microsoft\u00ae Internet Explorer software.","Customers seek an effective way to pay bills. Bill providers wish to know how customers prefer to pay their bills, to support marketing to customers. Therefore, it would be desirable to provide a system and method of tracking bill payment methods.","In accordance with the teachings of the present invention, a system and method of tracking bill payment methods is provided.","The system includes a touch screen, keyboard, or other device for recording customer identification information. A display displays payment method options based upon the customer identification information. A touch screen or keyboard for records bill payer selection of one of the payment options. A cash acceptor, check reader, or card reader receives payment in accordance with the one payment option. Finally, a processor determines predetermined details about the payment and stores the details.","A method of tracking bill payment methods includes the steps of, recording customer identification information, displaying payment method options based upon the customer identification information, recording bill payer selection of one of the payment options, receiving payment in accordance with the one payment option, determining predetermined details about the payment, and storing the details.","The method may additionally include the step of analyzing the details to develop promotions from the details.","It is accordingly an object of the present invention to provide a system and method of tracking bill payment methods.","It is another object of the present invention to provide a system which can track cash payments, credit card payments, debit card payments, smart card payments, and check payments.","Turning now to , system  includes kiosk  and bill provider host systems . Kiosk  is preferably located in a bill provider's establishment or a public place. Kiosk  may include an NCR  computer.","Kiosk  primarily includes processor , touch screen , memory , and storage medium . Kiosk  additionally includes a number of peripherals, including card reader , printer , cash acceptor , cash dispenser , check reader , and personal identification number (PIN) keypad .","Processor  executes bill payment application , which records bill payer information, retrieves bill information from bill provider host systems , displays instructions for completing payment of bills to bill providers, records bill payment via card reader , cash acceptor , or check reader , and dispenses change through cash dispenser .","In order to take cash or check payments, bill payment application  must also provide balancing functions, just like a point-of-sale terminal. This helps the kiosk owner create its deposit slip and balance the kiosk.","Bill payment application  communicates with bill provider host systems  over a network connection, such as one which uses the TCP\/IP protocol. Kiosk  may be connected to the World Wide Web (web) and may obtain web content from web servers. Bill provider host systems  may be external web servers.","Bill payment application  interacts with each bill provider host system  through system-specific application programming interfaces (APIs) . APIs  include a different API for each bill provider host system.","Advantageously, use of multiple APIs allows a bill payer to use a single kiosk to pay bills from a plurality of bill providers through corresponding APIs. APIs  may be developed and provided by the bill providers or developed otherwise with system information provided by the bill providers.","Bill payment application  determines what messages need to be constructed and where they need to be sent. Following receipt of payment, bill payment application  sends a message to bill provider host system  containing the amount of the payment. Bill provider host system  credits the payment against the bill.","Processor  also executes payment method tracking software  for tracking bill payment methods. Payment method tracking software  tracks whether a customer pays by cash, check, or credit card. If the customer pays with cash, payment method tracking software  tracks bill denominations used by the customer, whether partial payments are made by the customer, and when payments are made by the customer. Within these categories, there are subcategories like, who uses all bills smaller than a five dollar bill, who always has one hundred dollar bills on them, who pays close to the bill due date, on the middle of the month, or on payday.","Payment method tracking software  stores data in payment method database . Using the data, payment method tracking software  determines whether there is any upsell potential for this customer. Payment method tracking software  can also determine whether changing the bill date would alter payment methods.","Payment method tracking software  may also pass the data in database  to bill provider host systems  so that systems  may analyze the data for marketing opportunities. Regardless of where the analysis is performed, kiosk  may alter billing schedules and display promotions based upon insights gleaned from the data.","Processor  may also execute web browser software  and web wrapper software .","Web browser software  allows an operator to display information in a format established by the World Wide Web (WWW or \u201cweb\u201d). Bill payment application  may be written as a web application which displays bill and payment information in the form of web pages , although bill payment application may also be a non-web application and operate without web browser software  and web wrapper software . Web pages  may be written using hypertext markup language (HTML) or other suitable web page language.","Web browser software  may include commercially available web browser software, such as Microsoft\u00ae Internet Explorer web browser software. Microsoft\u00ae Internet Explorer web browser software is configured into a kiosk operation using a \u201c\u2212k\u201d command line option. This option hides toolbars and menu bars to prevent operator access to those functions.","Web browser software  may also display a start or \u201chome\u201d page within web pages  which operates as a default page from which kiosk operation begins and to which operation returns when an operator is finished using kiosk . Web browser software  may also facilitate purchase of goods from retailers and may also serve to display advertisement when not in use.","Web wrapper software  provides security functions. During operation, web wrapper software  prevents an operator from accessing kiosk files, or other applications, or the operating system software, or basic input-output system (BIOS) firmware, and prevents the operator from causing kiosk  to reboot.","Touch screen  includes display  and input device . Display  and input device  may also be separate units. Input device  may record bill provider selection information from a bill payer.","Storage medium  stores web pages  for use by bill payment application  and other applications. Some of web pages  may be obtained from web servers. Storage medium  also stores payment method database .","Memory  is used by processor  to store executed program information.","Card reader  reads loyalty, credit, debit, SMART, and\/or other types of cards carried by a bill payer. Card reader  may record payment information from a bill payer.","Printer  prints receipt information.","Cash acceptor  accepts cash in multiple denominations.","Cash dispenser  dispenses change.","Check reader  reads checks and includes a magnetic ink character (MICR) reader. Check reader  also includes printer  for printing information on checks.","PIN keypad  records PIN numbers for debit card transactions.","Kiosk  may additionally include barcode reader , which may be used to scan barcode labels on bills. The barcode labels contain bill payer identification and account information.","Bill provider host system  receives payment information from kiosk , credits payments against the bills, and reports successful receipt of payment information back to bill payment application .","Turning now to , operation of tracking software  is illustrated in detail beginning with START .","In step , tracking software  receives customer identification information from kiosk . Kiosk  may obtain customer identification information through touch screen  and card reader . For example, customer identification information may be obtained from bill provider host system  in response to a card number or directly from an identification card. Other identification methods are also envisioned, such as biometric identification.","In step , tracking software  determines whether a tracking record in database  exists. If so, operation proceeds to step . Otherwise, operation proceeds to step .","In step , tracking software  creates a tracking record in database  and associates it with the customer identification information.","In step , tracking software  waits for payment method information. For example, tracking software  logs whether a customer pays by cash, check, or credit card. If the customer pays with cash, tracking software  tracks bill denominations and other detailed information.","During this time, host system  sends customer account information to bill payment application . Bill payment application  displays payment method options, including cash, credit card, debit card, smart card, or check. Bill payment application  records payment, updates the customer's account information at bill provider host system , and prints a receipt.","In step , tracking software  stores payment method information in the bill payer record in database .","Operation ends at step .","Tracking software  provides data analysis tools for kiosk owners to promote their products or services. Using the data, tracking software  determines whether there is any upsell potential for this customer.","Kiosk  may transfer database  to corresponding bill provider host networks  for additional analysis. Each bill provider host network  may use the information in database  to promote its products or services, or make bill paying easier.","Although the present invention has been described with particular reference to certain preferred embodiments thereof, variations and modifications of the present invention can be effected within the spirit and scope of the following claims."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["Additional benefits and advantages of the present invention will become apparent to those skilled in the art to which this invention relates from the subsequent description of the preferred embodiments and the appended claims, taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings, in which:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 2"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
