---
title: Custom content delivery for networked exercise equipment
abstract: Aspects of the present invention, provide customized content to a consumer on a network-enabled exercise device, include providing an exercise device having a display console, the exercise device being connected to a network, receiving user profile information associated with a consumer operating the exercise device, receiving content information identifying available content for display on the display console, the content information including selection criteria for selecting content to be displayed from the available content, selecting content for display to the consumer based on the content information and the user profile information; and presenting an impression of the selected content to the consumer on the display console.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=06971973&OS=06971973&RS=06971973
owner: Netpulse, LLC
number: 06971973
owner_city: Atherton
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20010524
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATION","TECHNICAL FIELD","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60\/206,841, filed on May 24, 2000, which is incorporated by reference herein.","This invention relates to exercise equipment and computer networking.","In the exercise industry, a relatively homogenous group of people frequent fitness centers and use exercise equipment. These people include fitness-minded individuals in the middle to upper income level with a concern about their health. Currently, there is not an effective way to tailor the marketing of products and services to these individuals based upon their common interest in fitness and frequent visits to the gym. Accordingly, fitness centers generate little or no marketing revenue for advertising additional products and services to their membership.","Conversely, the Internet provides a conduit for delivering marketing and other information however does not provide an efficient way to tie marketing information with a homogenous group of individuals. Unfortunately, many portals and other websites have attempted to do this without much success. The costs associated with large advertising campaigns on television, radio and even the Internet urging people to visit a website often exceed any revenue stream they could reasonably generate. In particular, there are no existing systems capable of tying together customers in the exercise industry with the power and direct marketing capabilities of the Internet.","Others have clearly failed to recognize the capabilities of using the Internet in the fitness industry and with fitness equipment. Specifically, U.S. Pat. No. 5,645,509 concerns controlling exercise equipment remotely and U.S. Pat. No. 5,984,839, merely aggregates existing functions on a computer connected to the Internet with an exercise bicycle.","In one aspect of the invention, a method for providing customized content to a consumer on a network-enabled exercise device, includes providing an exercise device having a display console, the exercise device being connected to a network, receiving user profile information associated with a consumer operating the exercise device, receiving content information identifying available content for display on the display console, the content information including selection criteria for selecting content to be displayed from the available content, selecting content for display to the consumer based on the content information and the user profile information; and presenting an impression of the selected content to the consumer on the display console.","Aspects of the invention provide at least one or more of the following advantages.","Users can enter personal information and automatically configure a list of content customized to their interests. This content is displayed on a display device associated with an exercise device and can be readily accessed. The user does not have to configure the user interface on the exercise device and can quickly receive information of interest such as reading favorite newspapers or reading about certain topics of particular interest. Customized content is also advantageous to parties advertising their products or services, providing e-commerce transactions, or engaging in other types of e-marketing events. These e-marketers can provide e-marketing campaigns specifying the qualities associated with the types of users they are trying to reach in the marketplace. The customized content delivery matches the e-marketing campaigns with the users meeting the specifications and delivers these tailored e-marketing campaigns to the display device associated with the exercise equipment. This improves the success rates of such e-marketing campaigns as the interests of the users are well-known and the e-marketers know the background and interests of their audience.","The details of one or more embodiments of the invention are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other features, objects, and advantages of the invention will be apparent from the description and drawings, and from the claims.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["111","111","102","104","106","108","102","104","106","102","110","102","108","111"]},"Alternatively, network local server  can be a dedicated router designed specifically to route packets between NEDs on local network  and network . NED local server  and NED local server  provide similar functionality for NEDs connected to local area network  and local area network  respectively.","NED regional server  is a clearinghouse for information generated by NEDs connected to NED local server , NED local server , and NED local server . For example, information transmitted from a NED connected to local area network  passes through NED local server  and network  for further processing by NED regional server . Information processed by NED regional server  is stored on NED database  for future reference. The processing performed by NED regional server  includes statistical analysis of information, tracking personal preferences and workout routines for individuals using the NEDs, managing delivery of content to NEDs, and optionally managing operation of NEDs remotely.","Information in NED database  is an integral component of system . NED database  includes raw information concerning a user's exercise activity as well as use of the Internet, television, advertisements, and electronic-commerce (e-commerce). In addition, it also includes statistical information such as demographics and psychographics describing the population of users exercising while accessing the Internet and other sources of information.","From a user's standpoint, Internet access enhances each exercise activity and provides additional information previously unavailable. For example, users can store their exercise history and engage in sophisticated training programs using a combination of software loaded on the NED and the Internet. Further, users can also engage in traditional functions available on the Internet and the World Wide Web such as gathering daily news from an on-line newspaper, reading emails, and listening to music, all while exercising on the NED.","Companies marketing products and services through the NED also gain additional efficiencies and benefits. These businesses have an immediate channel to market their goods and services to a captive audience with a well-known demographic makeup. By actively collecting information voluntarily from each user and passively through the exercise regimen each practices, future on-line behavior and spending patterns can be more readily predicted. Additionally, information collected while the users access the Internet can also be used to better understand their personal interests and hobbies. For example, NED regional server  can generate statistically significant correlations between users and their commercial preferences by tracking the web-sites they visit and the click-through hypertext links they access while exercising.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":["100","1","202","204","206","205","206","208","210","212","214","206","204","205","210","210"]},"The design of NED is modular and uses numerous commercially available off-the-shelf devices for ease of integration and cost effectiveness. Accordingly, I\/O ports  are programmed to communicate with conventional exercise device  and touch panel display  using interfaces accepted in the exercise device industry. For example, I\/O ports  communicate with exercise device  using standard physical serial interface protocols such as IEEE RS232 communications and other communication protocol such as the CSAFE communications standard typically used in the exercise device equipment industry. Touch-panel display  accepts input when user operates exercise device  and controls the various features on the exercise equipment. For example, touch-panel display  can be used to increase or decrease the resistance on a bicycle-type exercise device. It may also be used to control other aspects of exercise device  such as the duration of the session, the selection of a simulated terrain and\/or the difficulty level associated with operating the device. Alternate implementations can control the NED using other types of control devices in conjunction with or in lieu of touch panel display  such as a touch pad, a track ball, or voice activation.","Processor  can be a general-purpose processor such as a Pentium or X86 compatible processor developed by Intel Corporation of Santa Clara. Secondary storage  can be a disk drive, CD-ROM, or any other storage device used for long term storage of information. Network interface  provides access to a network such as the Internet through a variety of physical and logical network protocols including, for example, TCP\/IP and Novel NetWare.","Memory , I\/O ports , processor , secondary storage , and network interface  can be packaged in a standard form-factor such as a personal computer and integrated with existing exercise device  and touch panel display  or other control devices as discussed above. This modular approach of integrating existing exercise equipment with a computer provides a cost-effective and reliable platform for accessing a large network such as the Internet. Alternatively, these various components can be integrated into a customized exercise device. For example, components such processor , secondary storage , network interface , can be integrated into an existing printed circuit board design already in use on existing exercise devices. This design integrated design is particularly useful if large volumes of the NEDs are manufactured.","When a user operates the NED, a variety of processes execute in memory  including a graphical user interface (GUI) module , exercise equipment applications , a data collection module , an electronic commerce and security module , a reliability module , a content manager module , and a run-time environment . GUI module  provides a specially designed user interface for the user to control a NED during exercise and access content-rich information on a network such as the Internet. GUI module  includes features specially designed to operate with touch-panel display  while a user is engaged in cardiovascular exercise. As will be discussed in further detail below, GUI module  facilitates easy access to the Internet and associated websites by enhancing hypertext links, Internet browser controls, and other selectable content. For example, GUI module  facilitates easier control of exercise device  through touch panel display  by adjusting the size and location of the control buttons.","Exercise equipment applications  include a variety of applications. These applications can be used by a user operating the NED, an exercise facility providing access to one or more NEDs, or a NED service provider company managing personal information on users and generating demographic information through NED regional server . These exercise equipment applications  include providing users with database applications for storing their workout histories as well as suggesting specific workout programs for their particular exercise needs. Users can also utilize exercise equipment applications  to manage their access to the Internet and engage in e-commerce transactions. For example, exercise equipment applications  can seek out websites and other locations on the Internet with information tailored to a person's specific interests such as a schedule of sporting events or new techniques for improving one's performance in various athletic events.","Exercise equipment applications  can also be used in conjunction with systems for managing operations and membership activities at a health club facility where the NED is installed. These applications can gather information on exercise devices to assist health club personnel to determine when to perform maintenance, whether to purchase additional exercise devices, and what types and quantity of additional exercise devices to purchase. The applications can also be used to transmit special messages from the health club to a specific user such as payment of dues, marketing of membership bonus programs currently available, or other specific communications.","Data collection module  includes a set of routines that gather real time information from exercise device  related to a user's exercise regimen as well as information on Internet access. Routines in data collection module  provide an application programming interface (API) for exercise equipment applications  and generate information suitable for transmission over bus  through network interface . For example, this can include opening specific TCP\/IP ports over the Internet to transmit data as well as packaging information into objects compatible with an object-oriented program language such as Java. In one implementation, data collection module  includes client and server routines that execute on NEDs and servers such as NED local server  and NED regional server  respectively.","Electronic commerce and security module  provides routines useful in transacting business over the Internet and securing the corresponding information with suitable encryption safeguards. These routines include obtaining keys for public-private key encryption as well as controlling the download of software from trusted sources on the Internet. This module also includes order forms for gathering personal information useful in electronic commerce such as name, shipping address, credit card information, and purchase order information and transporting the gathered information using security mechanisms like secure-socket layer (SSL).","Reliability module  simplifies managing a large number of NEDs connected to a network. Routines in reliability module  gather usage information on an NED to schedule preventative maintenance on the NED and troubleshoot problems as they arise. In addition, reliability module  also includes specialized routines that monitor operation of the NED and reset the NED as appropriate. Additional information on resetting the NED is discussed in further detail below.","Content manager module  determines what content is displayed on touch panel display  to the user. Content includes text, images, and multimedia information that may be of interest to the user. Using various processes described below, content can be selectively displayed according to personal characteristics of a user and marketing criteria outlined by vendors of specific products or services. Content manager module  also controls the download of multi-media files over network  through network interface  for storage on a database located on secondary storage .","Run-time environment  manages various resources on the NED to execute modules in memory  and control operation of exercise device . Accordingly, run-time environment  can be a real-time operating system or a traditional general-purpose operating system such as MS-DOS, Windows, or UNIX.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0041","num":"0040"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},"In this business model, supplier  invests in the equipment, infrastructure and services required to integrate and connect exercise equipment to the network as NEDs. Netpulse Commuications, Inc. of San Francisco, Calif. is one company that operates as supplier  and supplies the equipment, infrastructure and services required to establish NEDs in various fitness centers throughout numerous geographic regions. Supplier  can also include a company that manufactures exercise equipment already equipped with processors and network connectivity for accessing the Internet.","This business model is a \u201csponsor media customer model\u201d because network sponsorship money raised through e-marketing offsets the capital investment necessary to purchase, integrate, and\/or manufacture NEDs. In one implementation, supplier  supplies equipment infrastructure to fitness center  priced according to the estimated usage by users . Fitness center  attracts and retains additional users  to its facility by providing exercise equipment having Internet access (NEDs) and value-added applications for use with the NEDs. By attracting and retaining additional users , the fitness centers generate additional revenue. Further, the NEDs can also be used to justify the higher dues in more upscale centers even though the center does not specifically charge for their usage.","In return, fitness center  allows e-marketers to provide e-marketing to users . For example, fitness center  allow the display of sponsorship information, advertising, and direct marketing campaigns on the NEDs used by users  in their facilities. As e-marketing revenue  increases, those parties providing exercise equipment network infrastructure such as Netpulse Communications, Inc. offset the equipment costs and begin generating profits. If fitness center  meets or exceeds estimated user usage levels, it may also obtain larger rebates on the equipment or, in some cases, share in the e-marketing revenue received by exercise equipment supplier .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0045","num":"0044"},"figref":"FIGS. 4A and 4B"},"A usage pricing method as described herein is one of the many exercise equipment applications  depicted in FIG. . In , usage pricing method  receives usage information (step ). In one implementation, each fitness center gathers specific usage information manually by gathering statistical information on either, its overall facility such as total members, total exercise equipment and total member visits per day, or its specific fitness members' typical exercise regimen or by surveying the user population at the fitness center. This type of information can be gathered by the fitness center on a regular basis such as daily, monthly, bi-annually, annually, or as deemed necessary by the parties involved. This information on actual usage is provided to supplier  and used directly to determine the price of the NED. The price of the NED can include the periodic service fee charged to the fitness center operating the exercise equipment as well as any purchase costs associated with purchasing the NED.","Another implementation uses the Internet and the World Wide Web to collect data from fitness centers. Using a customized survey available on the web, operators of fitness centers provide statistical information on the fitness center described above and request a corresponding quote for the NEDs. This statistical information is processed by a computer program that automatically determines pricing information for the NEDs as described in further detail below.","In another implementation, the usage level of the exercise equipment is estimated from prior usage information, information related to the members using the NED and the operation of the facility and specific exercise equipment. Prior usage information from the fitness center is gathered, for example from a survey on the Internet, to determine if there is an increasing trend or a decreasing trend in the future usage of the NED. Future usage levels are predicted by combining either the fitness facility's data with a historical model based on other NED installations, or demographic trend information with statistical information about the members using the exercise equipment in the facility. The statistical information relates to age, sex, weight, education, income level, and geographic location. For example, increasing usage levels of the NED in the fitness center combined with an increase in the number of females in the fitness center can be used to estimate the future actual usage levels of the NED over time. In general, the predictive power of this approach depends not only on the accuracy of the information but the appropriateness of the model used to process and interpret the information.","Usage levels of the NED can also be predicted by periodically measuring and generating a set of metrics from the statistical information. These metrics corresponding to information such as age, sex, weight, education, income level, and geographic location can be used to estimate usage. Other metrics can also be included if they are useful in identifying future users of the exercise equipment and a frequency in which they are likely to exercise.","Alternatively, usage information can also be gathered in real-time by monitoring the NEDs installed in each fitness center and collecting the information in a central location such as NED regional server . Real-time collection of usage information has the advantages of being accurate without requiring additional work from the fitness center. It also provides objective information on the usage of the NED. The usage information includes statistical information related to the operation of both the overall exercise facility and the specific exercise equipment in the facility. If the facility does not already have NEDs installed, usage information related to conventional exercise equipment can be utilized and extrapolated for estimating usage of the NEDs.","To determine how much the NED is to be discounted, usage pricing method  compares the usage with one or more threshold values (step ). If usage does not exceed a first threshold value (step ) then a fitness center may be charged the highest service fee rate above the base rate in the pricing schedule (step ). However, if the usage exceeds a first threshold value but does not exceed a second threshold value (step ) then the fitness centers may be charged only a higher service fee above the base rate (step ). Finally, if the usage exceeds a second threshold value but does not exceed a third threshold value (step ) then the fitness center will be charged a base rate with no service fee (step ). Finally, if the usage exceeds a third threshold value (step ) the fitness center will not be charged either a base rate or service fee for the NED (step ).","Threshold values used to compare against usage information include a frequency the users operate an exercise device; the duration or length of time the user operates the exercise equipment; the frequency a user views e-marketing content, and the absolute number of users using the NED. For example, the viewing frequency threshold can be compared with the frequency a user views e-marketing content on the display device of the NED while exercising.","Fitness centers can also reduce costs associated with NEDs if the actual usage exceeds the initial estimated or projected usage provided by the fitness center. Referring to , fitness centers charge a base rate and service fee in steps , , and  can receive rebates on the periodic fees they are charged. Usage pricing method  compares actual usage with estimated or projected usage (step ) and if the actual usage is higher, (step ) a rebate for a portion of the periodic fee charged to the fitness center is provided (step ).","A similar scheme is applied to fitness centers whose estimated usage exceeds the threshold for charging no base rate or service fee (step ). In these fitness centers, actual usage is also compared with estimated usage in  (step ). If actual usage exceeds a requisite e-marketing threshold (step ) then these fitness centers can potentially share a revenue generated from the various e-marketing activities (step ). In some cases, this e-marketing threshold may need to be set higher, for example, if profit margins on the e-marketing are small or relatively low compared to the NED cost. Using this pricing model, fitness equipment used by these latter fitness centers shifts from becoming a capital expenditure to becoming a source of revenue.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0055","num":"0054"},"figref":"FIG. 5","b":["500","502","504"]},"E-marketing parameters are determined by the e-marketers and correspond to users with specific personalization and usage information. For example, e-marketing parameters can be used to target a specific user audience having a certain specific combination of demographic and\/or psychographic characteristics such as income level, gender, and interest specific sporting activities.","Content customization method  selects appropriate e-marketing content by comparing the personalization and usage information with the e-marketing parameters set by the e-marketers (step ). Once the e-marketing information is selected, the location of the e-marketing content must be determined. If e-marketing content is not already stored on the NED (step ) then e-marketing content is obtained from a LAN or WAN Internet server such as a computer with a large storage device (step ). If the e-marketing content is on the NED (step ) then e-marketing content is obtained directly from a storage device associated with the NED (step ). In both cases one or more third-parties are notified that an impression of the e-marketing content has been made (step ) and e-marketing content is displayed on a display device (step ). These third parties can include, a company running the e-marketing campaign, a third party audit company, or a third party serving the content.","The e-marketing content is displayed for a predetermined period of time (step ) at which point the process is repeated. If a user selects the e-marketing content before this predetermined time period elapses (step ) then a third-party is notified that the content has been selected (step ).","Once a user has selected content, secondary content may also be displayed such as TV commercials, movies, and other advertisements. Specifically, content customization method  determines if the secondary content is available for display (step ) before actually displaying the secondary content (step ) or potentially even tertiary content associated with the secondary content (step ). Although only three types of displays are mentioned multiple types of content can be added as needed under the circumstances. For example, additional content can be chained together that increasingly focuses the user on a specific product or service. The content includes video and audio clips provided in a number of different formats such as banner advertisements, web pages, pop-up displays, and other types of content. Alternatively, if no secondary or additional content is available or if content customization method  is programmed not to display such additional content, the display process is complete. This process of displaying e-marketing content on the display device of the NED repeats as long as the user operates the NED.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0060","num":"0059"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},"In contrast, lifetime usage points are used to encourage each user to return to the fitness center's NED over a longer period of time such as months or years. The lifetime usage points represent the aggregate total time a user has worked out on various pieces of NEDs. Unlike active usage points, lifetime usage points cannot be spent and therefore generally increase over time and continuous usage. The lifetime usage points can be used to categorize users into higher categories for receiving bonuses and promotions. For example, riding an exercise bicycle 1000 measured miles over a period of one year or less can qualify a user for 1000 lifetime usage points and eligibility for larger bonuses or awards. These bonuses or awards can be discounts to the fitness center or can be tangible products such as workout gear, exercise equipment, or other incentives.","In operation, incentive award process  receives general usage information corresponding to a particular user (step ). This information can be gathered in real-time from the NED or can be gathered manually at the fitness center and entered into a database such as NED database  connected to NED regional server .","Incentive award process  processes the general usage information and increases the active and lifetime usage points for the user (step ). If the users lifetime usage point totals exceeds one or more predetermined milestones\/threshold levels (step ) then the user is provided a bonus\/award commensurate with the specific milestone level (step ). For example, if a users lifetime usage points exceeds 1000 units then a user can be placed in a \u201cgold\u201d program where every additional active usage point earned receives double credit.","Incentive award process  also allows a user to spend active usage points on a variety of goods and services. In one implementation, the user utilizes electronic-commerce (e-commerce) available on the NED to use the active usage points. In an additional implementation, the user can use the active usage points in e-commerce transactions from other devices other than the NED such as a personal computer, personal digital assistant (PDA), or even a cell-phone device. These devices can be operated at home, work or a mobile setting and used to access a web site on the Internet configured to exchange the active usage points with goods, services, and other forms of currency.","If the user decides to spend active usage points (step ) then incentive award process  automatically decreases active usage points according to the amount the user spends (step ). The user then obtains products\/services, rewards or discounts on products as a result of the transaction (step ). Alternatively, if the user chooses not to spend any active usage points, the user simply accrues the usage points to spend at a later point in time.","Fitness centers can also customize incentive award process  for special promotions and marketing campaigns. For example, incentive award process  can award additional usage points for frequent visitors of the fitness center. This type of program would award users additional points for visiting the fitness center on a regular basis in addition to awarding usage points for operating the exercise equipment. To promote use of the NED during low-utilization periods in the fitness center (e.g. 2:00 P.M. on Sundays), incentive award process  can be programmed to provide additional active usage points to users operating the NED during this slow time period.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0067","num":"0066"},"figref":"FIG. 7","b":"702"},"The GUI also displays controls for accessing the Internet and controlling the NED through the display device (step ). These controls can be used to operate the NED as well as configure the users profile used in conjunction with the NED. For example, these controls can be used to set the duration of the exercise session and the difficulty setting on the NED. The controls can also be used to customize the users profile including personal information such as age, weight, height, target pulse rate, and target calories.","In one implementation, a first portion of the display device is partitioned to display content and a second portion of the display device is partitioned to display one or more controls for controlling the exercise device. Selectable elements on the display device receive input from the user and control operation of the exercise device. In one implementation, a touch-screen displays one or more buttons that the user touches to control operation of the exercise device. GUI receives control input (step ) and passes this control information on to control the exercise machine (step ). If the user input is not to control the exercise device, it can be to modify the configuration of the GUI. For example, the user may request the GUI to remove the controls for the exercise machine from the display screen. If the user touches the proper selectable element on the display screen to remove controls (step ) then the GUI removes controls from the display screen and increases the area on the display screen to display content (step ).","Selectable elements such as buttons used to control the exercise device can be placed in a border portion of the display device. These controls are removed from the display device by sliding the border portion like a drawer into the outer edge of the display whereby they disappear from view. Meanwhile, the content in the first portion of the display device is increased to occupy that portion along the border where the controls were originally displayed.","Interface  and interface  in  illustrate an exemplary GUI consistent with the present invention. Interface  depicts a GUI with controls in a first portion on the left-hand border and content in a second portion in the field of the display. Interface  depicts a GUI having a second portion with controls on both the left and right borders of the display and content in the field portion of the display.","In both examples, the bottom section of interface  and  displays advertisements and\/or e-marketing related information. By placing the advertisements and\/or e-marketing information adjacent to meters displaying information important to the user while working out, it is more likely that the advertisement information will be considered or possibly \u201cclicked on\u201d. For example, a user checking metered information such as the duration of the workout or the calories burned during the work out invariably will also consider the advertisements placed near the meter values and as a result may engage in an e-commerce transaction.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0073","num":"0072"},"figref":"FIG. 8","b":"802"},"At the user's discretion, the interface receives an indication to increase the font size used for displaying hypertext and other selectable elements on the display device (step ). By increasing the font size of hypertext and other selectable elements, the user is able to select these elements with greater ease while exercising on the NED.","The interface increases the font size of hypertext and other selectable elements on the display but not other content displayed on the display device (step ). By increasing the font size of the selectable elements independent of the graphic images, the user can read hypertext more easily and thereby facilitate easier selection of the selectable elements containing text. For example, increasing the font size of hyperlinked text is increased but the adjacent images are not increased in size and\/or resolution. As necessary, user interface can also reduce the area occupied by the text and graphic content on the display device that is not selectable (step ). This accommodates for the increased size of hypertext and other selectable elements on the display device.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0076","num":"0075"},"figref":"FIG. 9"},"Each NED starts operation when the device is powered on (step ). Powering on each device can include providing power to the exercise portion of the device as well as providing power to the processor portion of the device used to access the Internet and control operation of the exercise device. A reboot timer is reset to a predetermined time period (step ). The reboot timer begins counting down units of time immediately after being reset. For example, a reboot timer may be reset to count down 300 seconds. The reboot timer communicates with the NED over a input-output interface yet operates as a separate device from the NED to ensure proper reset of the NED when necessary.","A selective reset process  determines at a predetermined interval if the reboot timer period has elapsed (step ). This predetermined time period is less than the time set in the reboot timer. If the reboot timer has elapsed, selective reset process  determines if an \u201cok\u201d signal has been transmitted from the NED (step ). If the \u201cok\u201d signal was transmitted from the NED, then the reboot timer period is reset to the predetermined time period (step ) and the selective reset process  is repeated. Alternatively, if the \u201cok\u201d signal has not been transmitted, selective reset process  sends a \u201creboot\u201d signal to processor causing it to reset. In one implementation, the NED transmits an \u201cok\u201d signal in a command string transmitted over a serial port connected to an embedded processor executing selective reset process . The command string contains a one character command optionally followed by a four character datafield. The embedded processor executing selective reset process  reads the characters off the serial port and performs the operation specified in FIG. .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0079","num":"0078"},"figref":"FIG. 10","b":"1002"},"Once logged in, the NED then retrieves user profile information (step ) stored either locally on a storage device on the NED or over a network and receives a list of available content and services (step ). Custom content process  compares available content and services with parameters in the user profile (step ). For example, information on the user profile relating to age, sex, income and other personal characteristics may be used in this comparison.","These values are compared with corresponding metrics defined by the content and service providers according to the markets they are interested in targeting. Accordingly, custom content process  then selects available content and services based on the comparisons (step ). At this step, custom content process  selects content and services that most closely matches the user profile information. Custom content process  then formats the content and services for display on the display device (step ). For example,  shows interface  and interface  with content customized for a particular user. Specifically, interface  includes several advertisements that may be of interest to the particular user on the NED. Similarly, categories of information on interface  are also selected because of the potential interest in the user operating the NED.","If the user profile changes over time (step ) this process is repeated and the content is customized according to those changes. Further, if content or services change over time (step ) the process is also repeated again whereby new content or services are also selected.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0083","num":"0082"},"figref":"FIG. 12"},"At first, custom advertisement process  receives a user profile for the user operating the NED (step ) and receives selection criteria for selecting an e-marketing content(step ). The user profile and selection criteria for the e-marketing campaign are compared (step ). For example, user profile information includes demographics, psychographics, historical actions, and current actions. Demographics include such information such as gender, age, height, weight, and income. Psychographic information includes information on personal interests and activities such as sports and entertainment. Historical actions address actions a user has taken in the past such as their workout regimen and websites visited on the Internet while operating the NED. User profile information also includes current actions reported in real-time such as watching particular sports events on TV, listening to classical music from a radio station on the Internet, identifying where the user is geographically located, and determining the time of day as the user is exercising.","Selection of the primary e-marketing content is made according to the comparison (step ). The specific selection criteria for the primary e-marketing content generally depends on specific campaigns designed by the e-marketers. The selection criteria developed from these campaign descriptions include user targeting information and various campaign metrics for measuring the efficacy of the advertisements. Once the primary advertisements are selected, custom e-marketing process  also downloads secondary and if appropriate tertiary e-marketing content in preparation for subsequent display of the content (step ). To obviate download delay times for the user, the secondary and tertiary content can be downloaded and stored on each NED at night while the user is not operating the NED. Secondary e-marketing content is stored on a storage device such as on a hard-disk on the NED or a server connected to the network. Custom e-marketing process displays e-marketing content on the display device of the NED (step ) meanwhile a third-party is notified the primary e-marketing content impression was presented to a user(step ). If the user does not select the primary e-marketing content this process is repeated with a new primary e-marketing content (step ).","However, if the user selects a primary e-marketing content (step ), a third-party is notified that the primary e-marketing content has been selected (step ) and custom advertisement process  retrieves a secondary e-marketing content from storage on the NED (step ). This secondary e-marketing content is then displayed on the display (step ). For example, a secondary e-marketing content can include a high-impact \u201cTV commercial\u201d presented on the display device or interactive question and answer application for the user to inquiry more information on the particular product or service.","If the user then selects the secondary e-marketing content (step ) then custom advertisement process  notifies a third-party that the secondary advertisement has also been selected (step ). Alternatively, if the user does not select the secondary e-marketing content, custom advertisement process  repeats the overall steps with a new set of primary and secondary advertisements.","A number of embodiments of the invention have been described. Nevertheless, it will be understood that various modifications may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"DESCRIPTION OF DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":"1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 11"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 12"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
