---
title: Radar reflecting rescue device
abstract: Radar reflective rescue and safety devices comprise radar permeable coverings around a plurality of reflectors. The radar reflective material may be incorporated into inflatable life vests or foam filled life vests. Additionally, inflatable life rafts with radar reflective cells are able to help personnel lost at sea to be found by radar. The radar reflective cells may also be incorporated into an inflatable cylindrical tube as radar cross-section enhancer separate from other flotation devices. The reflectors are flexible metallic material that forms reflective cavities once the shell is inflated. The reflective cavities may appear as flat surfaces, tilted surfaces, corner reflectors or some combination thereof depending upon the orientation of the cavities to an incident radar wave.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=06864858&OS=06864858&RS=06864858
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 06864858
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20011206
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"GOVINT":[{},{}],"heading":["STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENT INTEREST","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS"],"p":["The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without payment of any royalties thereon or therefore.","This invention relates to radar reflecting flotation devices, and more particularly to life vests and life rafts with reflecting properties to permit radar indication of its location on the surface of large bodies of water from long distances to aid in search and rescue efforts.","Search and rescue missions to locate personnel in large bodies of water are often difficult and the methods used vary in effectiveness. Currently, the best way to search for personnel is to use an Emergency Position Indicating Radiobeacon (EPIRB). However, these units tend to be expensive and only operate for a limited time and are often not available to the person in need of rescue. Visual identification is probably the most common form of search and rescue. Some life vests and life rafts have flashing light beacons to aid in a visual search at night. However, any visual search effort needs good weather and has a very limited range.","Previous U.S. patents have addressed the use of some form of radar cross section enhancer to permit radar to be used to locate objects at sea that by themselves are usually poor radar reflectors and are virtually indistinguishable from the radar return of the surrounding sea. Usually, these have taken the form of either an inflatable or fixed radar reflector that may be added to a life raft or attached to a person in the water. These radar reflectors incorporate corner reflector arrays that provide radar cross-section (RCS) many times greater than the same sized object without corner reflectors. These systems work well when deployed. However, persons in need of rescue often do not have access to these add on devices. Many times the only item a person has is the personal flotation device they are wearing.","Radar reflective rescue and safety devices comprise radar permeable coverings around a plurality of radar reflectors. In accordance with one aspect of the invention, the radar permeable shell is inflatable, and is worn by an individual as a flotation aid. The reflectors are flexible radar reflective materials that form reflective cavities once the shell is inflated. The reflective cavities may appear as flat surfaces, tilted surfaces, corner reflectors or some combination thereof depending upon the orientation of the cavities to an incident radar wave.","In accordance with another aspect of the invention, the radar permeable shell serves as an outer covering for a foam interior and reflective cavities. The foam provides buoyancy as well as structural support for the radar reflective cavities. The reflective cavities are constructed of flexible radar reflective materials. The cavities will appear as a group of flat surfaces, tilted surfaces, corner reflectors or some combination thereof depending on the orientation of the cavities to incident radar waves.","In accordance with another aspect of the invention, the radar permeable shell is an inflatable polygonal shape of at least four sides with a plurality of flexible reflectors inside each side in an outward facing direction. The reflectors are situated as an array so that once the raft is inflated they form an array of reflectors. To incident radar waves the side of the raft will appear as groups of flat surfaces, tilted surfaces, corner reflectors or some combination thereof.","In accordance with another aspect of the invention, the radar permeable inflatable shell is a cylindrical. The reflectors are situated as an array so that once the cylinder is inflated they form an array of reflectors.","Still other aspects of the present invention will become apparent to those skilled in the art from the following detailed description of the preferred embodiment. It is possible to modify the invention in obvious respects without departing from the invention. Accordingly, the drawings and description are to be regarded as illustrative in nature, and not as restrictive.","Referring more particularly to the drawings,  illustrates an inflatable radar reflective life vest, which represents one embodiment of the invention. The vest  is yoke style and is inflated with air. The vest  has a series of flexible radar reflective frame members throughout the inside of the vest . The shell of the vest  may be constructed of any suitable radar permeable covering such as nylon. The frame members are preferably made of metalized Mylar and lay flat when the vest is deflated. It is to be appreciated that any flexible radar reflective material such as aluminum foil, metalized Tedlar or metalized cloth, may be used in place of the metalized Mylar. The frame members are comprised of a large back panel  and a plurality of horizontal panels  and vertical panels . The back panel  is attached to the inside of the vest  back by suitable means such as adhesive bonding, heat seaming or in any other manner suitable to produce a secure attachment. Heat seaming is the preferred method of attachment in the present invention. The horizontal panels  intersect with the vertical panels  and both are attached to the back panel  at one edge. The other edge of both the horizontal panels  and vertical panels  are attached at several points to the inside front of the vest so that sufficient structural support is given to the panels but that air may still flow through or around the panels to completely fill the vest. Small perforations of less than an \u215binch are allowed to enable air flow through the panels. The number of perforations should not exceed ten percent of the panel area so that performance is not adversely affected.","Upon inflation of the vest, the panels are stretched tight so that the reflective frame members are at right angles to one another. This results in radar reflective cavities being formed throughout the interior of the vest.  shows a side view of an inflated vest  and the reflective cavities. These cavities form various reflective surfaces depending on the orientation of the cavity orientation to the incident radar waves. The best results in terms of a large radar cross section are achieved when the majority of reflective cavities are oriented so that the radar waves are reflected by either a flat surface or by corner reflectors. In order for the vest to effectively reflect the radar waves, the front or side of the vest must be facing the source. When the radar waves are incident on the front of the vest the return would be the highest.",{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00022","num":"00022"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":["126","126"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00023","num":"00023"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":["122","123","123","123"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00024","num":"00024"},"figref":"FIG. 5A","b":["124","125","5","116"]},"Another embodiment of the present invention is illustrated in . An inflatable life raft is shown in different configurations. Though only rectangular and octagonal designs are depicted, the same teachings may be applied to any polygonal life raft or a life raft with straight sections. Reflective cavity cells  are formed in each straight section of the raft. The raft has on outer airtight covering that is radar permeable. The reflective cavity cells  are constructed of flexible Mylar panels, or other suitable radar reflective flexible material, that lay flat when the raft is deflated. The reflective panels are formed with two long flat sections and a plurality of dividing pieces . These reflective cavity cells  may be adapted to be inserted into any straight section of a small inflatable raft to greatly enhance the rafts radar cross-section.","When the raft is inflated the panels are stretched tight so that all the planar surfaces are at right angles to each other. This is accomplished by attaching the panels to the inside of the raft covering and each other so that the desired result is achieved. Attachment is accomplished by adhesives, bonding, heat seaming or in any other manner suitable to produce a secure attachment. One of the long panels  is horizontal in orientation and is secured to the inside of the covering of the raft by heat sealing or other suitable means. The horizontal panel  is attached so that it will be above the surface of the water when the raft is floating on the surface of the water. The other long panel  has a vertical orientation and is secured along its length to the horizontal panel  at one edge. This vertical panel  is also secured to the inside of the raft covering by suitable means. Disposed within the trough formed by the horizontal panels  and the vertical in panels  are a plurality of dividers . These dividers  are attached to both the horizontal panels  and the vertical panels  so that upon inflation of the raft the dividers are parallel to each other and are at right angles to both the horizontal panels  and the vertical panels . The stretched panels form reflective cells  comprised of a series of outwardly facing corner reflectors. It is also possible to assemble a series of boxes consisting of radar transparent panels (not shown) added to the front and top edges of the radar reflective cavity arrays for added structural support with the radar reflective panel sections comprising a series of corner reflectors. These corner reflectors could be fabricated separately and then inserted into the air chambers of a life raft and attached so that upon inflation the desired corner reflectors are formed.",{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00027","num":"00027"},"figref":"FIG. 8","b":["140","140","140","140","142","144","146"]},"What has been described is only a few of many possible variations on the same invention and is not intended in a limiting sense. The claimed invention can be practiced using other variations not specifically described above."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00011","num":"00011"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00012","num":"00012"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00013","num":"00013"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00014","num":"00014"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00015","num":"00015"},"figref":"FIG. 5A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00016","num":"00016"},"figref":"FIG. 5B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00017","num":"00017"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00018","num":"00018"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00019","num":"00019"},"figref":"FIG. 8"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
