---
title: Apparatus and method of facilitating the exchange of points between selected entities
abstract: This invention relates to a system and method of exchanging first points held by a customer for second points, wherein the first points that are issued by a first point issuer differ from the second points that are issued by a second point issuer. This method comprises the steps of permitting the customer to set a first number of first points to be exchanged and permitting the first and second point issuers to set the point withdrawal and deposit rates of their first and second points respectively. Next, an equivalent number of the second points is determined based upon the point withdrawal and deposit rates of the first and second point issuers respectively, and the first number of the first points. Then, the first number of points is exchanged for a second equivalent number of second points.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08595055&OS=08595055&RS=08595055
owner: Points.com
number: 08595055
owner_city: Toronto
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20010327
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["FIELD OF THE INVENTION","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY","DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENT OF THIS INVENTION"],"p":["This invention relates to apparatus and methods for keeping track of points and, in particular, for managing and exchanging those points that are issued and redeemed in the context of a loyalty program (LP).","This invention has in at least one embodiment an application to loyalty programs (LPs). LPs are designed as the name suggests is to create and maintain the loyalty of a customer to a particular product or service. The source of such services and\/or products is also the issuer or distributor of the points to its customers and the redeemer of those points for rewards. LPs are based on the concept of influencing the customer to continue to purchase products and\/or services from one source, whereby the customer is repetitively issued points and, over a period of time, will accumulate sufficient points that may be redeemed for a valuable reward.","There are now over 5 trillion LP points outstanding around the world. Annually 500 billion new points are issued. Each of these points represents real economic value to both the customer and the issuer. LP's which issue points must carry them on their balance sheets as a contingent liability (for example, Business Week has reported that in American Airlines' case this number is greater than $800 million). In some cases, LPs are also using points as a revenue-generating product that LP proprieters sell to marketing partners. There are four main types of loyalty programs: travel (airlines and hotels), financial (credit cards), retail and network (AirMiles, ClickRewards and WebMiles).","The number of LPs has exploded in recent years, thus making it difficult for customers to be knowledgeable about the plans, much less interested in participating in a LP. Presently there are over 90 LPs sponsored by the airlines, i.e., frequent flyer programs. There are hundreds of credit card programs sponsored by financial institutions. There are over 8500 LPs sponsored by retail companies. The number of customers who have participated in LPs is greater than 350 million. Globally, there are more than 200 million customers participating in frequent flyer LPs, of which 160 million customers participate in LPs sponsored by US airlines. 75% of the UK population carry a loyalty card, while 66% of Canadian households belong to LPs of AirMiles or Sears Club.","The issued points that have not been redeemed has now grown to staggering numbers. There are presently 3.5 trillion points in the market today in the North American LPs alone. 500 Billion new points are generated annually in frequent flyer LPs alone. Each point has an economic value, which can be expressed in monetary units per point. Accumulated in the numbers mentioned above, unredeemed points represent huge assets. In addition, unredeemed points represent a liability to the issuing entity in terms of the future cost to redeem these points. While presenting a liability to the point issuers, they also represent a huge asset base, which is growing annually, as most LPs are accruing more points each year than their customers are redeeming. This positive issue\/redeem ratio is expected to continue in the future. Thus while the liability of many LP point issuers has increased, also has been the opportunity of generating revenue streams for many of the larger LPs. Presently, such large issuers have income from the sale of points to their existing customers, but also to other business entities.","LP points typically have a limited life from their date of issuance. Thus, many points will expire as a result of a lack of interest in participating in a LP plan. In 1998, 68 billion points expired. The lack of interest and participation results in part from the number of available plans, the complexity of a particular plan, the inability to readily ascertain the balances in the LPs to which a customer may belong and the relatively small value of the points. There are billions of points that sit in accounts with very limited redemption options and low utility to a customer, i.e., the points are kept in accounts with balance that are below redemption levels, or a levels with limited redemption options. The growing number of LPs have led customer to join a number of LPs, thus spreading the points issued to this customer among the many programs and preventing any one of these plans from accumulating a significant number of points. For the above reason, few customers are achieving significant value from the LPs thereby preventing a LP from meeting its goal of achieving customer loyalty to a particular source of products and\/or services.","There are presently available a number web sites that offer services related to LP programs. MaxMiles MileageMiner is a website offering management services to frequent flyers. MaxMiles automatically gathers frequent flyer balances and account information from airlines, hotels, and credit cards, analyzes the most current mileage offers, searches for missing mileage credits, and sends a personalized report of all miles via email to the frequent flyer. The personalized reports are updated daily.","Miles Direct.com is a website that automatically gathers and reports all of your frequency and rewards balances from airlines, hotels, credit cards into one consolidated statement. Miles direct also tracks expiring miles or points, activity, and elite levels.","Points Universe is a website that keeps track of points, miles and other currencies in one statement. A customer can also earn points, award points, and join a points universe loyalty program. By shopping\/visiting sites, these points can be used to redeem products on the Awards Store Catalogue. The AwardMaximizer tool tells you what products can be purchased with your Award Points.","Milesandpoints.com is a web service that keeps track of your miles and points in one location. The site alerts you about new promotions and offers based on your preferences. The site also reminds its customers when promotions\/miles\/points are about to expire.","MilePoint.com is a website service that converts any or all of its customers' miles and points from participating frequent traveler programs into money to spend at an assortment of online merchants. Every mile point is valued at a set rate. For example, if you have 500 miles and the set rate is 0.02\/mile, a customer's points may be converted in a currency, e.g. $10. MilePoint Money is used for partial payment of purchases with merchants within the MilePoint network. In addition, Mile Point permits its customers to set up accounts and to add selected LPs to its portfolio. The MilePoint website is issuered with its LPs.","The Netcentives website provides relationship marketing technologies and services creating loyalty programs for brick-and-mortar, click-and-mortar, and pure-play online companies to maximize the value of their relationships with its customers, employees and business issuers. Netcentives creates private label rewards for its clients or can have it's clients participate in ClickRewards.","None of the above described services or web sites recognize much less address the primary problem with LPs, namely that most customers do not accumulate sufficient numbers of points at which the customers can effect redemption's for the rewards. In particular, these services do not teach how points may be accumulated into one account. In addition, the above described websites do not disclose how to efficiently communicate with selected LPs, as well as to manage the liability created by the unredeemed points and, additionally, to generate new and enhance steams of revenue.","It is an object of this invention to enhance the effectiveness of LPs.","It is a further object of this invention to render LPs more attractive to point customers by giving those point customers greater access to the rewards of their LP.","It is a more particular object of this invention to enhance the customer's use of a LP to accumulate more points.","It is a still further object of this invention to enable a customer to convert points of one LP into points issued by a different LP.","It is another object of this invention to enroll in a number of LPs and to keep track of the points accumulated in each LP in which the customer has enrolled.","It is a still further object of this invention to permit point issuers to participate in a system wherein customers can enroll with the permission of the issuers of their programs.","It is another object of this invention to establish a system for permitting the exchange of points between LPs sponsored by corresponding point issuers and to give control over of the operation of each of the LPs to its points issuer.","It is a still further object of this invention to establish a system for facilitating users to exchange points between LPs and to permit each participating point issuer to set the point exchange rates of its LP.","It is another object of this invention to keep track of the points deposited and withdrawn from LPs as a result of the transfer of points between the LPs and to reconcile the LPs as to the points deposited in or withdrawn from that LP.","In accordance with these and other objects of the invention, there is disclosed a system and method of exchanging first points held by a customer for second points, wherein the first points that are issued by a first point issuer differ from the second points that are issued by a second point issuer. This method comprises the steps of permitting the customer to set a first number of first points to be exchanged and permitting the first and second point issuers to set the point withdrawal and deposit rates of their first and second points respectively. Next, an equivalent number of the second points is determined based upon the point withdrawal and deposit rates of the first and second point issuers respectively, and the first number of the first points. Then, the first number of points is exchanged for a second equivalent number of second points.","In a further aspect of the invention, there is described a method of permissioning a customer to enroll in a selected one or more of a plurality of point programs, each point program being controlled by its point issuer. The permissioning method comprises the steps of facilitating the customer to select at least one point program of the plurality in which to be enrolled, to enter predetermined information about the customer, and to permit at least one point issuer to set its own criteria for customer enrollment. Finally, the customer's information is compared with the enrollment criteria and, if there is a match, permissioning the customer to enroll in the selected one point program.","In a still further aspect of this invention, a method is described for facilitating a customer to enroll in selected ones of a plurality of point programs and to keep track of the number of points held by the customer in each point program in which the customer has enrolled. This method comprises the steps of maintaining a customer's file with a list of the IDs of the point programs in which the customer has enrolled, and facilitating the customer to enroll in another point program. Upon enrolling in the other point program, the ID of the other point program is added to the customer's file, and another point program file is created for the customer to retain its balance of points of the other point program. Finally, the point balance of the other point program is added from the point program file to the customer's file.","In another aspect of this invention, a system including a transaction center is described for enabling a customer to enroll and keep track of its points issued by selected ones of a plurality of point programs in which the customer has enrolled. Each point program is managed by a corresponding terminal, which includes a terminal database and a terminal server which is programmed to accumulate the balances of points for customers to which points are issued by the terminal's point program. The transaction center comprises a center input, a center database and a center server. The center server is programmed to enable the customer to apply via the center input information about the customer, enroll the customer in selected ones of the point programs, and create a record for each enrolled customer to be stored in the center database. The customer's record comprises a first file for the information inputted by the customer, and a second file for storing the balances of the points accumulated by the customer from the points programs in which the customer has enrolled.","In another feature of this invention, there is described a method of exchanging first points that are issued by a first point issuer for second, different points that are issued by a second point issuer at exchange rates set by the first and second point issuers respectively. The exchange method comprises the steps of facilitating the entry of first and second exchange rates by the first and second point issuers respectively, facilitating the entry of a customer's order for exchanging first points for second points, and determining the presence or absence of each of the first and second exchange rates. Finally, the exchange of points is blocked in absence of either of the first or second exchange rates. In a more specific aspect of this invention, the absence of the exchange rates for the selected one point program is detected, whereby a blocking signal is transmitted to the transaction center, which is programmed to respond to the blocking signal to prevent the transmission of the command.","In another aspect of this invention, a method of enabling first and second points issuers is described that respectively issue first and second points to validate an exchange of the first points held by a customer for the second points. This method comprises the steps of facilitating the first and second point issuers to enter their first and second criteria respectively, facilitating the entry of a customer's order to exchange its first points for the second points, and generating a first transaction message to withdraw the first points from the first point issuer. Then, the first transaction message is compared with the first criteria. If the first transaction message satisfies the first criteria, a second transaction message is generated to deposit the second points in the second point issuer. Then, the second transaction message is compared with the second criteria. If the second transaction message satisfies the second criteria, the exchange of the first points for the second points is validated.","In a still further aspect of this invention, there is described a system which enables a plurality of potential customers to be validated for communication with selected ones of a plurality of loyalty programs. Each program has a criteria for validating the potential customer for communication therewith. The customer validation system comprises a plurality of terminals, each of which comprises a terminal database, and a terminal server, and a transaction center, which includes a center input, a center database and a center server. The transaction center is connected to each of the terminals by a data transmission path. The center database store the validating criteria for each of the plurality of loyalty programs. The center computer is programmed to facilitate the input of a request from a potential customer to communicate with at least a selected one of the plurality of loyalty programs, respond to the customer's request by constructing a customer's validation record in accordance with the criteria of the selected one loyalty program, and transmit the customer's validation record to the terminal associated with the selected one loyalty program. Each terminal server is programmed to receive and to compare the customer's validation record with the criteria of its selected one loyalty program and, if there is a satisfactory match, validate this customer for communication with the selected one loyalty program.","Referring now to the drawings and in particular to , there is shown a functional block diagram of a preferred embodiment of a point management system , which facilitates interaction between a customer , a transaction center  and a plurality of points issuers -.  illustrates one embodiment for the online points management system . In one embodiment, the points management system  is implemented as an Internet points management system. In general, the points management system  involves three types of entities: a customer , a transaction center , and plurality of points issuers -. For purposes of simplicity,  illustrates the system  as it relates to a single customer; however, the points management system  typically supports many customers  and points issuers  and may involve multiple transaction centers . For purposes of explanation, a customer  is any entity that holds points in one or more Loyalty Programs (\u201cLPs\u201d). A transaction center  refers to an entity capable of interacting with customers and points issuers to provide the points management capabilities described below. In a preferred embodiment, this may take the form of a collection of computer hardware and software. A point issuer  (\u201cissuer\u201d) is any entity that controls the disposition and distribution of a currency. In a preferred embodiment, the point issuer operates a Loyalty Program that controls a private currency of points. The points managed by the system  may take the form of a variety of Loyalty Program (\u201cLP\u201d) points such as those issued by airlines, hotels, financial entities, e.g., credit cards, and networks, e.g., portal web sites on the Internet. In deed, the points may not be related at all to LPs, but rather the points may represent the monetary currencies of different countries, and other units of value as would be recognized by those skilled in the art.","In an illustrative embodiment of this invention, the points are used in the context of a LP, wherein there are a plurality of different kinds of points, each kind issued by a different LP of the point management system . Typically, each kind of point is issued and redeemed by a different LP and may have a different value or liability to its LP. For example, when a LP issues points, a liability is created for the each unredeemed point, expressed in terms of the amount of a particular currency per point. The unredeemed points represent a liability to its LP. As will be explained below, the point management system  of this invention permits a customer to effect an exchange of points from one LP to another. For example, a customer may exchange points issued by American Airlines for those issued by the American Express Card. Alternatively, the customer may transfer points issued by any number of LPs to a single LP, whereby the customer may redeem its collected points for the rewards offered by the single LP.","In general, the customer  ascertains its current points balances and requests points exchanges between issuers -by interacting with the transaction center . In a preferred embodiment, the communications to support this interaction occur over the open Internet.","In general, the transaction center , operates as a \u201cweb portal\u201d for the customers  through which they may view their current points balances for each issuer  and request the exchange of points between issuers -. The transaction center  acts as a \u201ccurrency exchange\u201d for the issuers -, effecting the exchange of points from one issuer to another.","In general, each issuer , operates a LP which maintains points balances for each customer that belongs to that LP. In addition, the issuer provides a mechanism by which points can be deposited or withdrawn from customers accounts, thereby effecting a points exchange. As above, the \u201cZ\u201d-shaped double-headed arrows, shown on , denote bi-directional communication over the Internet. Although the issuer interaction with the transaction center  is described in conjunction with secure communication over the Internet, any form of communication, such as a direct telephone line connection, may be used without deviating from the spirit and scope of this invention.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0046","num":"0045"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":["100","110","205","120","130","120","206","110","201","202","120","205","120"],"i":["a","c","a","c","a","c"]},"In this illustrative embodiment as shown in , the transaction center  comprises a portal firewall , a web server , a master database , a transaction server  and a transaction firewall . The portal firewall  provides protection to the transaction center  from the public Internet , while permitting customers  to connect to the web server . The web server  provides a \u201cweb portal\u201d interface for customers to track their points balances as maintained by the issuers in their terminals -and to effect point exchanges between their designated LPs. In particular, the web server  is programmed to establish a web site, to which the web browser  may log on and enter data in response to web pages that are downloaded from the web server  to the web browser\u2014. As described in detail below, the master database , maintains a profile of each customer called a customer portfolio. Each customer portfolio includes identification, current LP points balances and a record of points exchanges for that customer. The web server  utilizes this profile to permit the customer  to login to the web site, to display point balances and to permit points exchange requests. In one illustrative embodiment, the web server  is coupled to the master database  via a local area network (LAN), as indicated by the wide double-headed arrow. The transaction server  is illustratively coupled to the master database  in a similar fashion. The transaction server  connects to each of the issuer terminals -via the secure data transmission line -. In one illustrative embodiment this line  is a virtual private network (VPN) running over the public Internet. It also may manifest as a direct electronic link such as a telephone line or packet switched network. The specific method of data transmission is unique to each connection between the transaction server and a issuer terminal. As described in detail below, the transaction server  utilizes the customer portfolio information stored in the master database  to conduct points exchanges between a plurality of issuers, upon request of the customer. The transaction server  also extracts current points balances for the customer from each issuer terminal -. The transaction firewall  protects the transaction center  from attack via any of the data transmission lines -connected to the issuer terminals -. In one illustrative embodiment, it also provides encryption of all data passing between the transaction server  and the issuer terminals -","In one illustrative embodiment, each issuer terminal -presides in a facility controlled by the issuer and is part of the system that manages that LP. (For purposes of simplification, the designator \u201c\u201d will imply the plurality of issuer terminals and their contained components, e.g. -.) Each of the issuer terminals  includes an issuer firewall , a issuer server  and a issuer database . The issuer firewall  provides protection to the issuer terminal  from outside attack. As will be explained below, communication between the issuer terminals  and the transaction server  permits the issuer server  to repetitively download a current points balance from the issuer database  to the master database , thereby facilitating the customer access to the current points balances of its LP accounts. Utilizing protocols described below, the transaction server  may also request an issuer terminal  to deposit or withdraw points from a specified customer's LP account, thus effecting a points exchange.","In order for a customer to utilize the points management system , it must first establish a customer portfolio within the transaction center  and provide detailed profile information regarding itself and the issuer LPs to which it is a member. This will ensure that sufficient identification is necessary to access the points management system  (via the website) and to inhibit fraudulent use of the customer's LP accounts. Referring now to , there is shown a flow diagram representing the process of a program  that is executed by the web server  to present a series of web pages as shown in . This program  is designed to facilitate the opening of a customer portfolio at the transaction center , to enter customer profile information, to establish a list of LPs that the customer is a member and to facilitate the validation of that list by sets of rules established by the issuers for their respective LPs and stored in their databases . This validation process is critical to meet the security requirements of the points management system  and specifically the issuers . By enabling each issuer  to validate customers that wish to exchange points from the issuer's LP, the issuer can control which customers are deemed fit to do so. In an illustrative embodiment, only customers  that can provide sufficient identification regarding their LP account with that issuer would be validated for points exchange. In particular, the issuer determines the nature and number of the identification elements that the customer must provide to the user, so that the user is satisfied that the individual entering the data is in fact the identified customer. In an example of a completed customer identification that would satisfy the issuer, the customer must provide their full proper name, complete mailing address, LP member ID and, in most cases, a PIN or password. This information is validated against the issuer's database  to determine if the customer in question is properly representing themselves.","Initially in step , the customer using his web browser  \u201csurfs\u201d to the points management system web site. The web server  displays in step  a home web page , as shown in . The web page  provides the customer with information about their LP accounts, which are kept in the master database  of the transaction center . This customer portfolio, illustratively called the \u201cpointsfolio\u201d, contains detailed information about each LP that the customer is a member and tracks current points balances for each LP. In step , the new customer may click on the \u201copen an account\u201d button  to permit the customer to create a portfolio at the transaction center . After a customer has opened its account and selected its username and password, the customer must log into its transaction center account by entering in step  its usemame and password into the Boxes  and , respectively.","Once the \u201copen an account\u201d button  has been clicked, step  displays the web page  as shown in , whereby the customer may enter in step , its contact information, e.g., its name, Email address, ZIP code and country of residence, its username and password, in boxes -. After the customer data has been entered into the transaction center  and a customer account is established in the master database , step  displays a web page  that as shown in  sets out the conditions set by the transaction center  for creating a customer account and provides an acceptance box . Upon clicking on the box  in step , step  displays a web page  which sets out as shown in  the entered customer information and permits the customer to edit and revise that information. If the customer information is satisfactory, the customer is given the opportunity to add to their portfolio, their customer accounts in LPs maintained by issuers in their terminals . By clicking in step  on the \u201cpointsfolio\u201d link , step  displays a page  that shows as seen in  a consolidated view of all of the customer's LP accounts including point balances. When the customer in step  clicks on the \u201cadd loyalty program\u201d button , step  displays a web page  that as shown in  includes a selection box  for permitting the customer to add in step  another LP. The customer clicks on the \u201cgo to next step\u201d button , whereby step  displays the next web page  which presents as shown in  the customer with a form -. This form is distinct for each issuer LP as it requests customer information that is specific to that LP and includes information required by that particular issuer's validation rules. The validation rules define what information the issuer LP requires in order to ensure the proper identity of the customer. This set of validation rules is maintained in the master database  and used to generate the web page . The entry of this information is necessary to add the selected LP to the customer's portfolio. After the information as determined by the customer is entered in step , the customer then clicks on the \u201cadd loyalty program\u201d button , whereby step  displays web page  that shows, as seen in , an agreement for acceptance or rejection by the customer whether its information may be shared with the issuer. The customer accepts in step  by clicking on the box  and pressing button  to add the LP account to their portfolio. Then, in step , web page  is displayed as shown in , which contains a confirmation of the customer information to be transmitted to the added LP issuer for account validation. If the customer accepts the terms and conditions, program  moves to step , which creates an account validation request for each issuer LP that the customer has added to its portfolio and constructs that request in a format and with those parts of the customer information as determined by the set of validation rules that the issuer has set for its LP. In step , the request is transmitted from the web server  via the transaction server  and one of the data transmission paths -to that issuer terminal  supporting this LP. As illustrated in program , described in detail below, the issuer terminal  validates the customer account information based on the account validation request transmitted in step  and transmits an account confirmation record. In step , the transaction server  receives the account confirmation record from the issuer terminal . In step , the account confirmation record is inspected and, if it shows that the customer LP account is valid, step  activates that LP account in the customer's portfolio in the master database . A valid account confirmation record will include the current points balance for that LP account. This current points balance is used to update the points balance for this LP, stored in the customer portfolio in the master database . If the confirmation record shows in step  that the customer LP account is not valid, the LP account is flagged in step  as erroneous and the customer is notified via email. Using this method of account validation, the issuers  are ensured that the transaction center  does not permit unauthorized access to private LP information or fraudulent attempts to exchange points.","In order to execute a points exchange, several sets of interactions are required. As shown in , the web server  must accumulate the details of the requested exchange from the customer terminal . These details are formulated into an exchange request, which is posted on a transaction queue in the master database . This exchange request contains all the details required to effect an exchange of points between issuer LPs. The transaction server  services any exchange requests found on the transaction queue by establishing communication with the necessary issuer terminals  in order to deposit or withdraw points from the appropriate customer LP accounts. The protocol by which the transaction server  communicates with the issuer terminal  can take one of several forms. In one embodiment, the transaction server  makes direct calls to each issuer server  via an application programming interface (API). This is typically called a \u201creal time\u201d protocol. In another embodiment, the transaction server  collects exchange requests from a plurality of customers and periodically sends a file of predetermined format to each issuer server  containing all the withdrawal and deposit transactions for those customers. A similar file is sent back from each issuer server  a period of time later, containing transaction confirmation messages\u2014this is typically called a \u201cbatch\u201d protocol. This invention is designed to operate using both types of protocols simultaneously, depending upon the agreement with the issuer in question. In addition, the master database  maintains a specific set of rules for each issuer, defining the specific protocol to be used when communicating with that issuer server . This permits extreme flexibility in connecting to a plurality of issuer servers running vastly disparate systems.","Referring now to  and B, there is shown a program  that is stored and executed in the transaction center , whereby a series of web pages as shown in  are displayed to implement the exchange of points from a first issuer LP from which points are withdrawn, i.e., a withdrawing LP, to a second issuer LP to which points are received, i.e., a depositing LP. Referring to , the first phase of the points exchange program  is executed by the web server , to gather and confirm the specifics of the points exchange from the customer . The program  starts with step , with the customer clicking on a \u201cxchange now\u201d button  of the home web page  as shown in . This results in step  with the display of an initial page  that explains as shown in  the steps for implementing an exchange of points from a first or withdrawing LP to a second or depositing LP. When the customer clicks in step  onto the \u201cadvanced points exchange\u201d button , step  displays the web page  which has as shown in  a form of spaces -, where up to ten LPs may illustratively be designated as the withdrawing LPs. Only LPs of which the customer is already a validated member will be offered for selection. The customer proceeds to step  by actuating the \u201cgo to next step\u201d button , whereby the web page  is displayed in step  as shown in . Page  includes a plurality of boxes -to permit the customer's entry of the quantity of points to withdraw from each designated LP. After designating the withdrawing LPs, step  compares the current point balances of the customer's accounts in the withdrawing LPs with the number of points requested in step  and if the requested points is greater than the assessed account balances, then step  terminates the point exchange carried out by the execution of the point exchange program  and a message is displayed to notify the customer that its current point balances are insufficient to complete the requested points exchange. On the other hand, if the points are available in the customer's LP accounts, then the point exchange program  moves to step , which displays a web page  as shown in . Web page  includes a box  for permitting the customer to designate the depositing LP to which the points are transferred. Though a particular embodiment has been described, one skilled in this art would appreciate that a plurality of depositing LPs could be designated. In step , the customer selects the depositing LP and clicks on \u201ccalculate advanced xchange\u201d button . Step  calculates the exchange rates for this points transaction and displays page , a summary of the withdrawal and deposit points, as illustrated in . This calculation is illustrated in greater detail as program , described in detail below. In particular, step  calculates the number of points to be transmitted to the designated depositing LP and displays in columns - respectively the withdrawing LPs, the number of points to be withdrawn, the number of points in the withdrawing LPs (the customer's account balance) before the exchange, and the number of points after the exchange. The customer clicks in step  on \u201ccontinue xchange\u201d button  to confirm that the pending transaction is correct. The program moves to step , displaying page , which includes columns - plus the terms and conditions of the transaction and any fees as shown in . In step , the customer clicks on the \u201cgo to next step\u201d button , whereby step  displays a web page  to prompt the customer for payment information including credit card and billing address, via the form of boxes -, as shown in . After the customer's credit card information has been entered in step , step  displays a web page  which sets out as shown in  a \u201ccancel\u201d button , a \u201creset\u201d button  and a \u201csubmit\u201d button , which permits the customer to cancel or revise the credit card information and, if satisfactory, to click on the \u201csubmit\u201d button  in step , whereby the customer's credit card data is submitted to effect payment for the exchange, and to display in step  a web page  which summarizes, as shown in , the points exchanged and issues a confirmation number .","Once the details of the requested points exchange have been accumulated and confirmed by the web server , as shown in , the points exchange program  is executed in a two-step procedure. The first step performs all of the points withdrawals from the designated withdrawing LPs and the second step performs the points deposit to the designated depositing LPs. The transaction server  executes this phase of the points exchange program as shown in . After the points exchange request is submitted by the customer in step , the web server posts in step  the points exchange request to a transaction queue on the master database  and marks the exchange as \u201cpending\u201d. The transaction server  monitors this transaction queue and services any unfulfilled exchange requests that it finds in the transaction queue. In step , the exchange request is analyzed and a points withdrawal transaction message is constructed for each of the customer LP accounts designated as withdrawal LPs. In step , using one of the protocols described above, these points withdrawal transaction messages are communicated from the transaction server  to the designated issuer servers  via the appropriate communications link . No further action is taken on this points exchange request until a transaction confirmation message has been received from each of the issuer servers  designated in step . Once the transaction confirmation messages are received from the issuer servers  associated with the withdrawing LPs in step , step  is executed to analyze the transaction confirmation messages to determine whether all of the withdrawal transactions were successful. If any of the withdrawal transactions failed, the corresponding confirmation message will contain an error code. In this event, step  rolls back the entire points exchange transaction and the customer is notified via email that the exchange request was not executed.","If all of the withdrawal transactions were successful as determined in step , step  constructs a points deposit transaction message for each customer LP account designated as a depositing LP. In step , using one of the protocols described above, the transaction server  transmits these points deposit transaction messages to the issuer servers  associated with the designated depositing LPs. No further action is taken on this points exchange request until a transaction confirmation message has been received from each of the issuer servers  associated with the LPs designated in step . Once the transaction confirmation messages have been received in step , step  is executed in which the confirmation message is analyzed to determine whether all of the deposit transactions were successful. If a deposit transaction failed, step  rolls back the entire points exchange transaction and notifies the customer via email that the exchange request was not executed. If all deposit transactions succeeded, step  changes the points exchange request from \u201cpending\u201d to \u201ccomplete\u201d, and step  notifies the customer illustratively by email of a successful points exchange.","Referring now to , B, C, D, E, F, G and H, there are shown programs , , , , , ,  and  that are stored and executed in the issuer server  of each issuer terminal . These programs each execute a distinct function: validating customer's LP account information; providing current point account balances; and performing points transactions (withdrawal and deposit). Referring first to  and B, there is illustrated the programs  and  which facilitate each issuer terminal , as shown in , to determine whether the customer account information supplied from the transaction center  in program  is properly formatted, includes all of the information required by this particular issuer terminal , and whether the customer described has a valid account in the issuer's LP. The format and content criteria of each issuer terminal  is defined by a set of rules, which each issuer sets in accordance with its own requirements. It will be appreciated that the use of a set of rules permits the transaction center  to communicate with different kinds of issuer terminals . In particular as will now be described, the transaction center  can adapt the customer information as to its content and format that will be sent to a particular issuer terminal  in accordance the criteria of that terminal . The transaction center  maintains the data format and validation rules for each issuer in the master database  and uses them to formulate all messages to each issuer terminal . The account validation process comprises two components: 1) the account validation request, which is sent from the transaction center  to the issuer terminal ; and 2) the account confirmation record, which is sent from the issuer terminal  to the transaction center , in response to the account validation request. The format of an account validation request\/account confirmation record pair can take several possible forms. In one illustrative embodiment, each message is formulated using Extensible Markup Language (XML), a variable-length text record or a fixed-length text record. The validation rules for successful account confirmation comprise a direct match between the customer information provided in the account validation request and the customer information stored in the issuer database . The account validation request must contain the customer's full proper name, complete mailing address, LP member ID, transaction center account ID and, in most cases, a PIN or password. Referring to , each issuer in step  constructs a first set of rules which define the format and content of the customer information that will be used by its LP and stores that set of rules in its issuer database . In particular, a list is established in the master database  for storing the particular format used by a particular LP and the content of the customer information required by that LP. Then when the transaction center  constructs the account validation request, it accesses that list to ensure that the customer's validation request is constructed by the transaction center  to include the LP's data format and all of the customer information required by the LP.","Referring now to , the customer account validation program is explained. First, in step , the issuer server  receives from the transaction server  via a data transmission line  a customer account validation request. Next, step  determines whether the customer information transmitted inside this request satisfies the issuer's set of rules as to the format of the transmitted information. If the information fails to satisfy this set of rules, step  transmits to the transaction server  an account confirmation record containing an error response code. Otherwise, step  determines if the transmitted customer account information meets the defined validation rules and thereby represents a valid member of the issuer's LP. If the information fails to satisfy this set of rules, step  transmits to the transaction server  an account confirmation record containing an error response code. On the other hand if the validation rules are satisfied, step  accesses the current points balance of the customer's LP account that is kept in the issuer database  and constructs an account confirmation record containing the current points balance and a confirmation code. The constructed confirmation record is transmitted back to the transaction server . Next, step  sets a flag in the customer's LP account stored in the issuer database  whereby this customer is identified as also a customer of the transaction center . The transaction center account ID (as established in program ) of this customer is also kept in the customer's LP account stored in the issuer database  such that the issuer terminal  can send messages to the transaction center  and properly identify this customer. As explained above, the return of the account confirmation record to the transaction center  completes the process of adding a LP to the customer's portfolio stored on the master database , and permits that customer to request points exchanges involving this issuer.","Referring now to , D and E, there are shown the programs ,  and , which transmit changes in customer points balances from each of the issuers terminals  to the transaction center . Using these programs, the transaction center  is able to maintain current points account balances in its customer portfolios. As in program , the first step  of program , establishes the data format and communications protocol for point account balance updates. This permits the issuer to define the method by which updates will be provided to the transaction center . Two preferred embodiments are illustrated in  and E. In the first embodiment as shown in , program  includes step  which monitors the points balance of the customer's LP account that is maintained in the issuer database  for change, e.g., a deposit or withdrawal of points from the customer's LP account. In the course of managing the LP, points are added to the customer's account typically when the customer purchases some goods or services, or are withdrawn when the customer redeems its points for some reward. When the account balance of the customer's LP account changes, step  accesses the balance the customer's LP account and constructs a record that includes the updated account balance and the ID of the customer's transaction center account. The issuer server  transmits this record via a data transmission path  to the transaction server , which in turn stores the updated account balance in the customer's portfolio maintained in the master database  using the customer's central control ID as the address of that portfolio. This embodiment is termed a \u201cpush\u201d update, in which the issuer \u201cpushes\u201d new account balance information to the transaction center as those changes occur.","The second embodiment of this invention, as shown in , includes the program , which begins in step  to detect a message from the transaction server  requesting an updated account balance for a specified customer. Step  determines whether the message is correctly formulated and, if it is not, executes step  to transmit an error code to the transaction server . If the message if properly formulated the customer information as determined in step , step  examines the customer information in the message to determine whether this is a previously registered customer (as performed in program ). If it is not, step  transmits an error code back to the transaction server . If the customer information is valid, step  accesses the balance the customer's LP account and constructs a record that includes the updated account balance and the ID of the customer's transaction center account. The issuer server  transmits this record via a data transmission path  to the transaction server , which in turn stores the updated account balance in the customer's portfolio maintained in the master database  using the customer's central control ID as the address of that portfolio. This embodiment is termed a \u201cpull\u201d update, in which the transaction center  periodically \u201cpulls\u201d new account balance information from the issuer terminal .","Referring now to , G, and H, the programs ,  and  are shown that validate and execute an exchange of points between two or more LPs that have been designated by the customer as explained above. As described above, a points exchange includes the steps of the withdrawal of points from one or more of the customer's LP accounts followed by the deposit of points into another of the customer's LP accounts. Each issuer terminal  must be equipped with a method of receiving points withdrawal and deposit transaction messages from the transaction center , validating the transaction messages and executing the corresponding changes to the customer's account balance within that LP. Referring first to program  as shown in , step  sets the rules for validating a points exchange transaction. These rules assure that the transaction center  communicates with the issuer terminal  in a manner that accommodates the issuer server  and its programming that is associated with that LP. The format of a withdrawal or deposit transaction message\/confirmation record pair can take several possible forms. In one illustrative embodiment, each message is formulated using Extensible Markup Language (XML), a variable-length text record or a fixed-length text record. The validation rules for a transaction message, comprise matching a valid LP member ID, customer's first and last name and transaction center ID to the customer membership information stored in the issuer database . As explained above, the transaction center  examines the list retained in its master database  to ensure that the selected data format matches that of the LP and that the content of the customer information satisfies the requirements of its LP. In addition, the number of points to be withdrawn or deposited is specified, followed by a unique sequence identifier, ensuring that the transaction is properly recorded and not accidentally replicated. In addition, if a withdrawal transaction message is received, the issuer server  must check that the number of points to be withdrawn from the customer's LP account stored in the issuer database  does not exceed the balance of that account. In this regard, the balance of the customer's LP's account may have changed since the last updating of the customer's transaction center account and may not be sufficient to satisfy the number of points specified by a withdrawal transaction message.","Referring now to program  as shown in , the issuer server  in step  receives from the transaction server  a withdrawal transaction message and compares it with the set of rules set for that issuer terminal . Step  determines if the message is properly formulated. If not, step  transmits an error response code to the transaction server . Otherwise, step  determines whether the withdrawal transaction message satisfies the designated set of validation rules and, if not satisfied, step  transmits a response with an error code to the transaction server . As explained above, the program  responds to that error code by notifying the customer of the error and prompting the customer to update its information. If the rules are satisfied, step  posts a credit to the customer's LP account for the withdrawn points. Next, step  transits to the transaction server  a transaction confirmation record with a confirmed response code and the updated points balance in the customer's LP account. As described above, this current balance in used to update the balance in the customer's transaction center portfolio.","Referring now to program  as shown in , the issuer server  receives in step  from the transaction server  a deposit transaction message. Step  determines if the message is properly formulated. If not, step  transmits an error response code to the transaction server . If the message is properly formulated, step  compares determines whether the withdrawal transaction message satisfies the designated set of rules and, if not satisfied, step  transmits a response with an error code to the transaction server . As explained above, the program  responds to that error code by notifying the customer of the error and prompting the customer to update its information. If the rules are satisfied, step  posts a debit to the customer's LP account for the deposited points. Next, step  transits to the transaction server  a transaction confirmation record with a confirmed response code and the updated points balance in the customer's LP account. As described above, this current balance in used to update the balance in the customer's transaction center portfolio.","In order for a points exchange to be executed, each points withdrawal or deposit transaction must be monetized, i.e. the set of points to be exchanged must be convertible into a common currency which has a recognized relation to each of the LPs involved in the transaction. For example, the points of the withdrawing LP have a first value per point in U.S. dollars, whereas the points of the depositing LP has a second value per point in U.S. dollars. This is the mechanism by which disparate currencies such as different loyalty points can be exchanged. As described previously, each point held in an LP account has an inherent monetized value represented as a liability on the balance sheet of the LP's accounting records. Any withdrawal of points from that LP's accounts represents a real reduction in that liability and has a monetary value. By defining a rate per point that the LP is willing to pay to have points withdrawn from their accounts, the LP is able to \u201cbuy down\u201d that liability. This rate, called the point withdrawal rate, represents the monetization of first half of the points exchange. Similarly, the deposit of points into an LP's accounts represents an increase in the liability of that LP. By defining a rate per point that the LP is willing to be paid to deposit points into their accounts, the LP is able to \u201csell\u201d their points currency. This rate, called the point deposit rate, represents the monetization of the second half of the points exchange. The practice of permitting third party organizations to \u201cbuy\u201d points is long established in the loyalty industry as represented by affiliate programs such as credit cards which allow customers to earn frequently flyer points with an airline when using that credit card.","Referring now to , a program  is shown that is stored and run in the issuer server  of each issuer terminal . Initially in step , each issuer sets its point withdrawal rate and its point deposit rate. Next, step  transmits these rates to the transaction center  to be stored in the master database . A flag is also set in the master database  indicating that the issuer has set these rates. As explained above, a customer will not be able to add the issuer's LP to its portfolio or to initiate a points exchange with a particular LP until its issuer has submitted its point withdrawal and deposit rates. Each issuer is free to change these rates at will, allowing the effective exchange rates between LPs to float as market conditions change.","Once the points withdrawal and deposit rates have been established, as described above, the effective points exchange rate between two LPs can be calculated. This calculation is shown in an illustrative embodiment in . In this example, an exchange from one LP to another is shown. There are three parties involved in the exchange. A first or withdrawing issuer executing a point withdrawal , a second or depositing issuer executing a points deposit  and the transaction center . A withdrawal of 10,000 points in step  from the first issuer  is requested. The first issuer  has examined its liability\/points and set its point withdrawal rate at $0.008 per point. This means that for a withdrawal of 10,000 points from the customer's account with the first issuer  will pay $80 in step  to the transaction center . The transaction center  levies in step  a transaction fee in the amount of $8 that was set as a percentage of the cost of the withdrawal, leaving $72 () available to buy points from the second issuer , which has set in step  its point deposit rate at $0.02. In step , the transaction center  uses the available $72 to deposit 3,600 points in the customers account in the second issuer . In this example, the customer sees an effective points exchange rate of 3,600:10,000 or 0.36 between the first issuer  and the second issuer .  also illustrates that, by setting a points withdrawal rate that is lower than the book liability per point and by setting a points deposit rate that is higher that the book liability per point, the issuers are able to generate a profit on both points withdrawal and deposit transactions.","Referring now to , there is shown a program  that is stored and executed by the transaction server  when a points exchange request is found on the transaction queue, as described above. Program  calculates for a points exchange, the number of points to be deposited in the second or depositing issuer, based on the points withdrawal and deposit rates of the designated withdrawing and depositing issuers and the transaction fee levied by the transaction center  itself. First, step  calculates the value of the points withdrawn. This is computed by taking the number of points to be withdrawn from the designated first issuer and multiplying it by the point withdrawal rate for the first issuer to provide a monetized value in terms of monetary units, e.g., dollars. In step , this resulting points withdrawal value is posted to a reconciliation account for the designated withdrawing issuer on the master database . Each withdrawing and depositing issuer has a reconciliation account on the master database . The reconciliation account is used to reconcile all point transactions, as described in detail below. In step , the value of the deposited points is calculated by subtracting a transaction fee that is levied on all point exchanges by the transaction center . This fee is illustratively a percentage of the monetized value of the withdrawn points. Next in step , the points deposit value is applied to the purchase of points to be deposited in the designated depositing issuer account. The number of points to be deposited is computed by taking the remaining cash balance and multiplying it by the point deposit rate for the designated depositing issuer. Finally, in step , the value of the deposited points is posted to a reconciliation account for the designated depositing issuer on the master database . It should be appreciated that this embodiment illustrates a point exchange from a single issuer to another single issuer. This method could easily be applied to point exchanges from multiple withdrawing issuers to multiple depositing issuers.","Referring now to , there is shown a program , which is stored and executes on the transaction server  for reconciling all of the points withdrawals and generating appropriate invoices to the withdrawing points issuers. As described above, each points withdrawal has an associated cash value in the form of monetary units, e.g., dollars, which the withdrawing issuer must pay to the transaction center . As points withdrawal transactions are executed, the associated cash value of the transaction is posted to the reconciliation account for the withdrawing issuer, as described above. Periodically, the program  is executed to generate invoices based on the postings in these reconciliation accounts. In step , the transaction server  sums all of the points withdrawal postings in each of the reconciliation accounts. In step , an invoice is generated and transmitted to each of the withdrawing issuers based on their withdrawal tally.","Referring now to , there is shown a program  which is stored and executes on the issuer server  for reconciling all of the point deposits that transaction center  has initiated and for generating an appropriate invoice to the transaction center . Program  is executed by each of the depositing issuers independently. As described above, each point deposit has an associated cash value in the form of monetary units, e.g., dollars, which the transaction center  must pay to the depositing issuer. As points deposit transactions are executed, it is the responsibility of the issuer to track the associated cash value of the transaction and periodically run program  to generate invoices accordingly. In step , the issuer server  sums all of the point deposit transactions that originated from the transaction center . In step , an invoice from that particular issuer is generated and transmitted to the transaction center  based on the deposit tally."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["Many details and advantages of the present invention will be apparent to those skilled in the art when this document is read in conjunction with the attached drawings where matching reference numbers are applied to the matching elements and where:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":"FIGS. 1 and 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIGS. 1 and 2"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"figref":["FIGS. 4A-I","FIGS. 1 and 2","FIG. 3"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0034"},"figref":["FIGS. 5A","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"figref":["FIGS. 6A-I","FIGS. 1 and 2","FIGS. 5A"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0037","num":"0036"},"figref":["FIGS. 7A","FIG. 2","FIGS. 1 and 2"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0037"},"figref":["FIG. 8","FIGS. 1 and 2","FIG. 2"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0039","num":"0038"},"figref":["FIGS. 9 and 10","FIGS. 1 and 2"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0040","num":"0039"},"figref":["FIGS. 11 and 12","FIG. 2","FIG. 2"]}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
