---
title: Network dedication system
abstract: A method includes receiving a dedication from a first user via a network and applying the dedication to a play list of a second user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=06856990&OS=06856990&RS=06856990
owner: Intel Corporation
number: 06856990
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20010409
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["BACKGROUND","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["1. Field","The present invention relates generally to rendering media content on a computer system, and, more specifically, to providing dedications by way of a network.","2. Description","The use of media player applications for personal computers (PCs) and other digital devices has become widespread. Many different player applications are offered by software developers. The player applications are typically available for download from a network such as the Internet, often at no cost. One widely used player application is an audio player that renders digital audio files for listening by a user. Several different digital audio data formats are in common use, with the most common being the Motion Picture Expert Group (MPEG) audio layer 3 or \u201cMP3\u201d format. When digital audio data is stored in a file in the well-known MP3 format, the file may be easily moved, copied, transferred, or rendered by operating system or player application software. Of course, media player applications may also render video and other forms of content as well. While the discussion of media players herein may in some cases specify audio players, it should be appreciated that the topics may apply to video and other forms of media content as well.","Users are experienced in using audio player applications to build play lists of their favorite music. Play lists are a feature of many of the available audio player applications. A user typically constructs a play list of multiple units of audio content (e.g., music files) obtained from a variety of sources. Collectively, the content of the play list may be referred to as a \u201cprogram\u201d. The individual units of content which make up the play list may be referred to as \u201csegments\u201d of the play list.","When the audio player application is operating according to a play list, the user may experience a successive stream of songs listed in the play list. However, once the user initiates operation of the audio player according to the play list, manual intervention by the user may be involved in order to interleave additional content with the content specified in the play list. There is typically no convenient manner by which another person may modify the user's play list, for example, to interleave a dedication. As used herein, \u201cdedication\u201d refers to any media content specified by a party other than the user experiencing the content. In one sense, network-based dedications are similar to the familiar radio dedications in which a friend or family member contacts the radio station and requests that a particular song \u201cgo out to X\u201d, where X is a listener of the radio station.","Thus, there are opportunities for providing additional capabilities in digital audio applications that overcome these and other limitations of the prior art.","An embodiment of the present invention is a method and apparatus for providing dedications to a user over a network. The present invention provides a technique for insertion of dedication content between segments of an audio and\/or video (henceforth \u201cmedia\u201d) program. According the present invention, when a user is listening to a series of digital media files being rendered by a media player application according to a play list or in a streaming manner, additional information may be rendered for the user in between the media files (e.g., in between songs for audio media) or even as a \u201cvoice over\u201d during media rendering. The additional information may be specified by another person. If some of the additional information is specified in a textual format (e.g., ASCII), the text may be converted into audio for audible rendering to the user.","In one embodiment, a user may be executing an audio player application to play either locally stored digital audio files (e.g., files in MP3 or another audio format) or other streaming digital audio files (as in an Internet radio application). In embodiments of the present invention, the system plays a message and a song dedication to the user in between songs or as a voice-over during a song of the play list. Other information may also be rendered between songs or as voice overs.","Reference in the specification to \u201cone embodiment\u201d or \u201can embodiment\u201d of the present invention means that a particular feature, structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the present invention. Thus, the appearances of the phrase \u201cin one embodiment\u201d or \u201cin an embodiment\u201d appearing in various places throughout the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.",{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00015","num":"00015"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["100","100","120","106","120","106","106","120","106"]},"The computer system  comprises a memory . The memory  may be any machine-readable media technology, such as Random Access Memory (RAM), Dynamic RAM (DRAM), Read-Only Memory (ROM), flash, cache, and so on. Memory  may store instructions and\/or data represented by data signals that may be executed by a processor of the computer system  (processor not shown). The instructions and\/or data may comprise software for performing techniques of the present invention. Memory  may also contain additional software and\/or data (not shown).","In one embodiment, a display device  may be coupled to the computer system . The display device receives data signals from the computer system  and displays information contained in the data signals to a user of system . In one embodiment, computer system  may also comprise a machine-readable storage media  which acts as a memory to store instructions and data (including possibly media content), but typically comprises higher capacity and slower access speeds than does memory .","Computer system  may receive from network information about the play list  of another user of another computer system (henceforth user B). In one embodiment, this information may include 1) information  about user B's play list, 2) an identification  of user B, and 3) information about whether user B is online  or offline . \u201cOnline\u201d means that user B is currently capable of receiving signals from the network . A representation of this information, or portions thereof, may be displayed on display .","By interacting with software , user A may generate a message  to be transmitted to a computer system of user B. This message  may include any content, such as a greeting, a reminder, a letter, a statement of good wishes, and so on. The message  may take any form, including ASCII text, audio data recorded from a microphone, a video segment (with or without audio), and so on. User A may also select a dedication  for user B. This dedication  identifies media content to be experienced by user B. User A may identify one or more insertion points  for the message  and the dedication  in user B's play list . In one embodiment, both user A and user B on online when the dedication is made, and play list  is the play list which user B is currently experiencing.","The message  and dedication  may be inserted together before or after a segment of the play list , or in different locations in the play list . The dedication  may identify a segment in user B's play list , or media content from elsewhere. The media content identified by the dedication  may be stored locally to the computer system of user B, or stored by a device of the network . Of course, the dedication  may comprise more than a mere identification; it may also comprise the actual media content for user B to experience as well. The message , dedication , and insertion points  may be transmitted from the computer system  to the network . When user B is online, the message , dedication , and insertion points  may be received by a computer system of user B shortly after being transmitted. Alternately, the message , dedication , and insertion points  may be stored by storage of the network  for later access by user B.",{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00021","num":"00021"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":["200","102","106","122","124","126","116","108","116","122","124","126","106"]},"The computer system  may comprise a memory . The memory  may be any machine-readable media technology, such as Random Access Memory (RAM), Dynamic RAM (DRAM), Read-Only Memory (ROM), flash, cache, and so on. Memory  may store instructions and\/or data represented by signals that may be executed by a processor of the computer system  (processor not shown). The instructions and\/or data may comprise software for performing techniques of the present invention. Memory  may also comprise additional software and\/or data (not shown). In one embodiment, computer system  may also comprise a machine-readable storage media  which acts as a memory to store instructions and data (including possibly media content), but typically comprises higher capacity and slower access speeds than does memory . In one embodiment, the storage media  may comprise user B's play list , the message , the dedication , and the insertion points .","The computer system  may further comprise a speaker device  for rendering audio media content. Of course, the computer system might comprise multiple speaker devices, and\/or a display device for rendering video media content. In one embodiment, the computer system  comprises at least one of a PC, an Internet or network appliance, a set-top box, a handheld computer, a personal digital assistant, a personal and portable audio device, a cellular telephone, or other processing device. The computer system  in one embodiment may be a consumer electronics device such as a home stereo or portable MP player. In one embodiment, the computer system  may be coupled to the network  by a home network.","Memory  may comprise media player software . Media player  may receive and process media content for rendering. In one embodiment, the media player  may be an audio player such as Windows Media Player (available from Microsoft Corporation), RealPlayer (available from RealNetworks, Inc.), or WinAmp (available from NullSoft Corporation), for example. In another embodiment, the media player  may be an application program or software plug-in that supports reception and rendering of media content streams from the network . In another embodiment, the functionality of the media player  may be included in a browser program (such as Internet Explorer from Microsoft Corporation or Netscape Navigator (not shown)).","In one embodiment, the memory  may comprise Text-To-Speech software (TTS)  for converting text content into audio. For media content comprising a textual format (for example, ASCII), the TTS software  may convert the text into an audio media format recognizable as speech according to well-known methods. Such media content may be rendered by speaker . In one embodiment, the TTS software  operates on media content according to a speech application programming interface (SAPI). In other embodiments, the TTS software  may be comprised by a server computer system (not shown) of the network , and the converted audio media content may be transmitted over the network  to the computer system .","The media player  may receive media content in accordance with the play list  from storage media , or from the network . In accordance with the play list , the media player  may transfer audio media content to the speaker  for rendering.","In one embodiment, media content of the play list is stored locally by the computer system  by storage media . Of course, the local storage media  could also be external to the computer system , or be part of a home network or other local computing or media processing environment. For example, a user may have converted tracks from multiple compact discs (CDs) in the user's music collection from CD format to MP3 format (or other suitable digital audio format) and stored the MP3 files in the local storage. The play list , dedication , message , and insertion points  may be stored locally or on storage of the network .","When the media player  encounters a segment corresponding to one of the insertion points , the message  may be rendered. If the message  is stored in a textual form, it may be converted to audio by the TTS software . In one embodiment where the message  and dedication  are inserted together, the dedication  may also be rendered. The dedication  may comprise the actual media content to render, or an identification of the media unit (e.g., Uniform Resource Locator, local file descriptor, or other pointer to a song file or other media source) comprising the dedication content. The dedication  may identify a segment of the play list  or content from another source.","Alternatively, the dedication  and the message  may be inserted at different points in the play list . Consider the following exemplary dedication: a message  comprising the text \u201cHello John. Good to see you back online. This one's for you\u2014remember September in Vegas?\u201d, and a dedication  identifying a song stored in an MPEG formatted media file with the URL http:\/\/www.musicland.com\/john\/blackjack.mp. The insertion points  for both the message  and the dedication  could be between segments one and two of John's play list . When the media player  finishes segment one of the play list , the message  could be converted to audio using the TTS software  and rendered on the speaker . John would then hear the spoken words, \u201cHello John. Good to see you back online. This one's for you\u2014remember September in Vegas?\u201d Next, the media player  would attempt to receive an audio stream in well known manners from the network source http:\/\/www.musicland.com\/john\/blackjack.mp, e.g. the song \u201cBlackjack\u201d, and render it on the speaker . Of course, John would need to be online to receive the song. When the dedication  specifies content local to system , John may experience the dedication content without being online.","In one embodiment, rather than rendering the message  between segments of the play list , the message audio may be mixed with the audio of a media segment so as to provide a \u201cvoice over.\u201d In this case, the user who made the dedication may specify that the message should be applied as a voice over.","In the preceding description, various aspects of the present invention have been described. For purposes of explanation, specific numbers, systems and configurations were set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention. However, it is apparent to one skilled in the art having the benefit of this disclosure that the present invention may be practiced without the specific details. In other instances, well-known features were omitted or simplified in order not to obscure the present invention.","Although some operations of the present invention (for example, TTS) are described in terms of a hardware embodiment, embodiments of the present invention may be implemented in hardware or software or firmware, or a combination thereof. Embodiments of the invention may be implemented as computer programs executing on programmable systems comprising at least one processor, a data storage system (including volatile and non-volatile memory and\/or storage elements), at least one input device, and at least one output device. Program code may be applied to input data to perform the functions described herein and generate output information. The output information may be applied to one or more output devices, in known fashion. For purposes of this application, a processing system embodying the playback device components includes any system that has a processor, such as, for example, a digital signal processor (DSP), a microcontroller, an application specific integrated circuit (ASIC), or a microprocessor.","The programs may be implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate with a processing system. The programs may also be implemented in assembly or machine language, if desired. In fact, the invention is not limited in scope to any particular programming language. In any case, the language may be a compiled or interpreted language.","The programs may be stored on a removable storage media or device (e.g., floppy disk drive, read only memory (ROM), CD-ROM device, flash memory device, digital versatile disk (DVD), or other storage device) readable by a general or special purpose programmable processing system, for configuring and operating the processing system when the storage media or device is read by the processing system to perform the procedures described herein. Embodiments of the invention may also be considered to be implemented as a machine-readable storage medium, configured for use with a processing system, where the storage medium so configured causes the processing system to operate in a specific and predefined manner to perform the functions described herein.","While this invention has been described with reference to illustrative embodiments, this description is not intended to be construed in a limiting sense. Various modifications of the illustrative embodiments, as well as other embodiments of the invention, which are apparent to persons skilled in the art to which the inventions pertains are deemed to lie within the spirit and scope of the invention."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The features and advantages of the present invention will become apparent from the following detailed description of the present invention in which:",{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00010","num":"00010"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00011","num":"00011"},"figref":"FIG. 2"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
