---
title: Business development process
abstract: A business development process utilizing a business development database comprises collecting data for ideas from a plurality of sources. One type of collected idea data from said step of collecting is filtered in order to identify potential business opportunities. An opportunity analysis is then performed on said identified potential business opportunities to determine valid business opportunities. Resources are committed to the valid business opportunities, a business proposal is developed. This developed business proposal to a potential buyers. Success of the submission is determined and the business opportunity is executed if the submission is a success.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07415437&OS=07415437&RS=07415437
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 07415437
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20011031
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"GOVINT":[{},{}],"heading":["STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENT INTEREST","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENT"],"p":["The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.","(1) Field of the Invention","This invention generally relates to a business development process for assessing new business ideas, identifying risk and reward, opportunity analysis, developing proposals, and submitting the new business ideas to either new or existing customers.","(2) Description of the Prior Art","The current art for business development, particularly in the Department of the Navy, has been virtually nonexistent with the exception of individualized processes that may have been taking place. Accordingly, a need in the art exists for a sound business development process so that decisions can be more easily made while still pursuing new work. With changing times, funding has become more difficult to obtain and the competition for the funding has increased dramatically. With numerous ideas and limited resources, it was determined that a business development process was necessary to identify which ideas were worth pursuing.","The following patents, for example, disclose methods and systems for evaluating a variety of choices, but do not disclose a business development process for evaluating new business ideas within the context of determining the potential business outcome of those ideas.\n\n","Specifically, Armstrong et al. discloses a method and apparatus for evaluating business opportunities for supplying goods and services (such as business forms and services) to potential customers, takes a quantitative approach that allows a user to evaluate a potential customer's needs, and the user's ability to supply those needs, to see what the area of opportunity for the user to supply that need is. Calculations can also be made comparing the user's ability to fulfill the needs to some absolute standard, to also determine an area of emerging technology. A series of questions relating to the customer's level of sophistication for predefined business techniques in a number of different categories are input into a computer, as well as the responses, and weights and values are assigned to the question responses to indicate a level of sophistication for each possible response of each business technique for each separate category. The user's capability of supplying the potential customer's needs are also evaluated and this data is input into a second computer which calculates, taking into account the weights and values, of each separate category, a potential customer's score, the user's score, and the area of opportunity (which is the difference between the customer's score and the user's score). Then, using a computer controlled printer, the calculations are printed out in graphical form on a sheet of paper, along with other human readable indicia, from which an evaluation of the opportunity, as well as a tool to close a business deal, are supplied.","The patent to Apgar, IV provides objective evaluations of a business entity's real estate situation and condition for use by customers including (but not limited to) the business entity. Information is processed to determine indicators of amount, price, area, grade, and risk; and those indicators are combined to provide a total score. The system includes a database for storing a variety of data, such as utilization measures and business information, and data corresponding to businesses that are similar to the business entity. Process actuators process the information to derive the several indicators, the score, and other measures, which is printed or displayed for customers and\/or the business entity. Preferably, a report is generated which details information including the score to provide a well-rounded picture of a particular real estate situation.","Stratmann discloses a method for assisting an individual in making a selection amongst a plurality of choice items. The individual selects decision components having a relevance to the selection of a choice item and assigns values to each of the decision components. The user further assigns expected satisfaction scores to each decision component of each choice item indicating the expected satisfaction to be received from the decision components. The reliability of the expected satisfaction scores is indicated by assigned reliability factors. The assigned component values, expected satisfaction values, and reliability factors are then utilized to rank each of the choice items.","Guinta et al. discloses a method and apparatus for computer-aided assessment of an organizational process or system. The method and apparatus are adapted to display computer-displayed questions to an assessor, who then inputs numerical inputs relative to the assessor's perception of the process or system. Filtering techniques inhibit entry of unsupported numerical inputs that may be untrue and\/or exaggerated. Sequential questions used in combination provide a more accurate assessment of the system or process, thereby enabling focused audits and\/or inspections.","The patent to Maxwell discloses a decision making system whereby a method of performing a detailed level evaluation of one or more products or articles based on a decision maker's response to one or more questions relating to the decision maker's requirements is described. The method includes the decision maker responding to the question relating to the decision maker's functional requirement or requirements taking into account a predefined result type. The response is compared with a product result where the product result reflects a particular functional capability of the article or product in relation to the particular question. This produces an evaluation ratio or series of evaluation ratios that are statistically analyzed to determined how well the product or article meets the decision maker's requirements. The method is particularly suitable for analysis of software packages such as accounting packages and the like and provides a way by which a user may determine, at a highly detailed level, the suitability of various packages to the user's requirements.","It should be understood that the present invention would in fact enhance the functionality of the above patents by providing a business development process that allows innovators to pursue ideas and determine whether the opportunities for any particular idea are real and worth an investment of time and money to those responsible for development. The process allows for a better commitment of resources and effort. This leads to a much better return on investment due to efficient resource allocation and invites more effective strategic planning, commitment of resources and overall planning.","Therefore it is an object of this invention to provide a business development process that provides a standard process for an entire company.","Another object of this invention is to provide a business development process that identifies criteria relevant to investing in business opportunities for a company.","Still another object of this invention is to provide a business development process that provides effective strategic planning, commitment of resources, and overall planning for a company.","A still further object of the invention is to provide a business development process that is easily established on a known database and therefore usable by all relevant employees.","Yet another object of this invention is to provide a business development process that assesses risks and rewards, compares the assessment to a baseline of proven successful business opportunities, and directs subsequent steps of the process.","In accordance with one aspect of this invention, there is provided a business development process including the steps of (a) collecting data for ideas from a plurality of sources, (b) filtering one type of collected idea data from the step of collecting in order to identify potential business opportunities, (c) performing an opportunity analysis in order to identify an opportunity from all of the filtered and collected data ideas to determine valid business opportunities, (d) committing resources to the determined valid business opportunities, (e) developing a business proposal for the determined valid business opportunities, (f) submitting the developed business proposal to a potential buyer of the determined valid business opportunity, (g) determining if submission of the developed business proposal is a success, and (h) executing the business opportunity upon determining that the submission is a success.","In general, the present invention is directed to a process for allowing innovators to pursue ideas, and determine the value of opportunities that have presented themselves. This promotes more innovation, as engineers can better understand where their ideas go and how they are developed. Additionally, this process assesses the risks and rewards, compares that assessment to a baseline of proven successful opportunities, and provides insight to what the next step should be. This invites more effective strategic planning, commitment of resources, and overall planning for certain businesses.","Referring first to , the business development process is shown to encompass seven major steps including: Filter; Opportunity Identification; Commit Resources; Develop Proposal; Submittal; Success; and Execute. These steps bring an idea from initial identification through project execution. An idea can come from one of three general sources including a formal data call process , an employee , or from a request  that is either internal or external. The request at  can be either from an existing customer or a new customer.","In the event that an idea comes from a formal data call at step , the idea needs to be filtered at \u201cFilter\u201d (step ) before moving to the next step. The step of filtering is not performed, however, on idea submissions coming from an employee idea at step  or an internal\/external request at step . Filtering of the formal data call ideas helps to identify the division and\/or personnel that can respond to the data call.","The filtering process, the first of the major steps and identified at  in the flow diagram, is shown in the detail flow diagram of . The ideas from the formal data call process  are received through publication such as the Commerce Business Daily (CBD) and Broad Agency Announcement (BAA) process. A designated point of contact (POC) will, at step , review the Commerce Business Daily and Broad Agency Announcement calls twice weekly for possible ideas and business opportunities. A second individual will determine, at step , if the idea collected from the data call is within the core equities of a group. It should be understood that in this instance the group refers to the Surface Undersea Warfare Department of the Navy. The group includes a smaller business development group that is responsible for bringing in new business. The core equities for the example group, the Surface Undersea Warfare Department, include, but are not limited to, Scientific (active and passive signal processing, environmental acoustics, information processing, and acoustic modeling) and Sonar System Engineering (array design, towing and handling systems, rapid prototyping, shipboard installation, test and evaluation, training, in-service engineering, system integration, requirements analysis, and system concept development). The center core equity is Surface Undersea Warfare. It will be appreciated to those skilled in the art that the disclosed business development process, while attributed to this specific department of the Navy, will be easily adapted to virtually any similar type of company, either military or civilian.","Continuing, a complete list of announcements that fall within the group's core equities will be distributed, at step , to the business development group for review at a weekly Strategic Planning and Development Office (SPDO) staff meeting. The group will select those announcements, at step , that will move to the next step in the development process. Ideas that are not recommended i-or continuation are archived at step  (see ) for potential review at a later date.","At this point, those ideas that continue in the process undergo an opportunity analysis to determine whether the idea is a business opportunity for the department. The opportunity analysis stage is identified at  in the flow diagram of  and is further set forth in the worksheets of . In the opportunity analysis, five areas are analyzed including: the Market (); Economics (); Competitive Advantage (); the Team (); and Potential Flaws ().","In the preferred embodiment, each area of analysis is represented by a worksheet available in a computer spreadsheet program such as Microsoft Excel\u00ae or the like. The coversheet shown in  contains a summary of information from the individual worksheets and user data. The originator fills in the coversheet with the idea name, the originator's name, a brief description of the idea, and any external team members involved in the analysis. An idea can be entered in the process with or without team members to determine if a business opportunity exists or if there is value added. The originator then proceeds to the five worksheets, , one for each of the areas to be analyzed. Using a computer having a business development database and including the Excel worksheets described herein, the originator is directed to enter a \u201c1\u201d in an assessment column beside each attribute on the computer worksheet where the attractiveness exists. The space is to be left blank if the assessment factor is not clear or is questionable. The column total will automatically appear on the bottom row and in the appropriate box on the coversheet and is calculated by the spreadsheet computer program.","The first of the five worksheets is shown in  and is directed to the Market as it relates to the opportunity analysis. Criteria in the market include the general Market per se with subcategories of Customers, User Benefits, Value Added, Product Life, and Timing. Each of these criteria includes certain attributes. For example, a market that is market driven is considered \u201chigh attractive\u201d, and a market that is unfocused is considered \u201clow attractive.\u201d The customer having high attractive criteria is one that is reachable, whereas a customer with low attractive criteria is one that is loyal to others. A high attractive user benefit is one with less than a one-year payback, and a low attractive user benefit is one with a payback greater than three years. For the value added criteria, there is a high attractive value if the value added is high and a low attractive value if the value added has minimum impact. With regard to product life, a durable product is more attractive than a perishable product. Finally, if the timing is \u201cwith the tide\u201d a high attractive value is given, and if the timing is \u201cagainst the tide\u201d, then a low attractive value is given.","For an imperfect or emerging market structure, a high attractive value exists but for a concentrated, declining market structure, a low attractive value is entered. The funding potential ranges are given to be greater than $750K or less than $500K as the high or low attractive values. It is apparent that these ranges may vary depending upon the economics of the times. Finally, if the potential market share would be that of a leader, or more than 20% of the market, a high attractive value exists. For potential market shares of less than 5%, a low attractive value exists.","The bottom line of this (and subsequent) worksheet is a summary of the items for the worksheet. The computer calculates the Assessment summary for each Assessment column, and places the sum of the assessments on the bottom line. The bottom line numbers are automatically placed on the master or cover sheet of  as will be more fully explained below.","Referring now to the worksheet of , the Economic attractiveness of a business opportunity is valued. The areas of analysis (criteria) include Time to Break Even, Return on Investment (ROI) potential, Capital Requirements, Impact on Staffing, Room for Error, and Funding Structure.","Ranges for time to break even are between two and four years. Less than two years is in the high attractive category and greater than four years is in the low attractive category. If the return on investment is greater than 25%, then a high attractive mark is given and if less than 5%, a low attractive mark is given. In order to gain a high attractive rating, capital requirements should be low to moderate whereas a high capital requirement will receive a low attractive rating. Should there be an increase in staffing of more than two employees per year, then a high attractive value is given, but if there is no impact on staffing, a low attractive value is given. With regard to room for error, this should be forgiving in a high attractive situation. If there is no room for error, then the project is considered to be a low attractive one. Finally, if funding structure permits a multi-year funding ability, then the project is high attractive, and if there is a single year funding requirement, the project is in the low attractive category.","The analysis worksheet for competitive advantage of a business opportunity is shown in  and includes numerous criteria such as fixed and variable costs; control over costs, prices, and distribution: barriers to entry (such as proprietary protection, lead time, legal\/contractual, contacts\/networks, key people, work for private parties (WFPP), foreign military service (FMS), and memorandum of understanding (MOU)); and technology\/concept.","In connection with the fixed and variable costs, a low value of these is high attractive, whereas a high value of these is low attractive. To obtain high attractive, there must be strong control over costs, prices, and distribution, whereas a weak control thereof is low attractive.","Of the barriers to entry into the market, there should presently be or ability to gain access to proprietary protection for high attractive. If there is no access to proprietary protection, then low attractive exists. A significant lead-time ahead of the competition is high attractive, and aggressive competition is low attractive. If there is proprietary or exclusivity with regard to legal\/contractual availability, this is high attractive, but if there is no legal\/contractual availability, then the project is low attractive.","In the case of contacts and networks, these will be well developed for a high attractive rating, but if they are limited, there will be a low attractive rating. Further, if the key people for the project are top talent, then the project is high attractive. If the key people are an unimpressive team, then the project is low attractive. If the business opportunity is executable work for private parties (WFPP), it is high attractive, and if it is non-executable work for private parties, it is low attractive. Work for private parties is a Government agency requirement that may be omitted for commercial enterprises. If foreign military sales are approvable, then a high attractive score is given, but if they are non-approvable, a low attractive score is given. Continuing, if a memorandum of understanding (MOU) is executable, it is high attractive, but if it is non-executable, it is low attractive. Both FMS and MOU criteria are known in the defense industry. These criteria can be replaced with the relevant criteria for other industries.","If the technology or concept for the business opportunity is a superior or groundbreaking one, then it is a high attractive project. However, if the technology or concept is one for which substitutes are available, then the project will receive a low attractive rating for the given criteria. Looking now at , there is shown a worksheet relating to an assembled team in connection with the opportunity analysis. Criteria include an entrepreneurial team, industry or technical experience, integrity, intellectual honesty, and stress tolerance. If the entrepreneurial team has vision, radiates competence, and listens, then a high attractive mark is given and if the team is weak, then a low attractive score is given. If the team has top-notch industry or technical experience, then it is given a high attractive rating, and a low industry or technical experience yields a low attractive rating. A high attractive rating is given for those with the highest standards of integrity and a low attractive rating is given if the integrity is questionable.","As for intellectual honesty, a high attractive team is one that knows what it doesn't know and listens well, whereas a team that does not listen is a low attractive team. A team that thrives with pressure is considered a high attractive and one that has a low stress tolerance is a low attractive. The computerized calculation will identify if the management team is a core team or if there is any evident weakness of the team.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0051","num":"0055"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},"Once the five worksheets are completed, an overall score will appear on the coversheet of . The overall score is computed by grading plural criteria of strengths and weaknesses of the identified potential business opportunity. The grading occurs in the areas of the market, economics, competitive advantage, the team, and potential flaws. Preferably this grading occurs by assigning a numeric value to each criteria according to the project parameters on a dedicated worksheet for each area. The score is computed for each worksheet and the computed score is transferred to the coversheet where it is summed. Interpretation of that score is depicted in Table 1.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0053","num":"0057"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00001","num":"00001"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"center"}},"thead":{"row":{"entry":"TABLE 1"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":"Idea vs. Opportunity Scores"}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"105pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"112pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Overall Value","Outcome"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["Opportunity value >> Idea value","Possible opportunity"]},{"entry":["Idea value >> Opportunity value","Idea only"]},{"entry":["Opportunity value = Idea value","Possible opportunity"]},{"entry":["Opportunity value > Idea value","Possible opportunity"]},{"entry":["Idea value > Opportunity value","Requires additional information to"]},{"entry":[{},"become a possible opportunity"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":"Note: >> = much larger value; > = slightly larger value."}]}}]}}},"Referring now to step  of , Opportunity Identification determines whether the idea is an opportunity or no opportunity (NOOP). If the idea is determined to be NOOP, it is archived in the business development database at step  and feedback is provided to the originator. If the idea is determined to be an opportunity, then a number of tasks need to be performed beginning with the risk\/reward assessment at step .","The Risk\/Reward Assessment tool is illustrated in . This worksheet is generated by the computer spreadsheet program in conformance with preprogrammed instructions. The worksheet is divided into two sections, one for risk assessment and one for reward assessment. For risk assessment, a number between 0 (high risk) and 1 (low risk), in increments of one-tenth, is entered for each risk factor. The risk factors are: New Product; New Customer; Cooperative Existing Customer; Team; Time to Meet Milestones\/Deliverables; Funding Limited; Customer Pain; and Internal Process.","There are benchmarks given for each of the risk factors as shown in the chart containing the risk assessment portion of . When entering a number into the computerized worksheet representative of the particular risk factor, the benchmark given will be taken into consideration so that an analysis can be made at which side of and how far from (or close to) the benchmark a particular risk factor is. This simplifies the analysis for the assessor.","The numbers are multiplicative; therefore, assigning a 0 to a factor will put the total risk at 0. Table 2 indicates the assigned thresholds for risk assessment based on the total risk calculated.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0058","num":"0062"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00002","num":"00002"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"center"}},"thead":{"row":{"entry":"TABLE 2"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":"Risk Assessment"}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"77pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"63pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"77pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Total Risk Threshold","Assessment","Action"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["\u2003\u2002\u20090-0.002","Too High Risk","Do Not Do It"]},{"entry":["0.002-0.02\u2002","High Risk","Talk to the Customer"]},{"entry":["0.02-0.20","Tough, but doable","Move ahead"]},{"entry":["0.2-1\u2002\u2009","Low Risk","Move ahead"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}},"br":{}},"The reward assessment is a process that is evaluated in relation to prior projects that have been benchmarked based on their success. Table 3 below indicates the thresholds for reward assessment based on the total reward calculated.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0060","num":"0064"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00003","num":"00003"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"center"}},"thead":{"row":{"entry":"TABLE 3"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":"Reward Assessment"}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"77pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"84pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Total Reward Threshold","Assessment","Action"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["\u20030.3-0.55","Low Reward","Probably not do it; how-"]},{"entry":[{},{},"ever, review risk, talk to"]},{"entry":[{},{},"customer, and determine"]},{"entry":[{},{},"future work."]},{"entry":["0.55-0.8","Moderate Reward","Move ahead based on risk"]},{"entry":[{},{},"analysis."]},{"entry":["0.8-1\u2009","High Reward","Move ahead based on risk"]},{"entry":[{},{},"analysis."]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}},"br":{},"figref":"FIG. 8"},"From here, a potential customer must be identified at step , and discussions should then begin with that customer to establish a rapport. It is important to work with this customer in a proactive, not reactive way. At this early stage, a presentation should be avoided unless, of course, the customer desires a briefing. This opportunity is entered in the business development database at step  for tracking and balanced scorecard assessment. Any problems or priorities are identified and noted at step . At step , a capture team is identified and a lead, usually the originator, is assigned.","The decision to commit resources, step , is jointly determined by the business development group and the appropriate larger organization. If the decision is not to commit resources (NO), relevant information is added to the business development database and feedback is provided to the capture team (originator) at step . If the response is \u201cMAYBE\u201d, customer input is awaited at step . If the decision is to commit resources (YES), the process advances to step  and a task sheet (Request for Support to Divisions) is forwarded to the appropriate division requesting support. An example of the task sheet is shown in .","Prior to receiving the task sheet, discussions will have taken place in the division to determine staffing, funding, and any other issues. The task sheet is never supplied to the division without prior notice. At the time of forwarding the task sheet of , a capture plan is filled out at step . The capture plan work sheets are shown in . The capture plan is a series of worksheets that can be viewed as a workbook, where the applicable information is self-explanatory. When completed, this plan provides an information package to assist in the development of a proposal and for archival reference concerning the business opportunity.","By way of explanation, the proposal capture plan \u201cworkbook\u201d begins as shown in  with a cover sheet including the Opportunity Name, the Date, and the Point of Contact.  is a worksheet enabling a short, succinct description of what the buyer's needs are.  is a worksheet categorizing the buyers. The buyers include the economic\/strategic buyer\u2014one who has final approval to spend money, the user buyer\u2014who will be the primary funder of the offering, the technical\/system buyer\u2014the one who checks the offering to ensure that it is technically correct and\/or meets specifications, and the coach\u2014someone in the buyer organization who wants the seller to succeed.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0065","num":"0069"},"figref":"FIG. 14"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0066","num":"0070"},"figref":"FIG. 15"},"The worksheet of  addresses information required  about the buyers. This information collected will specifically answer the question \u201cwhat do we want to know about the buyers to make an opening statement in the first 18 to 39 seconds?\u201d An action person is assigned to determine what information is needed and how to get it.","A worksheet identifying what information is needed about the money available and how it will be obtained is found in . Once again, an action person is assigned to complete this worksheet.","The information required on the competition is summarized on the worksheet found in . Here, a list of likely competitors is generated, and an action person assigned to the worksheet will determine what information is needed about the competitor(s) and how it will be obtained. Next, the competition is assessed in the worksheet of , including the strengths and weaknesses of the competition. This worksheet is useful in providing information on other organizations in case it is necessary to team up to get a \u201ckiller argument\u201d which is identified as the best possible argument. It also provides information on competitor weaknesses that may be useful in \u201cghosting\u201d or anticipating the competition.","An internal investment will be required and the worksheet of  assists in determining the cost to close the opportunity in question. Specifically, dollar figures will be given to items including the cost of people working on overhead and supporting the marketing effort, travel costs, cost to provide free on-site people at the customer's site, and internal research and development costs such as software development, prototype costs, and cost of demonstrations. Additionally, the cost to write the proposal and any other costs will be determined.","In , a worksheet for determining an internal return-on-investment is shown. This worksheet essentially provides a formula of the return-on-investment which is the expected revenue in the first two years of funding divided by the internal investment required (from ). The anticipated profitability is presented as a percent.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0072","num":"0076"},"figref":["FIG. 22","FIG. 23"]},"The worksheet of  identifies key and ghosting discriminators. For example, it is determined what is unique and superior about the seller's offering, what can be done to \u201cghost\u201d the competition, and how the competitors' weaknesses can be countered.","A return on investment analysis is performed in the worksheet of . Here, considerations are evaluated including how quickly the solution will pay for itself, how costs can be reduced or avoided, and why should the economic buyer fund the solution. An action person is assigned to obtain the data needed to perform this return on investment analysis.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0075","num":"0079"},"figref":"FIG. 26"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0076","num":"0080"},"figref":"FIG. 27"},"A worksheet for developing a pre-selling contact plan is shown in . The pre-selling contact plan questions who needs to be pre-briefed, lines up coaches, identifies people in the selling organization who need to be convinced of the merits of the proposal, and similarly identifies people who influence the buyers and need to be convinced of the merits of the proposal.","Potential questions and objections and the responses thereto are identified in the worksheet of . An action person is assigned to one or more of the identified questions\/objections, determines a response, and the action needed.","The worksheet of  assists in the preparation of several appropriate closing proposal approaches. These are chosen from the top closing proposal approaches currently in use and are evaluated by estimated importance to this buyer\/opportunity. A plan for using the approach is also formulated.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0080","num":"0084"},"figref":"FIG. 31"},"Referring back to  in step , it is determined if a proposal will be developed. If a decision is made to forego the development of a proposal, the information gathered to date is entered in the business development database and appropriate feedback is provided to the capture team at step . If a decision is made to develop a proposal, step  includes the assignment of a proposal number, which is entered in the business development database, writing of the proposal by selected personnel in the core department and the division, and final review conducted by the core department. The guide for a modular proposal process is shown in .","The modular proposal process begins at step  with a kickoff meeting discussing issues such as customer knowledge, evaluation criteria, and \u201cStrengths, Weaknesses, Opportunities, and Threats\u201d (SWOT). The kickoff is followed at step  by a proposal win strategy discussion in which a successful strategy is outlined. Next, organization and content of the proposal are developed at step , followed by the preparation of section outlines at step .","Design reviews are separately conducted of the project at step  and the results of these reviews are applied to section strategies at step  and compliance sheets at step . The data gathered with the section strategies and compliance sheets are input into storyboards at step  in coordination with the section outlines of step . These storyboards are for the purpose of forcing one to read the Request for Proposal (RFP), answer the mail, and communicate clearly with the customer.","A wall review of the storyboard is conducted at step  and draft topics are prepared at step  which will be presented to the customer. At this stage, a team of seller's employees having a member representing a mock customer is introduced, and the team participates in a wall review of the draft at step . The draft  is edited at step  and a wall review of the proof\/galley is prepared at step . A wall review including the mock customer occurs at step , and a final review and printing are conducted at step .","Step  involves the decision to submit the proposal. If the proposal is not submitted (NO), the business development database is amended with the appropriate information and feedback is provided to the team at step . If a question remains as to whether or not to submit the proposal (MAYBE), possible modifications are considered and discussions with the customer occur at step . If the proposal is submitted (YES), a presentation is prepared for the actual customer or buyer at step . Additionally at step , negotiations can begin on the work contained in the proposal.","The success of the proposal is addressed in step . If the proposal is not successful (NO), a post-review is conducted with the team and the actual customer at step . If the customer is not available, the proposal leader should bring comments from the customer, addressing the rationale for rejection of the proposal. This information is also entered in the business development database at step . If no positive determination can yet be made regarding the success of the proposal (MAYBE), the modifications and customer discussions of step  are revisited.","If the proposal is successful (YES), the final step is to execute the work at step . The execution of the work is the responsibility of the division. Success or failure of an opportunity is entered into the database and used to establish risk criteria used in step .","There are four tools used in the business development process, as depicted in Table 4.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0089","num":"0093"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00004","num":"00004"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"center"}},"thead":{"row":{"entry":"TABLE 4"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":"Business Development Process Tools"}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"28pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"77pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"112pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Number","Name","Description"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["1","Opportunity Analysis","Determines whether an idea is either"]},{"entry":[{},{},"an idea or an opportunity."]},{"entry":["2","Risk\/Reward Assessment","Identifies the risk and the reward of"]},{"entry":[{},{},"an opportunity."]},{"entry":["3","Code 31B Task Sheet","Used by Code 31B to request support"]},{"entry":[{},{},"from within the divisions."]},{"entry":["4","Capture Plan","Provides a plan for proposal"]},{"entry":[{},{},"development, POCs, Return on"]},{"entry":[{},{},"Investment, and Action Items."]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}},"The Surface Undersea Warfare Department (Code 31) at NUWC Division Newport has, in accordance with the described flow diagram of  and related discussion, particularly adopted a standard process for all new business development in the department that injects new thinking into the idea of business development. This process can be both exciting and rewarding to execute. The process allows innovators to pursue ideas, and determine the opportunities that have presented themselves. This promotes more innovation, as engineers can better understand where their ideas go and how they are developed. The process assesses the risks and rewards, compares that assessment to a baseline of proven successful opportunities, and helps determine the next step. This invites more effective strategic planning, commitment of resources, and overall planning.","In view of the above detailed description, it is anticipated that the invention herein will have far reaching applications other than those of a business plan applicable only to the Navy.","This invention has been disclosed in terms of certain embodiments. It will be apparent that many modifications can be made to the disclosed apparatus without departing from the invention. Therefore, it is the intent of the appended claims to cover all such variations and modifications as come within the true spirit and scope of this invention."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The appended claims particularly point out and distinctly claim the subject matter of this invention. The various objects, advantages and novel features of this invention will be more fully apparent from a reading of the following detailed description in conjunction with the accompanying drawings in which like reference numerals refer to like parts, and in which:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0025"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0026"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0027"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0028"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0029"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0030"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0031"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0032"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0033"},"figref":["FIG. 9","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0034"},"figref":["FIG. 10","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0035"},"figref":["FIGS. 11-31","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0036"},"figref":["FIG. 32","FIG. 1"]}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
