---
title: Terrestrial optical communication network of integrated fiber and free-space links which requires no electro-optical conversion between links
abstract: Optical signals are received from a free-space link by directing received light onto a plurality of microlenses and then directing light received through each of the microlenses into a respective single mode optical fiber (SMF). Light beams from the SMFs are combined into a single light beam in one SMF. The single light beam is amplified with a multi-wavelength fiber amplifier and attenuated with a variable optical attenuator. The power gain of the multi-wavelength fiber amplifier and the attenuation of the variable optical attenuator are controlled. The single light beam is directed into a fiber optic communication system that is optically coupled to the variable optical attenuator.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=06868237&OS=06868237&RS=06868237
owner: LightPointe Communications, Inc.
number: 06868237
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20010504
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS","INTRODUCTION","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["This patent application is a continuation-in-part (CIP) application of prior U.S. application Ser. No. 09\/065,685, filed Apr. 24, 1998 now U.S. Pat. No. 6,239,888 of Heinz Willebrand entitled TERRESTRIAL OPTICAL COMMUNICATION NETWORK OF INTEGRATED FIBER AND FREE-SPACE LINKS WHICH REQUIRES NO ELECTRO-OPTICAL CONVERSION BETWEEN LINKS, and prior U.S. application Ser. No. 09\/823,175, filed Mar. 29, 2001, of Heinz Willebrand entitled TERRESTRIAL OPTICAL COMMUNICATION NETWORK OF INTEGRATED FIBER AND FREE-SPACE LINKS WHICH REQUIRES NO ELECTRO-OPTICAL CONVERSION BETWEEN LINKS, both of which are hereby fully incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.","This invention relates to terrestrial optical communication, and more particularly to a new and improved all-optical terrestrial optical communication network which integrates both fiber and free-space links without requiring electro-optical conversion between the fiber and free-space links, and which achieves a relatively good link power margin for reliable communication in adverse atmospheric conditions, which seamlessly integrates with long-haul fiber backbone links, which provides safety against unintended eye injuries, and which is implemented with relative convenience and cost-effectiveness.","Modern society requires that enormous amounts of information be transmitted between users in a relatively error-free manner. Most of the information is communicated as digital information, primarily because digital techniques allow more information to be communicated quickly and reliably, and because a significant amount of the information is transferred between computers. The use of computers and the evolution of computer technology is responsible for much of the increased demand for information communication. The demand for information communication has increased dramatically during the past few years and is expected to continue well into the future.","The typical medium which carries a significant amount of the information is electrical conductors or copper wires. The telephone system, having been installed for many years, is the primary media used for local or localized communications. Using wired media for telecommunications and high speed data communications creates difficulties, and these difficulties arise because of the wires. Electrical wires introduce a practical limit to the physical length or distance over which the information can travel. Lengthy conductors attenuate the signals to the point where the recognition of signals becomes difficult or impossible. Signals conducted over the wires also have a finite limit to the signaling frequency and hence the amount of information which they can carry. Furthermore, noise is relatively easily picked up or induced into the wires, and the noise tends to corrupt the signals carried by the wires. Wire conductor media is also difficult or impossible to install in many situations. Some metropolitan areas simply have no available space to accommodate the additional conductors within utility conduits, and gaining access to buildings and right-of-way to install the conductors is usually difficult or impossible and is certainly costly. For these and other reasons, many of the advancements in communications have focused on wireless media for communicating information.","Radio frequency (RF) transmissions avoid many of the physical problems associated with wired media. The atmosphere becomes the medium for the RF communications, and thus physical limitations associated with access, space, and right-of-way are no longer paramount problems. However, because the atmosphere is freely available for use by all authorized users, the possibility of interference is always present. Various techniques have been devised to minimize RF interference, but those techniques are relatively expensive to implement. Furthermore, even those techniques are not effective to assure that enormous amounts of information can be communicated reliably through RF broadcasts, simply because the information is broadcast and can not be confined to secure communication channels or links which could eliminate sources of interference.","Optical media offers many advantages compared to wired and RF media. Large amounts of information can be encoded into optical signals, and the optical signals are not subject to many of the interference and noise problems that adversely influence wired electrical communications and RF broadcasts. Furthermore, optical techniques are theoretically capable of encoding up to three orders of magnitude more information than can be practically encoded onto wired electrical or broadcast RF communications, thus offering the advantage of carrying much more information.","Fiber optics are the most prevalent type of conductors used to carry optical signals. Although the disadvantage of fiber optic conductors is that they must be physically installed, the fact that an enormous amount of information can be transmitted over the fiber optic conductors reduces the number of fiber optic conductors which must be installed. This avoids some of the problems in metropolitan areas where space for additional cables is difficult to obtain. In those circumstances where the information is communicated over long distances, fiber optic conductors are the typical medium employed for such long-haul transmissions.","Free-space atmospheric links have also been employed to communicate information optically. A free-space link extends in a line of sight path between the optical transmitter and the optical receiver. Free-space optical links have the advantage of not requiring a physical installation of conductors. Free-space optical links also offer the advantage of selectivity in eliminating sources of interference, because the optical links can be focused directly between the optical transmitters and receivers, unlike RF communications which are broadcast without directionality. Therefore, any adverse influences not present in this direct, line-of-sight path or link will not interfere with optical signals communicated.","Despite their advantages, optical free-space links present problems. The quality and power of the optical signal transmitted depends significantly on the atmospheric conditions existing between the optical transmitter and optical receiver at the ends of the link. Rain drops, fog, snow, smoke, dust or the like in the atmosphere will refract or diffuse the optical beam, causing a reduction or attenuation in the optical power at the receiver. The length of the free-space optical link also influences the amount of power attenuation, because longer free-space links will naturally contain more atmospheric factors to potentially diffuse the optical beam than shorter links. Furthermore, optical beams naturally diverge as they travel greater distances. The resulting beam divergence reduces the amount of power available for detection. If the attenuation of the optical beam is sufficiently great, the ability to recognize the information communicated on a reliable basis is diminished, and the possibility that errors in communication will arise is elevated. Atmospheric attenuation particularly diminishes the probabilities of error-free communications at higher transmission frequencies, because atmospheric attenuation naturally occurs to a greater extent at higher optical frequencies, i.e. shorter wavelengths, than at lower optical frequencies.","One approach to reducing the adverse influences of atmospheric attenuation is to use laser beam transmissions in the free-space links at frequencies which are capable of greater penetration and less refraction or diffusion by atmospheric influences. Unfortunately, the more penetrating frequencies are sometimes also the ones which can easily damage human eyes. To maintain safety while still avoiding some of the problems from atmospheric attenuation, the amount of power which is optically transmitted at these more penetrating frequencies is substantially limited. Since the more penetrating frequencies are also subject to beam divergence, reducing the power still complicates the reliable communication of information. Consequently, the reduced power transmission levels counter-balance the benefits of the lesser atmospheric attenuation at the more penetrating frequencies. Because of the reduced power at the more penetrating frequencies, the effective length of the free-space optical links is still limited.","Furthermore, the more-penetrating, free-space optical frequencies are different from those frequencies which are typically employed to transmit information over long-haul fiber communication systems. An electro-optical conversion is required to convert the fiber link backbone transmission frequency to the free-space transmission frequency. An electro-optical conversion involves converting the higher frequency optical signals to electrical signals and back to optical signals at the more penetrating laser frequency, and vice versa. Additional equipment is required to accomplish the conversion, resulting in an increase in the cost and complexity of the terrestrial optical communications network.","In addition, electro-optical conversions also introduce the possibility that errors will be created during the conversion, particularly under the common situation of the fiber optic signal carrying information at multiple different wavelengths. Common optical detectors respond to information in a broad frequency range or wavelength band, and this broad-band response destroys the information carried at specific wavelengths. To avoid this problem and to maintain the information present in the different, specific wavelength optical signals, the optical signal must first be filtered into its different wavelength components. Thereafter each different wavelength component must be separately electro-optically converted, and then all of the separate converted components combined back into a single optical signal. The complexity of this process raises the possibilities of introducing errors in the information communicated and increases the costs of the equipment used in the terrestrial optical communication network.","Electro-optical conversion has also been used to amplify the light signals conducted over fiber optic cables. The light signals conducted over fiber cables will attenuate, and it is periodically necessary to amplify those signals in order to maintain signal strength. Recently however, erbium doped fiber amplifiers (EDFAs, and sometimes also referred to as ERDAS) have been developed to amplify the light signals optically, without requiring electro-optical conversion, as the light signals pass through the optical fiber. EDFAs allow light to be amplified in a relatively wide wavelength band (about 30 nanometers (nm)) around a 1.55 micrometer (um) fundamental wavelength. EDFAs are of particular advantage in long haul telecommunications systems, because these systems normally operate in the 1.55 um wavelength range. The broad band amplification of EDFAs around the 1.55 um fundamental frequency allows the EDFAs to be integrated into systems using wavelength division multiplexing (WDM), resulting in the ability to communicate separate information at different wavelengths simultaneously in the same fiber. Thus, EDFAs are of particular importance and value in long haul fiber telecommunication systems because electro-optical conversions can be avoided.","It is with respect to these and other background information factors relevant to the field of terrestrial optical communications that the present invention has evolved.","The present invention advantageously addresses the needs above as well as other needs by providing a method of receiving optical signals from a free-space link. The method comprises the steps of: receiving light from the free-space link with one or more lenses; directing light received through each of the one or more lenses into a respective fiber optic conductor; combining light beams output from all of the respective fiber optic conductors into a single light beam in one fiber optic conductor; amplifying the single light beam with a multi-wavelength fiber amplifier that is optically coupled to the one fiber optic conductor; controlling a power gain of the multi-wavelength fiber amplifier; and directing the single light beam into a fiber optic communication system without using electro-optical conversion.","In another embodiment, the invention provides an optical receiver for receiving optical signals from a free-space link. The optical receiver comprises: one or more lenses for receiving light from the free-space link; one or more fiber optic conductors configured to each receive light from a respective one of the lenses; a beam combiner configured to combine light beams output from all of the fiber optic conductors into a single light beam in one fiber optic conductor; a multi-wavelength fiber amplifier optically coupled to the one fiber optic conductor and configured to amplify the single light beam; a controller configured to control a power gain of the multi-wavelength fiber amplifier; and another fiber optic conductor optically coupled to the multi-wavelength fiber amplifier for optically coupling the single light beam into a fiber optic communication system without using electro-optical conversion.","In another embodiment, the invention provides a method of receiving optical signals from a free-space link. The method comprises the steps of: receiving light from the free-space link; directing the received light onto a plurality of microlenses; directing light received through each of the microlenses into a respective single mode optical fiber; combining light beams output from all of the respective single mode optical fibers into a single light beam in one single mode optical fiber; amplifying the single light beam with a multi-wavelength fiber amplifier that is optically coupled to the one single mode optical fiber; attenuating the single light beam with a variable optical attenuator that is optically coupled to the multi-wavelength fiber amplifier; controlling a power gain of the multi-wavelength fiber amplifier and an attenuation provided by the variable optical attenuator; and directing the single light beam into a fiber optic communication system that is optically coupled to the variable optical attenuator.","In another embodiment, the invention provides an optical receiver for receiving optical signals from a free-space link. The optical receiver comprises: a plurality of microlenses configured to receive light from the free-space link; a plurality of single mode optical fibers configured to each receive light from a respective one of the microlenses; a combiner stage configured to combine light beams output from the plurality of single mode optical fibers into a single light beam in one single mode optical fiber; a multi-wavelength fiber amplifier optically coupled to the one single mode optical fiber and configured to amplify the single light beam; a variable optical attenuator optically coupled to the multi-wavelength fiber amplifier and configured to attenuate the single light beam; a controller configured to control a power gain of the multi-wavelength fiber amplifier and an attenuation provided by the variable optical attenuator; and means for optically coupling the variable optical attenuator to an external single mode optical fiber.","A more complete appreciation of the present invention and its scope can be obtained by reference to the accompanying drawings, which are briefly summarized below, to the following detailed description of presently preferred embodiments of the invention, and to the appended claims.","One of the important improvements of the present invention relates to the seamless, all-optical integration of fiber optic links and free-space links in a terrestrial communication network without electro-optical conversion between the free-space and fiber optic links. Another improvement relates to communicating information over fiber optic links and free-space links in a terrestrial optical communication network at wavelengths which do not require frequency conversion. Another improvement relates to operating free-space optical links in a terrestrial optical communication network at laser wavelengths which are safer to human eyesight with sufficient link power margin to avoid many of adverse influences of atmospheric attenuation and divergence. Still another improvement involves operating a terrestrial optical communication network with free-space links at a fundamental wavelength which is compatible with or approximately equal to the fundamental wavelength typically used in long-haul optical communication systems. A further improvement relates to establishing free-space links in a terrestrial optical communication network which are not line-of-sight and without using optical repeaters that require electro-optical conversion. Still a further improvement relates to changing the physical orientation of the optical receivers and transmitters to maximize the link power margins of the optical beam and thereby increase the reliability of the transmission. A last specifically mentioned improvement, among others which are not specifically mentioned here, is to is to implement a relatively low cost, terrestrial, all-optical communication network by making effective use of multi-wavelength fiber amplifiers, such as erbium doped fiber amplifiers (EDFAs, and sometimes also referred to as ERDAs).","These and other improvements are attained by a terrestrial optical communication network which comprises a plurality of fiber optic links and free-space links between which optical signals are optically coupled by multi-wavelength fiber amplifiers, such as erbium doped fiber amplifiers (EDFAs), and by a method of terrestrial optical communication which comprises the steps of establishing a plurality of fiber optic links and free-space links between which optical signals are optically coupled without electro-optical conversion, preferably by EDFAs. The EDFAs optically couple the optical signals between the fiber optic and free-space links, thereby avoiding the necessity for electro-optical conversion as the optical signals transition between the free-space and fiber optic links. The relatively inexpensive EDFAs produce all-optical, relatively broad-band amplification, which avoids the necessity for electro-optical conversion. The fundamental wavelength of the EDFAs is also compatible with the fundamental wavelength used in long-haul and backbone communication systems, thereby allowing a convenient integration of the network of the present invention with those communication systems. The fundamental wavelength of the EDFAs is also safer to human eyesight.","Other improvements are attained by a terrestrial optical communication network which comprises a plurality of links between which optical signals are optically communicated by a transmitting EDFA. The transmitting EDFA amplifies an optical signal before its transmission over a link and a controller connected to the transmitting EDFA controls the optical power gain of the transmitting EDFA. The controller adjusts the optical power of the transmitted optical signal in response to the optical power of optical signals received over the link. A related method of terrestrial optical communication involves sensing the optical power of optical signals received over the link and adjusting the optical power of the optical signal transmitted over the link in response to the sensed optical power of the received optical signals.","Other preferred aspects of the power control improvements include controlling the optical power gain in response to the received power of signals at the transmitting and receiving locations, controlling the optical power gain of a receiving amplifier, transmitting power control information optically between the receiving and transmitting ends of the links, and controlling the optical gain of the transmitting and receiving EDFAs to obtain the best quality signals.","By controlling the power transmitted and received in accordance with these improvements, the disadvantage of the less penetrating wavelengths of the EDFAs is minimized by the higher power available for optical communication. Furthermore, the power control improvements obtain a better quality optical signal for communicating information.","Still other improvements are attained by a terrestrial optical communication network which comprises a plurality of links between which optical signals are optically communicated by a transceiver which transmits and receives optical signals communicated over a link and a controller connected to the transceiver to control the physical position of the transceiver relative to the optical signal path of the link in response to the optical signals received over the link. A method of terrestrial optical communication comprises the steps of connecting an adjustment mechanism to the transceiver to adjust the position of the transceiver and adjusting the position of the transceiver by controlling the adjustment mechanism. By controlling the position of the adjustment mechanism in accordance with these improvements, a better quality optical signal for communicating information is assured.","The improvements of the present invention are incorporated in a terrestrial optical communications network  such as is shown in FIG. . The terrestrial optical network  includes a plurality of link head stations  between and through which optical signals are communicated. The optical signals are conducted over free-space optical links  and fiber optic conductor links  which extend between the link head stations . The free-space links  and the fiber links  are integrated together in the network  in a seamless manner, to avoid electro-optical conversion of the optical signals transferred between the free-space links  and the fiber links , and to communicate optical signals of the same frequency and wavelength over both the free-space and fiber links, in accordance with the present invention.","The optical signals conducted over the free-space links  and the fiber links  are preferably laser beams whose fundamental frequency or wavelength is encoded by signals of other frequencies which contain the information to be communicated. Upon receipt of the laser beam which has been encoded with information, the information is separated or decoded from the fundamental wavelength and separated into the individual information signals. A variety of different techniques are known and available for encoding and decoding information onto and from fundamental wavelength optical signals, such as wavelength division multiplexing (WDM). Once separated into the individual information containing signals, the optical information is typically converted to electrical signal information and used by computer equipment located at and connected to each link head station . The computer equipment connected to each link head station  is conventional communications equipment, such as telephone equipment, data communications equipment, a mainframe or server computer, a wired or optical local area network node, or the like.","Some of the link head stations  and links  and  of the network  have characteristics and functions which are more specifically described below. Some of the stations and links are referred to in  by additional alphabetical or other references for convenience of description. The network  may be connected to a fiber optic conductor \u2032 which forms part of a wide area, metropolitan area or long-haul optical backbone fiber communication network or system. Thus, the network  may include fiber optic backbone links \u2032 which extend considerable geographic distances. Due to the length of some links \u2032, a repeater station is positioned at a predetermined physically separated interval in the links \u2032. The function of each repeater station is to boost the optical power of the signals communicated over the links \u2032. Preferably each repeater station employs erbium doped fiber amplifiers (EDFAs). EDFAs are purely optical power amplifiers which are placed in-line in the links \u2032 to boost the strength of the optical signal without requiring electro-optical conversion.","In addition, a repeater station may also be included in the fiber links  extending between stations and of the network , if the geographic distance between the stations and is sufficient to require amplification of the optical signal. The repeater station functions in a similar manner to the backbone repeater station ","A repeater is included in the free-space link which extends between stations and . In addition to amplifying the optical signal in the free-space link , the repeater station allows the free-space link to be diverted around a natural or manmade obstacle, which is exemplified by a mountain  as shown in FIG. . The free-space link is therefore not a line-of-sight optical path between the link head stations and ","Some of the link head stations  may also function as routing switches for information communicated over the links  and . For example, the link head station b may have the capability to route optical signals received from the fiber link  to one or more of the link head stations . Thus, optical signals destined for only one of the link head stations may be communicated from station to that station without transmitting the same optical signal to the other stations to which the signal was not destined. Similarly, the link head station acts as a routing switch for information destined for the stations , and the link head station routes optical signals to the two stations  which are connected to it by the free-space link  and the fiber link .","Lastly, the link head station acts both as a routing switch and as a repeater for the signals in the fiber backbone links \u2032. With respect to its routing function, the station directs optical signals to the stations , and . With respect to its repeater function, the station amplifies optical signals conducted through it over the fiber backbone links \u2032.","The stations and the station are connected in a conventional star or bus configuration by the fiber links . The station likewise connects the stations in a conventional star or bus configuration by the free-space links . Stations are connected in a conventional ring configuration with the station , and the station functions as a node for that ring configuration as well as a station  for the network . The ring, bus and star configurations are conventional connection topographies for communications networks, and it is apparent that the network  may include any or all of these configurations.","Each station  includes an optical transceiver to communicate optical signals over the free-space link  or the fiber link . An example of an optical transceiver  is shown in  transceiver  is located at each link head station  of a free-space optical link . Each optical transceiver  includes a received beam focusing element  which receives and focuses the optical signal from the free-space link  into an optical fiber . The beam focusing element  may be a lens, a parabolic mirror or the like, all of which are conventional in optical communications systems. The optical fiber  is connected in-line with an EDFA  which amplifies the strength of the received optical signal from the link  and supplies it on an optical fiber . The optical fiber  connects to a conventional wavelength division multiplexing (WDM) device or demultiplexer . The demultiplexer  divides the optical signal into its various components and supplies those separated signals at . The optical signals supplied at  are supplied to optical converters (not shown) which convert the optical signals to electrical signals if the equipment present at the link head station  () receives and requires electrical signals.","In a similar manner, the transceiver  also includes a conventional transmitted beam focusing element  which focuses and directs the outgoing optical beam through the optical link . The signals which comprise the transmitted beam originate at  from equipment located at the link head station. The signals  are optical signals, either as originally created or as derived from an electro-optical conversion at the link head station. The signals  are applied to a WDM device or multiplexer , which multiplexes the separate signals at  into a single optical signal and applies the single optical signal to a fiber optic conductor . An EDFA  is connected in-line with the fiber conductor . The EDFA  receives the signal from the fiber conductor , amplifies its optical signal strength or power, and supplies the amplified signal to a fiber optic conductor . The fiber optic conductor  delivers the amplified optical signal to the transmitted beam focusing element  which transmits the optical signal over the free-space link .","The link head station  at the opposite end of the free-space link  is similar in configuration, as shown in FIG. . Because the physical position or angular orientation of the transceivers  at the ends of the free-space links  may move, a position adjusting mechanism  is preferably connected to each beam focusing elements  and . The adjusting mechanism  adjusts the angular position of the elements  and  in the horizontal and vertical references to track any changes in the angular position of the received beam.","The angular position of the received beam may change as a result of the transmitting station being connected to a high-rise office building which sways back and forth under the influence of wind, for example. As another example, if a cloud or fog moves through the free-space link , the water in the cloud or fog may slightly refract the optical beam. The position adjusting mechanism  responds to control signals to move the position of the focusing elements  and .","Because the EDFAs  and  of each transceiver  are connected by the optical fibers  and  to the beam focusing elements  and , respectively, the EDFAs  and  do not need to be physically located at the location of the beam focusing elements  and . Instead, the EDFAs may be located inside a building or other shelter, in a more thermally stable environment to achieve enhanced performance.","An example of a transceiver employed at the link head stations  () at the ends of fiber optic links  is shown at  in FIG. . As compared to the free-space link transceiver  shown in , the fiber link transceivers  do not employ beam focusing elements  an  (FIG. ), because the fiber optic conductors a and carry and confine the optical signals. The optical signals are directly received by the receiving EDFA  from the optic conductor and are amplified before they are applied to the demultiplexer . Similarly, the transmitting EDFA  receives the signal from the multiplexer  and amplifies it before supplying it to the fiber optic link conductor ","An example of a transceiver  employed in a free-space repeater, (e.g. , FIG. ), is shown in FIG. . The free-space repeater transceiver  also includes two EDFAs  and  which function to amplify the optical signals which are received and transmitted. For example, the EDFA  receives optical signals conducted over a fiber optic cable  from the received beam focusing element  shown on the right-hand side of , amplifies those optical signals without electro-optical conversion and supplies the amplified optical signals on a fiber optic cable  to the transmitting beam focusing element  shown on the left hand side of FIG. . Similarly, the receiving beam focusing element  shown on the left hand side of  receives optical signals, and those signals are conducted over the fiber optic conductor  to the EDFA . The EDFA  amplifies those signals and supplies the amplified signals over the fiber optic conductor  to the transmitting beam focusing element  shown on the right hand side of FIG. . Position adjusting mechanisms  may also be connected to each of the beam focusing elements  and  of the repeater amplifier transceiver . The EDFAs  and  of the transceiver  amplify the optical signals in the free-space links  which are passed in both directions through the repeater, without electro-optical conversion.","An example of a transceiver for a fiber optic repeater (e.g. or , ) is shown at  in FIG. . The transceiver  comprises two EDFAs  and . The EDFA  is connected in the fiber optic conductor of the fiber link , and operates to amplify the optical signals conducted over that fiber conductor as those signals pass through the EDFA . Similarly the EDFA  is connected in the fiber optic conductor and it operates to amplify the optical signals conducted over that conductor. Thus, the optical signals which pass in both directions through the repeater transceiver  are amplified. The EDFAs  and  are directly connected in-line in the optical signal paths of the fiber link , and amplify the power of the optical signal conducted through the fiber links  without electro-optical conversion.","The routing switch function of the stations is exemplified by the station , which includes a known and commercially available optical routing switch , shown in FIG. . The routing switch  has the capability of responding to information contained in the optical signals received from the fiber links and . Based on the routing information contained in the optical signals received from the fiber link  through the fiber link transceiver , the routing switch  activates the appropriate one of the free-space transceivers  to transmit the optical information to the selected one of the stations . Information originating at one of the stations is transmitted over the free-space link  as an optical signal by the transceiver  at that station and is received by the transceiver  of the routing switch . Transmitting optical signals in this manner occurs whenever the information becomes available at the transmitting station . Upon receipt of the optical signal from the transmitting stations , the routing switch  may transmit that information in an optical signal to another one of the stations , if the information is destined for that station, or the routing switch  may transmit the optical signal through the fiber link transceiver  over the fiber link .","As is apparent from the previous discussion, all of the link head stations  and the repeater stations  use EDFAs to amplify the received and transmitted optical signals. The EDFAs do not require electro-optical conversion in order to obtain the power levels necessary to assure reliable communication of the information carried by the optical signals.","The functional characteristics of a conventional EDFA are better understood by reference to , and to  which graphically illustrate the power amplification from an EDFA. The EDFA includes a core  of optical fiber which has been doped with erbium. A pump laser  supplies additional optical energy to the doped fiber core . Preferably the pump laser  is a laser diode which is controlled by electrical signals supplied to it. The ability to amplify the signals without electro-optical conversion results because of the interaction of the erbium doping with additional light energy supplied by the pump laser . The erbium of the EDFA interacts with the additional light energy added by the pump laser  to amplify the strength or optical power of the transmitted optical signals.","An optical signal  to be amplified is received at the left hand end (as shown in ) of the doped fiber core , and this received signal has power at each of four information-carrying wavelengths as shown by a power graph  (FIG. ). As the signal passes through the doped fiber core , the energy from the pump laser  is added to the energy of the signal  by interaction of the erbium with the added light energy from the pump laser . The added energy increases the power content of each of the four wavelengths as shown by a power graph  (FIG. ). Thus, the transmitted signal  is considerably increased in optical power at all four wavelengths compared to the received signal , and the increase in power is achieved completely by optical action of the erbium and the light energy from the pumped laser , without electro-optical conversion. As such, an EDFA is an example of a multi-wavelength fiber amplifier. While EDFAs are used in the examples provided herein, it should be well understood that any type of fiber amplifier that can support multiple wavelengths (i.e., a multi-wavelength fiber amplifier) may be substituted for the EDFAs in accordance with various embodiments of the present invention.","In practical application, conventional EDFAs employ single spatial mode laser diodes as the pump light source and division multiplexing couplers to couple the pump light from the laser diodes into the erbium doped fiber optic core. This approach makes power scaling beyond approximately 50 milliwatt (mW) impractical because the power available from single spatial mode laser diodes is small, approximately 0.1 mW. Thus, multiple diodes are usually needed.","The need for multiple diodes can be circumvented through the use of double cladding fibers in which the light propagates in a relatively large inner cladding of approximately 100 um to 400 um diameter and is absorbed by a doped single mode core. The inner cladding diameter is sufficiently large to allow efficient coupling of non-diffraction limited emission from high power broad area laser diodes. Such pump lasers are widely available at a very low cost and generate an output power of approximately 1.0 Watt for a stripe width of 100 um. Thus, EDFAs using double cladding fibers are of a particular advantage to obtain relatively high power outputs.","Furthermore, the performance of double cladding EDFAs may be further enhanced by co-doping the fiber core with both erbium and ytterbium, as is known. Co-doped fiber cores of this nature achieve short pump absorption lengths at a pump wavelength near the 975 nm ytterbium absorption peak. The pump-excited ytterbium atoms transfer their energy in a non-radiating manner to the erbium atoms, resulting in a more enhanced optical gain at the 1.55 um wavelength.","Another known aspect of EDFA technology which may be advantageously used in the present invention is a V-groove side pumping technique. A V-groove is directly formed into the side wall of the doped fiber core. Pump light incident on the fiber side wall impinges on the optically smooth facet of the V-groove, and is reflected and coupled into the inner cladding of the fiber core. Because of total internal reflection occurring at the glass-to-air facet interface, very efficient coupling can be achieved, and a diode-to-fiber coupling efficiency of 80 percent is possible using a 100 um broad band stripe laser and a double cladding fiber with a 50 by 120 um rectangular inner cladding. The V-groove side pumping technique allows the fiber core ends to be unobstructed, allowing them to be directly spliced to other fibers. Multiple V-grooves may be formed in the fiber core to inject power at multiple points. The V-grooves do not introduce reflections or losses into the signal in the core. These advantages create a compact and efficient EDFA at a lower cost compared to other high power optical amplifiers.","EDFAs were originally developed as fiber link repeater amplifiers. Erbium doping of an optical fiber allows light amplification in a broad wavelength band of approximately 30 nm centered around a basic wavelength of 1.55 um. The wavelength of 1.55 um is usually employed in long-haul optical communication systems, so the EDFAs are particularly advantageous in those long-haul fiber optic applications. The 1.55 um wavelength has not previously been regarded as important in optical communication networks with free-space links, because the 1.55 um wavelength is susceptible to significant amounts of refraction due to atmospheric attenuation. Although the 1.55 um wavelength is not as effective in penetrating the atmosphere when atmospheric attenuation conditions are present, higher powers of the 1.55 um optical signal can be safely used to counter-balance the less penetrating characteristics of the 1.55 um wavelength.","Furthermore, the present invention uses several techniques to assure that an optimum amount of power is available in the free-space links despite the presence of atmospheric attenuating conditions. Those techniques include adaptive power control to control the received and transmitted power levels at the link head stations to account for and overcome attenuating atmospheric conditions, and beam tracking to physically move the transceivers into better positions to receive the optical beam.","The adaptive power control technique of the present invention is based on the recognition that the transceivers of both link head stations transmit the optical signals through the same atmospheric media. The free-space link between both transceivers exhibits the same attenuation characteristics, regardless of the direction of propagation of the optical signal. Power control is accomplished at each link head station, based on a comparison of the received signal strength to an optimum signal strength which has previously been established for that free-space link. If the received signal strength is less than the optimum value, the power controller increases the amplifying power of the transmitting EDFA, based on the assumption that the receiving link head station is likewise receiving a lower than optimum amount of power in its received optical signals. The controller may likewise increase the amplifying power of the EDFA to boost the optical power of the signal which is delivered after receipt. If the received signal strength is greater than the optimum value, the power controller decreases the power from the transmitting and receiving EDFAs, again based on the same assumption. A similar adaptation of the power control at the other link head station occurs, until both stations have established the optimum power levels for the atmospheric conditions through the free-space link which connects them.","The two link head stations  shown in  are capable of this form of adaptive power control. Each link head station  incorporates the transceiver  previously described in conjunction with FIG. . Of the received signals , one of them \u2032 is applied to a controller . The controller  contains a microprocessor or microcontroller, memory and other associated equipment, all of which has been programmed to function as described herein. Among other functions, the controller  determines the strength of the received signal \u2032. Based on the strength of the received signal \u2032, the controller  delivers control signals at  and  to the pump lasers  associated with the transmitting and receiving EDFAs  and , respectively. The control signal  controls the amount of light energy supplied by the pump laser  to the doped core of the EDFA  and the degree of power amplification achieved by the transmitting EDFA . The control signal  controls the amount of light energy supplied by the pump laser  to the doped core of the EDFA  and the degree of power amplification achieved by the receiving EDFA ","The controller  contains information recorded in memory, preferably in lookup tables, which defines a predetermined optimum value of optical power to achieve good communication under clear and unimpeded weather conditions. Upon determining that the power of the received signal \u2032 is different from this optimum value, the difference in values is used to derive the control signals  and . The control signal  is applied to the pump laser  to cause the transmitting EDFA  to deliver that amount of optical power which should cause receiving link head station  to experience a power level or power margin equivalent to that under optimum conditions. Similarly, the control signal  causes the received signal  to attain that optimum power level for good recognition and communication at the link head station. A similar power adaption occurs at the other link head station .","The result of these adaptive power controlling actions is that the power levels are established for good communication between the transceivers . Under optimal conditions, the amount of power amplification of the transmitting and receiving EDFAs will be approximately equal. Such equality contains the maximum optical signal gain with regard to noise. The variable amplifier power levels assure that adequate power or link margins exist at each transceiver. Because each link head station  adapts its power output based on the power content of the received signal without feedback from the other link head station, the controller  also preferably establishes the power gain for the transmitting EDFAs in a dampened, time delayed or step-by-step manner to avoid an unstable hunting or oscillation of the signal strength between the link head stations. With appropriate dampening, the transmitting and receiving EDFAs of both transceiver at opposite ends of each link can achieve optimal operating conditions for communications.","Another technique of adaptive power control makes use of feedback information from the other link head station, and this technique is shown in FIG. . In this feedback form of adaptive power control, one of the signals communicated between the link head stations m and is used to communicate status and control information between the link head stations and . To illustrate, the signal is received by the link head station . The signal contains control information supplied by the transmitting link head station at the other end of the free-space link . The control information within the signal describes the power level which the controller  at the station has determined to be optimum for receiving the signals transmitted from the station . The power control information contained in signal has been derived by the station based on the strength of the signals it has received in the past from the station . Based on the information contained in the signal , the controller  at the station delivers the control signals  and  to the pump laser  of the transmitting and receiving EDFAs  and , respectively, and the signals transmitted from the station thereafter contain the power level which the station has previously determined would be optimum for reception of those signals.","Similarly, the controller  of the station supplies a control signal to the multiplexer . The signal is derived by the controller  of station based on the strength of the signals which station has previously received from station . The control signal is multiplexed by the multiplexer  with the other information-containing signals  and is transmitted by the EDFA  of station over the free-space link  to the other station . The station receives the information from the transmitted signal as the received signal . The information contained in the signal is interpreted by the controller  of the station , and control signals  and  are derived for controlling the transmitting and receiving powers of the EDFAs  and  of the station . The control signal  causes the EDFA  of the transmitting station to supply signals to the station at a power level which the station has previously determined to be optimum for reception over the free-space link . The control signal  causes the EDFA  of the station to supply optimal level signals to the demultiplexer  of the station . Preferably, the transmitting and receiving gains of the EDFAs  and  are approximately equal, for maximum amplification with minimum noise introduction.","The controller  of the station also supplies the signal to the multiplexer  for inclusion in the next transmission to the station , and the signal contains signal strength information which the station desires in its received transmissions from the station . The information in signal is present in the signal received by the controller  of the station ","The reservation of a separate wavelength for control and status signals within the communication network  () can be employed to allow each station to establish an optimum power transmission level for each of the stations with which it communicates. A table of this power control information is established in the memory of the controller  of each station, based on control signals supplied by each station. The specific information for each station is accessed and used to control the optical power of the transmitting and receiving EDFAs  and  when a signal is intended for one of the stations with which the transmitting station communicates. Furthermore, because the strength of the received signals is continually updated and evaluated, the power regulation may be continually adjusted to accommodate changing atmospheric and other conditions.","The adaptive power control techniques are capable of providing a substantial link power margin or amplification. For example, the gain of the transmitting and receiving EDFAs are capable of achieving a combined gain of about 50 dB, so the link margin of the optical communication link will be increased by approximately the same amount. Using avalanche photodectors to enhance the strength of the received optical signal, in combination with the adaptive power control, achieves much higher link power margins than have been previously available in laser beam optical communication networks.","In addition to controlling the transmitted and received optical power, the controllers of each link head station may participate network management operations achieved by communicating network status and management information between the controllers in a separate wavelength signal. For example, the network management information may be included in the signals and () which have been described in connection with adaptive power control. Each link head station may have a unique identification, and using this identification, the response and operating characteristics established by the controllers at each link head station can be separately addressed to each link head station. The unique identification allows polling the link head stations individually from a remote network management center by communicating status request information between each specific link head station and the management center. The transmission of this control, status and management information on the separate wavelength signal does not interfere with the typical information communication, because the specific wavelength signal is reserved for the status, control and management information communication.","Preferably, each station  also enhances the quality of its transmitted and received optical signals by physically adjusting the position and angular orientation of its transmitted and received beam focusing elements  and . Physically adjusting the position of the beam focusing elements  and  is accomplished by the position adjustment mechanism  shown in , , and .","Examples of circumstances which give rise to a physical shift in the location of the beam may include movement of the transmitting or receiving link head station, and refraction of the optical beam caused by atmospheric conditions. If the transmitting or receiving link head station is located on the top levels of a high-rise office building, and the office building sways slightly under the influence of wind, this will cause the light beam to impinge at a different location on the receiving beam focusing elements. Atmospheric conditions which include the presence of moisture in the air cause the refractive index of the atmosphere to vary according to the level of moisture in the atmosphere. A variable refractive index of the free-space between the stations will bend the beam. Other known factors may intervene to cause a shift in the physical location initially established for the optimal line-of-sight position between the transmitting and receiving beam focusing elements.","To accommodate a reasonable amount of these physical changes while maintaining a high quality optical beam, the controller  of each receiving station evaluates the strength of the received beam and the location where the received beam impinges on the receiving beam focusing elements , as illustrated by . The received signals \u2032 () and and () are evaluated by the controller  of each receiving station. If the evaluation shows that the signal strength is diminished, or that the position of the beam impinging upon the beam focusing elements has shifted, the controller  develops control signals  which are delivered to the position adjustment mechanism . The adjustment mechanism  responds to the control signals  by moving at least one of the received beam focusing element  or the transmitted beam focusing element  until the optimum power or impingement position is achieved.","Because the atmospheric media through which the optical signal travels is the same regardless of the direction of communication of the beam, movement of the transmitting beam focusing element  along with the receiving beam focusing element  will usually position both elements in the optimal position for effective communications. However, the transmitting and receiving beam focusing elements may be separately adjusted in position if desired. The controller  determines the position control information for the control signal  independently based on the received signals, or the position control information may be established by the receiving station and communicated back to the station where the position adjustment is to occur by including control and status signals with the other information signals communicated, in the same manner that the adaptive power control signals have been communicated as discussed in conjunction with FIG. .","A preferred embodiment of the beam focusing element  and  and the position adjustment mechanism  is shown in ,  and . A plurality of optical receivers  and a plurality of optical transmitters  are mounted on a carrier . Each optical receiver  includes a lens  which focuses incoming light to a focal point within a tube . The tube  is attached to the carrier . An end of a fiber optic conductor  is located at the focal point to receive the light from the lens . The light which enters the fiber optic conductors  from the optical receivers  is combined in a conventional beam combiner , and the combined light forms the received optical signal at  (,  and ). Similarly, each optical transmitter  includes a lens  which is mounted in a tube . The tube  is also attached to the carrier . The lens  focuses the light received from a fiber optic conductor  into a narrow emitted beam . Each optical transmitter  has its own fiber optic conductor  leading to it. The optical signal at , which is created by the EDFA  (,  and ), is split into separate signals by a conventional beam splitter , and one of these separate signals is supplied to each of the fiber optic conductors .","The optical receivers  and transmitters  are mounted on the carrier  with their optical axes parallel to one another. The optical axes are generally parallel to the axis of the cylindrical tubes  and  which house the receivers  and transmitters , respectively. Also mounted on the carrier  is an alignment telescope . The telescope  is formed by a tube  having lenses  located at each end of the tube . The optical axis of the telescope  and the axis of the tube  are also parallel to the optical axes of the optical receiver  and the optical transmitter . The alignment telescope  is used to sight the initial orientation of the optical receivers and transmitters onto the location of the optical receivers and transmitters of the link head station at the other end of the free-space link. The tubes ,  and  are all connected together by a support structure , so that the optical receiver , the optical transmitter , and the alignment telescope  are physically retained in the parallel optical arrangement and rigidly connected to the carrier .","The carrier  is connected to a housing  by a gimbal . The gimbal  is formed by a ring  which is connected to the carrier  at pivot joints  located on diametrically opposite positions on the ring  and carrier . The carrier  and the attached receivers  and transmitters  and alignment telescope  are thus able to pivot in a plane perpendicular to an axis through the pivot joints . The gimbal  also includes two other pivot joints  which are displaced  degrees from the location of the pivot joint . The pivot joints  connect the ring  to the housing . The ring  is thus able to pivot in a plane perpendicular to an axis through the pivot joints . Thus, the pivot joints  and  of the gimbal  connect the optical receivers  and transmitters  so that they may pivot freely in both the horizontal and vertical planes.","Two servo motors, one of which is shown at , are connected between the carrier  and the housing . The servo motors are connected at 90 degree positions with respect to one another, in the two mutually perpendicular planes extending through the pivot joints  and . Diametrically opposite of each servo motor is a spring bearing  which is connected between the carrier  and the housing . The spring bearing  applies bias force on the carrier  which tends to force the carrier  toward the servo motor . The position of the servo motor  thus establishes the angle of the optical axes of the receivers , transmitters  and the alignment telescope  in the plane which extends through the servo motor  and the spring bearing . This angle is achieved by pivoting about the pivot joints  (FIG. ). The other servo motor and its opposite spring bearing (neither of which are shown) operates in the same manner to adjust the angular orientation of the receivers , transmitters  and the alignment telescope  in a plane which is perpendicular to the first plane. This angle is achieved by pivoting about the pivot joints  (FIG. ).","With the gimbal  and the position control from the servo motors established by the control signals  from the controller  (FIGS.  and ), the angular position of the receivers  and transmitters  can be adjusted to accommodate the slight movements of the other link head station at the opposite end of the free-space link. The adjustment capability enhances the quality of the optical beam transmitted between the link head stations to enhance the quality and reliability of the information communicated between the link head stations. The controller  preferably establishes the position control in a dampened, time delayed and\/or step-by-step manner to avoid an unstable hunting or oscillation of the transceiver positions at the link head stations.","The servo motors may also be replaced with any other type of device which provides reliable and precise position control, such as a piezoelectric device. The multiple receivers  and multiple transmitters  have the effect of increasing the total area of transmission and reception of the optical signals. The larger transmission and reception area offers better transfer of optical energy. The multiple transmitters and receivers also lower the impact of scintillation to enhance the quality of the optical signal communicated.","The description of the improvements available from the present invention demonstrates that EDFAs may be effectively used to create a terrestrial optical communication network which contains a hybrid combination of free-space and fiber optic links which are connected seamlessly by the all-optical EDFAs. Electro-optical conversion, and the difficulties and costs associated with it, are avoided by using the relatively inexpensive EDFAs to directly integrate the free-space and fiber optic links. Although the wavelength of optical signals conducted through the integrated hybrid terrestrial network, as required by the EDFAs, are not optimum for penetrating adverse weather conditions, the amount of power which may be transferred is substantially greater, thereby enhancing the ability to communicate. The wavelength of the EDFAs and hence the free-space transmissions is not likely to result in damage to human eyes. The power of the transmitted and received signals is effectively controlled for optimum communications under varying atmospheric conditions by adaptive power control at each link head station. The ability to control the position of the optical transceivers at each link head station also contributes to the more reliable and effective communication of optical information through the free-space links of the network. Many other improvements and advantages will also be apparent after the full ramifications of the present invention are completely understood and appreciated.","Referring to , there is illustrated another pair of free-space optical transceivers ,  made in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. The transceivers ,  are ideal for communicating data over a free-space optical link . Similar to the devices described above, the transceivers ,  are capable of receiving optical data from the free-space optical link  and providing that data to a fiber optic system with no electro-optical conversion. Conversely, the transceivers ,  are capable of receiving optical data from a fiber optic system and transmitting that data over the free-space optical link  with no electro-optical conversion. Because no electro-optical conversion takes place in the transceivers , , they may be referred to as \u201call-optical transceivers\u201d or an \u201call-optical system\u201d.","In the illustrated embodiment, each of the transceivers ,  includes a transmit portion TX and receive portion RX. Each transmit portion TX includes a connector  for connecting directly to a single mode fiber (SMF) optic cable, which, for example, may carry data at a 1.55 um (or 1550 nanometer (nm)) fundamental wavelength (also referred to as the 1550 nm band). The transmit SMF fiber optic cable connecting to transceiver  is designated by , and the transmit SMF fiber optic cable connecting to transceiver  is designated by . The SMF fiber optic cables ,  are typically optically coupled to a long-haul fiber optic communication system. The term \u201coptically coupled\u201d as used herein means coupled using no electro-optical conversion. This way, optical data carried by the long-haul fiber optic communication system may be optically coupled into the SMF fiber optic cables , , and from there the optical data is transmitted over the free-space link , all with no electro-optical conversion.","The connector  is coupled to a multi-wavelength fiber amplifier  via a fiber optic cable . One example of a multi-wavelength fiber amplifier that may be used in the present invention is the erbium doped fiber amplifier (EDFA) described above. It should be well understood, however, that the multi-wavelength fiber amplifier , as well as the EDFAs discussed above, may comprise any type of fiber amplifier that can support multiple wavelengths. In other words, any type of fiber amplifier that is capable of amplifying all of the different wavelengths in a particular band may be used as the multi-wavelength fiber amplifier . For example, with such multi-wavelength fiber amplifiers, a particular band in the 1550 nm space can be chosen, such as the C, S or L band, and the multi-wavelength fiber amplifier will amplify all of the many wavelengths in the band. Such multi-wavelength fiber amplifiers are typically also capable of handling coarse wavelength division multiplexing (CWDM) and dense waveform division multiplexing (DWDM).","Furthermore, while EDFAs provide sufficient amplification, the multi-wavelength fiber amplifiers  may also be doped with materials that allow them to operate over wide temperature ranges, such as for example, Tellurium (Te), that enable operation out of doors.","The multi-wavelength fiber amplifier  is coupled to a variable optical attenuator (VOA)  via a fiber optic cable . The VOA  smoothes and\/or provides dampening to the power gain of the multi-wavelength fiber amplifier . The VOA , which for example may have a dynamic range of 30-40 dB, includes an electrical interface that is controlled by a controller . The controller  includes logic that is used to intelligently control the VOA  according to the system demands. By way of example, such intelligent control may be based on the measured power of, or control information included in, optical signals received over the free-space link , similar to the adaptive power control techniques described above. Pursuant to this intelligent control scheme, the controller  communicates the desired level of attenuation to the VOA . Thus, the controller  controls the power gain of the multi-wavelength fiber amplifier  and the attenuation provided by the VOA  to achieve the required interface power specification for externally connected devices and\/or systems.","The VOA  is coupled to a beam splitter  via a fiber optic cable . The beam splitter  is coupled to one or more transmitting elements , which direct the optical data over the free-space link . The transmitting elements  will typically comprise collimating lenses.","Each receive portion RX of the transceivers ,  includes one or more receiving elements , which receive the optical data from the free-space link . Each receiving element  is coupled to a custom focus element  followed by a fiber combiner . The custom focus element  may comprise, for example, a tapered piece of fiber or a micro-lens array. The receiving element , the custom focus element , and the fiber combiner  will all be described in greater detail below.","The fiber combiner  is coupled to a multi-wavelength fiber amplifier  via a fiber optic cable . Similar to as described above, it should be well understood that the multi-wavelength fiber amplifier  may comprise any type of fiber amplifier that can support multiple wavelengths. An EDFA is one example of such multi-wavelength fiber amplifier.","The multi-wavelength fiber amplifier  is coupled to a VOA  via a fiber optic cable . Similar to the VOA , the VOA  smoothes and\/or provides dampening to the power gain of the multi-wavelength fiber amplifier . The VOA  and the multi-wavelength fiber amplifier  are controlled by a controller  that includes logic that is used to intelligently control the devices according to the system demands. As mentioned above, such intelligent control may be based on the measured power of, or control information included in, optical signals received over the free-space link . Furthermore, the VOA , along with a controller , produces an optical automatic gain control (optical AGC). By using this optical AGC, power can be controlled without the need for communicating power control data through a separate wavelength or through an out of band means or otherwise.","Finally, the VOA  is coupled to a connector  via a fiber optic cable . The connector  is for connecting directly to an SMF fiber optic cable, which as mentioned above, may carry data at a  nm fundamental wavelength. The receive SMF fiber optic cable connecting to transceiver  is designated by , and the receive SMF fiber optic cable connecting to transceiver  is designated by . Similar to the SMF fiber optic cables , , the SMF fiber optic cables ,  are typically optically coupled to a long-haul fiber optic communication system, that is, coupled with no electro-optical conversion. While optical data carried by the SMF fiber optic cables ,  may be optically coupled into the long-haul fiber optic communication system, it should be well understood that optical data carried by the SMF fiber optic cables ,  may of course also be split off and converted into electrical signals for use in computers, processing equipment, telephones, etc.","With respect to devices and\/or systems connected to the connectors , the controller  controls the power gain of the multi-wavelength fiber amplifier  and the attenuation provided by the VOA  to achieve the required interface power specification for such externally connected devices and\/or systems.","It was mentioned above with respect to ,  and , that each optical receiver  includes a lens  which focuses incoming light to a focal point within a tube , and that an end of a fiber optic conductor  is located at the focal point to receive the light from the lens . Furthermore, the light that enters the fiber optic conductors  from the optical receivers  is combined in a conventional beam combiner , and the combined light forms the received optical signal at  (,  and ). The following discussion provides additional techniques that may be used in the present invention to receive light from a free-space link and direct the received light into a single mode fiber with no electro-optical conversion.","Referring to , there is illustrated an exemplary version of the receive portion RX of the transceiver . In this version, the one or more receiving elements  comprise the Schmidt-Cassegrain telescope architecture , which directs the received light into the custom focus element . The Schmidt-Cassegrain telescope architecture, which is a well-known architecture, uses a combination of mirrors and lenses to fold the optics and form an image. It has several advantages. Specifically, the Schmidt-Cassegrain design is an excellent optical system that delivers razor sharp images over a wide field, combining the optical advantages of both mirrors and lenses, while canceling their disadvantages. Its focal ratios are generally in the range of f\/10. Finally, the Schmidt-Cassegrain architecture has one of the best near focus capabilities of any type of telescope design, and it has a large aperture to collect more light. While use of the Schmidt-Cassegrain telescope in the present invention is advantageous, it should be well understood that telescopes or other focusing devices of various other designs may alternatively be used in accordance with the present invention.  illustrates the Schmidt-Cassegrain architecture  in further detail. Incoming light from the free-space link  is received from the left-hand side. The incoming light enters through a thin aspheric Schmidt correcting lens (or corrector) , then strikes the spherical primary mirror  and is reflected back up the tube. The light is then intercepted by a small secondary mirror  which reflects the light out an opening  in the rear of the instrument, where the image is formed at the focal plane . Referring to , there is illustrated one technique in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention for coupling the light received from the free-space link  into the 0.9 um core SMF in the receive portion RX. Specifically, according to this technique, the Schmidt-Cassegrain architecture  receives light from the free-space link . The far end  of the custom focus element  includes a microlens strip\/array  along with an optical combiner stage .","During operation the light from the output of the Schmidt-Cassegrain architecture  is directed onto the array of microlenses . The light beams output from the array of microlenses  are directed into corresponding SMFs , which are then combined into a single light beam by the optical combiner stage . The optical combiner stage  combines the light to a single waveguide, like an optical fiber, until all of the received light is in an SMF matching the fiber interface of the connectors ,  (FIG. ). By way of example, the optical combiner stage  may comprise a multi-stage combiner (or equivalent device), such as a two-stage or three-stage (2\/3-stage) combiner. In the illustrated example, the optical combiner stage  comprises a three-stage combiner, having fiber combiner stages , , . In this way the light received from the free-space link  is coupled to the 1550 nm SMF with no electro-optical conversion. The light is then amplified by the multi-wavelength fiber amplifier .","Referring to , there is illustrated an alternative transceiver architecture  in accordance with another embodiment of the present invention. The architecture , which provides an alternative to the Schmidt-Cassegrain receiver, features a single tracker for both receive and transmit and a compact 50 mm receiver path length. The architecture  includes a compact optical assembly , an infrared (IR) window , and a bay  for housing electronics and gimbal drives.","The IR window  provides a filter window to cover and protect the optical assembly  and to reduce thermal effects from, for example, sunlight. Use of the IR window  avoids the need for a filter on every individual lens. The IR window  preferably comprises an 850\/1550 nm bandpass filter window. While the IR window  is illustrated as having a square shape, it should be understood that the IR window  may comprise many different shapes.",{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00108","num":"00108"},"figref":"FIGS. 20","b":["21","22","23","24","402","402","410","412","414","416","410","412","414","416"]},"With respect to the data receiver objective, each receiver array  preferably includes sixteen 9 mm lenses  (also referred to as microlenses), which forms a 4\u00d74 subarray of lenses , as shown in FIG. . Thus, the sixteen receiver arrays  form a 16\u00d716 array of 9 mm lenses . By way of example, various options for the lenses  include: conic singlet, CC=\u22120.58; and Gradium GPX-10-45, Diffractive, Doublet. Exemplary specifications for the lenses  include: EFL=45 mm; Diameter=9 mm, CA F\/5 matches fiber; Spot size <9 um.","During operation the light received from the free-space link  is directed through the IR window  and onto the array of lenses .  illustrate the manner in which the light received from the free-space link  through the lenses  is coupled into the 0.9 um core SMF . Specifically, each of the sixteen lenses  in the array  directs light into a respective one of sixteen SMFs , which are each secured by a respective one of sixteen fiber mounts  (only four lenses , four SMFs , and four fiber mounts  are illustrated). The 9 mm (45 mm EFL) F\/5 lenses  match the 0.9 um core SMF . By way of example, the SMF  may have an instantaneous field of view (IFOV)=0.20 mr.","The sixteen SMFs  secured by the sixteen fiber mounts  are combined in a 16:1 combiner . Because there is a separate 16:1 combiner  for each of the sixteen receiver arrays , an additional 16:1 combiner (not shown) is used to combine the outputs of the sixteen 16:1 combiners . In this way the light received by the compact optical assembly  is coupled to a single SMF using no electro-optical conversion.",{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00112","num":"00112"},"figref":"FIG. 24","b":["414","414","402","414","402","428","430","432","434","430"]},"Presently preferred embodiments of the invention and its improvements have been described with a degree of particularity. This description has been made by way of preferred example. The scope of the present invention is defined by the following claims, and should not necessarily be limited by the detailed description of the preferred embodiment set forth above."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00021","num":"00021"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00022","num":"00022"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":"1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00023","num":"00023"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":"1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00024","num":"00024"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":"1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00025","num":"00025"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 6"],"b":"1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00026","num":"00026"},"figref":"FIG. 7","b":"1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00027","num":"00027"},"figref":"FIG. 8","b":"7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00028","num":"00028"},"figref":"FIG. 9","b":"7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00029","num":"00029"},"figref":["FIG. 10","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00030","num":"00030"},"figref":["FIG. 11","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00031","num":"00031"},"figref":"FIG. 12","b":"1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00032","num":"00032"},"figref":"FIG. 13","b":["13","13","12"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00033","num":"00033"},"figref":"FIG. 14","b":["14","14","12"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00034","num":"00034"},"figref":"FIG. 15"},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00035","num":"00035"},"figref":["FIG. 16","FIG. 15"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00036","num":"00036"},"figref":["FIGS. 17 and 18","FIG. 16"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00037","num":"00037"},"figref":["FIG. 19","FIG. 15"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00038","num":"00038"},"figref":["FIGS. 20","FIG. 19"],"b":["21","22","23","24"]}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
