---
title: Assessing health of a subsystem or service within a networked system
abstract: A health assessor for assessing health of a target element within a multi-element system includes multiple sensors, each being operatively coupled to the target element to produce measures of the target element. The health assessor also includes measure collectors, each of which collects a measure from one of the sensor. In addition, the health assessor includes evaluators. Each evaluator evaluates at least a subset of all the measures collected by the measure collectors in accordance with (1) a predefined evaluation definition for the respective evaluator and (2) at least a subset of all historical measures to provide an assessment. A probabilistic reasoning network is coupled to the evaluators to receive the assessment from each of the evaluators and to combine all the assessments in accordance with a pre-configured reasoning definition so as to provide an overall health assessment of the target element. A health assessment system including the health assessor is also described.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07426502&OS=07426502&RS=07426502
owner: Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P.
number: 07426502
owner_city: Houston
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20010614
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION"],"p":["1. Field of the Invention","The present invention pertains to system performance and health assessment. More particularly, this invention relates to autonomously assessing health of a computing hardware or software element or a service in a networked system using statistical analysis and probabilistic reasoning.","2. Description of the Related Art","To date, the management of a multi-element system (either a hardware system or a software system) is typically done by monitoring many variables of the system operation across time, and by noting the occurrence of abnormal events in the system. One prior art approach of determining the abnormal events employs predetermined static threshold values, as shown in . The threshold value used is typically based on experience and\/or intuition.","The observed and monitored information is then presented to a system administrator. The system administrator is a human being who, based on the information received, assesses the \u201chealth\u201d of each of the elements of the system. As is known, this assessment by the system administrator is essential in trouble-shooting existing problems, or in trying to detect failures early, before they propagate to users of the system.","Improvements have been made in the past to this prior art approach. For example, the collection of the monitored information can now be done by using agents to monitor particular \u201cmanaged objects\u201d and report their findings to a central management console (or a hierarchically organized set of consoles). Another example is the use of tree-based GUI (Graphic User Interface), some with geographic mapping, to improve the presentation of the monitored information, thus making it easier for the system administrator to navigate the managed objects. Embedded graphing packages make it easier for the system administrator to notice trends and trend changes.","However, even with these improvements, the prior art approach is still not suitable for measuring large dynamic distributed systems with large numbers of elements. A distributed system typically operates in a distributed or federated computing environment. One example of such a distributed system is the Internet.","One key reason for the unsuitability is that the prior art approach requires the human system administrator to make the assessment. There are a number of disadvantages to this requirement. One disadvantage is that for an always-on system, system administrators must be staffed around the clock. In addition, as the number of elements and the complexity of a monitored system increase, the system administrators typically work under greater and greater stress.","Another disadvantage is that the health assessment is a knowledge intensive task. It typically requires significant experience to perform the assessment accurately since patterns are learned over time. This means that companies hiring system administrators must pay higher salaries for the experience. As more and more companies migrate to the Internet, the demand for experienced system administrators grows accordingly. As a matter of fact, it is well known that the demand for such system administrators greatly exceeds the supply.","Prior attempts have been made to address this issue. One prior attempt employs neural network technology to automatically predict upcoming system failures. However, this prior attempt does not address the issue of assessing health of an element or service within a distributed system. Another disadvantage of this prior attempt is that system-specific training is required before the neural network system can be deployed. This prevents the prediction system from being widely adopted or applied.","One feature of the present invention is to autonomously assess health of a software or hardware computing element or a service within a system.","Another feature of the present invention is to minimize the engineering cost of providing health assessment for computing elements of broadly varying structures.","A further feature of the present invention is to minimize the labor-intensive process of assessing health of elements of a system using experienced personnel.","Below described is a health assessor for assessing health of a target element in a multi-element system. The health assessor includes multiple sensors, each being operatively coupled to the target element to produce measures of the target element. The health assessor also includes measure collectors, each of which collects a measure from one of the sensor. In addition, the health assessor includes evaluators. Each evaluator evaluates at least a subset of all the measures collected by the measure collectors in accordance with (1) a pre-configured evaluation definition for the respective evaluator and (2) at least a subset of all historical measures to provide an assessment. A probabilistic reasoning network is coupled to the evaluators to receive the assessment from each of the evaluators and to combine all the assessments in accordance with a pre-configured reasoning definition so as to provide an overall health assessment of the target element in the form of a probability that the element is healthy at that moment.","A health assessment system for assessing health of a target element in a multi-element system is also described. The health assessment system includes a health assessor that receives measures of the target element and provides health assessment of the target element based on the measures and historical measures of the target element that have already been stored in the health assessment engine. A result formatting module then formats the health assessment into a report. A web interface then transmits the formatted report to remote access systems via the Internet.","Other features and advantages of the invention will become apparent from the following detailed description, taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings, illustrating by way of example the principles of the invention.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":["10","11","20","20","11","10","20","11","20","11","10","11","15","20"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 2","FIG. 2"],"b":["10","11","15","10","10"]},"The target system  can be any kind of system. In one embodiment, the system  is a distributed software application running on a federated or distributed computing environment. This means that the elements - of the system  are not physically located at a single location or place. In another embodiment, the system  is an Internet or Intranet system. In this case, each of the elements - can be either a web server, an Internet gateway system, or a proxy server. In a further embodiment, the system  is an email system.","Each of the elements - within the system  represents a computing hardware, a software object, or a service (e.g., web service or e-commerce service). For example, if the target system  is an Internet or Intranet system, each of the elements - may represent a service. In this case, the element  may represent an e-mail service with the element  representing a web service, the element  representing an e-commerce service (e.g., e-payment service), and the elements - representing other services. As a further example, if the target system  is an ISP (Internet Service Provider) system, then each of the elements - may represent one of the servers within the system. In this case, the element  may represent the proxy server, the web server, or the domain name server of the system. In other words, each of the elements - can be a hardware or software element or a more abstract service.","A feature of the target system  is that each of the elements - is inter-dependent of another in terms of its function and operation. This means a failure of one element is likely to affect the operation of the other elements. In addition, the dependency between the elements - is dynamic and not fixed.","In accordance with one embodiment of the present invention, the health assessment system  autonomously assesses the health of the element  of the target system . Here, the term \u201chealth\u201d means whether the element  presently operates or functions normally.","The health assessment system  makes the above-mentioned health assessment of the element  by first putting sensors (see ) logically adjacent to the element . This means that the sensors can be placed in, on, over, near, around, or far from the element , as long as they can get information about the element's behavior, or its impact on the operating environment. This also means that the some of the sensors can be logically related to the element . The sensors of the health assessment system  take various measures of the element  (or logically related to the element ). The health assessment system  then makes the assessment. This is done by evaluating both the present and past measures of the element  using statistical analysis and arbitrary predicates to yield multiple individual assessments. Then the health assessment system  employs probabilistic reasoning technology to combine multiple individual assessments into a single probabilistic assessment of health of the element .","As a result, the health assessment system  automates a very labor-intensive process of assessing health of a computing element that currently requires experienced system administrators to perform. Moreover, the health assessment system  provides a convenient way to engineer customized health assessment machinery for a very broad variety of hardware and\/or software elements, including high level \u201ce-services\u201d. Furthermore, the health assessment system  helps alleviate any engineering problem caused by large and ever increasing variety of computing elements to be managed.","Another advantage of the health assessment system  is that it has a very general modular architecture (see  and to be described below). This reduces the customization effort. This in turn minimizes the engineering cost of providing health assessment for software, hardware, or services.","In addition, the health assessment system  includes Internet access capability to allow the final probabilistic assessment to be transferred to a remote system via Internet. The remote system can be an accessing terminal, an application, or the target element  itself. This means that the health assessment system  transports the health assessment information to remote systems (e.g., Internet access terminals, applications, or the target element  itself) using standard communication protocols (e.g., HTTP (Hyper Text Transport Protocol)), and standard web information description languages (e.g., XML (Extensible Markup Language), or HTML (Hyper Text Markup Language)). This allows the health assessment information to be expressed in a very universal manner. This also enables new models of health information flow, such as peer-to-peer, which is more suited to the dynamic web-based services. It also provides a single \u201cfirst approximation\u201d health semantic for all computing elements, from hardware, to software, to abstract services. This leads to the construction of fault-detection and fault-location software that could span all levels of computing elements with a single module.","In one embodiment, the health assessment system  is a software system. Alternatively, the health assessment system  can be implemented by hardware or firmware. The structure and operation of the health assessment system  will be described in more detail below, also in conjunction with .","Referring to , the health assessment system  includes a health engine , a result formatting module , and a web interface .  also shows the element . The health engine  is the main engine of the health assessment system , and performs the health assessment of the element . The output of the health engine  is a probability (a real number between ZERO and ONE (e.g., 0.099 or 0.45)) representing the probability that the element  is healthy at this moment (or during the last measurement interval). It is to be noted that this health assessment of the element  by the health engine  is a probabilistic assessment of the health of the element .  shows in more detail the structure of the health engine , which will be described in more detail below.","Referring to , the health engine includes a number of sensors  through n, a number of measure collectors  through m, a number of evaluators  through k, and a probabilistic reasoning network .  also shows the element  to be assessed. The probabilistic reasoning network  produces the final health assessment probability of the element  based on the measures taken by the sensors -n. The result formatting module  (shown in ) produces the XML report. The sensors -n can be software and\/or hardware sensors, and can be any kinds of known tools which give some information about the behavior or performance of the target element .  shows some types of the sensors.","As can be seen from , sensors may or may not require detailed knowledge of the element  and may or may not require the cooperation of the element .","Examples of measurements that require the knowledge and cooperation of the element are measurements obtained using measurement API (Application Programming Interface) calls, MIB (Management Information Base) data, application logs, and diagnostic output from the element .","Examples of measurements that do not require detailed knowledge or cooperation of the element  include those available from the operating system (e.g., CPU and memory utilization, I\/O transmission rates, etc.). Other examples include measurements made through active testing, dummy clients (proxy clients), result verification modules, test sensors, and request\/response time sensors, etc.","Sensors can be simple or complex. They can be light, medium, or heavy, depending on their performance impact on the target element . Thus, a sensor can be a cooperation dependent light sensor or a cooperation independent heavy sensor.","Referring back to , the sensors -n are logically wrapped around the element . This means that the sensors -n may or may not be physically connected to the element . For example, some of the sensors -n are inside the element  (e.g., operation counters within the software application) while others are placed around the element  to measure, for example, the traffic flow in and out of the element , or OS measurements of the impact of the software application, such as CPU or memory usage. Yet still other sensors can be placed in other elements (i.e., -) to take measures that are related to the element . In other words, the sensors -n only need to be logically related to the element . The placement of the sensors -n as well as the manner in which the sensors -n are taking measures are known in the art and are done using known technology.  also shows in flowchart diagram form the process of any one of the sensors -n. The steps in  are self-explanatory and will not be described in more detail below. The sensors -n will not be described in more detail below.","The number of the sensors -n depend on the structure and operation of the element . Thus the number is element-specific or element-dependent. For example, in assessing how a web server is serving traffic, the element  is a web server, the sensors -n are agents distributed over the Internet which retrieve data from the web server. In this case, the measures could be latency and throughput.","The measures taken by the sensors -n are then collected by the measure collectors -m. The functions of each of the collectors -m basically include the data collection function and the data storage function. The data storage function allows the respective collector to store historical data of the measurement. The data storage function can be implemented by a buffer, a file, or a database. Each of the measure collectors -m can be implemented using known technology.  shows in flowchart diagram form the process of any one of the measure collectors -m for measurement collection and storage. The steps in  are self-explanatory and will not be described in more detail below.","The measure collectors -m then send their measures to the evaluators -k for evaluation.  shows in flowchart diagram form the process of any one of the measure collectors -m for sending the measurements to the respective evaluators. The steps in  are self-explanatory and will not be described in more detail below.","Referring back to , each of the evaluators -k receives different number of measures from the different measure collectors -m. For example, the evaluator  receives the measures from the collectors -m while the evaluator  only receives the measures from the evaluators  and . Which evaluator receives which measure or measures depend on the definition of the respective evaluator. Each evaluation definition is a pre-configured definition written in, for example, the Java programming Language from Sun Microsystem, Inc. of Mountain View, Calif. Using the evaluation definition, the structure of each of the evaluators -k can be dynamically changed by updating the evaluation definition of the respective evaluator. The evaluation definition will be described in more detail below, also in conjunction with .","Referring again to , each of the evaluators -k receives any part of the measurement data collected and accumulated by the collectors -m. Each of the evaluators -k can be a statistical or absolute evaluator. This means that when each of the evaluators -k is a statistical evaluator, it makes statistical evaluation or analysis (e.g., mean, standard deviation) on the historical measures it has received in the past to determine whether the current measures indicate that the element  is behaving normally or not. In other words, each of the evaluators -k evaluates the present or current measures of the element , for example, by first determining the statistical distribution of the historical measures of the element  (i.e., the same measures but obtained in the past). In this case, the statistical distribution can be mean and standard deviation (or any other statistical calculation) of the historical measures. Then the evaluator compares the present measure against the statistical function of the historical measure to determine if the present or current measures are \u201cnormal\u201d or not. Depending on that comparison, the evaluator generates the corresponding assessment in any definite discrete scale (e.g., GOOD\/MEDIUM\/BAD).","Below is an example evaluator used, when the element  is an email firewall system, to detect virus and mail loops. In this example, one mail log (i.e., postfix) is the only sensor. The mail log describes every action taken in the mail system. The mail log contains the information on when a message was received, from whom and to whom, the size of the message, when there was an attempt to deliver the message, and the status of the attempt (i.e., \u201csent\u201d, \u201cdeferred\u201d, or \u201cbounced\u201d). Thus, the sensor generates four measures from the mail log. They are (1) the rate of received messages during the time T; (2) the acceleration of the received messages; (3) the distribution of incoming message sizes; and (4) the ratio between the incoming messages and outgoing messages over the time period T.","Based on the above, the statistical computation of each of the evaluators -k are\n\n",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0054","num":"0056"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00001","num":"00001"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"35pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"140pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Evaluator =","Good","if present Measure \u2266\u03bc + n\u00d7 \u03c3"]},{"entry":[{},"Medium","if \u03bc + n\u00d7 \u03c3 < present Measure \u2266\u03bc + n\u00d7 \u03c3"]},{"entry":[{},"Bad","if present Measure >\u03bc + n\u00d7 \u03c3"]},{"entry":[{},"Unknown","if not enough past measures were available to"]},{"entry":[{},{},"compute \u03bc and \u03c3"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}},"br":{},"sub":["1","2 "]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0055","num":"0057"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00002","num":"00002"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"133pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Evaluator =","OK","if present Measure \u2267 max (\u03bc \u2212 \u03c3, \u03bc\/2)"]},{"entry":[{},"NOT-OK","otherwise"]},{"entry":[{},"Unknown","if not enough past measures were available"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}},"br":{},"b":["60","60"],"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0056","num":"0058"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 4","FIG. 5"],"b":["100","60","60","100","101","103","103","101","103","100","101","103"]},"The evaluation module  is connected to the evaluation definition store . The evaluation module  also receives the present and historical measures from the measure collectors -m. The evaluation module  is the module that performs the above described statistical analysis of the historical measures and then compare that with the current measures to produce an assessment. This has been described above, and will not be described in more detail below.  shows in flowchart diagram form the process of the evaluation module . The steps in  are self-explanatory and will not be described in more detail below.","Referring back to , the individual assessments from all of the evaluators -k are then entered as evidence in the probabilistic reasoning network . The network is then asked to compute a probabilistic inference, and return the resulting probability for the top node. That probability is then output as the overall single health assessment of the element .","What the probabilistic reasoning network  does is to combine all the available individual assessments from the evaluators -k using probabilistic reasoning analysis to estimate the overall health of the element . If some of them are missing for any reason, the probabilistic reasoning network  still functions correctly. The reasoning network  contains parameters that define how \u201ctrustworthy\u201d each of the evaluators -k is, and in what circumstances. The probabilistic reasoning network  then uses these probabilities to compute the overall probabilistic health report of the element . Training can be provided to allow the network  to pay, in this computation, less attention to those of the evaluators -k that do not give statistically reliable assessments in the past.","In one embodiment, the reasoning network  is a Bayesian network Alternatively, other known probabilistic reasoning networks may be used. The structure of the network  is shown in , which will be described in more detail below.","As can be seen from , the probabilistic reasoning network  includes a reasoning definition store  that stores the reasoning definition of the network . The reasoning definition is a pre-configured one and is stored in the store . This means that the structure of the network  can be dynamically changed by storing a new reasoning definition in the store .","In addition, the probabilistic reasoning network  also includes a reasoning network . The reasoning network  receives all the individual assessments from the evaluators -k ().  shows in flowchart diagram form the process of the reasoning network . The steps in  are self-explanatory and will not be described in more detail below.","In addition, the reasoning network  also receives the reasoning definition from the reasoning definition store . As described above, the reasoning definition determines how the reasoning network operates. Below shows an example reasoning definition that describes the reasoning network  in XML.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0064","num":"0066"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00003","num":"00003"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","pgwide":"1"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"231pt","align":"left"}},"thead":{"row":{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":"<?xml version=\u20331.0\u2033 encoding=\u2033UTF-8\u2033?>"},{"entry":"<!DOCTYPE ANALYSISNOTEBOOK SYSTEM \u2033http:\/\/sholey\/xbn.dtd\u2033>"},{"entry":"<ANALYSISNOTEBOOK ROOT=\u2033FuncRoot\u2033 NAME=\u2033Notebook.root\u2033>"},{"entry":"\u2009\u2009<BNMODEL NAME=\u2033FuncRoot\u2033>"},{"entry":"\u2002<STATICPROPERTIES>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2009<FORMAT VALUE=\u2033MSR DTAS XML\u2033\/>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2009<VERSION VALUE=\u20330.2\u2033\/>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2009<CREATOR VALUE=\u2033HP Labs ISAL\u2033\/>"},{"entry":"\u2002<\/STATICPROPERTIES>"},{"entry":"\u2002<DYNAMICPROPERTIES>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2009<PROPERTYTYPE TYPE=\u2033string\u2033 NAME=\u2033FFU\u2033>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003<COMMENT>ForFutureUse<\/COMMENT>"},{"entry":"\u2002<\/PROPERTYTYPE>"},{"entry":"\u2009\u2009<\/DYNAMICPROPERTIES>"},{"entry":"\u2009\u2009<VARIABLES>"},{"entry":"\u2002<VAR YPOS=\u203312300\u2033 TYPE=\u2033discrete\u2033 XPOS=\u203310500\u2033 NAME=\u2033root\u2033>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2009<DESCRIPTION>ObjTequila.ESPnet<\/DESCRIPTION>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2009<STATENAME>OK<\/STATENAME>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2009<STATENAME>NOT_OK<\/STATENAME>"},{"entry":"\u2002<\/VAR>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2009<VAR YPOS=\u203313750\u2033 TYPE=\u2033discrete\u2033 XPOS=\u203312002\u2033"},{"entry":"NAME=\u2033EvalRecvdRate\u2033>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2009<DESCRIPTION>ObjTequila.EvalRecvdRate<\/DESCRIPTION>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2009<STATENAME>GOOD<\/STATENAME>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2009<STATENAME>MEDIUM<\/STATENAME>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2009<STATENAME>BAD<\/STATENAME>"},{"entry":"\u2002<\/VAR>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2009<VAR YPOS=\u203322450\u2033 TYPE=\u2033discrete\u2033 XPOS=\u203310560\u2033"},{"entry":"NAME=\u2033EvalSizePick\u2033>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2009<DESCRIPTION>ObjTequila.EvalSizePick<\/DESCRIPTION>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2009<STATENAME>GOOD<\/STATENAME>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2009<STATENAME>MEDIUM<\/STATENAME>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2009<STATENAME>BAD<\/STATENAME>"},{"entry":"\u2002<\/VAR>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2009<VAR YPOS=\u203324450\u2033 TYPE=\u2033discrete\u2033 XPOS=\u203310560\u2033"},{"entry":"NAME=\u2033EvalToFromRatio\u2033>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2009<DESCRIPTION>ObjTequila.EvalToFromRatio<\/DESCRIPTION>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2009<STATENAME>OK<\/STATENAME>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2009<STATENAME>NOT_OK<\/STATENAME>"},{"entry":"\u2002<\/VAR>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2002<VAR YPOS=\u203324450\u2033 TYPE=\u2033discrete\u2033 XPOS=\u203310560\u2033"},{"entry":"NAME=\u2033EvalMaxSameSize\u2033>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2009<DESCRIPTION>ObjTequila.EvalMaxSameSize<\/DESCRIPTION>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2009<STATENAME>GOOD<\/STATENAME>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2009<STATENAME>MEDIUM<\/STATENAME>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2009<STATENAME>BAD<\/STATENAME>"},{"entry":"\u2002<\/VAR>"},{"entry":"\u2009\u2009<\/VARIABLES>"},{"entry":"\u2009\u2009<STRUCTURE>"},{"entry":"\u2002<ARC PARENT=\u2033root\u2033 CHILD=\u2033EvalRecvdRate\u2033\/>"},{"entry":"\u2002<ARC PARENT=\u2033root\u2033 CHILD=\u2033EvalSizePick\u2033\/>"},{"entry":"\u2002<ARC PARENT=\u2033root\u2033 CHILD=\u2033EvalToFromRatio\u2033\/>"},{"entry":"\u2002<ARC PARENT=\u2033root\u2033 CHILD=\u2033EvalMaxSameSize\u2033\/>"},{"entry":"\u2009\u2009<\/STRUCTURE>"},{"entry":"\u2009\u2009<DISTRIBUTIONS>"},{"entry":"\u2002<DIST TYPE=\u2033discrete\u2033>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2009<PRIVATE NAME=\u2033root\u2033\/>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2009<DPIS>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003<DPI>0.8 0.2<\/DPI>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2009<\/DPIS>"},{"entry":"\u2002<\/DIST>"},{"entry":"\u2002<DIST TYPE=\u2033discrete\u2033>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2009<CONDSET>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003<CONDELEM NAME=\u2033root\u2033\/>"},{"entry":"\u2002<\/CONDSET>"},{"entry":"\u2002<PRIVATE NAME=\u2033EvalRecvdRate\u2033\/>"},{"entry":"\u2002<DPIS>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2009<DPI INDEXES=\u20330\u2033>0.7 0.15 0.15<\/DPI>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2009<DPI INDEXES=\u20331\u2033>0.08 0.15 0.77<\/DPI>"},{"entry":"\u2002<\/DPIS>"},{"entry":"\u2009\u2009<\/DIST>"},{"entry":"\u2009\u2009<DIST TYPE=\u2033discrete\u2033>"},{"entry":"\u2002<CONDSET>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2009<CONDELEM NAME=\u2033root\u2033\/>"},{"entry":"\u2002<\/CONDSET>"},{"entry":"\u2002<PRIVATE NAME=\u2033EvalSizePick\u2033\/>"},{"entry":"\u2002<DPIS>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2009<DPI INDEXES=\u20330\u2033>0.85 0.1 0.05<\/DPI>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2009<DPI INDEXES=\u20331\u2033>0.03 0.12 0.85<\/DPI>"},{"entry":"\u2002<\/DPIS>"},{"entry":"\u2009\u2009<\/DIST>"},{"entry":"\u2009\u2009<DIST TYPE=\u2033discrete\u2033>"},{"entry":"\u2002<CONDSET>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2009<CONDELEM NAME=\u2033root\u2033\/>"},{"entry":"\u2002<\/CONDSET>"},{"entry":"\u2002<PRIVATE NAME=\u2033EvalToFromRatio\u2033\/>"},{"entry":"\u2002<DPIS>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2009<DPI INDEXES=\u20330\u2033>0.75 0.25<\/DPI>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2009<DPI INDEXES=\u20331\u2033>0.45 0.55<\/DPI>"},{"entry":"\u2002<\/DPIS>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2009<\/DIST>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2009<DIST TYPE=\u2033discrete\u2033>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003<CONDSET>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003<CONDELEM NAME=\u2033root\u2033\/>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003<\/CONDSET>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003<PRIVATE NAME=\u2033EvalMaxSameSize\u2033\/>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003<DPIS>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003<DPI INDEXES=\u20330\u2033>0.8 0.15 0.05<\/DPI>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003<DPI INDEXES=\u20331\u2033>0.15 0.15 0.7<\/DPI>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003<\/DPIS>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2009<\/DIST>"},{"entry":"\u2002<\/DISTRIBUTIONS>"},{"entry":"\u2009\u2009<\/BNMODEL>"},{"entry":"<\/ANALYSISNOTEBOOK>"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}},"The example described above is the reasoning networking description for the email example. This example is written in universal XML format for Bayesian network. The format is slightly modified to include the names of the evaluators in the \u201c\/DESCRIPTION\u201d tag of the respective nodes.","Referring again to , the structure of the reasoning network  typically includes a number of variables linked together, each variable having a corresponding conditional probability table. The reasoning network  then performs the known Bayesian network inference computation. In other words, the reasoning network  combines all the individual assessments from the evaluators -k together to estimate the overall health of the element . The reasoning network  can be implemented using any known probabilistic reasoning technology.","Referring back to , the result formatting module  and the web interface  are used to communicate the health assessment to remote user terminals, to other health assessment systems of the system  (), to any software application, or to the target element  itself. The result formatting module  formats the health assessment generated by the health engine  into a format recognized by the web interface  such that the web interface  can transmit the formatted health assessment to remote systems or terminals via the Internet (not shown in ). This means that the web interface  is connected to the Internet, and is capable of transmitting data via the Internet using well known protocols. The structure of each of the result formatting module  and the web interface  is well known and can be implemented using known web service technology.","Briefly, the result formatting module  is an automatic web content generation module that uses the standard protocol language to generate web content. In this case, the generated content is the health assessment in web content format. The web interface  includes a web server or web infrastructure (not shown) that can service remote access requests sent from remote user terminals via the Internet. The web server of the web interface  can be the HP Chai web server manufactured by Hewlett-Packard Company of Palo Alto, Calif. The protocol and language used for the communication can be any one of the known open standard protocols and languages for Internet communication, which may include HTTP, HTML, or XML. With the web interface , the health assessment system  can easily communicate with other health assessment systems that monitor other elements of the target system  () to exchange health information of the elements - () such that each health assessment system can have an overall sense of the health of the entire target system . This is for the purposes of deciding whether to use each other's services or not.","In one embodiment, the protocol used is an instance of the XML protocol or language, and is referred to as Service Health Markup Language (SHML). In this case, the result formatting module , when receiving an inquiry from a remote system or terminal via the web interface , employs the SHML language to format the health assessment of the element . The result formatting module  then sends the formatted health assessment report to the web interface .","One of the key features of the SHML protocol is that it introduces the notion of health probability as a key concept. Another feature is that it allows the transfer of legacy and more detailed management information in its \u201cdetails\u201d clause. An example SHML health report (sent in response to an inquiry written in the same SHML language) is shown below for illustration purposes.\n\n","Here, the health assessment shows up in the \u201cproba-ok\u201d tag.","In the foregoing specification, the invention has been described with reference to specific embodiments thereof. It will, however, be evident to those skilled in the art that various modifications and changes may be made thereto without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention. The specification and drawings are, accordingly, to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 2"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIGS. 2-3"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 4"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 4"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 4"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":["FIG. 8","FIG. 4"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":["FIGS. 9A and 9B","FIG. 4"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":["FIG. 10","FIG. 5"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":["FIG. 11","FIG. 6"]}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
