---
title: Single gesture map navigation graphical user interface for a personal digital assistant
abstract: An application on a personal digital assistant (PDA) displays a map. A graphical user interface permits the application to receive single gesture inputs of a stylus. If the single gesture input comprises a drag of the stylus a minimum distance, the map is panned such that the map is shifted to a new center view. The displayed map may contain one or more map objects. If the input comprises a single tap on a specific map object, the map object under the tap may be selected and highlighted. Further, a ToolTip for the map object may be displayed. A further tap of the ToolTip may result in the navigation to a link or URL associated with the map object selected. One or more zoom buttons may also be displayed. If a zoom button is tapped by the user, the map may be displayed in a different level of detail.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07142205&OS=07142205&RS=07142205
owner: Autodesk, Inc.
number: 07142205
owner_city: San Rafael
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20010228
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS","CONCLUSION"],"p":["This application claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. \u00a7119(e) of the following co-pending and commonly assigned U.S. Provisional patent application, which applications are incorporated by reference herein:","U.S. application Ser. No. 60\/193,142, entitled \u201cINTERPROCESS API AND GRAPHICAL USER INTERFACE FOR PERSONAL DIGITAL ASSISTANT (PDA) DEVICES AND APPLICATIONS,\u201d filed on Mar. 29, 2000, by Nemmara Chithambaram, et. al.;","U.S. application Ser. No. 60\/193,141, entitled \u201cSHARABLE SERVER UPLOADABLE REDLINING FOR PERSONAL DIGITAL ASSISTANT (PDA),\u201d filed on Mar. 29, 2000, by Nemmara Chithambaram, et. al.;","U.S. application Ser. No. 60\/193,153 entitled \u201cINDEXED RASTER VECTOR SCHEMA FOR PERSONAL DIGITAL ASSISTANT (PDA) DATABASES,\u201d filed on Mar. 29, 2000, by Nemmara Chithambaram, et. al.; and","U.S. application Ser. No. 60\/193,862, entitled \u201cMAPGUIDE FOR MOBILE DEVICES SERVER,\u201d filed on Mar. 30, 2000, by Nemmara Chithambaram, et. al.","This application claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. \u00a7120 and 35 U.S.C. \u00a7363 of the following co-pending and commonly assigned international patent application number PCT\/US00\/26436, entitled \u201cGEOGRAPHIC MAPS ON A PERSONAL DIGITAL ASSISTANT (PDA) AND SERVER, filed on Sep. 26, 2000, by Autodesk, Inc., which application claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. \u00a7119(e) of U.S. application Ser. No. 60\/159,069, entitled \u201cMAPGUIDE PERSONAL DIGITAL ASSISTANT,\u201d filed on Oct. 12, 1999, by Nemmara Chithambaram, et. al., U.S. application Ser. No. 60\/193,141, entitled \u201cSHARABLE SERVER UPLOADABLE REDLINING FOR PERSONAL DIGITAL ASSISTANT (PDA) MAPS,\u201d filed on Mar. 29, 2000, by Nemmara Chithambaram, et. al., U.S. application Ser. No. 60\/193,153 entitled \u201cINDEXED RASTER VECTOR SCHEMA FOR PERSONAL DIGITAL ASSISTANT (PDA) DATABASES,\u201d filed on Mar. 29, 2000, by Nemmara Chithambaram, et. al., U.S. application Ser. No. 60\/193,142, entitled \u201cINTERPROCESS API AND GRAPHICAL USER INTERFACE FOR PERSONAL DIGITAL ASSISTANT (PDA) DEVICES AND APPLICATIONS,\u201d filed on Mar. 29, 2000, by Nemmara Chithambaram, et. al., and U.S. application Ser. No. 60\/193,862, entitled \u201cMAPGUIDE FOR MOBILE DEVICES SERVER,\u201d filed on Mar. 30, 2000, by Nemmara Chithambaram, et. al.; and which international application is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09\/629,115, entitled \u201cMETHOD AND APPARATUS FOR PROVIDING ACCESS TO MAPS ON A PERSONAL DIGITAL ASSISTANT (PDA)\u201d, by Nemmara Chithambaram et al., filed on Jul. 31, 2000, U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09\/628,851, entitled \u201cGEOGRAPHICAL DATA MARKUP ON A PERSONAL DIGITAL ASSISTANT (PDA)\u201d, by Edward J. Connor, et al., filed on Jul. 31, 2000, U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09\/628,850, entitled \u201cGENERALIZED, DIFFERENTIALLY ENCODED, INDEXED RASTER VECTOR DATA AND SCHEMA FOR MAPS ON A PERSONAL DIGITAL ASSISTANT\u201d, by Nemmara Chithambaram et al., filed on Jul. 31, 2000, and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09\/629,117, entitled \u201cMETHOD AND APPARATUS FOR OBTAINING A SET OF MAPS\u201d, by Howard Marantz et al., filed on Jul. 31, 2000.","This application is a continuation-in-part of the following co-pending and commonly assigned United States patent applications, which are incorporated by reference herein:","U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09\/629,115, entitled \u201cMETHOD AND APPARATUS FOR PROVIDING ACCESS TO MAPS ON A PERSONAL DIGITAL ASSISTANT (PDA)\u201d, by Nemmara Chithambaram et al., filed on Jul. 31, 2000 which application claims the benefit of U.S. application Ser. No. 60\/159,069, entitled \u201cMAPGUIDE PERSONAL DIGITAL ASSISTANT,\u201d filed on Oct. 12, 1999, by Nemmara Chithambaram, et. al., U.S. application Ser. No. 60\/193,141, entitled \u201cSHARABLE SERVER UPLOADABLE REDLINING FOR PERSONAL DIGITAL ASSISTANT (PDA),\u201d filed on Mar. 29, 2000, by Nemmara Chithambaram, et. al., U.S. application Ser. No. 60\/193,153 entitled \u201cINDEXED RASTER VECTOR SCHEMA FOR PERSONAL DIGITAL ASSISTANT (PDA) DATABASES,\u201d filed on Mar. 29, 2000, by Nemmara Chithambaram, et. al., U.S. application Ser. No. 60\/193,142, entitled \u201cINTERPROCESS API AND GRAPHICAL USER INTERFACE FOR PERSONAL DIGITAL ASSISTANT (PDA) DEVICES AND APPLICATIONS,\u201d filed on Mar. 29, 2000, by Nemmara Chithambaram, et. al., and U.S. application Ser. No. 60\/193,862, entitled \u201cMAPGUIDE FOR MOBILE DEVICES SERVER,\u201d filed on Mar. 30, 2000, by Nemmara Chithambaram, et. al.;","U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09\/628,850, entitled \u201cGENERALIZED, DIFFERENTIALLY ENCODED, INDEXED RASTER VECTOR DATA AND SCHEMA FOR MAPS ON A PERSONAL DIGITAL ASSISTANT\u201d, by Nemmara Chithambaram et al., filed on Jul. 31, 2000, which application claims the benefit of U.S. application Ser. No. 60\/159,069, entitled \u201cMAPGUIDE PERSONAL DIGITAL ASSISTANT,\u201d filed on Oct. 12, 1999, by Nemmara Chithambaram, et. al., U.S. application Ser. No. 60\/193,141, entitled \u201cSHARABLE SERVER UPLOADABLE REDLINING FOR PERSONAL DIGITAL ASSISTANT (PDA),\u201d filed on Mar. 29, 2000, by Nemmara Chithambaram, et. al., U.S. application Ser. No. 60\/193,153 entitled \u201cINDEXED RASTER VECTOR SCHEMA FOR PERSONAL DIGITAL ASSISTANT (PDA) DATABASES,\u201d filed on Mar. 29, 2000, by Nemmara Chithambaram, et. al., U.S. application Ser. No. 60\/193,142, entitled \u201cINTERPROCESS API AND GRAPHICAL USER INTERFACE FOR PERSONAL DIGITAL ASSISTANT (PDA) DEVICES AND APPLICATIONS,\u201d filed on Mar. 29, 2000, by Nemmara Chithambaram, et. al., and U.S. application Ser. No. 60\/193,862, entitled \u201cMAPGUIDE FOR MOBILE DEVICES SERVER,\u201d filed on Mar. 30, 2000, by Nemmara Chithambaram, et. al.;","U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09\/628,851, entitled \u201cGEOGRAPHICAL DATA MARKUP ON A PERSONAL DIGITAL ASSISTANT (PDA)\u201d, by Edward J. Connor, et al., filed on Jul. 31, 2000 which application claims the benefit of U.S. application Ser. No. 60\/159,069, entitled \u201cMAPGUIDE PERSONAL DIGITAL ASSISTANT,\u201d filed on Oct. 12, 1999, by Nemmara Chithambaram, et. al., U.S. application Ser. No. 60\/193,141, entitled \u201cSHARABLE SERVER UPLOADABLE REDLINING FOR PERSONAL DIGITAL ASSISTANT (PDA),\u201d filed on Mar. 29, 2000, by Nemmara Chithambaram, et. al., U.S. application Ser. No. 60\/193,153 entitled \u201cINDEXED RASTER VECTOR SCHEMA FOR PERSONAL DIGITAL ASSISTANT (PDA) DATABASES,\u201d filed on Mar. 29, 2000, by Nemmara Chithambaram, et. al., U.S. application Ser. No. 60\/193,142, entitled \u201cINTERPROCESS API AND GRAPHICAL USER INTERFACE FOR PERSONAL DIGITAL ASSISTANT (PDA) DEVICES AND APPLICATIONS,\u201d filed on Mar. 29, 2000, by Nemmara Chithambaram, et. al., and U.S. application Ser. No. 60\/193,862, entitled \u201cMAPGUIDE FOR MOBILE DEVICES SERVER,\u201d filed on Mar. 30, 2000, by Nemmara Chithambaram, et. al.; and","U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09\/629,117, entitled \u201cMETHOD AND APPARATUS FOR OBTAINING A SET OF MAPS\u201d, by Nemmara Chithambaram et al., which application claims the benefit of U.S. application Ser. No. 60\/159,069, entitled \u201cMAPGUIDE PERSONAL DIGITAL ASSISTANT,\u201d filed on Oct. 12, 1999, by Nemmara Chithambaram, et. al., U.S. application Ser. No. 60\/193,141, entitled \u201cSHARABLE SERVER UPLOADABLE REDLINING FOR PERSONAL DIGITAL ASSISTANT (PDA),\u201d filed on Mar. 29, 2000, by Nemmara Chithambaram, et. al., U.S. application Ser. No. 60\/193,153 entitled \u201cINDEXED RASTER VECTOR SCHEMA FOR PERSONAL DIGITAL ASSISTANT (PDA) DATABASES,\u201d filed on Mar. 29, 2000, by Nemmara Chithambaram, et. al., U.S. application Ser. No. 60\/193,142, entitled \u201cINTERPROCESS API AND GRAPHICAL USER INTERFACE FOR PERSONAL DIGITAL ASSISTANT (PDA) DEVICES AND APPLICATIONS,\u201d filed on Mar. 29, 2000, by Nemmara Chithambaram, et. al., and U.S. application Ser. No. 60\/193,862, entitled \u201cMAPGUIDE FOR MOBILE DEVICES SERVER,\u201d filed on Mar. 30, 2000, by Nemmara Chithambaram, et. al.","This application is related to the following co-pending and commonly-assigned patent applications, which applications are incorporated by reference herein:","U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09\/411,506, entitled \u201cVECTOR-BASED GEOGRAPHIC DATA\u201d, by Gregory A. Roy, et. al., filed on Oct. 4, 1999, which is a continuation patent application of U.S. Pat. No. 5,966,135 issued on Oct. 12, 1999 (application Ser. No. 08\/757,706 filed on Oct. 30, 1996), by Gregory A. Roy et al., entitled \u201cVECTOR-BASED GEOGRAPHIC DATA\u201d; and","U.S. application Ser. No. 09\/795,719, entitled \u201cINTERPROCESS APPLICATION PROGRAMMING INTERFACE FOR PERSONAL DIGITAL ASSISTANT APPLICATIONS,\u201d filed on the same date herewith, by Timothy John Nelson, et. al.","1. Field of the Invention","The present invention relates generally to electronic maps and geographic information, and in particular, to a method, apparatus, and article of manufacture for navigating a map displayed on a personal digital assistant (PDA).","2. Description of the Related Art","Computer implemented geographic information systems (GIS) are known in the art. Such GIS provide for the retrieval and display of geographic information (e.g., maps). A GIS is a system of software, hardware, and data that delivers geographic data (street maps, property boundaries, power transmission lines, etc.) along with any associated attribute information. It can show you where a street is and also tell you the street name, when it was last paved, whether it is a one-way street, etc. Using a GIS, a user can perform complex queries (from a web browser to a server) to discover such things as how many people live near the street, what their income level is, and what the zoning laws are. A GIS can operate on a network\/internet wherein the geographic information is stored on a server and transmitted to a client\/user where the information (map picture and other data) is displayed on a web browser.","For the client to properly display the geographic information, a computer system with the appropriate processing capabilities, software, and memory is required. For example, a client may be required to utilize a computer with a web browser such as INTERNET EXPLORER or NETSCAPE NAVIGATOR and have a minimum of 10 megabytes of available memory. Additionally, to display the geographic data such that a user does not have to wait an inordinate amount of time to retrieve and load the data, an appropriate Internet connection (e.g., a 28.8 Kbps (kilo bits per second) modem) and a computer system with significant processing power (e.g., a minimum speed of 100 megahertz) may be required.","Field\/utility technicians such as gas company employees, salespersons, plumbers, insurance adjusters, or any type of employment that requires travel to different locations, often utilize or require access to maps and geographic information. Further, such technicians often need to interact with a map to obtain relevant information. For example, a plumber\/contractor may want to determine where the main gas line or water line on a street is located. However, while out in the field, the technicians often do not have a network connection, and carrying a laptop or desktop computer is cumbersome and impractical. Thus, it is desirable to have a small (handheld) portable computing device with the capabilities to display and interact with geographic information both online and offline.","Prior art handheld computing devices (also referred to as palm PCs or personal digital assistants (PDAs)), are often used to access and utilize personal information. Many handheld computing devices are available in today's marketplace. Typically, handheld computing devices are only slightly larger than the size of one's palm (hence, the name palm PC) and have a small display screen for viewing a plethora of items. Software can be installed on a PDA to provide enhanced functionality. For example, a personal productivity tool may be installed to provide access to a calendar, contacts, email, Internet browsing, audio books, and audio recording capabilities. Card slots may also be available to provide additional memory or other functions (e.g., a modem). Additionally, some PDAs have infrared (IR) ports for communication.","Field technicians using a PDA need to view, interact, and navigate maps displayed. The PDA environment, however, poses several challenges for geographic information systems in terms of map navigation, memory, storage, processor speeds, wireless transmission rates, and display attributes. For example, the screen area of PDAs is typically small (160\u00d7160 pixels) and PDAs commonly only maintain 96K or less of memory, 2 Mb (megabytes) or less storage, a 13 MHz processor speed, and a black and white or gray scale display mechanism. Additionally, a stylus takes the place of a multi-button mouse. Map navigation may be particularly difficult on a PDA since technicians in many instances work in trenches or other places where a user's range of motion and vision are significantly limited.","Thus, there is a need for a geographic information system that overcomes the above described deficiencies on a portable handheld electronic device such as a PDA.","One or more embodiments of the invention provide for an interactive geographic information system on a personal digital assistant (PDA). The system enables the viewing, interaction, and navigation of maps on a PDA.","A graphical user interface (GUI) on the PDA displays a map requested by a user. A user may navigate the displayed map using movements of a stylus. When a single gesture input is received from a stylus, various functions and\/or actions may be invoked. When a user drags a stylus more than a minimum distance, the system interprets the dragging as an attempt to pan the displayed map. Accordingly, the map is panned based on the stylus drag.","If the stylus was not dragged a minimum distance, it indicates that the user has tapped the map with a possible attempt to select a map object or button. If a zoom button was selected, the single tap gesture results in either zooming out or in on the map depending on the button selected.","If the user has tapped and selected a map object, a ToolTip associated with the map object may be displayed. The ToolTip may contain text or a link to a URL or file associated with the selected map object. If the ToolTip contains a URL or link, the text displayed in the ToolTip may be underlined or differentiated from standard text to indicate further action is possible.","Once a ToolTip containing a link has been displayed, the application may wait for further action from the user. Further, if the user taps the link or ToolTip containing the link, the application may navigate the user to the link associated with the ToolTip, if any. Such navigation may comprise invoking another application (e.g., a web browser application).","In the following description, reference is made to the accompanying drawings which form a part hereof, and which is shown, by way of illustration, several embodiments of the present invention. It is understood that other embodiments may be utilized and structural changes may be made without departing from the scope of the present invention.","Overview","One or more embodiments of the invention provide for a graphical user interface for navigating maps on a personal digital assistant (PDA). In the graphical user interface, a single gesture by a user using a stylus may result in a continuous pan, a zoom in or out of a map, a selection of a single object on the map, or the viewing of a report associated with a selected map object.","Embodiments further provide the use of the MAPGUIDE geographical information system (available from the assignee of the present invention) on a PDA. Software on the PDA is enabled to provide such functionality. Further, a servlet that provides enhanced server functionality may interface between the web server and the PDA to accommodate any additional processing needed.","Raster maps provide multiple zoom levels with each zoom level comprising multiple tiles that allow for \u201cvirtual roaming\u201d across a map. Further, selectable vector geometry (for interacting and highlighting with user objects), geo-referencing information for map navigation, meta-data in the form of layer definitions (visibility, display attributes, etc.), links to object attributes in databases, links to object reports generated by corporate web servers, uploadable, sharable redlining data (created from scribbles on the field), and access to geographical information both online and offline on the PDA are provided. Accordingly, users will maintain the ability to access maps and other geographical information while offline and not connected to a network or server.","General Architecture","Hardware Environment","The use, on a PDA, of a modified MAPGUIDE GIS currently available from the assignee of the present invention is provided. The existing MAPGUIDE GIS is more fully described in co-pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09\/411,506, entitled \u201cVECTOR-BASED GEOGRAPHIC DATA\u201d, by Gregory Andrew Roy, et. al., filed on Oct. 4, 1999, which is a continuation patent application of U.S. Pat. No. 5,966,135 issued on Oct. 12, 1999 (application Ser. No. 08\/757,706 filed on Oct. 30, 1996), by Gregory A. Roy et al., entitled \u201cVECTOR-BASED GEOGRAPHIC DATA\u201d.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0046","num":"0045"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["100","118","102","104","106"]},"A thick client  as utilized in the existing MAPGUIDE GIS may comprise a computer with a web browser (enhanced with a plugin or viewer) connected to a web server  that communicates with a MapGuide server  to retrieve data (e.g., raster data, spatial data format (SDF) data , attribute data , etc.).","A thin client includes three classes of devices: handheld personal computers (HPC), palm-held personal computers (PPC or PDA), and smart phones. Using these devices, a thin client  may not provide the full processing and memory capabilities as a thick client . For example, as described above with respect to PDAs, thin clients  often have memory less than 100K, storage of less than 2\u20134 MB, processor speeds of 13 MHz, and limited display attributes. Consequently, additional server  side support (e.g., more generalized display data, simplified project files, de-cluttering services, and possibly server management of user state) may be utilized. A typical combination of resources may include a network\/Internet  comprising the Internet, LANs, WANs, SNA networks, or the like, clients  and  that are PDAs, personal computers or workstations, and servers  that are personal computers, workstations, minicomputers, or mainframes.","The network\/Internet  connects client computers  and  executing the appropriate software applications  to server computers  executing Web servers , MapGuide servers , and servlets . MagGuide servers  and servlets  may be located within or part of web server . The server  and its components may also be referred to as a back office system. Such a back office system maintains access to corporate databases, synchronization utilities, etc. The Web server  is typically a program such as an Apache Web Server or Microsoft's Internet Information Server. The servlet  communicates with thin client  through web server  such that any additional processing required by a thin client  may be performed by the servlet . Servlet  communicates with MapGuide server  to obtain needed map data\/information. Additionally, servlet  accesses map windows files (MWF)  to obtain relevant data. The servers  may also execute a Common Gateway Interface (CGI)  (or Netscape Application Programming Interface (NSAPI), Internet Server Application Programming Interface (ISAPI), etc.), which interfaces between the Web server  and a database management system (DBMS)  that may be utilized to retrieve relevant geographical data (such as SDF data, raster data, Open DataBase Connectivity (ODBC) data, etc.) from database .","Generally, components \u2013 and \u2013 all comprise logic and\/or data that is embodied in or retrievable from a device, medium, signal, or carrier, e.g., a data storage device, a data communications device, a remote computer or device coupled to the computer via a network or via another data communications device, etc. Moreover, this logic and\/or data, when read, executed, and\/or interpreted, results in the steps necessary to implement and\/or use the present invention being performed.","Thus, embodiments of the invention may be implemented as a method, apparatus, or article of manufacture using standard programming and\/or engineering techniques to produce software, firmware, hardware, or any combination thereof. The term \u201carticle of manufacture\u201d (or alternatively, \u201ccomputer program product\u201d) as used herein is intended to encompass logic and\/or data accessible from any computer-readable device, carrier, or media.","Those skilled in the art will recognize many modifications may be made to this exemplary environment without departing from the scope of the present invention. For example, those skilled in the art will recognize that any combination of the above components, or any number of different components, including different logic, data, different peripherals, and different devices, may be used to implement the present invention, so long as similar functions are performed thereby. Specifically, those skilled in the art will recognize that the present invention may be applied to any database, associated database management system, or peripheral device.","Software Embodiments","In accordance with the hardware descriptions, thick clients  are complete computer systems with web browsers and full processing capabilities. However, the hardware limitations of a PDA device necessitate software limitations. Accordingly, to enable a geographic information system on a PDA, a thin client  executing an application  is provided. To accommodate the thin client, additional support on server  may be utilized. For example, server  may provide more generalized display data, simplified project files, de-cluttering services, and possibly server management of the user state.","The architecture of the invention includes a data model that combines static raster layers (static raster data fort multiple layers) with live vector objects to deliver good display and download performance, and also provides interactive selectable objects.","Vector based maps (also referred to as \u201cmap layer data\u201d consisting of geographic information\/data for one or more layers) are served by a servlet  and are an encoded and spatially indexed vector representation of the geographic data. Such vector maps provide for a more \u201cinteractive\u201d display with flexible zooming on the client , highlighting, etc. Alternatively, the Scalable Vector Graphics (SVG) representation as proposed by the WorldWideWeb Consortium (W3C) may be utilized. SVG allows for three types of graphic objects: vector graphic shapes (e.g., paths consisting of straight lines and curves), images, and text. Graphical objects can be grouped, styled, transformed, and composited into previously rendered objects.","A display background (that is raster based) for the geographic data and display layers is managed as a multilevel library of raster tiles. The raster layers are composed from multiple vector layers on servlet , resulting in better download and display performance. The raster map on the PDA allows panning (virtual roaming paradigm), and zooming across multiple levels. A smart-cache on thin client  allows the swapping of compact tiles from the database to memory, in a manner appropriate to the device. A single workspace per map provides the definition of the map and the display attributes for the layers on the thin client .","PDA users (e.g., technicians) can make scribbles and annotations on the map using a paper and pencil metaphor. To accommodate such markup, embodiments provide a markup object that consists of geometric scribbles (points, lines, polygons, symbols), GPS (global positioning system) input coordinates, annotations (positioned text with font information, etc.), and a geo-reference system that allows the markup object to be integrated into a spatial database  using server  and displayed on other maps. The markup system captures user input and allows for markup objects to be uploaded to server . Further, the level of sharing on the server  side is configurable (e.g., personal, group, global, etc.).","Details of Architecture","Thin Client ","The user of a thin client  such as a PDA displays geographical information (e.g., maps) using application . The architecture of the invention accommodates various thin clients  such as Palm OS devices, WINDOWS CE 2.x devices, and\/or smart phones with bitmapped graphics (e.g., SYMBIAN, MOTOROLA, NOKIA, PSION). The startup time for the GIS on the PDA is comparable to other applications on the PDA. Further, the thin client  (and application ) is enabled to store non-spatial data gathered from within the GIS application in a format suitable for uploading to or synchronizing with major relational database management system (RDBMS) vendors.","Thin client  supports a variety of net access patterns. For example, thin client  can have a connection to the back office system (e.g., server ) periodically (e.g., at the beginning and\/or the end of the day), on-demand (e.g., through a wireless modem), or continuously.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0060","num":"0059"},"figref":"FIGS. 2A and 2B","b":["102","108","102","130","102","130","128","108","130","102","202","222","238"]},"To initialize the PDA thin client  with the appropriate map data, a user starts up the synchronization application . Synchronization application  is the application on the PDA thin client  responsible for synchronizing information and map data stored in a database  on PDA thin client  with the relevant map data. Synchronization application  utilizes net services  to communicate with servlet  (through web server ) and to obtain the relevant map data. Net services component  provides services for two way communication (and exchange of data) with servlet  (i.e., following the link to ). Accordingly, synchronization application  may communicate with servlet  to obtain the location of the map data. Thereafter, synchronization application  retrieves\/obtains the map data from the identified location.","Upon receipt of the map data in the synchronization application , persistent services  is utilized store the data (by performing various I\/O operations) in PDA catalog database . Thereafter, the synchronization process is complete. Such synchronization can be performed as often as desired depending on the configuration of the PDA thin client . For example, if thin client  has a wireless modem, the synchronization operation can be performed whenever desired. If however, a direct connection is required, synchronization can only occur when the thin client  is connected to network  (or to server ).","The MapGuide PDA component  is the main application that provides the user interface (UI)  and responds to events. The user interface component  is the placeholder for the user interface controls that are specialized for the PDA. Accordingly, once the relevant map data has been retrieved using synchronization application , the MapGuide PDA application  may be initialized\/started by the user. Details of the UI and map navigation are described below.","MapGuide PDA component  requests the persistence services component  to load the active workspace . The active workspace  provides\/creates the definition of the map model . Thus, the active workspace  may be seen as a minimized version of the traditional map file (referred to as a map window file (MWF)) for the PDA . The map model  provides the services related to maintaining and manipulating map layers and map objects.","The persistent services component  loads the workspace  by providing object based database management services (ODBMS) using the local PDA database (PDA CatalogDB ). The PDA catalogDB  is the local database of geographic information that is resident on the PDA. Thus, the PDA catalogDB encapsulates the local PDA catalog database and provides the application programming interface (API) for record manipulation.","View component  listens to changes in the map model  and updates the map display when necessary. The business attributes services\/manager component  provides services related to managing non-spatial business attributes.","Client resident viewer services  interact with map model component . The client resident viewer services component  provides a flexible architecture that allows viewer service components to reside on either the client  or the servlet . These services may be represented by two components: the client resident viewer services component  of  and the servlet resident viewer services component  of . The services performed by client resident viewer services  and servlet resident viewer services  may be combined and reside entirely on client  or server . All client  components send requests for viewer services to the client resident viewer services . The client resident viewer services component  will perform the service if the required components are locally available on the client . If not, the request may be delegated to the servlet resident viewer services  through synchronization application . For example, for a given client configuration, polyline drawing services may be available on client , whereas buffering services may be available on servlet .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0068","num":"0067"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":["130","202","300","202","302","202","208","206","220","304","206","210","210","306","306","208","220","306","216","306","216","232","216","218","238","308"]},"At step , any downloaded data may be optionally cached in the local database  using persistent services . The model  notifies listeners (including the view ) of the change at step . View  updates itself by getting display attributes from the workspace  and updating the map display at step .","After viewing the map, a user on thin client  may markup or redline the map (i.e., the map and attribute data) as desired using a stylus. Markup data comprises pixel data for a markup entity. Application  provides the ability to obtain markup data from the user through user interface . Application  then creates a file comprised of the markup data and provides for uploading the file from thin client  to server . The file is uploaded to the server  by obtaining a socket connection, obtaining an inventory of resident mapsets, searching for markup data associated with the resident mapsets on thin client , and uploading all resident markup data to the server .","As described above, the markup entity may comprise a markup object that provides various mechanisms for marking up a map. For example, the user may draw a redline line wherein the markup object is a redline object. To draw a redline line, the application  determines when a new redline object has been selected and captures the stylus movements in a redline object while the stylus remains in contact with the screen of thin client .","In another example, the markup data is a note, and the application  is configured to obtain the markup data in a note object. To insert\/draw a note, application  determines when a new note object has been selected, accepts a user selection of an anchor point in a display of a map on the thin client , displays a text entry screen  on the thin client , accepts text user input in the text entry screen , and displays an icon representative of the note at the anchor point.","To accommodate the markup data on server , server  is configured to obtain a file comprised of markup data for the map and attribute  data, convert the markup data to coordinate data, and use the coordinate data to obtain a standard data format (SDF) file that can be used to superimpose the markup data on the map and attribute  data. Any component on server , including servlet , may provide such functionality.","Map Navigation Graphical User Interface (GUI)","In addition to redline functionality, one or more embodiments of the invention provide a GUI for navigating a map. Map navigation may be accomplished using a variety of single gestures such as selecting a menu, tapping, and\/or dragging with the stylus.","A map screen may include one or more of the following elements: a map; a menu; and Zoom In and Zoom Out navigation buttons on a title bar. Various navigation buttons may be provided on a map display screen including Zoom In and Zoom Out. The Zoom In and Zoom Out buttons may function in the same way as Zoom In and Zoom Out menu items. If the menu is dropped down (visible), the buttons may not be available as they may be covered up by the menu. The buttons may also not be available during a Redline operation, as all (or a portion of) menu items except Finish Redline may be disabled during a Redline operation.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0076","num":"0075"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 4"],"b":"402"},"Panning","The GUI enables a user to pan a map across the PDA's display screen. To pan, the user holds down the stylus and drags the stylus to the desired new view. A minimum distance of movement before a pan operation begins may be required. By requiring a minimum distance, the drag operation may be distinguished from a selection\/tap operation (e.g., a press\/release without moving more than the threshold distance). In a drag operation, the map may be constrained from panning beyond the halfway mark of the view area. In other words, the user may not be allowed to pan the edge of any map beyond the center of the view. In such an embodiment the center point of the PDA screen may always be required to fall inside of the map.","The GUI may also provide a means by which the user can return (pan) to a designated target point. In such an embodiment, the zoom factor may not be affected.","Zooming","A user may be presented with the option of zooming in closer or zooming away from a currently displayed map. Depending on the availability of zooming in or out from the current level of detail, a zoom in or zoom out button may be displayed on the PDA screen.","For example, an overview map may currently be displayed. If a more detailed view of the overview map is available, the \u201cZoom In\u201d item may appear in the menu and a \u201cZoom In\u201d button may be displayed on the screen. Further, if a less detailed view of the overview map is available, a \u201cZoom Out\u201d item may appear in the menu and a \u201cZoom Out\u201d button may be displayed on the screen. Both the Zoom Out and Zoom In items may be displayed simultaneously. To zoom in or zoom out, the user may select \u201cZoom In\u201d or \u201cZoom Out\u201d from the Map menu or may use a single tap gesture on either the Zoom In or Zoom Out button.","Once the user elects to zoom in or out, the map view immediately zooms\/navigates to the requested map level\/level of detail, while maintaining the existing view center. A mapset consists of an array of maps (up to 9 zoom levels, not including the initial map). The Zoom In menu choice and button will be displayed if there is a more detailed view available and removed from the menu otherwise. Similarly, the Zoom Out menu choice and button will be displayed if there is a less detailed view available and removed otherwise. All of the zooms implicitly reference the MWF of the initial map. The user doesn't zoom between different MWF files, only between scales and centers within an MWF file.","A user may not be allowed to zoom in if a more detailed map does not cover the geographical point corresponding to the center of the view.  illustrates an example of a level of detail displayed on a PDA wherein the edge of the map extends just beyond the center of the view. Additionally, in , a more detailed map of the area in the center of the view is not available. Accordingly, the user is not presented with the option of zooming in.","The GUI may also provide the ability to support a single level for a raster zoom. (pixel replication). For example, the GUI may provide a magnifying glass icon, on both an overview and detail level map, to enable viewers to look at the same map in a larger view. Such an icon may be activated using a single gesture such as a tap of the stylus on the magnifying glass or the area that the user desires to magnify. A similar icon with similar functionality may be used to zoom out or display a less detailed view of a map.","Map Object Display and Selection","As described above, a map may comprise one or more map objects. A map object may have numerous non-graphical attributes. For example, a map object may have an object type, a key value (for linking to database records), a simple text attribute (e.g., a road name for display in a ToolTip as discussed below), or a URL to a web page (e.g., maintenance information for the selected object) or to another map, drawing or image (e.g., detailed schematic diagram).","In the GUI, map objects and their attributes (graphical and non-graphical) may provide various functions when selected by a user. For example, the selection of a map object may link a user to the URL specified in the URL attribute. The selection of a map object may also permit the display of a ToolTip that contains the text from the simple text attribute.","When one or more map objects are selected, the GUI may highlight the selected objects using a ToolTip icon. Such functionality combines selection representation with that of ToolTips. The text within a ToolTip may comprise the value of the key attribute, the simple text attribute, or the URL attribute for the selected object. Where a link (e.g., a link to a file or a URL) is present, the ToolTip text may be displayed and underlined. This underlined text may effectively act as a button. If the object has an URL but no ToolTip text, the string \u201cMore Info . . . \u201d may be displayed.","The user may navigate to the file or URL identified by the link via the ToolTip. To navigate, the user may merely tap on the ToolTip with the stylus and be transported to the URL or file. Depending on the value of the link, the appropriate application may be invoked\/initialized. For example, if the link is to a mapset, the mapset may be opened in a GIS application. However, if the link is to a URL, an AvantGo application may be initialized.","To indicate that a selection has been made (e.g., that a user's tap is being processed), when the user taps on the ToolTip, the ToolTip text may change to reverse video while the link is loading.","A ToolTip may not be displayed if there is no text or URL associated with the object. Additionally, an audible click may sound when the user taps a selectable object, menu item, or ToolTip with a link. An audible error tone may sound if the user taps an area where there is no selectable data or if the user taps a tool tip that has no link associated with it.","ToolTips may behave differently depending on various factors such as where the selected object is located on the map. For example, a ToolTip may be displayed near, but not on, a point on the selected object closest to the pick point. The selected object may flash (blink on and off) as a highlighting mechanism. The ToolTip may also expand to cover the selected object wherein the blinking object may be visible through the ToolTip text. Additionally, the text within a ToolTip may wrap to keep the ToolTip within the size of the screen. The PDA application may restrict the ToolTip to a maximum width that is roughly 80% of the screen width.","The text string in a ToolTip may have a maximum length. When the maximum length has been reached or exceeded, the text may be truncated. For example, the text may be truncated with ellipsis when the text length causes the height of the ToolTip to reach fifty percent (50%) of the screen height.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0092","num":"0091"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 6","FIG. 7","FIG. 7"],"b":["602","604","702","704","704","702"]},"Referring to , when a ToolTip  is displayed, any other activity on the map screen may cancel the display of the ToolTip . Alternatively, certain additional activities may invoke various functions. For example, the ToolTip  may be moved by dragging the ToolTip  to reposition it. The user may have the ability to indicate which objects the user is interested in for a subsequent operation, e.g. zoom selected objects, report generation, etc. A script-writer may also be able to select an object and thus highlight it on a map. Further, the user may specify a layer, object ID, etc. to be displayed in a later cycle.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0094","num":"0093"},"figref":"FIG. 8","b":["800","802","804","806","808","810"]},"If a zoom button was not tapped, the ToolTip of the map object tapped is displayed at step . As described above, the ToolTip may contain the text or URL of the map object tapped. The map object closest to the tapped point may be utilized. If no map object is within a predefined distance of the tap, step  may not be performed.","Once a ToolTip has been displayed, the application may wait for further user action at step . Thus, at step , a determination is made regarding whether the user has tapped the map again. If a tap is received, the application determines whether the tap was on the displayed ToolTip or not at step . If the tap or user input was not on the ToolTip, processing may continue at step . Alternatively, the ToolTip may disappear from the display and processing may continue at step . If the tap was on the displayed ToolTip, the system may navigate the user to the link associated with the ToolTip, if any.","Servlet","Referring back to , a servlet  accommodates any additional processing needed by PDA thin client  and application . To take advantage of existing web servers  and servlet technology, servlet  may be implemented using the Java programming language. Alternatively, any programming language that performs\/provides Java servlet like functionality may be utilized. Accordingly, a single code stream is utilized to implement the servlet  on multiple platforms. A minimum set of constraints beyond those provided by web server  and the servlet  framework provide scalability. For example, each client  request may be self-contained in that it is responded to by a different instantiation of the servlet .","Servlet  may reside in a web server  and responds to requests for spatial and attribute data related to map objects, from multiple thin clients . Servlet  processes the requests, performs the visualization and encoding and places the results in a location that is accessible to the thin clients . Additionally, servlet  may identify one or more maps included in a mapset, obtain the map data for the one or more maps identified from the server , and create the mapset comprised of the map data prior to receiving a request for the map data from a client . Such map data retrieval and mapset creation may be performed by servlet  in response to receiving a request relating to a work order (e.g., a request to modify, delete, or add a work order).","Additionally, servlet  may support the retrieval and creation of a mapset (i.e., map data) using multiple central processing units in parallel. To provide such parallel processing support, servlet  identifies one or more maps in a mapset, instantiates separate threads on multiple central processing units to obtain map data for the one or more maps from the server  in parallel, assembles a transient database comprised of the map data, and creates a mapset comprised of the map data using the transient database.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0100","num":"0099"},"figref":["FIG. 2B","FIG. 2A"],"b":["108","224","102","230","230","232","230","228","226","102"]},"Map data on server  is comprised of multiple raster tile and vector object data for an object of the map data. Visualizer component  performs configurable decluttering of data in a manner that is appropriate to the display of thin client . Accordingly, visualizer  generalizes the shape of a vector object by filtering out some of the vector object data. Encoder component  compacts and encodes the objects being retrieved by thin client . Encoder component  differentially encodes a location of an object by encoding an offset for the location of the object with respect to an origin of the raster tile where the object is located. Further, encoder component  spatially indexes the vector object data by encoding the bounds of the object.","The raster tiles are stored in row major format. An index for each raster tile is stored following the raster tiles in an order corresponding to the storage of the raster tiles. The index comprises a reference to a record containing the generalized vector object data, and the offset and bounds for each raster tile.","By generalizing, encoding, and spatially indexing the map data, the thin client  may determine an object identified by a point by evaluating the bounds of one or more raster tiles to determine the raster tile containing the point, and evaluating the bounds of objects within the raster tile containing the point to determine which object contains the point.","Servlet resident viewer services components  represents the servlet resident part of viewer services (as described above with respect to ) and communicates with mapguide server . The map guide server  may be web server  or a component of server .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0105","num":"0104"},"figref":["FIG. 9","FIGS. 2A"],"b":["108","218","2","9","900","218","224","108","902","224","102","230","230","232","904","228","906","226","908","218","910"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0106","num":"0105"},"figref":["FIG. 10","FIGS. 2A"],"b":["102","108","2","10","1000","1002","220","202","220","1004","202","220","1006"]},"For local reports, the business attributes for the selected objects are read from the PDA database  at step  and the report is formatted and displayed at step . For reports that require more extensive formatting services (e.g., COLD FUSION Application Server) or require data not stored in the local PDA database , a request is issued to net services  (through synchronization application ) to obtain the report at step .","After the user is finished viewing the report, and possibly other reports linked to it, the mapguide PDA application  is re-started at step  at which time the application  restores itself to its last saved state.","This concludes the description of one or more embodiments of the invention. The following describes some alternative embodiments for accomplishing the present invention.","For example, any type of personal digital assistant or computer, such as a mainframe, minicomputer, or personal computer, or computer configuration, such as a timesharing mainframe, local area network, standalone personal computer, WINCE device, etc. could be used with the present invention.","The foregoing description of one or more embodiments of the invention has been presented for the purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise form disclosed. Many modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teaching. It is intended that the scope of the invention be limited not by this detailed description, but rather by the claims appended hereto."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["Referring now to the drawings in which like reference numbers represent corresponding parts throughout:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":"FIGS. 2A and 2B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0034"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0037","num":"0036"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0037"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0039","num":"0038"},"figref":"FIG. 9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0040","num":"0039"},"figref":"FIG. 10"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
