---
title: Visible multi-level online-offline configuration control
abstract: A method and system presents a plurality of selections to a user for updating a system configuration from the choices of: an immediate mode, a scheduled queued mode, a queued mode, and an optimized activation mode. The immediate mode activates all change requests immediately. The scheduled queued mode queues all change requests and activates the change requests at a predetermined time. The queued mode queues all change requests and activates the change requests after receiving a triggering event. The optimized activation mode analyzes the system usage to determine and optimally vary the mode among the immediate mode, the scheduled queued mode, and the queued mode.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07065563&OS=07065563&RS=07065563
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 07065563
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20011212
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS"],"p":["1. Field of the Invention","This invention generally relates to the field of device configuration control, and more particularly relates to a system and method for controlling the configuration parameters of systems, such as server systems or networked storage systems.","2. Description of Related Art","A problem with many storage products today relates to when and how configuration changes get updated to their associated storage system. These changes may include configuring IP addresses for ports; adding new storage disks; adding, modifying, or deleting end users; or modifying backup schedules. Most high-end NAS (Network Attached Storage) systems have only one option for configuration changes. Either the changes are activated immediately, or are queued until later, when they are manually activated by a system administrator (hereafter referred to as a user). In other systems, certain changes are activated immediately, while others are queued. This introduces some problems, such as:\n\n","Some ad ministration consoles immediately update each configuration change. This has proven to be a problem for customers as each change may take a long period of time to complete, making the system inaccessible during this time. Since these systems are clustered, all activity must be synchronized. Therefore, for example, it may take up to 30 minutes to activate the changes.","Therefore a need exists to overcome the problems with the prior art as discussed above, and particularly for an improved method of controlling the configuration parameters of networked storage systems.","According to a preferred embodiment of the present invention, a method and system presents a plurality of selections to a user for updating a system configuration from the choices of: an immediate mode, a scheduled queued mode, a queued mode, and an optimized activation mode. The immediate mode activates all changes immediately. The scheduled queued mode queues all changes and activates the changes at a predetermined time. The queued mode queues all changes and activates the changes after receiving a triggering event. The optimized activation mode analyzes the system usage to determine and optimally vary the mode among the immediate mode, the scheduled queued mode and the queued mode.","The present invention, according to a preferred embodiment, overcomes problems with the prior art by providing an option to the user to enable him\/her to decide the optimal time frame for updating the system configuration parameters. The ability to \u201cflip a switch\u201d and have configuration changes activated from within a User Interface (UI) context is a profound ease-of-use benefit.","A preferred embodiment provides a highly accessible and visible control for the user to switch between multiple activation modes. According to a preferred embodiment of the present invention, the following various activation modes may be accommodated with this visible control.\n\n","All approaches, spanning from immediate activation of changes to queuing changes for later activation, have their benefits depending on the user and his circumstance (home, initial configuration, major configuration update, emergency, etc.). For example, if the user's NAS system has multiple nodes, and the same change is being made to each node, it will typically be most appropriate to queue up all the changes for each node and then make all the changes at once. However, for events such as a disaster recovery, the user may want to activate all changes immediately.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0025"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["104","106","108","110","102","124","126","112","112","122","104","106","108","110","112","114","116","118","120","104","106","108","110","112","122","114","116","118","120"]},"Alternatively,  illustrates a storage area network system  in accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention. In this configuration, at least one network attached storage system , , ,  is communicatively coupled to at least one server , , ,  and each other via a hub  or another wired, wireless, or combination of wired and wireless local area network communication links. Each server , , ,  is, in turn, communicatively coupled to a client computer system , ,  and each other, via a local area network interface . At least one server , , ,  may also be communicatively coupled with the world-wide-web, via a wide area network interface (not shown) via a wired, wireless, or combination of wired and wireless local area network communication links . In this system, at least one client computer system  contains the user-controlled configuration administration interface  for determining the method for updating configuration changes, however, the user-controlled configuration administration interface  may also be located on a server , , ,  or on a remote computer system connected via the world-wide-web.","Referring to , each client computer system  may include, inter alia, one or more computers, a display monitor , and at least a computer readable medium . The computers preferably include means for reading and\/or writing to the computer readable medium. The computer readable medium allows a computer system to read data, instructions, messages or message packets, and other computer readable information from the computer readable medium. The computer readable medium, for example, may include non-volatile memory, such as Floppy, ROM, Flash memory, Disk drive memory, CD-ROM, and other permanent storage. It is useful, for example, for transporting information, such as data and computer instructions, between computer systems. Furthermore, the computer readable medium may comprise computer readable information in a transitory state medium such as a network link and\/or a network interface , including a wired network or a wireless network, that allow a computer to read such computer readable information.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0028"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":["102","320","102","320","312","312","122","314","316","314","322","122","312","314","304","302","304","102","306","308","102","318","112","314","102"]},"Glue software  may include drivers, stacks, and low-level application programming interfaces (API's) and provides basic functional components for use by the operating system platform  and by compatible applications that run on the operating system platform  for managing communications with resources and processes in the computing system .","The controller\/processor unit  manages resources, such as the data stored in data memory , the scheduling of tasks, and the operation of the configuration control administration interface  in the program memory . The controller\/processor unit  may also manage a communication network interface  for communicating with the network link , and a computer-readable medium drive . Additionally, the controller\/processor unit  also manages many other basic tasks of the computer system  in a manner well known to those of ordinary skill in the art.","Although a network attached storage system  is described in detail, the methods described with respect to the preferred embodiments of the present invention may also be used to control the updating of configuration parameters in a variety of other network systems such as printers, scanners, personal digital assistants (PDAs), hubs, gateways, applications, servers, systems or any other device that has configuration parameters that can be controlled via a networked application. Alternatively, the instructions for performing these methods may be contained in the memory of a general-purpose computer system .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0032"},"figref":["FIGS. 4","FIG. 1"],"b":["5","6","7","8","100","402","122","404","122","406","408","410","412","414"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0033"},"figref":"FIG. 5","b":["100","502","122","122","504"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0034"},"figref":"FIG. 6","b":["100","602","122","604","606"],"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0005","list-style":"none"},"li":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0005-0001","num":"0000"},"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0006","list-style":"none"},"li":["1. The system administrator user switches to \u201cImmediate\u201d activation mode, which automatically activates any changes in the queue at step .","2. The system administrator user manually activates the queue at step  (e.g., selects \u201cActivate queue now\u201d menu choice).","3. The system administrator user logs off, at step . Then, the user is warned, at step , that there are changes that have not yet been activated, and is prompted to activate them, at step , or lose them, at step , before logging off."]}}}},"The Scheduled Queue Mode (shown in ) is similar to the Queue Mode flow that is detailed above. The system enters the process at step  where the configuration control administration interface  receives a configuration change from a user. At step , the change gets temporarily queued. These steps may be repeated over and over, at step , with many changes getting queued up. For this mode, the queued changes get activated in the system when one of three things occur:\n\n",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0042"},"figref":"FIG. 8","ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0009","list-style":"none"},"li":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0009-0001","num":"0000"},"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0010","list-style":"none"},"li":["If the system detects that a user is performing disaster recover actions in an emergency situation, then change requests should be activated either immediately, or queued and then activated when the admin user clicks the final \u201cOK\u201d button while doing his key task.","If system detects that a user is making similar types of change requets to each server in a clustered system, the system should wait until each server is modified until activating similar changes and synching them across the whole cluster."]}}}},"The admin user can set the importance of not disrupting end users, and not disrupting his admin performance with a priority rating. For example, on a 5 point scale:\n\n","In a preferred embodiment, the system enters the process, at step , where the configuration control administration interface  receives a configuration change request from a user. At step , the configuration control administration interface  checks to see if the system is in a disaster recovery mode. If so, the system enters into the Immediate Mode and follows the procedure for that mode. If not, the priority level of the end-user, administrator, and the change itself are checked, at step . If the priority of the change request is higher than the priority of the end-user or the system administrator, or the system determines that the same change request is being made to multiple devices, that change will be slated for a Queued Mode, at steps , , and ; otherwise, the system enters into the Immediate Mode and follows the procedure for that mode. The configuration control administration interface  then compares the priority rating to predetermined threshold level, at step . If the priority rating of the change is below the threshold, the system will enter the Scheduled Queued Mode, if not, the system enters the Queued Mode. This allows a user to set a limit for non-vital change requests to be performed at a scheduled time.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0052"},"figref":["FIG. 9","FIG. 1","FIG. 10","figure 904"],"b":["902","908","907","906"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0053"},"figref":"FIG. 10","b":["1002","1004","1006"]},"The present invention can be realized in hardware, software, or a combination of hardware and software. A system according to a preferred embodiment of the present invention can be realized in a centralized fashion in one computer system, or in a distributed fashion where different elements are spread across several interconnected computer systems. Any kind of computer system\u2014or other apparatus adapted for carrying out the methods described herein\u2014is suited. A typical combination of hardware and software could be a general-purpose computer system with a computer program that, when being loaded and executed, controls the computer system such that it carries out the methods described herein.","A preferred embodiment of the present invention can also be embedded in a computer program product, which comprises all the features enabling the implementation of the methods described herein, and which\u2014when loaded in a computer system\u2014is able to carry out these methods. Computer program means or computer program in the present context mean any expression, in any language, code or notation, of a set of instructions intended to cause a system having an information processing capability to perform a particular function either directly or after either or both of the following a) conversion to another language, code or, notation; and b) reproduction in a different material form.","A computer system may include, inter alia, one or more computers and at least a computer readable medium, allowing a computer system, to read data, instructions, messages or message packets, and other computer readable information from the computer readable medium. The computer readable medium may include non-volatile memory, such as ROM, Flash memory, Disk drive memory, CD-ROM, and other permanent storage. Additionally, a computer readable medium may include, for example, volatile storage such as RAM, buffers, cache memory, and network circuits. Furthermore, the computer readable medium may comprise computer readable information in a transitory state medium such as a network link and\/or a network interface, including a wired network or a wireless network, that allow a computer system to read such computer readable information.","Although specific embodiments of the invention have been disclosed, those having ordinary skill in the art will understand that changes can be made to the specific embodiments without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. The scope of the invention is not to be restricted, therefore, to the specific embodiments, and it is intended that the appended claims cover any and all such applications, modifications, and embodiments within the scope of the present invention."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0014"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0015"},"figref":["FIGS. 4","FIG. 1"],"b":["5","6","7","8"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0016"},"figref":["FIG. 9","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0017"},"figref":["FIG. 10","FIG. 1"]}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
