---
title: Method and instrument for electronically recording and imaging fluid washover via measuring characteristics of the fluid at multiple locations simultaneously
abstract: An array of electrically isolated electrode pairs in combination with a specially configured processor, e.g., a personal computer, is employed to obtain a continuous real-time acquisition, processing, mapping and visualization of fluid washover. In a specific application, washover data are collected on salient electrical characteristics of seawater accumulating between electrodes of an electrode pair, one of which may be a common ground plane. For example, the resistance of seawater is measured dynamically at each electrode pair. These data are then processed using specialized software to yield representation of the dynamics of selected washover events on a surface of interest. Described systems specifically provide real-time spatial and temporal representations of interaction, including two and three-dimensional visualization of the washover, as well as recording selected data for future use. Methods of employment of the system are also described.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07130780&OS=07130780&RS=07130780
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 07130780
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20021213
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENT INTEREST","FIELD OF THE INVENTION","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION","EXAMPLE I","EXAMPLE II","EXAMPLE III"],"p":["The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the United States Government for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon.","The present invention relates generally to detection of parameters by electronic means and more particularly to the real time detecting, recording and representing visualization of the interaction of an object with its environment, and most particularly the interaction caused by a material, preferably a fluid, passing over an object.","It is important to know the three-dimensional (3D) spatial and temporal parameters of seawater washover of low-profile towed bodies, buoys, and other maritime towed, tethered and free-floating objects. Among other advantages, this knowledge assists in understanding and improving hydrostatic and hydrodynamic performance of a towed body in a wide variety of sea states.","Washover is defined as the condition of occasional (not \u201cfrequent,\u201d continuous or permanent) partial or complete inundation and exposure of a top surface of a floating object to a fluid. Typically, at sea washover is caused by wave action, wind action, the dynamics of towing the floating object (body) or a combination of the interaction of these factors. Washover may adversely affect performance of floating objects equipped with electronic devices such as antennas, photovoltaic arrays, instrumentation, radio, and auditory or visual beacons. For a low-profile towed body, washover depth is usually within the range of less than a centimeter (0.4\u2033) to 30 cm (12\u2033). Typically, an inundation has a duration of less than one second.","The ability to capture key parameters of washover as data as well as to visualize washover events in real-time enables designers to improve hydrostatic and hydrodynamic profiles of these objects. Currently, there are no purpose-built devices, systems, or methods that provide this information. Thus, there exists a need for a Washover Electronic Measurement System (WEMS) for real-time acquisition, three-dimensional mapping, and visualization of seawater washover dynamics. The real-time data acquired with WEMS may be used to analyze hydrodynamics, electromagnetic interaction with seawater, and, in conjunction with computer simulations and modeling, to optimize hardware design.","A preferred embodiment of the present invention uses electronic techniques to provide a method and apparatus that facilitates real-time acquisition of pertinent parameters to enable two or three-dimensional mapping and visualization of washover. In a specific application, it provides an empirically based benchmarking process for computational fluid dynamic assessments of turbulent flow around arbitrarily shaped surface towed bodies.","A system detects, measures and records fluid washover of an object, including displaying a representation thereof in real time. The \u201cfluid\u201d need not be a liquid. It only need show a measurable contrast between states where it is present and absent, and also possibly indicate the degree of presence volumetrically, such as depth of accumulation. Air flow, moist air, airborne dust, airborne anthrax, etc. do not have enough volumetric density (i.e., particles per cc) to be very different from ambient air, thus a typical sensor would not see the difference unless it were extremely sensitive, i.e., laboratory quality. Denser materials work better with a sensor having a reasonably designed sensitivity. For an electrical conductivity method, conductive (low resistivity or high loss) \u201cfluids\u201d are detected, e.g., blood, seawater, brine, etc. Conductive powders or granular materials, e.g., iron filings, iron oxide power, powdered carbon, or other conductive powder\/granular materials would be detected also. For a capacitive approach, low-loss dielectric materials, be it liquid, granular, or powder, may be detected. These low-loss dielectrics include but are not limited to: sand, silt, gravel, powdered and granular plastic, flour, grain, oils, accumulating snow, ice, freshwater, etc.","In one embodiment, the preferred embodiment uses an array of electrically-isolated electrode pairs flush-mounted to the external side of a surface of interest of the object. The configuration of the array, i.e., spacing between electrode pairs and overall size, is chosen to provide a pre-specified level of detail needed for display. An electric potential is maintained between the electrodes of each electrode pair during operation of the system. An electrical connection between each electrode of the electrode pairs is provided to a data collection, processing, recording and display sub-system, e.g., a personal computer (PC) equipped with a monitor and a data collector\/processor, such as a multi-channel multiplexed printed circuit board incorporating an analog-to-digital converter, and loaded with appropriately configurable software. The active electrode of the electrode pair is powered by a suitable source via a wire connection such as a shielded coaxial cable.","The sub-system collects data representing the sampling of at least one electrical characteristic of any fluid accumulating between the electrodes of each electrode pair, processing the data for real time display as well as recording selected data for future use. The electrical characteristic chosen for measurement may be any of the following: resistance, complex impedance, inductance, capacitance, and any combination thereof. One electrode in each pair is electrically activated and the other is held at an electrical potential common to all like said electrodes in the array of electrode pairs, e.g., for each electrode pair in the array, one electrode of the pair is grounded while the other is held at a pre-specified voltage. In this way each of the grounded electrodes may be connected to a common ground to simplify wiring. Grounding and shielding are done according to good electrical engineering practice to minimize cross-talk between sensors and minimize pickup of extraneous interfering electronic signals, e.g., interference from nearby radio transmissions, cell phones, etc.","The electrodes may be any of various types of machine screws inserted in counter-bored holes in the surface of interest so as to be flush-mounted in the external side of the surface. The electrodes may also be capacitive devices affixed to the internal side of the surface of interest or affixed to the external surface and covered with a thin coating of a dielectric, such as a polyurethane. The electrical connections between the electrodes and the sub-system may be wires incorporating an electrically insulating cover, such as a shielded coaxial cable. Each of these wires may be bundled with like wires to facilitate a durable connection to the sub-assembly.","A particular embodiment of the present invention envisions the fluid to be a liquid and the object floating in the liquid such that the liquid does not cover at least part of the object when the liquid is not acted on by external forces. A specific embodiment would display seawater washover of a towed body.","Also provided is a method for using a preferred embodiment of the present invention. The method for detecting, measuring and recording fluid washover of an object includes displaying a representation of fluid washover in real time. It is accomplished by providing an array of electrically-isolated electrode pairs that are affixed to a surface of interest. In one embodiment they may be flush-mounted to the external side of a surface of interest of said object. In another embodiment, capacitive electrodes may be affixed to an internal side of the surface of interest. By maintaining an electric potential between the electrodes of each electrode pair, certain electrical characteristics are collected as data during selected washover events. These characteristics are selected to vary based on the amount and timing of fluid accumulating between each electrode pair. These data are processed and selected data are either displayed in real time, recorded for later use, or both. This method enables visualization of selected washover events via a real time display as well as recording selected representations of washover events for future use. Electrical characteristics that may be measured include: resistance, complex impedance, inductance, capacitance, and any combination thereof.","The method involves electrically activating one electrode in each electrode pair while the other electrode is held at an electrical potential common to all like electrodes in the array of electrode pairs. In a preferred embodiment, the electrodes held at a common potential are maintained at ground. In a preferred embodiment, this method is used to determine washover of a liquid with the object floating therein such that at least part of the object is covered with the liquid when the liquid is not acted on by external forces. In a specific application, the object is a towed body that may be washed over by seawater.","Further, a preferred embodiment of the present invention may be implemented in a simulator such that an expensive object of interest is simulated by a model that mimics its shape, center of gravity, mass, orientation, etc. The model may be provided as a full-scale or partial scale replica of the object with the configuration of the electrode array scaled accordingly.","Implementation of a preferred embodiment of the present invention provides continuous real-time acquisition, processing, mapping and visualization of washover events for military, industrial, and commercial users. It uses an electrode array to provide continuous, real-time mapping and visualization of washover. It specifically provides real-time spatial and temporal visualization of washover, including two and three-dimensional visualization of washover. Some applications include:\n\n","There are several general advantages to the implementation of a preferred embodiment of the present invention in any of the above applications:\n\n","In a preferred embodiment of the present invention, systems and methods for measuring interaction of an object with its environment, e.g., washover thickness of seawater or \u201cwashover mapping,\u201d are provided. A method of a preferred embodiment is based on taking resistivity readings. Further, other electrical parameters, including capacitance, inductance and complex impedance may be taken to yield washover mapping. Measuring resistance is most effective in a conductive (low resistivity) media, such as seawater. The other measures may be more appropriate for taking washover data in more highly resistive media, such as fresh water. As known to one skilled in the art, implementation of systems that exploit capacitance, inductance and complex impedance is a minor extension, or modification, of the techniques discussed below","To obtain an indication of washover thickness based on resistivity, a first order approximation equation has been developed from examination of the Wenner earth resistivity method commonly used in geophysical profiling and mapping of ground stratigraphy. Parasnis, D. S., Chapman and Hall Publishers, New York, 1986.","Refer to . The Wenner resistivity measurement  employs a four-electrode method. Electrodes  are indicated as A, M, N, and B. Electrodes A and B are potential (voltage) probes while M and N are current injection electrodes. These electrodes are spaced in a line at a distance, a\/3, one from another, for a total included length of a. As a \u201crule of thumb\u201d, the maximum discernable depth, d, of electric field penetration as related to the sensor configuration  of  is:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0046","num":"0054"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00001","num":"00001"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["d","max"]},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mo":["(",")"],"mfrac":{"mn":["2","3"]}},{"mo":["(",")"],"mfrac":{"mi":"a","mn":"3"}}],"mo":"\u2062"},"mo":"=","mfrac":{"mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":"\u2062","mi":"a"},"mn":"9"}}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"1"}}]}}}},"br":{},"sub":"max"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0047","num":"0055"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00002","num":"00002"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mi":"R","mo":"=","mfrac":{"mrow":{"mi":["\u03c1","a"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}},"msup":{"mrow":{"mi":"\u03c0","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mfrac":{"mi":"a","mn":"9"}}},"mn":"2"}}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"2"}}]}}}},"br":{}},"R=resistance in ohms (\u03a9)","and","\u03c1=resistivity in ohm-centimeters (\u03a9-cm).","Refer to . Applying this geophysical concept to seawater washover measurements and considering washover to be a cylinder, where the thickness of washover, i.e., diameter of the cylinder, will vary from zero to several centimeters or more, Eqn. (2) is modified to accommodate this variation in washover thickness. Substituting an arbitrary radius, r (cm), (0<r\u2266d), the resistance, R, of a cylindrical volume ,  of seawater (as a function of r) is given by:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0051","num":"0059"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00003","num":"00003"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mi":"R","mo":"=","mfrac":{"mrow":[{"mi":["\u03c1","a"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}},{"mi":"\u03c0","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"msup":{"mi":"r","mn":"2"}}]}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"3"}}]}}}},"br":{}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0052","num":"0060"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00004","num":"00004"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mn":"2","mo":"\u2062","mi":"r"},{"mn":"2","mo":"\u2062","msup":{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mfrac":{"mrow":[{"mi":["\u03c1","a"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}},{"mi":["\u03c0","R"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}}]}},"mfrac":{"mn":["1","2"]}}}],"mo":"="}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"4"}}]}}}},"br":{},"b":["401","402","401","402","500"],"figref":"FIG. 4"},"Refer to  depicting the relationship of resistance to washover thickness for three values of seawater resistivity, \u03c1, at 15, 20, and 25 \u03a9-cm. (Seawater resistivity has a normal range of 15\u201325 \u03a9-cm, or stated another way, a conductivity, \u03c3, of 6.7\u20134 Siemens (S)). As is evident from , resistance of a given amount of the seawater varies little for washover thickness greater than 0.2 cm. Thus, for a given volume of wash over seawater, seawater resistance does not vary with depth of washover. Thus, any resistance measures taken from the \u201ccylinder\u201d of seawater present in washover between any pair of electrodes ,  will be independent of the relative thickness of the washover and be representative of the actual thickness of washover at that point and at that time.","Using Eqn. (1), for an inter-electrode spacing of active electrodes, a, of 3.6 cm and a seawater washover thickness 2r of 0.1\u20131.0 cm, d, is calculated to be 0.798 cm (0.3\u2033). While electric field penetration continues even to greater depth than this \u201crule of thumb\u201d suggests, at dthere is very little change in resistance of a given volume in the seawater \u201ccylinder\u201d as the unit depth (2r) increases. Thus, over a limited range of interest, seawater washover thickness may be approximated directly as a function of measured resistance, e.g., the thinner the thickness (cylinder) of washover, the more the resistance will be. Note that it makes no appreciable difference whether the seawater cylinder is large or small as to the approximate resistance of a given amount of seawater within either the large or small cylinder. While this method is a first order approximation, the process may be defined in a more mathematically rigorous manner, established experimentally, or both.","Refer to . For  and subsequent figures, shaded portions represent an active electrode while enclosed white (unshaded) portions of electrodes represent electrical ground. A configuration employed in a preferred embodiment may comprise a two-dimensional array of electrode pairs arranged in any of a number of uniform matrices over the region of interest (normally a top side) of the test object. For example,  depicts a \u201cclustered\u201d array of electrode pairs ,  while  depicts a \u201cpaired\u201d array.  depicts a ground plane  with a series of electrically isolated (active) electrodes  in an array and  represents an array of electrode pairs ,  coaxially arranged and embedded in an electrically insulated substrate, i.e., the center is the active conductor , and the ground conductor  is electrically separated from and surrounds the active central electrode.","Refer to  in which a 3\u00d721 matrix  of active electrodes 401 of overall length L is shown. Surrounding each of the active electrodes  in the array are four \u201ccommon\u201d electrodes  serving as a ground plane. The distance between the centers of active electrodes (conductors) in each direction is a, and the distance between the vertical plane through the center of an active electrode and that through the center of a ground electrode is a\/2. As well, the distance between the centers of common or ground electrodes is a. This configuration  may be used atop a cylindrical towed body  as shown in  to yield real time visualization of washover. For small towed bodies, typical values for a are approximately 5.0 cm (2\u2033) and for L are approximately 100 cm (40\u2033). Further, a preferred embodiment of the present invention may be implemented in a simulator such that an expensive object of interest is simulated by an inexpensive model that mimics its shape, center of gravity, mass, orientation, etc. The model may be provided as a full-scale or, in the case of particularly large objects, a partial scale replica of the object with the configuration of the electrode array scaled accordingly.","Of course, the configuration  is \u201csurface mated,\u201d e.g., flush-mounted in the case of the use of an external configuration of the array on an object upon which it is placed. That is, if it is placed on a cylinder, it takes the shape of the shell of the cylinder and does not lie in a flat plane. In the example of an externally mounted configuration, the individual electrodes may be any of various types of metal screws capable of being inserted flush with the outer surface of the outer shell of an object, and inserted with or without electrically-insulating gaskets depending on the composition of the shell (dielectric or conductor) and the instrumentation setup.","Refer to . For conductivity-dependent methods, the electrodes , , here shown as two different types of metal screws, must protrude through the shell  of the test object. For best hydrodynamic operation these electrodes ,  should be flush with the surface  of the outer shell  of the object. Electrodes may be emplaced by countersinking holes through the shell  with the holes matching pre-specified sizes of machine screws  that are sealed via a suitable sealant, such as an RTV sealant, or by using gasketed roundhead screws  placed in sockets counter bored into the shell . The gaskets , or RTV sealant, seal the interior of the object from incursion of liquid at washover and may also be used to electrically isolate the electrodes from a conductive outer shell.","Refer to . Each pair of electrodes, i.e., at least one \u201ccommon\u201d  and one individual active sensor , is connected by a resistor  (typically 4.7\u201310 k\u03a9) at the active electrode. These \u201cpull-up\u201d resistors  provide sufficient impedance loading to the terminals to eliminate any random noise that may occur in the presence of an open-circuit impedance, e.g., no washover. Each individual active electrode  is connected, through the pull-up resistor, via a shielded coaxial cable (or circuit trace for a flexible board installation)  to the printed circuit card (or board) (multi-channel multiplexed data acquisition circuitry, incorporating an analog-to-digital converter) A\/D . This card  is preferably controlled by a personal computer (PC)  and installed therein. Preferably, the PC  is located remotely, but may be located locally under some implementations. In one embodiment, the line  supplying the DC power to the electrode pairs ,  is shielded similarly to the coaxial cables to improve the signal-to-noise ratio.","Refer to . For capacitive-dependent methods, the electrodes  may be mounted on the inside (dry side) of the shell  of the test object, assuming that the shell  of the object is a thin-walled dielectric, e.g., fiberglass, PLEXIGLAS\u00ae, or other plastic. Alternatively, these capacitive electrodes  may be surface mounted by coating them with a thin non-conductive dielectric coating  such as polyurethane.","Refer to . Each electrode pair ,  is connected to a shielded coaxial cable (or trace) , the active electrode  through a resistor . A long umbilical cable bundle  composed of multiple electrode-pair coaxial cables (or traces)  is fed out of a watertight port (not shown separately) on the instrumented object, such as a towed body . This bundle  is connected to a remote (preferably ship borne or land-based) multi-channel multiplexed data acquisition board or card (A\/D)  that converts the analog measurements to digital signals. The board  is interfaced to a personal computer , preferably as an installed card therein. The electrode pair ,  may be connected in either a balanced or unbalanced mode. In the balanced configuration, each member of the electrode pair ,  is connected to a multiplexed, balanced input pair (not shown separately) on the board or card . In the unbalanced configuration, one electrode in each pair ,  is wired to a common bus (not shown separately). This bus may provide grounding or power, depending on implementation. The other electrode lead of the pair ,  is connected to a multiplexed input of the card . The choice of balanced or unbalanced configuration is dependent on data acquisition considerations that include both noise reduction and economy of implementation. The PC , preferably employing custom software, performs data acquisition, storage, processing, mapping and visualization functions.","One of the prime applications for a preferred embodiment of the present invention is to obtain temporal and spatial washover data for verification of electromagnetic modeling of low-profile submarine antenna performance. This class of antenna rides very near the surface of the water and these antennas are therefore susceptible to significant wave interaction. The ability of a low-profile antenna to communicate with above surface elements during periods of submersion can be partially or completely inhibited depending on the depth, duration and period of submersion. Skin depth, \u03b4(m), is defined as the depth at which a conductor's current is reduced to 0.368 of the surface value, equivalent to a power loss of 8.7 dB. Doubling the value of \u03b4doubles the loss. Skin depth is frequency dependent, i.e., the higher the frequency, the shallower the skin depth. Skin depth can be defined mathematically as:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0063","num":"0071"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00005","num":"00005"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["\u03b4","s"]},"mo":"=","mrow":{"msqrt":[{"mfrac":{"mn":"2","mrow":{"mi":["\u03c9","\u03bc","\u03c3"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":[{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}]}}},{"mfrac":{"mi":"\u03c1","mrow":{"mi":["\u03c0","f","\u03bc"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":[{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}]}}}],"mo":"="}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"5"}}]}}}}},"where:\n\n",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0065","num":"0077"},"figref":"FIG. 10","b":["1001","1002"]},"Refer to . The system used to conduct tests of the present invention consists of several interconnected components: a sensor array  on the object  being tested, an umbilical tether  incorporating data and signal cables (traces) ,  and a personal computer  for data acquisition, processing, storage and display.","The implementation for this test includes a sensor array  positioned along the axis of the test object  as previously described. The test object  was fitted with a counter-weighted keel (not shown separately) to ensure that the sensor array  remained at the topmost portion of the test object , a thin-walled fiberglass cylinder. The instrumented section of the test object  is 23 cm (9\u2033) in diameter and 1.0 m (39\u2033) long. The electrodes ,  protrude through the shell  of the test object  to permit electrical contact with seawater washover .","Refer to . To ensure minimal interference with the hydrodynamic characteristics of the test object , these electrodes ,  are flush-mounted with the surface  of the test body shell . The electrodes ,  are stainless steel, O-ring gasketed machine screws inserted into countersunk holes through the test object  and fastened to an internal frame (not shown separately) and wiring harness (not shown separately).","Refer to . Each active (sensing) electrode  of the array  is connected by a 4.7 K\u03a9 resistor  to the positive terminal of a DC source , thus providing sufficient impedance loading to the terminals to eliminate pickup of random noise that occurs if an open-circuit impedance were present. The test object  was fitted with a hydrodynamic nose (not shown separately).","Refer to . The tether and signal cable bundle  consisted of 63 individual 30 m lengths of RG-174 coaxial cable connected from the electrode array  to a remotely located personal computer  with a 64-channel analog-to-digital converter . The line  supplying the DC power to the electrode pairs ,  is a shielded 30 m length of RG-58 for increased noise immunity. All 63 (21\u00d73) electrode cables (traces)  and the power supply cable  were bundled in a plastic tube  extending from the personal computer  and terminating in a watertight fitting (not shown separately) where the cables (traces) ,  passed into the sealed test object . The plastic tubing  also provided some buoyancy and mechanical strength to the umbilical cables (traces) , .","The personal computer  equipped with a 64-channel, 16-bit analog-to-digital converter  and programmed in LABVIEW\u00ae performed the data acquisition, processing, storage, mapping and visualization functions. The 63 active (sensing) electrodes  were sampled every 100 ms to enable fully capturing the dynamics of the washover wave action.","An initial operational test was performed by wiping a seawater-soaked sponge (not shown separately) along the sensor matrix  and observing the change in conductivity generated thereby. This test confirmed that all 63 active (sensing) electrodes  in the array  were properly connected and that the data acquisition, processing and display system  was operating properly.","Once fully integrated, the system was tested in a seawater wave tank (not shown separately). The water salinity was 15 parts per thousand, resulting in a conductivity of 20 mS\/cm. The test tank measured 10 m (33\u2032) by 30 m (100\u2032) and was 1.5 m (5\u2032) deep. At one end of the tank was a motor-operated paddle system (not shown separately) that produced waves with a maximum amplitude of approximately 30 cm (12\u2033) at a period of one second.","The test object  was placed in the seawater wave tank, tethered fore and aft to orient it relative to the wave front, and subjected to the wave action. Several hours of continuous washover data were observed in real-time within a range of wave conditions. Several minutes of continuous data were recorded in an ASCII spreadsheet format.","Refer to . A calibration was performed with a duplicate of the tested array . The electrodes ,  of the array  were built into the bottom of a plastic cup (not shown separately). Constant depth increments of seawater were added to the cup and a DC source (not shown separately) impressed on the active electrodes . The calibration curve  generated therefrom compares favorably to the theoretical 1\/rfalloff of a reference curve , as shown in . Compare to the calibration curve  of  and the reference curve  in which a DC voltage source was used.","Refer to . A second calibration experiment was performed in a similar manner using a cup  filled with seawater  as shown in , but with an electrode configuration consisting of a \u201cwasher-shaped\u201d solid ground plane  of inside diameter y and outside diameter z surrounding a single electrode  of diameter x as shown in . The test circuit  is shown in . An AC source , impressed upon a suitably sized resistor , was used in this experiment to limit the effects of galvanic-based erosion of the sensor electrodes , . Since a DC source  was used in the preliminary experiments, some minor erosion due to galvanic action was expected but not observed. Since applications of preferred embodiment of the present invention are for short time periods, i.e., sensor current applied for an hour or less, this erosion is of little concern. For longer duration experiments, the effects of erosion may be substantial and may adversely affect the contact impedance between the electrode and seawater. Thus, a solution for longer test periods is to power the sensor with an AC current. The alternating polarity of the AC current should significantly lessen erosion. However, an AC-powered implementation is more complex than a DC-powered one, requiring full-wave rectification and filtering prior to digitization of the data signal. For acceptable temporal resolution of wave action, the AC current should be at a frequency of an order or two of magnitude greater than that of the wave action. Additionally, the time constant of low-pass filtering applied to the pre-digitization full-wave rectification should be set appropriately. This is known to one skilled in this art.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0077","num":"0089"},"figref":["FIG. 15","FIG. 15"],"b":"500"},"Refer to . A data file obtained from one experiment was post-processed using IDL\u00ae. A complete sequence of washover events was spatially interpolated and conformally plotted, giving a 3-dimensional visualization of the washover wave action.  illustrates several frames of that sequence (top to bottom). This data set was processed and converted to digital animations for replay and analysis.","In laboratory scale mockups and certain unique test setups, one may tolerate a requirement to build an electrode array into each individual object to be tested. While this technique provides an excellent means of acquiring data, such as washover data, the precision machining, fabricating, and hand-wiring of the object with the sensor array is labor intensive and expensive. Each tested object must be fabricated individually in this manner. For example, existing towed bodies must be modified irrevocably to perform washover testing. In this process of modification, significant changes in buoyancy and center of buoyancy may occur, thus adversely affecting a device's hydrodynamic performance. Multiple holes are drilled into a formerly watertight body and special corrosion-resistant gasketed screws are inserted through the body and mated with a wiring harness internal to the towed body. The resulting physical configuration may yield skewed test results since implementing an \u201cintegrated\u201d sensor array changes the established density and moment of inertia of the object, among other characteristics.","Refer to . This process may be simplified in an arrangement  by using a conformal, flexible printed circuit sensor array  that may be affixed, using a temporary waterproof adhesive, to the external surface of an object, even those having an irregular contour. The conformal array  is further simplified by having the ground plane  surround the individual sensors , with an insulation ring  (as shown in ) around each sensor . By employing an appropriate temporary adhesive, the embodiment  may be removed after testing, enabling it to be reused on other objects without modification of the object or the array .","This embodiment  of the sensor array , as also depicted in top view on a flexible circuit board , couples via a flat wire bundle  to a commercially available tow cable  with a commercially available off-the-shelf (COTS) watertight electrical connector , thus facilitating re-use of the array  with other test objects. Further, only one multi-conductor instrumentation cable inserted in the tow cable  with appropriate watertight connector  is required.","Refer to .  depicts a bottom view (without the insulating laminate) of a preferred embodiment  of the array  as fabricated on a double-sided, flexible printed circuit board , a sample of which is seen in a top view in .","Refer specifically to , an edge view  of  taken through \u2014. The array  consists of a number of individual electrodes (sensors)  surrounded, and electrically insulated by insulating rings  from an electrical ground plane . Thus, the electrode points  are isolated from the surrounding ground plane , and both the common conductive plane  (here established with a positive voltage) and electrodes  are electrically exposed for contact with any intermittent exposure to material, such as seawater washover . Each individual electrode  is connected through the double-sided, flexible, printed circuit board  by vias  to individual conductive printed circuit traces . These conductive traces , insulated from the common conductive plane  by an insulating substrate  connect each electrode  to a pin (not shown separately) on a watertight electronic multi-pin jack (pins not shown separately but part of the COTS connector ). An insulating laminate  provides the backing to which a waterproof adhesive may be applied.","On the back side (as shown in  and in an alternative configuration in  with the insulating laminate \u201cremoved\u201d for illustration) of the flexible circuit board , each trace  is surrounded, but isolated from a second conductive plane  that is connected  to the positive terminal of a DC power supply . Between each of the individual traces  and the surrounding positive voltage conductive plane , a pull-up resistor , nominally 10 K\u03a9, is connected to bias positively the input terminal of the associated analog-to-digital (A\/D) converter . Using surface mount devices to maintain a low profile, these pull-up resistors  may be soldered directly onto the back side  of the flexible circuit board  as shown in . Alternatively these pull-up resistors  may be mounted in a housing nearby (not shown separately) or provided integral to the watertight connector .","The bottom side ,  of this circuit board  is coated in a waterproof laminate (or coating)  (shown only in the edge view of ) to facilitate conformally affixing it to any shape. By the application of a suitable \u201ctemporary\u201d or \u201cremovable\u201d waterproof adhesive, the conformal element  can be easily removed and reused in subsequent tests.","Refer to . In application, the conformal, flexible, sensor system  may be affixed by an adhesive to an actual functional object  as depicted at . Further, as shown in , the sensor system  may be applied to vertical surfaces as shown with antenna masts  that may be employed on submarines.","Although DC current is the preferred implementation in non-laboratory scenarios, AC current, at a wide range of frequencies, may also be used. In summary, the advantages of a flexible, conformable, \u201cre-usable\u201d embodiment include:\n\n","While the invention has been described in terms of its preferred embodiments, one skilled in the art will recognize that the invention may be practiced with modifications within the spirit and scope of the appended claims. For example, although the system is described in specific examples for mapping, visualizing, or imaging washover, it may operate on any surface and in conditions that one would wish to map occurrences on a surface, such as drifting snow, drifting sand or silt, sediment, etc., both in a practical implementation and in a scaled experimental testing facility such as a wind tunnel, wave tank, etc. It may be suitable for other applications such as determining operating conditions in a manufacturing plant, e.g., calibrating the process establishing the thickness and uniformity of a polishing liquid use on a silicon wafer for purposes of optimizing polishing, quality sampling the process for layering a coating of chocolate on a confection, etc. Further, monitoring 3-D depth of a molten wax, oil or liquid plastic in a wave-coating tank may be another possibility.","Thus, it is intended that all matter contained in the foregoing description or shown in the accompanying drawings shall be interpreted as illustrative rather than limiting, and the invention should be defined only in accordance with the following claims and their equivalents."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0026"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0028"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0029"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0030"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0031"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0032"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0033"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0034"},"figref":"FIG. 9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0035"},"figref":"FIG. 10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0036"},"figref":"FIG. 11","sup":"2 "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0037"},"figref":"FIG. 12A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0038"},"figref":"FIG. 12B","sup":"2 "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0039"},"figref":["FIG. 13","FIG. 12A"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0040"},"figref":"FIG. 14","sup":"2 "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0041"},"figref":"FIG. 15"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0042"},"figref":"FIG. 16"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0043"},"figref":["FIG. 17","FIG. 7"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0044"},"figref":["FIG. 18A","FIG. 17"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0037","num":"0045"},"figref":["FIG. 18B","FIG. 18A"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0046"},"figref":["FIG. 19","FIGS. 17 and 18"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0039","num":"0047"},"figref":["FIG. 20A","FIG. 18A"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0040","num":"0048"},"figref":["FIG. 20B","FIG. 20A"],"b":["1","1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0041","num":"0049"},"figref":["FIG. 20C","FIGS. 7 and 17","FIG. 18"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0042","num":"0050"},"figref":"FIG. 21"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
