---
title: Method and system for controlling the operation of hyperlinks
abstract: A method and system for allowing users to control the operation of hyperlinks includes a graphical user interface that displays Internet and intranet hyperlinks from web sites. The graphical user interface includes a selectable button that accepts user settings. The user settings allow the users to determine the operation of the hyperlinks so that the hyperlinks either open in a new browser window or in an existing browser window when selected by the user. An interface engine generates the selectable button on the graphical user interface, examines the selectable button for any user settings, and controls the operation of the hyperlinks based upon the user settings.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07568149&OS=07568149&RS=07568149
owner: AT&T Labs, Inc.
number: 07568149
owner_city: Austin
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20020429
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["TECHNICAL FIELD OF THE INVENTION","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION"],"p":["The present invention relates generally to network browsing, and more specifically relates to a method and system for controlling the operation of hyperlinks.","As the Internet becomes a more prominent means of communication and as more companies are implementing intranets, companies are striving to make both their internal and external web sites accessible to all types of people. The types of people include experienced users, inexperienced users, and people with disabilities such as visual impairments that typically use a screen reader to access and read information presented on Internet and intranet sites.","But making Internet and intranet sites accessible to all is not a simple task and is often overlooked by many web designers. One particular problem is the use of links that launch a new browser instance or window. Links that launch a new browser window are in common use, yet they can be confusing to novice users as well as users of screen readers. Novice users often do not know that a new browser window has launched and are confused by the loss of back button navigation. Novice users are also often confused by overlapping windows or have difficulty managing them, resulting in the accidental closure of browser windows. Users employing screen readers are also confused because the screen reader reads from the newly opened window and the user does not know that a new browser window has launched and believes the information in the original browser window to be lost. Because of this confusion, novice users or users using screen readers may not be able to effectively navigate the Internet or intranets.","Preferred embodiments of the present invention are illustrated in the figures, like numerals being used to refer to like and corresponding parts of the various drawings.","When working on the Internet or an intranet in a browser such as INTERNET EXPLORER by Microsoft or NAVIGATOR by Netscape, a user selecting a hyperlink allows for the immediate delivery and viewing of another file by the user. Typically the hyperlink either presents content within the existing browser window or it launches a new web browser window in which to present the content, depending on how the hyperlink is configured by the web site developer. As more and more users begin to access the Internet and internal intranets, the variety of the users has increased to include Internet savvy users, inexperienced users, first time users, and visually impaired users.","When browsing, novice users and users employing screen readers are often confused by hyperlinks that open new browser windows when the user selects the hyperlink. A screen reader is a software tool that utilizes speech synthesis technology to speak aloud web-based information as it appears on web sites, allowing those with visual impairment to navigate the Internet and intranets. Novice users are confused because they typically do not realize that a new browser window has opened. Users employing screen readers are confused because the screen reader begins reading from the new browser window and generally does not alert the user that a new browser window has launched. In addition, visually impaired users are unaware of the new browser window because they cannot perceive the necessary visual cues that a new browser window has launched. Therefore they believe they have lost the information in the original web page because they cannot navigate back to it.","Alternatively, Internet savvy users often desire to have numerous browser windows open while working online to allow for multi-tasking. Therefore experienced users often prefer to have hyperlinks open into new browser windows when selected. Regardless of skill level, users currently do not have a choice of having a hyperlink open in a new browser window unless they use the hidden right button functionality, present in such browsers as INTERNET EXPLORER and NAVIGATOR. The hidden right button functionality allows for the opening of a hyperlink in a new browser window. Many novice users are not aware of the hidden right button functionality and all users, novice or experienced, are unable to choose to have a hyperlink open in an existing browser window when the link has been configured by the developer to launch a new browser window.","By contrast, the example embodiment described herein allows users to control the operation of hyperlinks thereby allowing the users to decide if they want a hyperlink to open in a new browser window or in the existing browser window. The ability to select how a hyperlink operates allows both novice and experienced users to browse the Internet and intranets at levels comfortable to them. Furthermore, the example embodiment provides Internet and intranet browsing that is compatible with such devices as screen readers allowing visually impaired users to browse the Internet and intranets with greater ease and less confusion. Consequently, the overall satisfaction of Internet and intranet users increases because the users are able to work at their own level of understanding. In addition, the compatibility with screen readers allows for greater compliance with federal regulations, such as Federal Regulation  and Federal Communication Commission (FCC) regulation , requiring federal agencies and entities that contract with federal agencies to make electronic and information technology accessible to people with disabilities. These regulations serve to make Internet and intranet sites screen reader accessible.","Referring now to , a block diagram depicts navigation system  for allowing a user to control the operation of one or more hyperlinks. In the example embodiment, navigation system  may include respective software components and hardware components, such as processor , memory , input\/output ports , hard disk drive (HDD)  containing databases , and those components may work together via bus  to provide the desired functionality. The various hardware and software components may also be referred to as processing resources. Navigation system  may be a personal computer, a server, a personal digital assistant (PDA), an Internet appliance, or any other appropriate Internet browsing device with a network interface for communicating over networks such as the Internet, intranets, LANs, or WANs, a display  for presenting graphical user interface (GUI) , and input devices such as a mouse and a keyboard. Navigation system  also includes browser  and interface engine , which reside in memory such as hard disk drive  and are executable by processor  through bus .","A user accesses the Internet or intranet using navigation system  and browser . When the user accesses an Internet or intranet site, display  exhibits GUI  for the Internet or intranet site. Browser  presents the HTML content of the Internet or intranet site to the user using GUI . Shown in  is an example GUI  for a company's intranet home page. GUI  is illustrated in greater detail in  and includes such items as hyperlinks  for such information as news, stocks, phone directory, personal links or any other appropriate web content for which a web site may want to provide a link.","GUI  also includes selectable button . In the embodiment shown in , selectable button  is located near the top of GUI . But in alternate embodiments the location of selectable button  is flexible with respect to GUI . Therefore, selectable button  may be located near the bottom of GUI , near one of the sides of GUI , in the middle of GUI , or in any appropriate location with respect to hyperlinks  in GUI . This flexibility in the placement of selectable button  is due to the fact that the placement of selectable button  is dynamically bound to the HTML content of the web site thereby allowing a web site developer to place selectable button  any place within GUI . For interaction with a screen reader, it may be desirable to place selectable button  near the top of GUI  or preceding a set of hyperlinks  so that the user may supply user settings to selectable button  prior to selecting a hyperlink .","Selectable button  is a visual indication that allows the users to decide whether to have hyperlinks  open in a new browser window or open in the existing browser window. When the user employs a screen reader, selectable button  provides an audio indication in addition to the visual indication of the operation of hyperlinks . Selectable button  accepts user settings from the user regarding whether the user desires to have hyperlinks  open in a new browser window or open in the existing browser window.","When a user accesses a particular web site that allows the users to control the operation of the hyperlinks, interface engine  generates selectable button  from the HTML content of the web site and inserts selectable button  into GUI  so that the user can view selectable button  on display . Interface engine  binds the selection made with the user settings at selectable button  to the operation of hyperlinks . Therefore, if the user selects selectable button  indicating to open hyperlinks  in a new browser window, then every time the user selects one of the hyperlinks , the hyperlink will launch a new browser window. For instance, if the user prefers to multi-task with many different browser windows, then the user indicates to open all hyperlinks  in a new browser window at selectable button . When the user selects hyperlink  regarding benefits, a new browser window is launched for the presentation of benefits web content. Because of the visual indication feature, selectable button  indicates that the user has selected to have all hyperlinks  open in a new browser window. Therefore, the user will always know whether selecting a hyperlink  will open a new browser window and there will be no confusion on the part of the user as to why hyperlinks  are opening in new browser windows or in the existing browser window.","User settings into selectable button  apply to all of the hyperlinks  within GUI . If the user selects selectable button  so that hyperlinks  open in a new browser window, then all hyperlinks  when selected by the user will open in a new browser window. For instance, selection of hyperlink  opens a new browser window with information regarding benefits. Selection of hyperlink  opens a new browser window with news summaries. Therefore, the user will have three browser windows open at the same time: one browser window displaying GUI , one browser window displaying benefits information, and one browser window displaying the news summaries. If the user decides that he does not need any more browser windows, the user can unselect selectable button  on GUI  and the selection of hyperlinks  will open in the browser window currently displaying GUI .","Each web site incorporating a selectable button  also includes a default setting for selectable button  to further simplify browsing Internet and intranet web sites for novice users. In the embodiment shown in , selectable button  is a clear box and is not checked, marked, or otherwise selected. When selectable button  is clear and not selected, hyperlinks  open in the existing browser window instead of in a new browser window when the user selects a hyperlink . Therefore, if the user does not check or mark selectable button , then whenever the user selects a hyperlink , the selected hyperlink  opens in the existing browser window. Therefore, the default setting for GUI  is to have hyperlinks  open in the existing browser window. But the default setting does not have to be open hyperlinks  in the existing browser window. The default setting may also be having selectable button  checked, marked, or otherwise selected so that hyperlinks  open in a new browser window whenever the user selects a hyperlink .","Interface engine  determines and sets the default setting for selectable button . The default setting may depend in part on what type of users are expected to visit a particular web site. If a web site is expected to receive a large number of novice users or is a government or public web site that must abide by federal regulations regarding equal access to those with disabilities, then the default setting may be set to open hyperlinks  in the existing browser window to create less confusion to the novice users or to users employing screen readers. Interface engine  sets the default setting by not selecting, marking, or checking selectable button . If a web site expects to have many users who are experienced users or if the information on the web site lends itself to multi-tasking with multiple browser windows, then the default setting may be set to open hyperlinks  in new browser windows by selecting or marking selectable button . Even though a web site may have a default setting, the users are not bound by the default setting and have the ability to change the default setting by either selecting or unselecting selectable button .","In addition to applying the user settings at selectable button  to all hyperlinks  located within GUI , interface engine  also carries forward the user settings as a default setting on any new browser windows opened by the user where the new browser windows also incorporate the selectable button feature. For example, a user supplies user setting at selectable button , by selecting selectable button , indicating a desire to have all hyperlinks open in new browser windows. The user then selects hyperlink  which opens in a new browser window. Interface engine  determines if the newly opened browser window utilizes the selectable button feature thereby allowing users to control the operation of hyperlinks.","If the newly opened browser window does not utilize the selectable button feature, then interface engine  does not generate a selectable button, cannot carry forward the user settings, and therefore the user does not have control over the operation of the hyperlinks in the new opened browser window. But if the newly opened browser window does allow users to have control over the operation of hyperlinks, then the newly opened browser window has its own selectable button and interface engine  carries forward the user settings to the newly opened browser window. The default setting on the newly opened browser window will be set to the user settings that the user supplied in selectable button  on GUI \u2014in this instance to open links in a new window. The selectable button on the newly opened browser window will be selected and the default setting will be to open hyperlinks in a new browser window. The user still has the option of changing the default setting if for some reason on the newly opened browser window the user wants the hyperlinks to open in the existing browser window. In alternate embodiments, interface engine  may not carry forward the user settings from one GUI to another GUI where both web sites support the selectable button feature. Some web sites may prefer to always have the default setting of selectable button  set to a particular setting regardless of the user settings on other web sites.","In addition, selectable button  provides a visual interface element that gives the users an indication as to the operation of hyperlinks  and the way the users load new data into a web site. With respect to users using screen readers, selectable button  provides an auditory interface element in addition to the visual interface element so that the function and status of selectable button  will be read to the screen reader user. A graphic button may also be used with an HTML Alt tag. The Alt tag is used to attach a screen reader compatible label or instructions to selectable button .","The visibility characteristic of selectable button  allows the users to clearly see whether or not the selection of a hyperlinks  will open hyperlink  in a new browser window or the existing browser window. Also, the visible feature of selectable button  is more user friendly, particularly to novice users and users employing screen readers, than the hidden right button click functionality considering that many users are not even aware of the hidden right button functionality. In addition, selectable button  allows the users to decide whether hyperlinks  open in new browser windows or in the existing browser window unlike the hidden right button functionality which only allows the user to decide to open hyperlinks  in a new window browser. The users now have a choice between two options, a new browser window or the existing browser window, instead of opening in a new browser window using the hidden right button functionality or merely selecting a hyperlink and having the hyperlink operate as determined by the web site developer and HTML code.","Selectable button  is independent of browser  and is part of the web site content itself and is written into the HTML code for the web site. The user does not need to do anything in order for selectable button  to appear on GUI  for a particular web site and does not need to use particular web browsing software. If the HTML code for a particular web site includes the selectable button feature, then when the user accesses that web site, the user will see selectable button  somewhere on GUI  and therefore have the ability to control the operation of hyperlinks .","Selectable button  also simplifies Internet browsing for visually impaired users that employ screen readers. When multiple browser windows launch or open, the screen reader typically reads from the browser window most recently opened. Sometimes the screen reader may inform the user that a new browser window has opened but the user does not understand or realize that a new browser window has opened. Even if the user realizes that new browser windows are being launched, it can be difficult to manage multiple windows with a screen reader Other times the screen reader may not inform the user that a new browser window has opened. If the user does not know that a new browser window has opened, then the user may be confused by the loss of back button functionality. Typically when a user links from one web page to another web page, the new web page launches in the existing browser window and the user can click on the back button to return to the web page that the user was first looking at. But when a new browser window is launched, the user can no longer use the back button to return to the web page that the user was first looking at because the new browser window has no web page to go back to. With loss of back button functionality, the user may become frustrated because the user is stuck at this web site and cannot figure out how to get back to the web site that the user just linked from. With selectable button , a visually impaired user employing a screen reader can select selectable button  so that either all hyperlinks  open in a new browser window or all hyperlinks  open in the existing browser window. By the user selecting to open all hyperlinks  in the existing browser window, the user will not lose back button functionality and will be able to more efficiently navigate Internet and intranet sites using a screen reader. Being able to control the operation of hyperlinks  allows the user to stay in the same browser window if the user so desires and thereby simplify browsing when using a screen reader.","In contrast, experienced users often desire to have hyperlinks  launch in a new browser window every time they select a hyperlink . Having more than one browser window open at the same time allows for multi-tasking. And being able to select selectable button  one time to indicate to open all hyperlinks  in new browser windows is more user friendly than using the right button functionality every time the user wants to open a hyperlink  in a new browser window.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":["60","28","60","60","60","62","64","66","68","60","62","64","66","68","62","72","64","74","66","66","68","78","62","64","68","68","60","62","64","66","68"]},"Modular GUI  operates similarly to GUI  except that each module , , , and  has its own modular selectable button , , , and  and the user supplies user settings for each module , , , and  instead of just once as for GUI . Modular GUI  allows each module , , , and  to operate independent of each other because each module , , , and  has its own modular selectable button , , , and . Each modular selectable button , , , and  accepts its own user settings independent of the user settings supplied to the other modular selectable buttons , , , and . For instance, the user settings supplied by a user at modular selectable button  does not affect the user settings supplied to the remaining modular selectable buttons , , and . Therefore, the operation of the hyperlinks within module  does not affect the operation of the hyperlinks in modules , , and . For example, a user may wish to view the DSL reports from hyperlink  in new browser windows so that the user may more easily compare the different reports. But the user may also want to view the Netmeeting schedule from hyperlink  in the existing browser window. Therefore, the user selects modular selectable button  in module  to indicate to open all hyperlinks within module  in a new browser window and the user does not select modular selectable button  in module  so that the hyperlinks in module  open in the existing browser window when selected by the user. Therefore when the user selects hyperlink , hyperlink  opens in a new browser window. And when the user selects hyperlink , hyperlink  opens in the existing browser window.","Modular GUI  allows for greater control by the user in the operation of hyperlinks. With the distinct modules , , , and , the user has greater freedom in that the user can pick and choose how the hyperlinks in each module , , , and  will operate based on the user needs and the type of information contained within each module , , , and . As describe above with respect to GUI , modular GUI  incorporates default settings for modular selectable buttons , , , and  and carries forward the user settings into the newly opened browser windows.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 4"],"b":["28","60","28"]},"The method begins at step  and at step  display  displays GUI  for a particular web site. At step , interface engine  recognizes that the web site incorporates the selectable button feature. Interface engine  generates selectable button  and displays selectable button  within GUI  so that the user may see selectable button . Interface engine  then checks to see what the default setting for the web site and selectable button  is and sets the default setting at step . Interface engine  either sets the default setting to open all hyperlinks  in the existing browser window or open all hyperlinks  in new browser windows. The default setting depends on several factors including what is included in the HTML content for the web site and if the user reached this current web site using a hyperlink from another web site that also incorporates the selectable button feature. If the user reached the current web site from a hyperlink from another web site that gives users control over the operation of hyperlinks, then interface engine  may need to take into account the user settings from the previous web site and carry forward those user settings as the default for the current web site.","At step , interface engine  examines selectable button  to determine if the user has provided any user settings. The user settings determines whether hyperlinks  open in a new browser window or the existing browser window. The user provides user settings by selecting selectable button  within GUI . If at step  interface engine  determines that the user has not provided any user settings, then at step  interface engine  applies the default setting and opens hyperlinks  in accordance with the default setting when the user selects a hyperlink . If the default setting is to open hyperlinks  in the existing browser window, then interface engine  opens hyperlinks  in the existing browser window whenever the user selects a hyperlink . If the default setting is to open hyperlinks  in a new browser window, then interface engine  opens hyperlinks  in a new browser windows whenever the user selects a hyperlink . Once interface engine  determines and applies the default setting for the operation of hyperlinks , at step  when the user selects a hyperlink  interface engine  carries forward the default setting and makes that the default setting for any new or existing browser windows accessed by the user opening hyperlinks  and the method ends at step .","If at step  interface engine  determines that the user has provided user settings into selectable button , then at step  interface engine  examines selectable button  for the user settings to determine if the selection of hyperlinks  results in hyperlinks  opening in the existing browser window or in a new browser window. Interface engine  then applies the user settings at selectable button  to the operation of hyperlinks  within GUI  at step . Once the user has supplied the user settings and interface engine  determines how the user wants to control the operation of hyperlinks , whenever the user selects a hyperlink  at step , the hyperlink  opens in accordance with the user settings. Interface engine  carries forward the user settings to any new browser windows or existing browser windows opened by the user selecting hyperlinks  from GUI  at step  and the process ends at step .","Steps  through  may be repeated every time the user selects a hyperlink  because the user has the ability to change the user settings at any time while browsing and thereby change the operation of hyperlinks . Whenever a user selects a hyperlink , interface engine  determines if there is any user settings to determine if the hyperlink  opens in a new browser window or the existing browser window.","Although the present invention has been described in detail, it should be understood that various changes, substitutions and alterations can be made hereto without the parting from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["A more complete understanding of the present embodiments and advantages thereof may be acquired by referring to the following description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawing, in which like reference numbers indicate like features, and wherein:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0006","num":"0005"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0007","num":"0006"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0008","num":"0007"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":"FIG. 4"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
