---
title: System and method for multimodal short-cuts to digital services
abstract: A method and system for facilitating user access to services through a wireless device of a user, involves recommending to a user a subset of services from a plurality of services available to the user in which each recommended service of the subset has at least one voice short-cut associated therewith, and selecting a service to be accessed through the user's wireless device from the subset of services according to a voice command by the user corresponding to the voice short-cut of the service.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09374451&OS=09374451&RS=09374451
owner: Nokia Technologies Oy
number: 09374451
owner_city: Espoo
owner_country: FI
publication_date: 20020204
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS"],"p":["1. Technical Field","The present invention is directed to a system and method of accessing services, such as digital services and, more specifically, to a system and method of facilitating multi-modal access to services preferred by a user.","2. Art Background","Wireless devices are widely employed by people to access the growing number of available digital services. Such access typically entails the utilization of a menu structure to enable a wireless user to identify the service of interest to be accessed. This is often a slow and cumbersome process. There are also well-known methods for a user to explicitly select short-cuts, i.e., \u201cbookmarks\u201d, to their preferred services to facilitate quicker access. However, creation of such short-cuts requires significant effort on the part of the user, and organizing and accessing the short-cuts can be difficult in digital devices with limited user interfaces (UI).","Moreover, in some situations, e.g. while driving a car, a user will be engaged in an activity which limits his or her ability to operate manually the digital device. In such situations, it would be desirable for the user to have alternative means by which to access services through the device, such as through voice command. However, speech recognition capability of existing technology suitable for wireless devices is limited in terms of different words a speech recognition engine can reliably identify. With the large number of different digital services now available to wireless users, it is not feasible to reliably recognize a voice command to access what amounts to be a practically unlimited set of services.","For example, in the case of (mobile) internet services (e.g., wml, html, xhtml pages) the amount of accessible services is almost unlimited. This means that it is generally not feasible to store the names of all the available services in mobile terminals or in a centralized server. The mobile terminals simply do not have sufficient storage capacity. On the server side the storage capacity may not be a problem but it is not plausible that all (mobile) Internet services would register their names in a centralized server. Even if all the services were registered, it would be very difficult for the user to uniquely indicate which service is requested.","For example, if the user provides a voice command, \u201cYahoo news\u201d, it would be impossible for the centralized server to know which service is requested since the well known service site Yahoo provides news in many countries. Furthermore, knowing the language is not enough since Yahoo provides different news services for the different English speaking countries, such as the United States, the United Kingdom, Ireland, Singapore, Australia, New Zealand, and so forth. Concerning the United States, Yahoo further provides different services for different U.S. cities.","A method and system for facilitating user access to services through a wireless device of a user, involves recommending to a user a subset of services from a plurality of services available to the user in which each recommended service of the subset has at least one voice short-cut associated therewith, and selecting a service to be accessed through the user's wireless device from the subset of services according to a voice command by the user corresponding to the voice short-cut of the service.","A method and system for facilitating user access of services via a wireless device involve the combination of a service recommendation engine with voice or speech recognition technology to provide a user with voice, speech or verbal (hereinafter \u201cvoice\u201d) short-cuts to access preferred services, such as digital services, of the user. These services may include, for example, web or WAP services, content described in XML language or other Internet-related languages (e.g., WML, HTML, XHTML, etc.), teletext or any type of service accessible by a mobile user through a wireless device.","The service recommendation engine or algorithms (used interchangeably herein) are configured to recommend or determine a subset of services from a plurality of services according to user-related filter criteria. Such criteria may be any factor unique or personal to the user or the user's wireless device which can be utilized in ascertaining or inferring possible services preferred by a particular user. Examples of user-related filter criteria may include static or dynamic factors, such as the user's service usage pattern or preference (e.g., when, where, how, a number of times, etc. that a service was used); the selected profile of the device or user (e.g., the user's or device's characteristics and preferences); the user's past and current activities; user's or device profile (e.g., the user's habits, likes-dislikes, personal characteristics, personal background, activities, etc.); temporal variables (e.g., time of day, date, day of week, year, daytime\/nighttime, etc.), position variables (e.g., location, at office, at home, etc.), and\/or the user's or device's current context or environment which may be inferred from the user's perceived environment through one or more sensors (e.g., a positioning sensor, a compass, a touch sensor, an audio sensor, a light sensor, and a temperature sensor) and\/or other information such as noted above including, for example, the user's or device's profile, activities, etc.","Once a set of recommended services are determined, voice access to any one of these services may be accomplished through use of voice recognition technology, for example, by comparing the user's inputted voice command to voice short-cuts associated with the services. The voice short-cut(s) may be a phonetic expression (e.g., phoneme) associated with a service, and employed to enable voice short-cut to services through voice recognition comparison of a user's voice command with the voice short-cuts of the services. The voice short-cut(s) for each service may be obtained in a variety of ways, such as being generated from the attributes of the service's address (e.g., \u201chost name\u201d and\/or \u201cservice name\u201d) or other address attribute, or being generated from metadata associated with the service, or being defined by the user, service provider, voice registry or other system in the form of a voice tag (e.g., Voice XML tag) for a service. The voice short-cut(s) may also be a \u201ctemporary\u201d voice short-cut assigned to a recommended service, such as according to a hierarchy or priority of the recommendations. For example, the voice short-cut \u201cone\u201d or \u201c1\u201d can be temporarily assigned to a first recommended service of the subset, the voice short-cut \u201ctwo\u201d or \u201c2\u201d can be temporarily assigned to a second recommended service of the subset, and so forth. The maintenance and generation of voice short-cuts will be discussed in further detail below.","Accordingly, through the above-noted combination, a wireless device may be configured with multi-modal input functionality or control to enable a user to access preferred or desired services by voice command or other form of user input (e.g., keypad, touch-display, etc.), while reducing or minimizing the processing load and memory and other hardware requirements necessary to implement such functionality or control in a wireless device. Such an arrangement does not require the user to remember the exact service addresses, which are often complex and difficult to remember, to access desired services; reduces privacy concerns for the user in the access of services; and provides for service options which may be organized and accessed without requiring substantial effort on the part of the user. Such an arrangement further reduces voice recognition processing while increasing recognition reliability through reduction of the range of necessary voice short-cut comparisons.","In one exemplary embodiment, such a system and method are implemented through a portable wireless device including a recommendation engine, a voice recognition engine and a database of services accessible by the user. The recommendation engine recommends or determines a subset of services from a plurality of services to provide recommendations which are personal to and preferred by the user. The recommendation may be based on various user-related filter criteria (e.g., context) and, if desired, limited to the range of past used services of the user. These recommended services may then be audibly or visibly outputted to the user for selection thereof by voice or other form of user input, and such output may include information identifying the voice short-cut(s) for one or more or each of the recommended services.","For example, visual output of voice short-cut enabled services may be displayed in the form of an icon or other visual forms (e.g., URL address) to inform the user of the availability of such short-cuts so as to assist the user in effectively utilizing such short-cuts. This may also be accomplished by other output means, such as audio output.","Alternatively, the recommended services or voice short-cut enabled services may be transparent to the user, e.g., not output to the user. In such a case, determination of such recommended services may be triggered upon various events, such as periodically, at particular times\/days\/date, at particular locations, upon a manual command, upon a particular activity, etc. or a combination thereof.","In either case, the user may thereafter input a command by voice or other input forms to select a service to be accessed from the subset of recommended services. When the input is a voice command, the portable wireless device, via the voice recognition engine, processes the voice command to an appropriate a computer readable format or other data form readable by a speech decoder, compares the processed voice command data to voice short-cut(s) associated with the recommended services, and identifies the service with a voice short-cut matching the user's voice command. Thereafter, the portable wireless device, such as through its micro-browser, accesses the selected service automatically or upon a user command.","The recommendation engine may be configured to prioritize the recommendations or recommended services, and to compare the voice command data with voice short-cuts according to a priority of the voice short-cut(s) or associated recommended services. This is particularly significant where a voice command may match a plurality of recommended services. In such a case, the service with the higher priority is selected. Alternatively, in a situation where a voice command may match a plurality of recommended services, an indication of the matching recommended services, such as their voice short-cuts, may be outputted to the user for selection therefrom.","In another embodiment, the above system and method may be implemented through a distributed networked system in which various processing tasks and data maintenance may be distributed between a portable wireless device and one or more network elements, such as a network server, ad hoc or short-range wireless networked partner, and so forth. The tasks may be distributed in the following manner:","[1] The network server(s) or other network element may be configured to implement both the recommendation and voice recognition processing. For example, after initiation of the micro-browser by the user or other triggering event, the wireless device receives a voice command from the user and forwards the voice command data to the network server and other relevant information, such as user-related filter criteria (e.g., context) and\/or information for determining such criteria. The network server determines a subset of recommended services from a plurality of services based on the user-related filter criteria. The network server then, via voice recognition processing, identifies a service therefrom with a voice short-cut matching the user's voice command. The network server then returns information corresponding to the identified service, such as the service's address (e.g., URL) or other service access information, to the wireless device for access thereof. Alternatively, the network server may act as an intermediary between the wireless device and the service provider of the identified service and access the identified service for the wireless device.","In another example, after initiation of the micro-browser by the user or other triggering event, the wireless device requests a service recommendation from a network server. The request may include other relevant information, such user-related filter criteria (e.g., context.) or information for determining such criteria. The network server receives the request along with any relevant information and determines a subset of recommended services from a plurality of services based on the user-related filter criteria. These recommendations are then sent to the wireless device which outputs, audibly or visibly, the availability of such recommended services through voice or other user input short-cuts.","The wireless device then receives the user's voice command and passes corresponding voice command data to the network server. The server then performs voice recognition processing on the voice command to identify a service (from the plurality of recommended services) with a voice short-cut matching the user's voice command. The network server then returns information corresponding to the identified service, such as the service's address (e.g., URL) or other service access information, to the wireless device for access thereof. Alternatively, the network server may act as an intermediary between the wireless device and the service provider of the identified service and access the identified service for the wireless device.","[2] The network server(s) may be configured to implement the recommendation processing with the wireless device performing the voice recognition processing. For example, after initiation of the micro-browser by the user or other triggering event, the wireless device requests recommendations from a network server. The request may include other relevant information, such as user-related filter criteria or associated information in determining such criteria. The network server receives the request and relevant information and determines a subset of recommended services from a plurality of services based on the user-related filter criteria. These selections are then sent to the wireless device, and the device outputs, audibly or visibly, the availability of such recommended services through voice or other user input short-cut.","The wireless device then receives the user's voice command and performs voice recognition processing of the voice command to identify a service (from the plurality of recommended services) with a voice short-cut matching the user's voice command. Thereafter, the wireless device, via its micro-browser or other platform, accesses the selected service automatically or upon the user command.","[3] The network server(s) or other network element may be configured to implement the voice recognition processing. For example, after the recommended services are audibly or visibly outputted to the user, the wireless device receives a voice command from the user and forwards the voice command data to the network server and possibly other relevant information, such the recommended services information and\/or voice short-cuts (e.g., voice XML tags) for such services. The network server, via voice recognition processing, identifies a service (from the plurality of recommended services) with a voice short-cut matching the user's voice command. The network server then returns information concerning the identified service, such as the service's address (e.g., URL) or other service access information, to the wireless device for access thereof. Alternatively, the network server may act as an intermediary between the wireless device and the provider of the identified service and access the identified service for the wireless device.","In further embodiments, the maintenance and generation of voice short-cuts(s) for a particular digital service may be accomplished in various ways, for example, as follows:","[A] Address attributes, such as host name and service name, or other portions of the address attributes may be utilized as a voice short-cut of a digital service when performing voice recognition processing.","[B] Voice short-cuts may be generated from metadata associated with a particular service site. Metadata is often employed by search engines, service sites and\/or other network entities to characterize or classify the content on a particular service site to facilitate user searches. Accordingly, one or more voice short-cuts may be generated for association with a particular service according to the metadata associated with that service, such as by identifying and selecting one or more words or terms from the metadata which aptly characterizes the service. This may be accomplished by manually examining the metadata associated with a service site, or through probability analysis in which the words or terms showing up a significant number of times or the greatest number of times is used as the voice short-cut.","[C] A voice tag registry or the like may be maintained by a network element, such as a server, which maintains a relational database of service addresses and their associated voice tags. Voice tag registry may be similar to domain name registry, in which voice tags may be uniquely defined for a particular service using a standard format, such as in XML. Through a central registry, a uniform standard may be achieved for voice tags or the like and their usage in enabling voice-access to associated services. A wireless device may request voice tags from the registry for the subset of recommended services prior to performing voice recognition processing. Alternatively, whenever a service site is accessed, the site may deliver the voice tag to the accessing device which can store the voice tag for future use.","Along similar lines, a service provider may predefine voice tags for its service addresses and provide such information to the wireless device or other network elements in communication with the wireless device to facilitate voice-based access to such service(s). For example, the service provider may embed voice tags in an XML message sent to the user's wireless device.","[D] A user may define, change or delete voice short-cuts for a particular service which are stored locally on the user's wireless device or at a remote location accessible by the wireless device.","[E] The wireless device generally may download predefined or generated voice short-cuts associated with services from a remote location, via a network. Such download may be performed when a new service is accessed by the user, at periodic intervals, upon a user request, or upon some other predetermined triggering event.","[F] Voice short-cut(s) may also be a \u201ctemporary\u201d short-cut assigned to a recommended service, such as according to hierarchy or priority of the recommendations. For example, the voice short-cut \u201cone\u201d or \u201c1\u201d can be temporarily assigned to a first recommended service of the subset, the voice short-cut \u201ctwo\u201d or \u201c2\u201d can be temporarily assigned to a second recommended service of the subset, and so forth. Alternatively, the voice short-cut \u201cA\u201d can be temporarily assigned to a first recommended service of the subset, the voice short-cut \u201cB\u201d can be temporarily assigned to a second recommended service of the subset, and so forth. Temporary voice short-cuts may be employed together with a selection menu, whether displayed or audibly outputted, for enabling voice short-cut to recommended services.","[G] To specify a voice short-cut, voice tags may be used to categorize the voice short-cut for a particular service. For example, a voice short-cut may be tagged for a particular service in XML format (\u201cvoice XML tag\u201d), e.g., <VOICE TAG>[voice-short cut]<\/VOICE TAG> to facilitate voice-access in a digital service environment, such as with Internet service, etc.","These and other exemplary embodiments will now be discussed in further detail below with reference to the Figures. Turning to , an exemplary network environment is provided in which a user, operating a portable wireless device , is able to employ multi-modal input forms, such as voice along with other user input forms, to access preferred digital services through device . This is accomplished through combination of a service recommendation engine and a voice recognition engine, each of which may be implemented locally at the portable wireless device or at a remote location, such as at a network server , to provide voice short-cuts to the user's preferred services.","The recommendation engine determines a subset of recommended services from a plurality of services based on user-related filter criteria (e.g., context, etc.) and the voice recognition engine processes voice commands by the user to compare and match the voice commands to voice short-cuts associated with the recommended services to enable user selection and access of a service from the recommended services by voice short-cut.","As shown, a network diagram illustrates an example of a relationship between the user's portable wireless device , a wireless access point , an infrastructure network , a network server , a voice tag registry  and a third party service provider  interconnected over the Internet . The user's wireless device  communicates over a radio link with the wireless access point , which is connected to a wireless network , which is connected to a protocol gateway . The gateway  is connected over the Internet  to the server .","The network  formed by the wireless device , wireless access point , and infrastructure network  can be implemented as a digital wireless wide area network (WAN), based on architectures such as Global System for Mobile Communication (GSM), IS-136 TDMA-based Digital Advanced Mobile Phone Service (DAMPS), Personal Digital Cellular (PDC), IS-95 CDMA-based cdmaOne System, General Packet Radio Service (GPRS) and broadband wireless architectures such as W-CDMA and Broadband GPRS. For more information on these digital wireless, wide area network architectures, see the book by Yi-Bing Lin, et al. entitled , John Wiley & Sons, 2001. The network  can also be a short-range wireless system connected to a wide area landline infrastructure network such as the Internet . Short-range wireless systems include both wireless personal area network (\u201cPAN\u201d) and wireless local area network (\u201cLAN\u201d). Both of these networks have the common feature of operating in unlicensed portions of the radio spectrum, usually either in the 2.4 GHz Industrial, Scientific, and Medical (ISM) band or the 5 GHz Unlicensed-National Information Infrastructure (\u201cU-NII\u201d) band. Wireless personal area networks use low cost, low power wireless devices that have a typical range of ten meters. The best-known example of wireless personal area network technology is the Bluetooth Standard, which operates in the 2.4 GHz ISM band. It provides a peak air link speed of one Mbps and a power consumption low enough for use in personal, portable electronics such as PDAs and mobile phones. The Bluetooth Special Interest Group, , Version 1.0B, Volumes 1 and 2, December 1999, describes the principles of Bluetooth device operation and communication protocols. Wireless local area networks generally operate at higher peak speeds of from 10 to 100 Mbps and have a longer range, which requires greater power consumption. Wireless local area networks are typically used as wireless links from portable laptop computers to a wired LAN, via an access point (AP). Examples of wireless local area network technology include the IEEE 802.11 Wireless LAN Standard and the HIPERLAN Standard, which operates in the 5 GHz U-NII band. For more information on wireless LANs, see the book by Jim Geier entitled , Macmillan Technical Publishing, 1999. The network  formed by the wireless device , wireless access point , and infrastructure network  can use a wireless communications protocol, such as the Wireless Application Protocol (WAP), the I-Mode protocol, or the mobile IPv6 protocol.","The portable wireless device  may take the form of a processor-based wireless communication-enabled device, such as a wireless mobile telephone, pager, two-way radio, smartphone, personal communicator, laptop or notebook computer, wireless personal digital assistant (PDA) or the like. The portable wireless device  includes a plurality of output subsystems, such as a displayed browser  and a speaker , to provide for multi-modal output functionality and a plurality of user input subsystems, such as microphone , keypad , a touch-display and so forth, to provide for multi-modal input functionality. The input and output devices of the wireless device may be integrated into the device itself and\/or may be in communication with the device over a wireless connection, such as short-range wireless line (e.g., infra-red, radio link, etc.)","The browser  may be partitioned, as desired, to have a main display area A and a voice short-cut indication display area B to display voice shortcut related information, such as in the form of an icon or other visual representation to notify the user of the availability of voice shortcuts to recommended services. Voice shortcut display area B may also display the textual\/character expression of the voice shortcuts to assist the user in learning such shortcuts or accessing services in a hands-free environment. The voice shortcuts or indications thereof may also be audibly output via voice response unit  in combination with the speaker , likewise, to notify the user of the availability of voice shortcuts and to assist the user in learning such short-cuts or accessing services in a hands-free environment.","The portable wireless device  further includes various programs and databases, including the user's personal programs and databases, programs and databases associated with the conventional operation of the wireless device, and programs and databases to implement the multi-modal short-cut service access processes discussed herein. These programs and databases may include, for example, application programs , communication programs , service history log , current context state , recommendation algorithms or engine  to enable local and\/or network-based service recommendations, voice recognition engine (VRE) , and voice tag generator  for generating voice tags or generally voice short-cuts. These programs may further include a voice response unit (VRU)  for converting data, such as text, to speech which can be outputted to the user via speaker .","Voice recognition engine  may employ various well-known voice recognition techniques, for example, speech or speaker (\u201cspeech\u201d) independent recognition such as employed in speech independent name dialers (SINDs). Such speech independent recognition engine generally includes basic components, such as a front end, a dictionary, an acoustic model and a speech decoder. The front end converts speech into a data form suitable for analysis by a speech decoder. The dictionary maintains a list of words or phrases recognizable by the system, and may take the form of the service history log  which may maintain voice tags for associated services or take any other form suitable to identify voice short-cuts for services available to the user. The acoustic model, in this example, may be an \u201cisolated word\u201d or \u201ccontinuous\u201d speech independent model based on Hidden Markov Modeling (HMM) to provide mathematical representations of the words or phrases the system can recognize. Finally, the speech decoder compares speech with the stored acoustic models to identify the most likely match between the speech and corresponding words or phrases in the dictionary.","While speech independent recognition is preferably employed when speech recognition is to be performed by the mobile device, other well-known speech recognition techniques, such as speech-dependent recognition may also be employed by the mobile device or network server.","The voice tag generator  is configured to provide generation of voice short-cuts, in the form of voice tags. The generator  may, for example, generate a voice tag for a particular service based on metadata associated with the services, such as metadata from the service provider, or other system (e.g., search engine provider). Generation of a voice tag may entail filtering or parsing the metadata to obtain a suitable phonetic expression (e.g., a phonetically expressible term) which preferably characterizes the service or the content of the service. For instance, the generator  may determine the number of occurrences of particular terms in the metadata associated with a service site, and select the term(s) with the greatest number of occurrences as the voice short-cut for that service. Alternatively, selection may be performed manually by an operator searching the metadata to select an appropriate term therefrom.","As further shown in , the portable wireless device  may also include a plurality of sensors for sensing the mobile user's ambient conditions. The sensors shown include POSITIONING SENSOR , TOUCH SENSOR , AUDIO SENSOR , COMPASS SENSOR , AMBIENT LIGHT SENSOR , AMBIENT TEMPERATURE SENSOR , and THREE-AXIS ACCELERATION SENSOR . The audio sensor  can be a microphone, for example, which can detect speech or environmental sounds. The positioning sensor can be, for example, a GPS receiver integrated in the device. The positioning sensor can also be, for example, a radio beacon triangulation sensor that determines the location of the wireless device by means of a network of radio beacons, base stations, or access points, as is described for example, in Nokia European patent EP 0 767 594 A2, entitled \u201cMobile Station Positioning System\u201d. These sensors provide inputs which are sampled by the wireless device  to sense the user's environment, and one or more of these sensor outputs may be utilized to infer a current context which may be used to provide recommendations to the user based on the user's environment. The portable wireless device  may perform context inference techniques locally, or may offload to the network server  some of the computationally intensive computing involved in context inference techniques.","For example, in one or more embodiments discussed herein, as the user carries about the wireless device , its sensors may automatically and continuously measure the geographic location and context of the device. The wireless device may periodically transmit the current context in a message over the wireless network to the network server . There are several types of messages, each of which may be distinguished by its own unique op code. An \u201cop code\u201d is generally an operational code or instruction or command which may be employed to inform or instruct other devices or network components, such as those discussed herein, of the operation to be performed.","When the wireless device sends a message containing the current context, the network server  parses the op code and responds with information corresponding to the op code, the information being related to the current context. If the op code indicates that the message is a spontaneous message which is automatically transmitted by the device , then the network server  may respond with information such as a service category menu, or information such as recommended services (along with their voice short-cuts) based on the current context, or prepaid advertising of local services related to the current context.","As shown in , the user's portable wireless device  further includes a service history log  or the like. The activities stored in the service history log  may be divided into two major categories: past recommendations made by the wireless device  and\/or network server , and services including their voice short-cuts (e.g., voice tags) or equivalents thereof for voice recognition matching. The category of services may be broken into four sub-categories: past services used, prestored service preferences, special requested service requirements, services and their associated voice short-cuts. The term \u201cactivities\u201d, as used herein, may refer to any of these categories and sub-categories. The service history log  may store five component databases: [1] past recommendations and context, [2] past services used and context, [3] prestored service preferences, [4] special requested service requirements, and [5] services and voice short-cuts. An example is shown in  of the two component databases: [1] past recommendations and context and [2] past services used and context. The voice short-cuts may also be maintained along with the associated services in service log , such as in the form of a voice XML tag.","When implementing distributed processing with the network server , the wireless device  can automatically send messages with a unique op code designating that the message is an automatically transmitted message containing the device's past recommendations and context or past services used and context, in addition to the current context or other information for use in enabling voice short-cut access to recommended services. In one or more embodiments, the network server  may parse the op code and uses the device's past recommendations and context or past services used and context to find similar service recommendations in its database. The network server  then responds with information customized to the user's perceived interests, the information being related to the current context. While the above discusses one approach to recommending services, any user-related filter criteria may be employed to determine recommendations personal to the user.","The user of the wireless device  can also manually enter requests for menus and recommendations related to the current context. In any event, the wireless device  may then determine the service recommendations locally based on the current context and enable voice short-cut access to such recommended services.","Alternatively, the wireless device  may send messages with a unique op code designating that the message is a manual request by the user containing the device's past recommendations and context or past services used and context, in addition to the current context or other information for use in enabling voice short-cut access to recommended services. The network server parses the op code and uses the device's past recommendations and context or past services used and context to find similar recommendations in its database consistent with the user's manual request. The network server  then responds with information customized to the user's expressed interests, the information being related to the current context. While the above discusses one approach to recommending services, any user-related filter criteria (as discussed herein) may be employed to determine customized or personalized recommendations to the user.","The service history log  can accumulate data on past services used by the user of the device  in several ways. The service history log  can be programmed to capture on-line transactions and activities, such as ticket purchase information for services, access of a particular service as well as its sub-services, and so forth. The service history log  can also be programmed to monitor the dwell-time of the device at scheduled events and to draw the inference that the user is in fact engaged in such an event. The event and the current context and, if desired, associated voice short-cut(s) are then stored in the database [2] past services used and context, in the service history log .","While the portable wireless device  may be configured to perform the context, recommendation and voice recognition processes alone, one or more or all of these processes can be offloaded to one or more other network elements, such as the network server . Accordingly, depending on which processes are offloaded, the network server  may include context inference engine , service and voice short-cuts database , voice tag generator  (such as voice tag generator  discussed above), recommendation algorithms or engine , voice recognition engine  and\/or context-activity pairs database .","In one distributed system embodiment, the wireless device  provides recommendations to its user that are appropriate to the device's current environment by selecting an activity (e.g., a category or sub-category), pairing it with the current context result, and sending the context-activity pair to the network server . The network server  searches its database of recommendations using the context-activity pair, and returns recommendations to the user. While the portable wireless device  and the network server  may employ context-activity pairs to determine recommended services, other user-related criteria and processes may be employed to ascertain preferred services desired to be accessed by the user. As such, a relational database or look-up table containing information on services, voice short-cuts and user-related criteria can be maintained and updated accordingly to facilitate determination of recommendations and to enable voice short-cuts to the user's likely preferred services.","Various embodiments showing how the processes to enable voice short-cuts to preferred services may be distributed between the wireless device  and the network server  are discussed below with reference to .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0084","num":"0083"},"figref":"FIG. 2A","b":["100","100","115","112","113","110"]},"The portable wireless device , in combination with context inference engine , are configured to determine a current context based on the user's current context which, in turn, may be inferred through temporal information from an internal clock or from a network device, through sensory information from sensors of the device (e.g., location sensor, speed sensor, light sensor, sound sensor, etc.) such as a position of the user\/device, through the user's activities, through the setting or profile of the user or user's device, and so forth. The portable wireless device , in combination with the recommendation engine , determine and recommend a subset of services from a plurality of services based on user-related filter criteria, such as the current context or other personal factors (e.g., service usage history\u2014those services utilized the most by the user, etc.). To reduce the workload of the wireless device, the searchable range of services may be limited to past used services.","Once determined, these recommended services may then be audibly or visibly outputted to the user for selection thereof by voice or other form of user input, and such output may include information identifying the voice short-cut(s) for one or more or each of the recommended services. For example, visual output of voice short-cut enabled services may be displayed in the form of an icon or other visual forms (e.g., URL address) to inform the user of the availability of such short-cuts so as to assist the user in effectively utilizing such short-cuts. This may also be accomplished as well by other output means, such as audio output.","The user may thereafter input a command by voice or other input forms to select a service to be accessed from the subset of recommended services. When the input is a voice command, the portable wireless device , in combination with the voice recognition engine , process the voice command to an appropriate a computer readable format such as for use by a speech decoder in performing comparisons or matching, compare the processed voice command data to voice short-cuts or the like of the recommended services, and identify or select the service (from the subset of recommended services) with a voice short-cut matching the user's voice command. Thereafter, the portable wireless device , such as through its micro-browser , accesses the selected recommended service of service provider , automatically or upon a user command.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0088","num":"0087"},"figref":"FIG. 2B","b":["140","100","140","142","143","166","100","113"]},"In operation, after initiation of the micro-browser  by the user or upon some other triggering event, the portable wireless device  requests recommendations from the network server . The request may include other relevant information, such as user-related filter criteria or associated information in determining such criteria. The network server  receives the request and any relevant information and determines a subset of recommended services from a plurality of services based on the user-related filter criteria. These selections are then sent back to the wireless device , and the device outputs, audibly or visibly, an indication of the availability of such recommended services through voice or other user input short-cut. The voice short-cuts for the recommended services may be forwarded by the network server  or may be already stored locally for lookup on the portable wireless device .","The portable wireless device  receives the user's voice command and performs voice recognition processing of the voice command to identify a service (from the subset of recommended services) with a voice short-cut matching the user's voice command. Thereafter, the wireless device , such as via its micro-browser , accesses the selected service of service provider , automatically or upon the user command.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0091","num":"0090"},"figref":"FIG. 2C","b":["140","140","142","143","166","167"]},"In one operational example, after initiation of the micro-browser  by the user or upon some other triggering event, the portable wireless device  may request service recommendations from the network server . The request may include other relevant information, such us user-related filter criteria or information for determining such criteria. The network server  receives the request and any relevant information, and determines a subset of recommended services from a plurality of services based on the user-related filter criteria. These selections are then sent back to the wireless device , and the device outputs, audibly or visibly, an indication of the availability of such recommended services through voice or other user input short-cuts.","The portable wireless device  then receives the user's voice command and passes corresponding voice command data to the network server  which performs voice recognition processing of the voice command to identify a service (from the subset of recommended services) with a voice short-cut matching the user's voice command. The network server  then returns information on the identified service, such as the service address (e.g., URL) of the service site operated by service provider  or other service access information, to the wireless device  for access thereof. Alternatively, the network server  may act as an intermediary between the portable wireless device  and the service provider  of the identified service and access the identified service for the wireless device.","In an alternative example, after initiation of the micro-browser  by the user or upon some other triggering event, the portable wireless device  receives a voice command from the user and forwards the voice command data to the network server , along with other relevant information, such as user-related filter criteria (e.g., context) and\/or information for determining such criteria. The network server  determines a subset of recommended services from a plurality of services based on the user-related filter criteria. Thereafter, the server, via voice recognition processing, identifies a service (from the subset of recommended services) with a voice short-cut matching the user's voice command. The network server  then returns information on the identified service, which may include the service address (e.g., URL) of the service site operated by service provider , to the wireless device for access thereof. Alternatively, the network server may act as an intermediary between the portable wireless device  and the service provider  of the identified service and access the identified service for the wireless device.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0095","num":"0094"},"figref":"FIG. 2D","b":["100","140","100","115","112","110","140","167"]},"In an operational example, the portable wireless device  determines recommended services based on user-related criteria and audibly or visibly outputs these recommendations to the user. The portable wireless device  then receives the user's voice command and forwards the voice command data to the network server  along with other relevant information, such us the information on the recommended services and\/or voice short-cuts (e.g., voice tags) for such services.","The network server , through voice recognition processing, identifies a service (from the subset of recommended services) with a voice short-cut matching the user's voice command. The network server  then returns information on the identified service, which may include the service address (e.g., URL) of the service site operated by service provider , to the wireless device  for access thereof. Alternatively, the network server may act as an intermediary between the portable wireless device  and the service provider  of the identified service and access the identified service for the wireless device.","To facilitate ease of use as well as to explain various functions enabled on the portable wireless device , a Recommendation Web Services menu may be provided and displayed on the browser  of the device. An example of such a menu as well as other screen shots of recommended services will be discussed below with reference to .","In , the user's portable wireless device  includes the browser  which displays the Recommendation Web Services menu, to enable the user to navigate through the cards or pages being displayed and to select options that are programmed by the application programs . The browser  of the user's wireless device  displays a recommendation web services menu. The recommendation web services menu may provide the user with the following options to select: (A) REQUEST A RECOMMENDATION; (B) UPDATE PRIVACY FEATURES; and (C) MANAGE CONTEXT-ACTIVITY PROFILE.","The REQUEST A RECOMMENDATION menu may display the following options:","REQUEST A RECOMMENDATION:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0101","num":"0000"},"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0001","list-style":"none"},"li":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0001-0001","num":"0000"},"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0002","list-style":"none"},"li":["[1] SELECT A SERVICE CATEGORY","[2] SEND PAST RECOMMENDATIONS","[3] SEND PAST SERVICES USED","[4] SEND PRESTORED SERVICE PREFERENCES","[5] ENTER SPECIAL SERVICE REQUIREMENTS","[6] CHANGE PRESTORED SERVICE PREFERENCES","[7] CHANGE PRIVACY FILTER SETTINGS","[8] LOCAL RECOMMENDATION","[9] CHANGE VOICE SHORT-CUT SETTINGS"]}}}},"Reference to  illustrate an example of how processes to be implemented at the wireless device  or the network server  may be invoked through a menu selection, such as the menu of . One or more of the processes to be discussed below, particularly the recommendation related processes, may alternatively be invoked upon initiation of browser , upon a user command, according to setting of the wireless device , or some other triggering event.","As shown, the option A to [1] SELECT A SERVICE CATEGORY invokes process  in the user's device , to RETRIEVE UPDATED SERVICE CATEGORY MENU, as shown in . Process  sends updated menu request message  to process  in the network server , to UPDATE SERVICE CATEGORY MENU, as shown in . The updated menu  () is returned in updated menu response message \u2032, as shown in . The updated menu  is displayed in the device's browser  in . This same sequence of steps is automatically performed by the wireless device  and the network server  in response to the wireless device  automatically transmitting messages with a unique op code designating that the message is an automatically transmitted message.","The option B to [2] SEND PAST RECEIVED RECOMMENDATIONS invokes process  in the user's device , to SEND CONTEXT & PAST RECEIVED RECOMMENDATIONS, as shown in . Process  sends recommendation request message  to process  in the network server , to PROVIDE NEW RECOMMENDATIONS CORRESPONDING TO PAST RECOMMENDATIONS, as shown in . The recommendations  are returned in recommendation response message \u2032, as shown in . The recommendations  are displayed in the device's browser  in . This same sequence of steps is automatically performed by the wireless device  and the network server  in response to the wireless device  automatically transmitting messages with a unique op code designating that the message is an automatically transmitted message.","The option C to [3] SEND PAST SERVICES USED invokes process  in the user's device , to SEND CONTEXT AND PAST SERVICES USED, as shown in . Process  sends recommendation request message  to process  in the network server , to PROVIDE NEW RECOMMENDATIONS CORRESPONDING TO PAST SERVICES USED, as shown in . The recommendations  are returned in recommendation response message \u2032, as shown in . The recommendations  are displayed in the device's browser  in . This same sequence of steps is automatically performed by the wireless device  and the network server  in response to the wireless device  automatically transmitting messages with a unique op code designating that the message is an automatically transmitted message.","The option D to [4] SEND PRESTORED SERVICE PREFERENCES invokes process  in the user's device , to SEND CONTEXT AND PRESTORED SERVICE PREFERENCES in the prestored service preferences file , as shown in . An example of prestored service preferences is shown displayed in the browser  of . Process  sends message  to process  in the network server , to PROVIDE RECOMMENDATIONS CORRESPONDING TO SERVICE PREFERENCES. The recommendations  are returned in message \u2032.","The option E to [5] ENTER SPECIAL SERVICE REQUIREMENTS invokes process  in the user's device , to SEND CONTEXT AND SPECIAL SERVICE REQUIREMENTS. An example of special service requirements is shown displayed in the browser  of . Process  sends message  to process  in the network server , to PROVIDE RECOMMENDATIONS CORRESPONDING TO SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS. The recommendations  are returned in message \u2032.","The option F to [6] CHANGE PRESTORED SERVICE PREFERENCES invokes process  in the user's device , to CHANGE PRESTORED SERVICE PREFERENCES. An example of a menu to change prestored service preferences is shown displayed in the browser  of .","The option G to [7] CHANGE PRIVACY FILTER SETTINGS invokes process  in the user's device , to CHANGE PRIVACY FILTER SETTINGS. An example of a menu to change privacy filter settings is shown displayed in the browser  of .","The option H to [8] LOCAL RECOMMENDATION invokes process  in the user's device, to initiate LOCAL RECOMMENDATION, e.g., to determine service recommendations locally at the user's device. An example of a menu to initiate local recommendation is shown displayed in the browser  of . The local recommendations may be determined from a database of [a] past used services or [b] downloaded services from a network server, such as server . An example of service recommendations displayed on the browser  is shown in .","The option I to [9] CHANGE VOICE SHORT-CUT SETTINGS invokes process  in the user's device to initiate CHANGE VOICE SHORT-CUT SETTINGS. An example of a menu to initiate change in voice short-cut settings is shown displayed in the browser of . These settings may include [a] downloading voice tags from server , voice registry or other remote location, [b] adding, modifying and\/or deleting voice tag for a particular service, [c] setting a language preference for voice tag (e.g., English, French, Japanese, etc.) to facilitate voice recognition processing, [d] setting voice tag output ON or OFF, and so forth. While the above are discussed for voice tags, these setting equally apply generally to voice short-cuts.","As the user carries about the wireless device , its sensors - continuously measure the geographic location and context of the device, which are compiled into a metadata vector  representing the current context. The wireless device  periodically transmits the current context in an updated menu request message , shown in , over the wireless network  to the network server . The updated menu request message  includes the network address of the server , an op code value RQ_MN that designates the message as an updated menu request message, and an operand portion containing the current context. The network server  of  includes a server op code parser  that interprets the op code value RQ_MN as indicating that the message is an updated menu request message . In response, the server op code parser  invokes step  of the server recommendation algorithms . Step  gets from a database a list of services provided by regional advertisers corresponding to the current context of the device . Step  flows to step , which gets from a database a list of services provided by regional points of interest, such as galleries, monuments, museums, and the like, corresponding to the current context of the device . Step  flows to step , where the list of services provided by regional advertisers and the list of services provided by regional points of interest are filtered for weather related and time related service categories, eliminating those services that cannot be used by the user in the current context. For example, night baseball is eliminated, if the current context is daytime. Hiking a nature trail is eliminated if the current context is bad weather. Likewise, in a digital service scenario, electronic stock trading may be eliminated, if the current context is nighttime. Step  flows to step , where the updated menu message \u2032 is prepared. The updated menu message \u2032 includes the network address of the device , an op code \u201cRSP_MN\u201d that designates the message as an updated menu server response message, and operands. The operands include the updated menu . The updated menu  is returned to the device  in the updated menu response message \u2032, as shown in . This same sequence of steps is automatically performed by the wireless device  and the network server  in response to the wireless device  automatically transmitting messages with a unique op code designating that the message is an automatically transmitted message.","The device op code parser  in  interprets the op code value \u201cRSP_MN\u201d as indicating that the message is an updated menu server response \u2032. In response, the device op code parser  invokes step  of the device recommendation algorithms . Step  stores and displays the updated menu  in the device's browser  in .","The user can initialize the device  by entering special service requirements as shown in the browser  of . Examples of special service requirements that can be stored in the service history log  of device  are:\n\n","The user can initialize the device  by entering stored service preferences, as shown in the browser  of . Examples of stored service preferences that can be stored in the service history log  of device  are:\n\n","The user can initialize the device  by entering privacy filter settings, as shown in the browser  of . Privacy filter settings are used to remove the user's private information from the messages sent by the device  to the network server . Examples of privacy filter settings that can be stored in the device  are:","FOR CURRENT REQUESTS:\n\n","FOR PAST RECOMMENDATIONS:\n\n","The service history log  in the user's device  may store activities in five component databases: [1] past recommendations and context, [2] past services used and context, [3] prestored service preferences, [4] special requested service requirements, and [5] services and voice short-cuts. An example is shown in  of the two component databases: [1] past recommendations and context  and [2] past services used and context . The embodiment of the database shown in  uses extensible markup language (XML) files to provide a coherent view of the wide variety of data that can be used to characterize a contexts, services, recommendations, and voice short-cuts.","To specify the current context, XML tags are used to categorize each type of context data that characterizes the current context. Each unit context data is delineated by a beginning tag and an ending tag, forming an element. For example, the element \u201c<TEMPERATURE>10 degrees Celsius<\/TEMPERATURE>\u201d defines the category as temperature, and specifies the data as \u201c10 degrees Celsius\u201d. As another example, the element \u201c<LAT>38 degrees, 48 minutes North<\/LAT>\u201d defines the category as geographic latitude, and specifies the data as \u201c38 degrees, 48 minutes North\u201d. Another feature of XML is its ability to specify a hierarchy in the categories of data. For example, geographic location is normally specified as both a latitude and a longitude. The categories of data for latitude and longitude can be thought of as \u201cchild\u201d categories within the category for geographic location. XML expresses this hierarchy as follows:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0121","num":"0155"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00001","num":"00001"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"35pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"182pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"<LOCATION>"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"49pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"168pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"<LAT>38 degrees, 48 minutes North<\/LAT>"]},{"entry":[{},"<LON>76 degrees, 38 minutes West<\/LON>"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"35pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"182pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"<\/LOCATION >"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}}]}}},"A typical specification of the context for an activity stored in the service history log  would be, for example:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0123","num":"0157"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00002","num":"00002"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"203pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"<CONTEXT>"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"189pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"<LOCATION>"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"175pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"<LAT>38 degrees, 48 minutes North<\/LAT>"]},{"entry":[{},"<LON>76 degrees, 38 minutes West<\/LON>"]},{"entry":[{},"<ALT>150 meters<\/ALT >"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"189pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"\/LOCATION >"]},{"entry":[{},"<DATE>2001:01:31<\/ DATE >"]},{"entry":[{},"<TIME>1200<\/TIME>"]},{"entry":[{},"<TEMPERATURE>10 degrees Celsius <\/TEMPERATURE >"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"203pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"<\/CONTEXT>"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}}]}}},"A typical specification of the voice short for service stored in the service history log  may be, for example:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0125","num":"0159"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00003","num":"00003"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"203pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"<NAME>"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"189pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"<HOSTNAME> HistoryMuseum.com<\/HOSTNAME>"]},{"entry":[{},"<SERVICENAME>\/exhibits.wml\/<\/SERVICE NAME>"]},{"entry":[{},"<VOICETAG>History<\/VOICETAG>"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"203pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"<\/NAME >"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}}]}}},"By expressing the context in the service history log  in XML, the stored expression is both human and machine readable, it defines the content, and it defines the hierarchical structure of the content. XML also separates the appearance of the content from the structure of the content, so that the content can be displayed in any format by using customized style sheets in each different type of display device. Extensible Stylesheet Language (XSL) can provide flexible document presentation, enabling the content of an XML file to be displayed on the large display screen of a personal computer, as well as in the browser . Messages exchanged between the wireless device  and the network server  can include XML files carried in the Simple Object Access Protocol (SOAP) messaging protocol or the SyncML synchronization protocol. For additional background on XML, see the book by Heather Williamson, , Osborne\/McGraw-Hill, 2001.","Both the wireless device  and the network server  may be configured to interpret the tags of the XML elements in the XML file in the same way. This can be accomplished by incorporating the same XML tag parser in both the device recommendation algorithms  of the wireless device  and in the server recommendation algorithms  of the network server . In its simplest form, the XML tag parser can be a simple string comparison function that searches the XML file for XML tag strings, such as the beginning tag \u201c<LOCATION>\u201d and the ending tag \u201c<\/LOCATION>\u201d. When it finds the a particular beginning tag, it gets the data located between the beginning tag and the ending tag and passes the data as \u201clocation data\u201d to program subroutines that operate on location data. Such program subroutines include the database search routine in the server recommendation algorithms  in the server , that forms a query from the latitude and longitude data to search for recommendations for services in the database  having similar or related to the latitude and longitude values.","Another way for both the wireless device  and the network server  to interpret the tags of the XML elements in the XML file in the same way, is by means of a standard XML parser. The two principal, standard XML parsers are the Simple API for XML (SAX) event-based parser and the Document Object Model (DOM) tree-based parser. The principal difference between them is in the way the XML data is made available to the client application, such as the device recommendation algorithms . SAX is an event driven model, wherein the client application is continuously notified as the XML document features are recognized by the parser. As the SAX parser reads an XML file, it sends to the application program  information from the XML file in real time. Each time the parser sees a beginning tag, an ending tag, character data, or a processing instruction, it reports it to the client application. The entire XML file does not have to be read before acting on the data at the beginning of the file. The entire document does not have to reside in memory, which can be an advantage for the wireless device .","The Document Object Model (DOM) model parser is object based, on the other hand, wherein the entire XML document is parsed and stored as a hierarchical tree of objects that the client application can then randomly access. A document type definition (DTD) is available to both the wireless device  and in the network server , either being stored locally or at a server they can reference. A DTD is a set of declarations that specify the allowed order, structure, and meaning of the tags for a particular XML file. The XML file references the DTD that governs its order, structure, and meaning, at a specified location, such as the directory of the local filesystem, and its filename as a handle. Standard XML parsers are part of many operating systems now available. A DOM tree-based parser reads in the DTD and the XML file and converts the XML file into programming constructs accessible to the application logic. A document type declaration element must appear in the XML file to indicate the DTD to which the XML file complies and where to find it. It starts with \u201c<DOCTYPE\u201d and ends with \u201c>\u201d. The example given below is","<DOCTYPE OBJECT \u201cxml_directory\\object.dtd\u201d>.","Each XML file begins with a processing instruction that gives information to an XML processor in both the wireless device  and the network server . It starts with \u201c<?\u201d and ends with \u201c>\u201d. The example given below is <?XML VERSION=\u201c1.0\u201d?>.","An example of a complete XML file specifying a past recommendation received by the device  and the context in which it was received, is shown in the following TABLE A, which is the XML file  taken from the service history log  of .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0132","num":"0166"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00004","num":"00004"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"center"}},"thead":{"row":[{"entry":"TABLE A"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":"Example of an XML File Specifying a Past Recommendation"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":{}}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"203pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"<?XML VERSION=\u201c1.0\u201d?>"]},{"entry":[{},"<DOCTYPE PAST_RECOMMENDATIONS_OBJECT"]},{"entry":[{},"\u201cxml_directory\\object.dtd\u201d>."]},{"entry":[{},"< PAST_RECOMMENDATIONS_OBJECT>"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"189pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"<DESCRIPTION>Past Recommendation<\/DESCRIPTION>"]},{"entry":[{},"<PLACE-EVENTS>Museums<\/PLACE-EVENTS >"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"203pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"<PAST_RECOMMENDATIONS>"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"189pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"<NAME>"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"175pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"<HOSTNAME> HistoryMuseum.com<\/HOSTNAME>"]},{"entry":[{},"<SERVICENAME>\/exhibits.wml\/<\/SERVICE NAME>"]},{"entry":[{},"<VOICETAG>History<\/VOICETAG>"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"189pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"<\/NAME >"]},{"entry":[{},"<CONTEXT>"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"175pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"<LOCATION>"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"161pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"<LAT>38 degrees, 48 minutes North<\/LAT>"]},{"entry":[{},"<LON>76 degrees, 38 minutes West<\/LON>"]},{"entry":[{},"<ALT>150 meters<\/ALT >"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"175pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"<\/LOCATION >"]},{"entry":[{},"<DATE>2001:01:31<\/ DATE >"]},{"entry":[{},"<TIME>1200<\/TIME>"]},{"entry":[{},"<TEMPERATURE>10<\/TEMPERATURE >"]},{"entry":[{},"<METAVECTOR>FF12AB34CD<\/METAVECTOR>"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"189pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"<\/CONTEXT>"]},{"entry":[{},"<\/PAST_RECOMMENDATIONS>"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"203pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"<\/ PAST_RECOMMENDATIONS_OBJECT>"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}}]}}},"An abbreviated example of a corresponding document type definition (DTD) that specifies the allowed order, structure, and meaning of the tags for a past recommendation XML file, is shown in the following TABLE B. This is part of a file named \u201cobject.dtd\u201d stored in the local filesystem directory named \u201cxml_directory\u201d in both the wireless device  and the network server . It illustrates, for example, that the PAST RECOMMENDATIONS element must include the NAME of the past recommended service, and the CONTEXT in which it was recommended. The NAME element must include the HOSTNAME, the SERVICENAME, and the VOICETAG. The CONTEXT element must include the LOCATION, the DATE, the TIME, the TEMPERATURE, and the METAVECTOR containing the metadata vector  characterizing the context of device. The LOCATION element must include latitude LAT, the longitude LON, and the altitude ALT of the device.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0134","num":"0168"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00005","num":"00005"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"center"}},"thead":{"row":[{"entry":"TABLE B"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":"Abbreviated Example of a Document Type Definition (DTD)"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":{}}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"left"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":"<!ELEMENT PAST_RECOMMENDATIONS_OBJECT"},{"entry":"(DESCRIPTION, PLACE-EVENTS,"},{"entry":"PAST_RECOMMENDATIONS)>"},{"entry":"<!ELEMENT PAST_RECOMMENDATIONS (NAME, SERVICE,"},{"entry":"CONTEXT)>"},{"entry":"<!ELEMENT NAME (HOSTNAME, SERVICENAME, VOICETAG) >"},{"entry":"<!ELEMENT CONTEXT (LOCATION, DATE, TIME,"},{"entry":"TEMPERATURE, METAVECTOR)>"},{"entry":"<!ELEMENT LOCATION (LAT, LON, ALT)>"},{"entry":"In a complete DTD for the XML file of TABLE A, the data elements,"},{"entry":"such as"},{"entry":"\u201c<LAT>38 degrees, 48 minutes North<\/LAT>\u201d would be specified"},{"entry":"in the DTD as"},{"entry":"\u201c<!ELEMENT LAT (#PCDATA)>\u201d to indicate that these elements"},{"entry":"are present and contain only"},{"entry":"data, and do not contain other elements."},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}},"Great flexibility is provided by the use of XML to define the data to be included in the files of the five component databases of the service history log : [1] past recommendations and context, [2] past services used and context, [3] prestored service preferences, [4] special requested service requirements and [5] services and voice short-cuts (e.g., voice tags). These XML files can be readily identified, accessed, and their elements parsed to obtain the relevant data pertaining to each category. The meaning of the data is assured by its location in a known element type. The XML files, themselves, can be included in the messages exchanged between the wireless device  and the network server . This can be seen in the following discussion of the process  in the wireless device  of , to process the user's request or generally a request by the wireless device  for a recommendation by gathering XML files  of past received recommendations from the service history log  and pairing them with the current context of the device. The context-activity pair is then sent in a recommendation request message  to the network server .","In , the user selects the option [2] SEND PAST RECEIVED RECOMMENDATIONS. Then, in , the user selects the service category of \u201cGALLERIES\u201d from the service category menu . Then in , step , the wireless device  receives the user's input and flows to step  to get the current context. The process then flows to step  to access the service history log  for XML files  of past received recommendations. The process then flows to step  to apply privacy filter settings  to the data in the XML files . For example, step  can remove any occurrence of the user's name, the location of past recommendations, the date of past recommendations, the name of past service providers, and the like. Then, the recommendation request message  is assembled. The recommendation request message  includes the network address of the server , an op code \u201cRQ_REC_3\u201d that designates the message as a recommendation request message, and the operands. The operands include the current context expressed in a separate field as the metadata vector , the past recommendation and context XML file \u2032, and the prestored service preferences XML file . The wireless device  then sends recommendation request message  to the network server , as shown in .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0137","num":"0171"},"figref":["FIG. 4D","FIG. 4D"],"b":["140","515","100","140","216","515","216","240","166","240","138","515","192","242","227","515","244","231","515","231"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0138","num":"0172"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00006","num":"00006"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"center"}},"thead":{"row":[{"entry":"TABLE C"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":"Example of an XML File Specifying User Preferences"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":{}}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"189pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"<?XML VERSION=\u201c1.0\u201d?>"]},{"entry":[{},"< PREFERENCES_OBJECT>"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"175pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"<DESCRIPTION>Preferences<\/DESCRIPTION>"]},{"entry":[{},"<GALLERIES>Modern Art<\/GALLERIES>"]},{"entry":[{},"<MONUMENTS>Maritime<\/MONUMENTS>"]},{"entry":[{},"<MOVIES>Family Oriented<\/MOVIES>"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"189pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"<\/PREFERENCES_OBJECT>"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}}]}}},"Other user preferences objects or combinations thereof instead of those shown above in Table C may also be employed, e.g., NEWS, etc.","The process then flows to step  which updates usage statistics and stores them in a database. The process then flows to step  which assembles the recommendation response message \u2032 and transmits it back to the wireless device . The recommendation response message \u2032 includes the network address of the wireless device , the op code \u201cREC_3\u201d that designates the message as a recommendation response message, and the operands. The operands include the recommendations XML file .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0141","num":"0175"},"figref":["FIG. 4E","FIG. 4E","FIG. 3H","FIG. 3H","FIG. 3H","FIG. 4E","FIG. 3I","FIG. 4E"],"b":["100","214","515","214","254","112","254","250","515","250","250","227","110","256","102","250","102","256","100","257"]},"The process then flows to step  which optionally transfers the recommendations  to the application programs  for further processing. This same sequence of steps is automatically performed by the wireless device  and the network server  in response to the wireless device  automatically transmitting messages with a unique op code designating that the message is an automatically transmitted message.","The process then continues to step  in which the wireless device receives the user's voice command and identifies the service (from the recommended services) with a voice short-cut matching the user's voice command. At step , the wireless device accesses the identified service. For example, the user may say the voice command \u201cArts\u201d or any phonetic equivalent thereof to initiate access to the service Artsclub.com. As shown in , the voice short for the recommended services may be received from the server  as voice tags in an XML file.","The recommendations XML file  providing two digital service recommendations for galleries, is shown as the example XML file of TABLE D, as follows:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0145","num":"0179"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00007","num":"00007"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"center"}},"thead":{"row":[{"entry":"TABLE D"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":"Example of an XML File Specifying New Recommendations"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":{}}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"203pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"<?XML VERSION=\u201c1.0\u201d?>"]},{"entry":[{},"<DOCTYPE RECOMMENDATIONS_OBJECT"]},{"entry":[{},"\u201cxml_directory\\object.dtd\u201d>."]},{"entry":[{},"<RECOMMENDATIONS_OBJECT>"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"189pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"<DESCRIPTION>New Recommendations"]},{"entry":[{},"<\/DESCRIPTION>"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"203pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"<RECOMMENDATION>"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"189pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"<NAME>"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"175pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"<HOSTNAME>Artsclub.com<\/HOSTNAME>"]},{"entry":[{},"<SERVICENAME>[service name or extension]"]},{"entry":[{},"<\/SERVICENAME>"]},{"entry":[{},"<VOICETAG>Arts<\/VOICETAG>"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"189pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"<\/NAME>"]},{"entry":[{},"<LOCATION>"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"175pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"<ADDRESS>789 Eastern Blvd.<\/ADDRESS>"]},{"entry":[{},"<AREA>Southside <\/AREA>"]},{"entry":[{},"<LAT>(Lat)<\/LAT>"]},{"entry":[{},"<LON>Lon<\/LON>"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"189pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"<\/LOCATION>"]},{"entry":[{},"<AGES>Adult<\/AGES>"]},{"entry":[{},"<TIMES>10:00 \u2013 17:00<\/TIMES>"]},{"entry":[{},"<ADMISSION>$5.00 adult<\/ADMISSION>"]},{"entry":[{},"<DRESS>casual dress<\/DRESS>"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"203pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"<\/RECOMMENDATION>"]},{"entry":[{},"<RECOMMENDATION>"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"189pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"<NAME>"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"175pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"<HOSTNAME>Wayoutart.com<\/HOSTNAME>"]},{"entry":[{},"<SERVICENAME>[service name or extension]"]},{"entry":[{},"<\/SERVICENAME>"]},{"entry":[{},"<VOICETAG>Way Out<\/VOICETAG>"]},{"entry":[{},"<\/NAME>"]},{"entry":[{},"<LOCATION>"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"161pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"<ADDRESS>248 Circle Rd.<\/ADDRESS>"]},{"entry":[{},"<AREA>Mountains <\/AREA>"]},{"entry":[{},"<LAT>(Lat)<\/LAT>"]},{"entry":[{},"<LON>Lon<\/LON>"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"175pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"<\/LOCATION>"]},{"entry":[{},"<AGES>All Ages<\/AGES>"]},{"entry":[{},"<TIMES>10:00 \u2013 17:00<\/TIMES>"]},{"entry":[{},"<ADMISSION>$5.00 adult\/$2.50 child<\/ADMISSION>"]},{"entry":[{},"<DRESS>casual dress<\/DRESS>"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"189pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"<\/RECOMMENDATION>"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"203pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"<\/RECOMMENDATIONS_OBJECT>"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}}]}}},"An abbreviated example of a corresponding document type definition (DTD) that specifies the allowed order, structure, and meaning of the tags for a new recommendation XML file , is shown in the following TABLE E. This DTD is part of a file named \u201cobject.dtd\u201d stored in the local filesystem directory named \u201cxml_directory\u201d in both the wireless device  and the network server . It illustrates, for example, that new RECOMMENDATIONS sent to the wireless device  must include NAME and LOCATION of the service, but it does not include the complete CONTEXT. The NAME must include HOSTNAME, SERVICENAME, VOICETAG; and the LOCATION must include ADDRESS, AREA, LAT, LON. The DTD can provide for optional data in the XML file, as well, by including other elements, such as \u201c<ADMISSION>\u201d and designating them with an asterisk \u201c*\u201d so that they are not necessarily required in each XML file. The same XML tag parser in both the device recommendation algorithms  of the wireless device  and in the server recommendation algorithms  of the network server , can search the XML file for optional XML tag strings, such as the beginning tag \u201c<ADMISSION>\u201d and the ending tag \u201c<\/ADMISSION>\u201d, and if they are found, the XML tag parser gets the data located between the tags and passes it as \u201cadmission data\u201d to program subroutines that operate on admission data.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0147","num":"0181"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00008","num":"00008"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"center"}},"thead":{"row":[{"entry":"TABLE E"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":"Abbreviated Example of a DTD for New Recommendations"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":{}}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"left"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":"<!ELEMENT RECOMMENDATIONS_OBJECT (DESCRIPTION,"},{"entry":"RECOMMENDATION)>"},{"entry":"<!ELEMENT RECOMMENDATION (NAME, LOCATION,"},{"entry":"ADMISSION*)>"},{"entry":"<!ELEMENT NAME (HOSTNAME, SERVICENAME, VOICETAG)>"},{"entry":"<!ELEMENT LOCATION (ADDRESS, AREA, LAT, LON)>"},{"entry":"<!ELEMENT ADMISSION (#PCDATA)>"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}},"To enable the wireless device  to read the XML recommendations file  of TABLE D, a DOM tree-based parser in the device  reads in the DTD of TABLE E and the XML file  received from the network server . The DOM tree-based parser converts the XML file  into a hierarchical tree data structure enabling the data for each element to be accessible to the application programs  and recommendation algorithms .","This process also works in reverse in the network server  and enables the network server to construct the XML recommendations file . The DOM tree-based parser can read in the DTD of TABLE E and create the hierarchical tree data structure that serves as a template for the recommendation algorithm  in server . The recommendation algorithm  can then fill the nodes of the tree with recommendation data, such as ADDRESS data, AREA data, LAT data, and LON data. The DOM tree-based parser uses this newly created tree of data to create a corresponding XML recommendations file  of TABLE D, that conforms to the DTD of TABLE E. The recommendation algorithm  and the DOM tree-based parser, in effect, work together as a document generator. The Document Object Model (DOM) defines the characteristics of the XML file hierarchical tree data structure and an application programming interface (API) for manipulating it. A description of DOM is provided on the web site http:\/\/www.w3.org\/TR\/DOM-Level-2-Core\/. For additional information on the Document Object Model and the XML file hierarchical tree data structure, see the book by Elliotte Harold, et al, entitled , O'Reilly & Associates, 2001.","In an alternate embodiment, the wireless device uses the SAX event-driven parser and the network server  uses the DOM tree-based parser. This arrangement confers the advantage of requiring a smaller memory allocation for the SAX parser in the wireless device  and yet it provides the capability of the DOM parser to construct the XML recommendations files  in the network server .","In another alternate embodiment, Extensible Hypertext Markup Language (XHTML) can be used to display, if desired, in the wireless device  the recommendations and\/or voice tags of files  in step  which are received from the network server . XHTML is a hybrid between HTML and XML specifically designed for network device displays. A subset of XHTML is XHTML Basic, which defines a document type that is rich enough to be used for content authoring and precise document layout, yet can be shared with wireless mobile devices  with small screens, such as PDAs and cell phones. XHTML Basic is the mobile adaptation of XHTML, and includes everything in XHTML except those capabilities, such as frames, that are not appropriate for devices with small screens. XHTML Basic is an XML-based standard, which allows the automatic parsing and transcoding of content through the use of Extensible Stylesheet Language Transformations (XSLT), part of the XSL style sheet language for XML. XSLT provides a language for transforming XML documents into other XML documents. Using XSLT, a system can automatically transform the same XML content into multiple markup languages depending on the browser . Through such transformations, content can be created for one type device and automatically transformed to appear on another type device. For example, the network server  can create its recommendations once in XML and use XSLT to dynamically convert it to XHTML Basic and HTML for presentation on mobile wireless devices .","XHTML Basic can used with cascading style sheets (CSS) to describe how documents are presented on screen in the browser . Through the use of CSS, document authors can control the presentation of documents without sacrificing device independence. The use of well-known standard HTML tags avoids storing multiple versions of content. The network server  does not need to provide for extra overhead for transcoding required to prepare content for an array of different markup languages. CSS enables a document author to specify the presentation of an application once for each type of device, by means of a corresponding style sheet. If the presentation needs to be changed at any time, the change is made once in the style sheet and the modification is dynamically reflected throughout all the pages in the network server . CSS separates the content of the document from the presentation. This allows creating browser-specific versions of the same content simply by creating a corresponding style sheet for each browser type. Then, when a user requests a page at the wireless device , the network server  server identifies the requesting device and returns the content with a link to the appropriate style sheet. The style sheet is downloaded once and cached by the browser  for use with subsequent pages, which speeds the rendering of all pages received from the network server . CSS enables every aspect of the appearance of the document, such as positioning, fonts, text attributes, borders, margin alignment, and flow, to be defined in the style sheet. A change to any aspect of the document's appearance needs to be made only once. CSS also gives carriers greater control over the look and feel of the services they provide through their wireless portal. The operator can use XHTML Basic to define a default style sheet for all devices it supports, which will ensure a basic look and feel consistent for all devices .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0153","num":"0187"},"figref":["FIG. 4F","FIG. 4F","FIG. 4D","FIG. 4F"],"b":["140","521","100","100","140","216","521","216","240","166","240","138","521","192","243","235","521","244","231","521","246","248","521","100","521","100","250"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0154","num":"0188"},"figref":["FIG. 4G","FIG. 4E","FIG. 3I"],"b":["100","102","100","140","100"]},"Another example is when the user requests a location-based recommendation with the device . As discussed above,  shows the service history log  has accumulated data on past services used by the user of the device  and the contexts of those past services. The recommendation algorithms  automatically filters the service history log  and selects past services used by the user of the device  and the contexts of those past services, treating them as context-activity pairs. It is not necessary that these pairs of selected past services used and past contexts be related to the current context of the device . Two examples of these past pairs of selected past services used and past contexts are numbered [10] and [11] as follows:\n\n","The device  then sends these two automatically selected past pairs to the network server . The recommendation algorithms  filter out any reference to the user's ID before sending the pairs to the server. Then, device  then sends the current context \u201clocation=xyz3\u201d to the network server . The current context \u201cxyz3\u201d can represent the airport, for example. When the network server  receives the two example past pairs of selected past services used and past contexts, it stores them in its database . Past pairs such as these can be accumulated from many users as recommendation resource in the database  for use by many other users. Examples of nine other past pairs previously accumulated in database  from other users are:\n\n","The network server  compares the current context \u201clocation=xyz3\u201d the past contexts of past pairs previously accumulated in database . There are four matches:\n\n","The network server  sends a list of the four past services used (by others) taken from the list of the four matches, as four recommendations to the user's device . The four recommendations are:\n\n","The recommendation algorithms  in the user's device can filter these four recommendations received from the server, if desired. The filtered recommendations are then output, audibly or visually, to the user and one or more of these recommendations can be selected by voice command or other input mechanism. Alternately, the recommendations may be transparent to the user of the wireless device . The user's selected recommendations and the current context \u201clocation=xyz3\u201d are then stored in the service history log . For example, if the user selects by voice command or other user input means:\n\n","While the above discusses an example of location-based recommendations, recommendations may similarly be determined based on various user filter criterion which infer a context. As discussed herein, these factors may include temporal variables (e.g., time, date, day of the week, daytime\/nightime, etc.), device settings (e.g., profile of the wireless device or the user), and so forth.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0161","num":"0216"},"figref":["FIG. 4H","FIG. 3A"],"b":["100","112","264"]},"The wireless device  then accesses recommendations from database corresponding to a current context at step , and identifies database recommendations similar to past service used at step . At step , the wireless device  sorts similar database recommendations by user's service preferences.","Thereafter, at step , the wireless device  audibly or visibly outputs the service recommendations to the user. The process continues at step  with the wireless device  receiving a voice command (or other user input command). In the event of a voice input, the wireless device  performs voice recognition on the voice command to identify the service (from the subset of recommended services) with a voice short-cut matching the voice command, at step . At step , the wireless device  accesses the identified service. Further browsing of the service or control of the device via multi-modal user input can be processed at step .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0164","num":"0219"},"figref":"FIG. 4I","b":["100","280","100"]},"At step , the wireless device  receives a voice command from the user. At step , the wireless device  compares the voice command to the voice short-cuts of the recommended services. At step , the wireless device determines whether there are more than one service matches or only one service match. If there is only one service match, then that service is accessed. If there is no match or the matching probability of all the voice short-cuts are below are threshold, then the voice command is ignored and the wireless device  is reset to receive the voice command again. The threshold may be adjusted to adjust the sensitivity of the decoding, as desired.","Otherwise, if a plurality of services are matched, then in one alternative the process proceeds to step  in which a service is selected from the matching services according to the priority of the services. For example, the matching service with the highest priority is selected. At step , the wireless device  accesses the selected service.","Alternatively, the process may proceed to step  in which an indication of the matching services is outputted to the user. The indication may take the form of the voice short-cuts for the matching services. At step , the wireless device  receives and processes the user selection (e.g., by voice\/key command), and at step  accesses the selected service.","Turning now to , a functional block diagram is shown of the wireless device , with its various components and programs. The memory  of the wireless device  is connected by means of the bus  to the keypad , the radio , the speaker , the microphone , the sensor interface , the central processor , and the display  which displays the browser . The input and output devices may be physically connected to other components of the wireless device , such as the processor across the bus , or at least one of the input device (e.g., the voice input device) and the output device (e.g., the display device) may interact with the processor or other components of the wireless device  across a wireless short-range link. For example, the input device and the output device may be different ones.","The memory  stores the context-activity pair and service history log , which is shown in greater detail in a first example in . The memory  also stores the current context state  which includes a description of the environment of the wireless device  at the present time. As will be discussed further below, the characterization of the environment of the wireless device , may involve one or more variables (e.g., location, temporal variables, user and device profile, sensory input(s), etc.) and may include generation of the metadata vector  which includes information relating to the sensor signals input from the sensors at the current time. Also included in the memory  are recommendation algorithms , voice recognition engine , voice response unit , voice tag generator  and WAP client program , some of which will be discussed further below. Memory  also stores other information, such as the user or device profiles.","Context Sensitive Web Services","In addition or alternative to the context inference techniques (such as based simply on temporal variables, position variables, device or user profile, etc.) employed in the recommendation operation, the wireless device  may be configured with a more complex context determination scheme, referred herein as sensitive web services feature, to enable a mobile phone or wireless PDA to use context inference techniques to sense the user's environment and in response, to provide recommendations to the user that is appropriate to the user's environment and that can be accessed by the user's voice command or other form of user input. In the distributed network embodiment, the feature offloads some of the computationally intensive computing necessary in context inference techniques, recommendation techniques and\/or voice recognition techniques from the mobile user's wireless device to a server and to web sites on the Internet.","The context sensitive web services feature may also maintain a personal profile of the mobile user's personal preferences in an online server or web site. The mobile user is provided with the ability to control access by application programs in the wireless device, to the user's private data. The context sensitive web services feature provide the mobile user with the ability to control any access to the user's profile by the online server or web site, particularly where processing is offloaded from the wireless device to other network elements.","The mobile user's wireless device is equipped with a context inference engine for providing an awareness of the mobile user's context to application programs, including third party applications. Since the processing power and storage capacity is limited in typical wireless devices, the computational load and storage requirements of the context inference engine are distributed to a context inference server capable of processing the context data. This equally holds true in various embodiments in which other processing tasks, such as service recommendation and voice recognition to enable voice-based access to recommended services, are offloaded to network elements.","The feature also enables the mobile user to control which application programs in the wireless device are granted access to the user's private context information. A privacy control block in the wireless device grants or revokes access by application programs to the private context information, based on the mobile user's preferences stored in a privacy profile. The same privacy control and privacy profile is extended to the context inference server, thereby enabling the extension of the user's privacy control to any web server connected to the context inference server. The feature thus enables building an infrastructure for context sensitive applications and services within the wireless device and the server, while providing to the mobile user control over the privacy user's context information.","The Recommendation Web Services menu displayed by the browser  in  is rendered by the WAP client program under the control of the application programs , which are shown in .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0176","num":"0231"},"figref":"FIG. 5","b":["100","100","100","122","124","125","126","128","132","134","138"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0177","num":"0232"},"figref":"FIG. 5","b":["202","100","204","104","206","107","103","208","210","212","202","210","202","108","136","150","152","154","156","158","162","136","138","106","202","1"]},"If sufficient computational power and storage capacity are available in the wireless device , further processing of the metadata vector  can take place in the context inference engine , toward the objective of producing the result of an inferred current context. However, if at some point in the computation, the context inference engine  needs the processing power or storage capacity available at the network server , the metadata vector  is sent from the wireless device  to the context inference engine  in the network server  of . The context inference engine  in the network server  can perform the required processing on the metadata vector  and then return it to the context inference engine  in the wireless device  for completion of the an inferred current context result. Alternately, the context inference engine  in the network server  can complete the required processing and then return the resultant inferred current context to the wireless device .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0179","num":"0234"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 1"],"b":["122","124","125","126","128","132","134"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0180","num":"0235"},"figref":"FIG. 5","b":["122","124","125","126","128","132","134","136","154","156","158","162","154"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0181","num":"0236"},"figref":"FIG. 5","b":"100"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0182","num":"0237"},"figref":"FIG. 5","b":["154","136","136","150","150","152","155","157","159","161","150","150","152"]},"In , the Context Inference Engine  in the wireless device  makes inferences from all the sensor inputs based on where the wireless device is located by the mobile user. For instance the inferred current context of the device  may be \u201cIN THE USER'S POCKET\u201d, when a certain set of sensors input a specific combination of signals having a specific value range. As an example, the resulting inference of the current context by the Context Interference Engine  could be expressed in XML language format as follows:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0184","num":"0239"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00009","num":"00009"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"left"}},"thead":{"row":{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":"<Context Inference Engine in Device>"}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"203pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"<device placement> pocket <\/ device placement>"]},{"entry":[{},"<User Interface state> sleep mode <\/User Interface state>"]},{"entry":[{},"<device location> in elevator 5 building 1 floor 2<\/ device location>"]},{"entry":[{},"<API active actions> meeting starting on floor 3 room 322 <\/API"]},{"entry":[{},"active actions>"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"left"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":"<\/Context Inference Engine in Device >"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}},"The Context Inference Engine  in the wireless device  can perform the context inference process with any of several methods. Different input information from the sensors can be weighted according to their relative value of importance appropriate for each environment condition or situation to be analyzed. Each sensor has it's own weight value. Alternatively, the weight values for each sensor for each environment condition can be learned from training sessions using, for example artificial neural networks (ANNs), self-organizing maps (SOMs), decision trees, fuzzy rule-based systems, or model-based systems such as Hidden Markov Modeling (HMM). Combinations of two or more of the alternate methods can be used, depending on the application.","The Context Inference Engine  can continuously adapt its weights through adaptive and continuous learning methods, where the user teaches the wireless device  new environment conditions and names them. Hidden Markov Modeling (HMM) can be used, for example, to implement an adaptive and continuous learning method for the Context Inference Engine . Alternately, the wireless device  can be programmed to spontaneously recognize a changed scene by comparing it with known scenes. The user can teach the wireless device new environmental conditions and name them, using the adaptive and automatic learning capability of neural networks. Adaptive and continuous learning methods are computationally intensive and are appropriate candidates to place on the network server , which assists the wireless device , as discussed below.","The field of context inference has applied the principles of automated pattern recognition to processing diverse types sensor inputs. Speech recognition has been applied to processing speech signals and handwriting recognition has been applied to processing hand force and accelerometer signals. In the field of robotics, image recognition has been applied to processing digitized still and motion images, mechanical location recognition has been applied to processing laser and sonar range finder signals, and mechanical motion recognition to has been applied to processing inertial, acceleration, and heading signals. In the field of prosthetic devices, touch recognition has been applied to processing tactile sensor signals. In the field of medicine, automated diagnostic programs recognize various pathologies by processing bioelectric field signals, as well as the more traditional pulse, respiration rate, and body temperature signals. These diverse sensor signal recognition processes have the common feature that an initial training stage is conducted where sampled signals are equated with a statistical model for those signals.","The principles of automated pattern recognition for these diverse sensor inputs are exemplified by the techniques for recognizing speech patterns. A common technique used in speech recognition is Hidden Markov Modeling (HMM). The term \u201cHidden\u201d refers to the probabilistic and not directly observable events which underlie a speech signal. HMM speech recognition systems typically use realizations of phonemes which are statistical models of phonetic segments having parameters that are estimated from a set of training examples. Models of words are made by chaining or linking appropriate statistical models of phonetic segments. The statistical models serve as standards which are to be matched with the unknown voice signals to be recognized.","Recognition of unknown voice signals requires sampling and digitizing the speaker's spoken phonemes. These digitized phonemes are then processed into data suitable for analysis by a speech coder. The data is then compared with the standard statistical models of phonemes. The most likely matches are then the inferred speech recognition result.","Recognition consists of finding the most likely path through the set of word models for the input speech signal. HMM speech-dependent recognition decoding systems first need to be trained through an iterative process. The system must be exposed to training examples or words of a particular speaker's voice. A training word is analyzed to generate a framed sequence of acoustic parameters or statistical models. A valid or \u201cgood\u201d recognition occurs when the most likely path through the set of word models for the training word results in recognizing the correct training word.","Some useful references discussing the principles of Hidden Markov Models are: Rabiner, L. R., \u201cA tutorial on hidden Markov models and selected applications in speech recognition\u201d, , volume 77, number 2, 1989, pages 257-286. Rabiner, L. R. and Juang, B. H., \u201cAn introduction to hidden Markov models\u201d, , January 1986, pages 4-15.","Fraser, Andrew M. and Dimitriadis, Alexis, \u201cForecasting Probability Densities by Using Hidden Markov Models with Mixed States\u201d, , Addison-Wesley, editor Weigend, Andreas S. and Gershenfeld, Neil A., 1994.","Charniak, Eugene, , MIT Press, Cambridge, Mass., 1993.","To illustrate how Hidden Markov Modeling (HMM) can be extended beyond speech recognition, an example is given here for touch recognition. In the training stage for touch recognition, tactile sensor signals are input from touching a tactile transducer to a rough texture, such as for example sandpaper. The tactile sensor signals are transformed into a statistical model of the input signal. The statistical model is stored as a standard in a computer memory under the handle \u201crough_texture\u201d. To expand the range of sensor signals that are included in the model for \u201crough_texture\u201d, several training sessions can be conducted, each with a different direction or pressure for touching the sandpaper, resulting in several different samples of the statistical model. The set of samples of the statistical model are stored as a standard under the handle \u201crough_texture\u201d. Other training sessions are conducted with a smooth texture, such as glass. The tactile sensor signals input from touching the tactile transducer to the smooth texture are transformed into a statistical model of the input signal and stored as a standard under the handle \u201csmooth_texture\u201d. Later, in the recognition mode, an unknown object is touched by the tactile transducer resulting in a sample tactile sensor signal. Recognition of unknown touch signals requires sampling and digitizing the touch transducer's signals. These digitized sensor signals are then processed into metadata. The metadata is then compared with the standard statistical models of \u201crough_texture\u201d and \u201csmooth_texture\u201d. The most likely match is then the inferred touch recognition result.","Combinations of two or more types of sensors can have their signals combined into an input metadata vector that characterizes a composite sampling event. The composite sampling event can be recognized using the principles of Hidden Markov Modeling (HMM). An example composite sampling event can be the state of the health and fatigue of the user of a wireless device . For example, a wireless device  can be equipped with a tactile transducer which outputs tactile sensor signals in response to the hand force and pulse rate of the user who is gripping the wireless device . The wireless device  can be equipped with a temperature sensor which outputs body temperature signals in response to the user gripping the wireless device . Hidden Markov Modeling (HMM) can be used to recognize a force\/temperature input metadata vector that characterizes the combination of the hand force and the temperature sensor signals resulting from a sampling event. A composite sampling event in this example can have an extended duration so that the force sensor can transduce the pulse rate of the user over a period of time.","In the training stage, the tactile sensor signals and the force sensor signals are output while the user is in a condition of good health and resting normally. The tactile sensor signals and the force sensor signals are combined into a force\/temperature input metadata vector which is transformed into a statistical model of the input signals. The statistical model is stored as a standard in the computer memory of the wireless device  under the handle \u201cgood health_resting_normally\u201d. Other training sessions are conducted with the user in different states of health and fatigue. For example, the user may be training the wireless device  while working late at night at the office. The tactile sensor signals and the force sensor signals resulting from holding the wireless device , are combined into a force\/temperature input metadata vector for the user in the condition of being in good health but fatigued. The force\/temperature input metadata vector is transformed into a statistical model of the input signals and stored as a standard under the handle \u201cgood_health_fatigued\u201d.","Later, in the recognition mode, as the user holds the wireless device , the tactile sensor signals and the force sensor signals are sampled. The Health\/Fatigue_State recognition consists of sampling and digitizing the touch transducer's signals. These digitized sensor signals are then processed into a metadata vector. The metadata vector is then compared with the standard statistical models of handle \u201cgood_health_resting_normally\u201d and \u201cgood_health_fatigued\u201d. The most likely match is then the inferred touch recognition result.","In accordance with the feature, this recognition result can be used by the recommendation engine in the wireless device  or the server , to determine recommended services from a plurality of services. For example, the recommendation engine can process the recognition result, and in response, identify a subset of recommended services according to the health state or other inferred state of the user. One problem with automatic recognition programs is that they are either relatively large or they call databases that are relatively large in comparison to the memory capacity of the wireless device .","Returning to , the relationship is shown between the network server , the Universal Description, Discovery and Integration (UDDI) registry , and a plurality of web site servers . UDDI is a defacto standard for an Internet-based registry. The UDDI registry  enables the network server  to discover new web sites for services and businesses on the Internet. Once such services and businesses are identified by the UDDI registry  to the network server , then the server  must apply the mobile user's cached privacy profile  in , in order to prevent unauthorized access of the user's private data by application programs on the newly discovered web sites.","Voice tag registry , in a similar fashion, may enable discovery of voice tags, or generally voice short-cuts, for various digital services on the Internet.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0201","num":"0256"},"figref":"FIG. 5A","b":["100","140","140","360","100","362","140","140","366","100","368","140","100"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0202","num":"0257"},"figref":"FIG. 6","b":["140","402","404","144","146","406","410","402","410"]},"In , the functional components of an exemplary network server  are shown arranged as an object model. The object model groups the object oriented software programs into components that perform the major functions and applications in network server . The object model for memory  of network server  employs a three-tier architecture that includes presentation tier , infrastructure objects partition , and business logic tier . The object model further divides business logic tier  into two partitions, application objects partition  and data objects partition .","Presentation tier  retains the programs that manage the device interfaces to network server . In , presentation tier  includes network interface . A suitable implementation of presentation tier  may use Java servlets to interact with WAP protocol gateway  via the hypertext transfer protocol (\u201cHTTP\u201d). The Java servlets ran within a request\/response server that manages the exchange of messages between WAP protocol gateway  and network server . A Java servlet is a Java program that runs within a Web server environment. A Java servlet takes a request as input, parses the data, performs logic operations, and issues a response back to WAP protocol gateway . The Java runtime platform pools the Java servlets to simultaneously service many requests. Network interface  accepts request messages from WAP protocol gateway  and passes the information in the request to visit object  for further processing. Visit object  passes the result of that processing to network interface  for transmission back to the WAP protocol gateway . Network interface  may also use network adapter  to exchange data with another user device.","Infrastructure objects partition  retains the programs that perform administrative and system functions on behalf of business logic tier . Infrastructure objects partition  includes operating system , and an object oriented software program component for database server interface , and system administrator interface .","Business logic tier  in  includes multiple instances of visit object , \u2032, \u2033. A separate instance of visit object  exists for each network interface  session. Each visit object  is a stateful session object that includes a persistent storage area from initiation through termination of the session, not just during a single interaction or method call. The persistent storage area retains information associated with the session.","When WAP protocol gateway  sends a metadata vector  message to network server , the message is sent to network interface  to invoke a method that creates visit object  and stores connection information as a state in visit object . Visit object  may, in turn, invoke a method in context inference engine  application  to perform a context inference on the metadata vector and return a current context result.","When WAP protocol gateway  sends a privacy control data \u2032 message to network server , the message is sent to network interface  to invoke a method that creates visit object  and stores connection information as a state in visit object . Visit object  may, in turn, invoke a method in privacy control  application  to update the cached privacy profile .","When WAP protocol gateway  sends a context-activity pair message  to network server , the message is sent to network interface  to invoke a method that creates visit object  and stores connection information as a state in visit object . Visit object  may, in turn, invoke a method in context-activity pair recommendations application . Application  compares four types of activities in the context-activity pairs received from the wireless device , with the recommendations in the database : [1] past recommendations, [2] past services used, [3] prestored service preferences, and [4] special requested service requirements. Application  may, in turn make a method call to context-activity recommendations usage statistics application .","When WAP protocol gateway  sends a metadata vector message of the user's voice command to network server , the message is sent to network interface  to invoke a method that creates visit object  and stores connection information as a state in visit object . Visit object  may, in turn, invoke a method in voice recognition engine  application  to perform voice recognition on the metadata vector and return a selected service indication identifying the recommend service corresponding to the user's voice command.","A description of server programming applications developed with Enterprise Java Beans is provided in the book by Ed Roman entitled , published by John Wiley and Sons, 1999. A description of the use of an object model in the design of server applications is provided in the book by Matthew Reynolds entitled -, Wrox Press Inc., 2000, (ISBN: 1861003986). Java servlets and the development of web site servers is described in the book by Duane K. Fields, et al. entitled , published by Manning Publications Co., 2000.","Example Wireless Application Protocol (WAP) Embodiment","The user's Wireless Application Protocol (WAP)-enabled portable wireless device  accesses a small file called a deck which is composed of several smaller pages called cards which are small enough to fit into the display area of the device's browser . The small size of the browser  and the small file sizes accommodate the low memory constraints of the portable wireless device  and the low-bandwidth constraints of a wireless network . The cards are written in the Wireless Markup Language (WML) which is specifically devised for small screens and one-hand navigation without a keyboard. The WML language is scaleable from two-line text displays on the browser  of a cellular telephone, up through large LCD screens found on smart phones and personal communicators. The cards written in the WML language can include programs written in WMLScript, which is similar to JavaScript, but makes minimal demands on memory and CPU power of the device  because it does not contain many of the unnecessary functions found in other scripting languages.","The Nokia WAP Client Version 2.0 is a software product containing the components necessary to implement the WAP client on the wireless device . These components include a Wireless Markup Language (WML) Browser, WMLScript engine, Push Subsystem, and Wireless Protocol Stack. The Nokia WAP Client is a source-code product that can port and integrate into wireless devices such as mobile phones and wireless PDAs. Application programs  stored in the wireless device  interact with the WAP Client to implement a variety of communications applications. Details of the Nokia WAP Client Version 2.0 can be found in the online paper: 2.0, Nokia Internet Communications, 2000, www.nokia.com\/corporate\/wap.","The WAP Client includes the Wireless Public Key infrastructure (PKI) feature, providing the infrastructure and the procedures required for authentication and digital signatures for servers and mobile clients. Wireless PKI is a certificate-based system that utilizes public\/private key pairs associated with each party involved in a mobile transaction. Wireless Identity Module (WIM) is a security token feature of the WAP Client, which includes security features, such as the public and private keys and service certificates, needed for user authentication and digital signatures. Additionally, it has the ability to perform cryptographic operations to encrypt and decrypt messages.","The WAP protocol gateway  links the Internet  and the wireless network . The WAP protocol gateway  includes the Wireless Public Key infrastructure (PKI) feature to help provide a secure Internet connection to the wireless device . The WAP protocol gateway  enables the WAP-enabled wireless device  to access Internet applications such as headline news, exchange rates, sports results, stock quotes, online travel and banking services, or to download distinctive ringing tones.","The user's WAP-enabled portable wireless device  communicates with the wireless access point  and can exchange messages for distances up to several kilometers. The types of wireless networks  supported by the WAP standard include Cellular Digital Packet Data (CDPD), Code-Division Multiple Access (CDMA), Global System for Mobile Communications (GSM), Time Division Multiple Access (TDMA), GPRS, 3G-Broadband, and the like.","The overall process of communication between the user's WAP-enabled wireless device (the client) , through the WAP protocol gateway , to the server  resembles the way Web pages are served on the Internet using the HyperText Transfer Protocol (HTTP) or World Wide Web protocol:\n\n","In , the protocol gateway  includes a WAP protocol stack organized into five different layers. An application layer is the wireless application environment, which executes portable applications and services. A session layer is the wireless session protocol, which supplies methods for the organized exchange of content between client\/server applications. A transaction layer is the wireless transaction protocol, which provides methods for performing reliable transactions. A security layer is the wireless transport layer security, which provides authentication, privacy, and secure connections between applications. The transport layer is the wireless datagram protocol, which shelters the upper layers from the unique requirements of the diverse wireless network protocols, such as CDPD, CDMA, GSM, etc. Additional information about the WAP standard and the WAP protocol stack can be found in the book by Charles Arehart, et al. entitled, , published by Wrox Press Ltd., 2000 (ISBN 1-861004-04-1).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0220","num":"0281"},"figref":"FIG. 7A","b":["100","702","100","704","706","100","720","100","708","100"]},"If the user does not wish to voice tag the service, the process proceeds to access the service at step . If the user desires to voice tag the service, the process proceeds to step  and requests and receives a user input corresponding to the desired voice tag. For speech independent voice recognition, this user input may simply be a word or phrase inputted by key command. At step , the wireless device  processes the input data to computer readable data suitable for use in comparison in voice recognition processing. At step , the wireless device  associates the inputted word or phrase, i.e., voice short-cut, to the service or service address. At step , the wireless device  stores this association in a database, such as the service history log  or a dictionary, to enable future use thereof as a voice short-cut to the service. The process then continues to step  in which the service is accessed. The wireless device may further at a step  send the association to the network server  to update the server on the new association.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0222","num":"0283"},"figref":"FIG. 7B","b":["730","100","732","100","734","736","100","738","100","740","100","110","742","100","140"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0223","num":"0284"},"figref":"FIG. 7C","b":"750"},"Voice Short-Cut Example #1","An operational example of wireless device  employing, locally or remotely, a service recommendation subsystem in combination with voice recognition subsystem is discussed below with reference to . A user initiates a browsing operation via the browser  to trigger a recommendation process to be performed locally at the wireless device  or remotely at network server . In either case, a subset of recommended digital services are determined from a plurality of digital services (which may be quite a large set) based on user-related filter criteria, such as a current context. The subset of recommended services reflects those services the user would likely desire, preferably with a high probability, in the current context.","For instance, a user, such as a business person, operating his or her wireless device  between 11:00 AM-2:00 PM or on Wall St. or during the daytime or at a temperature between 15\u00b0 C.-25\u00b0 C. or at a speed between 0-50 kph or a combination thereof may be provided with the following recommended services:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0226","num":"0287"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00010","num":"00010"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"203pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"Host: wap.yahooMobile.com"]},{"entry":[{},"Services (address):"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"189pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"world news (\/news\/world.wml)"]},{"entry":[{},"business news (\/news\/business.wml)"]},{"entry":[{},"Fl news (\/sports\/fl\/news.wml)"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"203pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"Host: wap.business.com"]},{"entry":[{},"Services (address):"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"189pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"on-line news (\/online.wml)"]},{"entry":[{},"main news (\/index.wml)"]},{"entry":[{},"stock quotes: Nokia (\/stocks\/quotes.pl?ticker=NOK)"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"203pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"Host: wap.fl-forum.com"]},{"entry":[{},"Services (address):"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"189pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"news (\/news.wml)"]},{"entry":[{},"results (\/results.wml)"]},{"entry":[{},"table (\/table.wml)"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"203pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"Host: wap.weatherOnLine.com:"]},{"entry":[{},"Services:"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"189pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"Helsinki tomorrow (\/forecast.pl?city=Helsinki&day=+1)"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}}]}},"br":{},"b":"102"},"One example of such a menu is shown in  in which both the host and service names are displayed for selection by the user. Another example of such a menu is shown in  in which  shows an initial menu of the host names of the recommended services and  shows a subsequent menu of the service name of the selected host name. In this example, the user may access the home page of a service site by an initial voice command, and then browse the service extensions of the site through addition voice commands. Such an arrangement provides a multi-layered voice-access arrangement to reduce further the range of voice short-cuts to be processed, as well as providing multi-modal input functionality in initial service access and subsequent browsing.","The voice recognition can be performed without voice tags or optionally the voice recognition task can be made easier by pre-loading voice tags from the appropriate services. Voice tags can be used by the voice recognition engine to identify the spoken host and service commands. The number of alternatives presented to the voice recognition engine by the recommendation sub-system depends on the capability of the voice recognition engine. In some cases, the alternatives presented to the voice recognition engine could include all the services the user has ever visited. The recommendation sub-system may also attach prior service access probabilities for each service.","Voice Short-Cut Example #2","In a further example, a voice command may match multiple voice short-cuts to different recommended services. In such a case, wireless device  may provide the user with a list of matching short-cuts from which the user can select the correct short-cut to access the desired service.","For instance, a user operating a wireless device  has been actively checking stock quotes for the following three stocks: Nokia, Ericsson, Motorola. The voice short-cuts for these prior services may be the following (or possibly the corresponding phonetic expression):\n\n","Thereafter, the user may select a correct or desired alternative from the list of matching short-cuts, and obtains the selected service. The user may make the selection via voice command, key command or other well-known user input command. For example, the user may employ the voice command, \u201cNokia\u201d or \u201cYahoo stock quote Nokia\u201d, to obtain the stock quote for Nokia from the Yahoo site, or may enter a key command corresponding to desired service from the list.","In another example, the user has been actively checking, via the wireless device , the following web pages:\n\n","Alternatively, if the user inputs a voice command, \u201cYahoo news\u201d, the wireless device  may output, visually or audibly, a list of three matching short-cuts to the user as follows:\n\n","In another alternative, if the user inputs a voice command, \u201cnews business\u201d, the wireless device  may output, visually or audibly, a list of two matching short-cuts to the user as follows:\n\n","Although a specific embodiment of the feature has been disclosed, it will be understood by those having skill in the art that changes can be made to the specific embodiment without departing from the spirit and the scope of the feature.","Although specific embodiments of the invention have been disclosed, it will be understood by those having skill in the art that changes can be made to that the specific embodiments without departing from the spirit and the scope of the invention."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 2A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 2B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 2C"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 2D"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 3A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIGS. 3B and 3C"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIGS. 3D and 3E"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIGS. 3F and 3G"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIGS. 3H and 3I"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 3J"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIGS. 3K and 3L"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":["110","227","235"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 4A","b":["100","140"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 4B","b":["140","100","100"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 4C","b":["100","140"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":"FIG. 4D","b":["140","100","100"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":"FIG. 4E","b":"100"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIG. 4F","b":["140","100","100"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":"FIG. 4G","b":"100"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":"FIG. 4H","b":"100"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":"FIG. 4I","b":"100"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":"FIG. 5","b":"100"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":"FIG. 5A","b":["100","140","140"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"figref":"FIG. 6","b":"140"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0034"},"figref":"FIG. 7A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"figref":"FIG. 7B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0037","num":"0036"},"figref":"FIG. 7C"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
