---
title: Graphical tuning bar
abstract: A system and method for displaying a user interface in the form of a program guide that assists users in determining and selecting television viewing options and related services is described. The guide is a viewable display constructed at receiver stations based on data periodically received via a Direct-to-Home (DTH) satellite communication or other system. The guide display presentation can include still pictures, live video broadcasts, still graphics, moving graphics, webpages, graphics and “buttons” that are utilized by the viewer to perform a variety of operations, including determining program availability, selecting programming or services, and launching to related information, programming or services. A tuning bar is automatically scaled to seamlessly represent all programs that a given user subscribes to. The user moves a graphic slider along the tuning bar to quickly and intuitively select a current program.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07765568&OS=07765568&RS=07765568
owner: The DIRECTV Group, Inc.
number: 07765568
owner_city: El Segundo
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20020808
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["RELATED APPLICATION","I. BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","II. SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","IV. DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENT","A. SYSTEM OVERVIEW","B. GRAPHICAL USER INTERFACE (GUI)","1. The Main Menu","2. The Page Template for Pages Underlying the Main Menu","3. Pages and Links Underlying the Main Menu","4. Tuning Interface","C. RECEIVER STATION GENERALLY","D. RECEIVER STATION ARCHITECTURE","E. DATA PACKETS","F. AUDIO\/VIDEO PROCESSING","G. DATA PROCESSING","1. Protocol Stack\/Broadcast File Download Protocol (BFDP)","2. Broadcast Address Resolution Protocol (BARP)","H. SDP+ RECORDS","I. WEBCAST","J. CONCLUSION"],"p":["This application is a continuation-in-part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09\/238,330, entitled \u201cMethod and Apparatus for Transmitting, Receiving, Organizing, and Selecting Data,\u201d filed on Jan. 27, 1999 now U.S. Pat. No. 6,522,342.","A. Field of the Invention","The present invention relates in general to entertainment broadcast systems that transmit and receive a wide variety of video, audio, software and other types of data. More particularly, the invention relates to a multi-channel broadcast system that includes a graphical tuning bar that facilitates a user's selection of various programs and services.","B. Description of Related Art","The use of electronic communications media to provide access to large amounts of video, audio, textual and data information is becoming more frequent. For example, the public switched telephone network (PSTN) is routinely used to transmit low speed digital data to and from personal computers. Cable television infrastructure is used to carry, via coaxial cable, analog or digital cable television signals, and may also be used to provide high speed Internet connections. In general, cable television infrastructures include many head end or transmission stations that receive programming from a variety of sources, then distribute the programming to local subscribers via a coaxial cable network. Large Direct-to-Home (DTH) satellite communications systems transmit directly to viewers over one hundred fifty audio and video channels, along with very high speed data. DTH systems typically include a transmission station that transmits audio, video and data to subscriber stations, via satellite.","One particularly advantageous DTH satellite system is the digital satellite television distribution system utilized by the DIRECTV\u00ae broadcast service. This system transports digital data, digital video and digital audio to a viewer's home via high-powered Ku-band satellites. The various program providers send programming material to transmission stations. If the programming is received in analog form, it is converted to digital. The transmission stations compress the digital video\/audio programming (if needed), encrypt the video and\/or audio, and format the information into data \u201cpackets\u201d that are multiplexed with other data (e.g., electronic program guide data) into a plurality of bitstreams, which include identifying headers. Each packetized bitstream is modulated on a carrier and transmitted to a satellite, where it is relayed back to earth and received and decoded by the viewer's receiver station. The receiver station includes a satellite antenna and an integrated receiver\/decoder (IRD). The IRD may be connected to appropriate output devices, typically including a video display.","In general, DTH satellite(s) broadcast on several frequencies from multiple transponders at differing polarizations (e.g., left and right hand circular polarization), and each transponder bitstream includes the video and audio data packets (in a compressed format) for several different programs (or \u201cviewer channels\u201d). For example, transponder ONE may broadcast the digital video and audio data packets for ESPN, TNT, AMC, A&E, E!, STARZ and USA, in a statistically multiplexed fashion. Satellites or other distribution systems which require separate input processing (e.g., satellites at two separated locations requiring different antennas) may also be used. Accordingly, in order to receive a desired viewer channel, the receiver station must know the transponder frequency and the polarization at which the desired signal information is being broadcast by the satellite, along with the identifying header information for those data packets on that transponder that relate to the desired program to permit its isolation from the multiplexed bitstream.","Each satellite transponder broadcasts a program guide data stream, which typically includes not only broadcast schedule data, but also the aforementioned information that the receiver station needs in order to tune to a particular channel. The program guide data stream is broadcast on all satellite transponders so that channel selection information is always available to the IRD regardless of the channel to which the IRD is tuned.","The data packets are distinguished from one another by their header information, which is referred to as the packet's \u201cservice channel ID\u201d (SCID). For example, if a viewer instructs the IRD to display ESPN, the IRD, via the tuning information in the program guide data stream, determines the transponder frequency and polarization at which the ESPN programming is broadcast, along with the SCIDs of the data packets that are needed to generate and display the video, audio, and data content of the ESPN program.","The scheduling data in the program guide data packets also provide channel and program-attribute information that is used by the IRD to construct and output as a viewable display (which may be a full or a partial screen) a text-based listing of programming channels, times, titles, descriptions, ratings, etc. In operation, a program guide display is typically presented as a grid having channels listed along the left, times across the top, and program titles shown within the grid squares. Users can scroll through the grid, either up and down (by channel) or to the left and right (by time). Channels can be selected by inputting the channel number directly using the number keys on a user's remote control, or channels may be selected from the program guide display by highlighting and selecting a currently broadcast program that is listed in the grid. In either case, the IRD tunes to the chosen channel by accessing the channel's transponder (frequency), polarization, and SCID information denoted by the program guide data stream.","An extension of known IRD equipment is a PC-based system that allows users to receive, directly into their PC's, the same digital video, audio, and related information signals received in conventional DTH systems. The receiver station in this PC-based system includes a local satellite receiver dish similar to that of a conventional IRD system, but the IRD functions are implemented within the PC architecture through the use of one or more circuit boards that are inserted into the PC. The decoded outputs from these boards are displayed on the PC's monitor, or may be output to a conventional video display (e.g., a television set) and\/or other mass storage medium such as magnetic tape, digital video disk (DVD), optical or magnetic disk, video recorder (VCR), etc. Because the receiver station includes a personal computer, a large number of additional data and software-related services can also be downloaded directly to the PC, thereby offering a variety of services, including broadcast programming, pay-per-view events, audio programming, data services, webcasting, software downloads and other data or software-related services.","While known program guides have advantages, there is still room for improvement, particularly when considering the large number of data, software, video, audio, pay-per-view and other programming services available through present and future DTH satellite broadcast services. For example, the viewable display generated from electronic program guide data tends to be presented primarily as text laid out in a grid. The processing power of currently available IRD's, while appropriate for current DTH programming services, inherently limits how the program guide can be displayed, how much information can be incorporated into the guide, and how quickly and efficiently a user can move through the guide. These program guides are therefore essentially limited to conveying program availability and tuning information, and do not have the organization and flexibility to effectively support other services such as software downloads, webpage links and downloads, data services, and other functions.","Accordingly, for broadcast systems having a large number of services that deliver a large amount of data to relatively sophisticated receiver stations (e.g., a PC), there is a need for a broadcast electronic program guide and an associated viewable display format and content that significantly enhances how the program guide can be displayed, how much information can be incorporated into the guide, and how quickly and efficiently the user can move through the guide.","The present invention provides a method and apparatus for efficiently and effectively transmitting, receiving, organizing and selecting transmitted data. The method and apparatus of the present invention is preferably embodied in a user interface and related data protocols and procedures. The user interface may be implemented in the context of a wireless distribution system for securely, reliably and inexpensively distributing video, audio, data service, software and other services to geographically remote receiver stations. The wireless distribution system is preferably a DTH digital satellite television distribution system, though other systems (e.g., terrestrial wire, cable, or wireless broadcast) may also be used in other embodiments. A typical DTH digital broadcast system includes a transmission station, a satellite relay, and a receiver station. At the transmission station, video and audio programming signals are digitized in known manners, multiplexed with other data signals (such as the data needed to construct a program guide display according to the present invention), compressed (if required), encoded, mated with error correction codes, modulated on carriers, and uplinked to a geosynchronous satellite. The satellite receives the uplinked signals and rebroadcasts them over a footprint that preferably covers a predetermined geographical area, for example, the continental United States. Receiver stations, which are typically located at the user's home or business, receive the satellite signals. The receiver stations each include an antenna, which preferably is in the form of a satellite dish, along with an integrated receiver\/decoder (IRD). The antenna feeds the received satellite signal to the IRD unit which recovers the originally transmitted digital video, audio, and data. Other receiver station equipment (e.g., cable decoder units) may be used with other distribution systems in other embodiments, as is well known in the art.","The present invention is particularly applicable to a receiver station having sufficient processing power to process and generate a program guide display and associated features that goes beyond conventional video\/text\/grid program guides. The processing power may be incorporated directly into the IRD, for example, by adding a more powerful microprocessor, more memory, and associated software to the conventional IRD circuitry. Alternatively, the receiver station IRD may be replaced with a PC having circuit cards that perform the IRD functions. A PC-based system significantly increases the receiver station's processing power, along with the number of services (e.g., data services and software) the receiver station can receive and use. Accordingly, the features of the present invention are most advantageously utilized by a PC-based (or comparable) receiver station.","A PC-based receiver station suitable for use with the present invention includes an antenna, which preferably is in the form of a satellite dish, along with a PC which, like the above-described IRD, recovers the originally transmitted digital video, audio, and data. The digital broadcast data received from the satellite dish is coupled directly into a transport circuit board within the PC. The PC's transport circuit board also performs initial circuit functions on the signal coupled in from the antenna, including tuning, demodulation, and forward error correction (FEC). The transport circuit board within the PC also performs similar functions to that of the IRD's transport circuit, including channel de-multiplexing, decryption and access determination. The received digital broadcast data is sent from the transport circuit to video\/audio decoder circuits, which may be on the same or separate circuit board. The video\/audio decoder circuit board decompresses and\/or decodes the received compressed broadcast signal.","In one embodiment of the present invention, the transmission station transmits to the receiver stations program selection data\/information that is used at each receiver station to construct an electronic program guide and associated display format and content (i.e., a user interface) that, in contrast to known video-based and\/or text\/video\/icon-based electronic program guides, significantly enhances how the program guide can be displayed, how much information can be incorporated into the guide, and how quickly and efficiently the user can move through the guide. The viewable display format, according to the present invention, incorporates moving picture video, still pictures, text, links to external data sources, graphics and other features that facilitate the selection of various programs and services.","The electronic program guide features of the present invention further provide a novel channel-selection process in the form of a graphical representation of a \u201ctuning bar.\u201d The tuning bar includes a movable slider that shows current tuning information (channel number and call sign) for the programming or service that is being shown in a main viewing area of the display. Moving the slider (typically using a mouse-controlled click and drag operation) changes the tuning which changes what is displayed in the main viewing area. Moving a cursor over any portion of the bar \u201cpops up\u201d the channel\/call-sign associated with that portion of the bar. The received data that provides tuning information to the tuning bar is automatically scaled to accommodate the number of channels that are available at that station, so that the channels are evenly spread out along the bar (without gaps) regardless of the number of channels to which the user subscribes. Also, incremental \u201cup\u201d one channel and \u201cdown\u201d one channel buttons are preferably provided.","The electronic program guide features of the present invention incorporate still another novel channel-selection procedure wherein a replica of a conventional remote control unit is provided as part of the display. The remote control display has graphical push-buttons that correspond to those found on actual remote controls used for conventional stereos, video recorders, televisions, DTH, or cable television systems. In embodiments wherein the receiver station includes a personal computer (PC), this feature gives the user the option of a \u201csimulated remote control\u201d interaction that the user may find more comfortable than using a mouse or keyboard alone. In an important embodiment, the button selections that make up the remote control display graphic change to fit the options available in the current screen, providing a context sensitive operation. Also, the receiver station may provide a remote control display having a shape and button layout that corresponds to a particular manufacturer's physical remote control. If, for example, the user's television and other peripherals are from RCA\u00ae, the system may display a remote control graphic having a shape and button layout that corresponds to the actual remote control for the user's RCA\u00ae TV, VCR and\/or IRD.","The electronic program guide features of the present invention incorporate still another novel display presentation in connection with web-related services such as a \u201cBest-of-Web\u201d broadcast service, wherein website data is cached at the receiver station for convenient future access and\/or links are provided for a real-time connection. When the user attempts to access this service, a list is generated and displayed showing the different websites and webpages that are available. In addition to the displayed list, the system maintains and stores a status list (or hash table) that may include an indication of the medium through which the page\/site is available and, in the case of data subject to being cached, the status of the cache (i.e., whether or not the data is cached at the receiver station's memory). Moving the cursor over one of the entries of the displayed table\/list, prompts the system to automatically search the information in the status list and determine whether or not the page is available locally. For example, some webpages on the displayed list are cached in the receiver station's memory, some are available through a future broadcast, while others can only be retrieved via direct access to the Internet. For data that is to be cached, the user interface\/display, via supporting software, immediately checks the status list and determines whether that webpage is presently cached, and generates a pop up graphic (e.g., the universal \u201cno\u201d symbol) that communicates to the user immediately whether or not that webpage is presently cached. This can be done in essentially real time because the receiver station maintains the status list of the cached webpages and searches that status list when the user moves the cursor over a webpage selection, without need to otherwise interrogate the system or the main system memory.","In accordance with another aspect of the present invention, broadcast (or \u201cwebcast\u201d) webpages may be archived on a user's PC for later viewing. A webcast is a constant and repeating download of specially selected web content. The content is usually grouped by domain. Minimal scheduling is required for downloading webcast information. Multiple groups of content may be identified by the same identifier, thereby creating a one-to-many relationship among the items of interest.","As webpage information is received by the subscriber unit it is stored for later use. Preferably, the broadcast system uses an archiving scheme based on the ZIP format to group domain information. However, other alternative archiving formats may be used so long as both the sender and the receiver have a common set. If the archived files are compressed, the files are preferably extracted or decompressed using so-called \u201cextractor\u201d software, an example of which is sold under the tradename PKWare\u2122, which is a data compression library (DCL) compatible extractor. If, however, the files are not compressed, any ZIP extractor may be used to extract and view the files. Preferably, the filenames used in the webcast archive are the uniform resource identifier (URI).","Webcast archive files may have a dedicated filename extension convention. On any given data carousel, the contents of which are repeatedly broadcast, there must be exactly one main file for each webcast. This file contains a snapshot of the entire website. According to the present invention, update archive files are used to replace portions of the main file on the carousel. The subscriber unit stores all archive files in a subdirectory corresponding to the session ID of the webcast. When a main file is received that is newer than the current main file in that directory, all other files in that directory will be removed and any links in the proxy server's cache map file for this webcast will be replaced with the URIs in the new main file.","The invention itself, together with further objects and attendant advantages, will best be understood by reference to the following detailed description, taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.","To facilitate review and understanding of the invention and the preferred embodiments, the present disclosure has been organized in accordance with the headings and sub-headings shown below.\n\n","By the way of example only, the method and apparatus of the present invention is disclosed in connection with a system that broadcasts, via satellite, video programming, data services and multimedia data (e.g., webpages). It should be understood, however, that any system requiring intuitive interactive program and\/or service selection may alternatively employ the techniques shown herein. Such systems might include other broadcast communications techniques not traditionally associated with video programming or the Internet. For example, paging or cellular systems delivering news or other information could benefit from certain aspects of the method and apparatus of the present invention.","Generally, however, the techniques of the present invention are best used by broadcast video and data systems having a large number of available programs, data and services, thereby benefitting from the simplification of programming organization and selection provided by the present invention. A preferred broadcasting system is the satellite-based system utilized by the DIRECTV\u00ae broadcast service. Such embodiments of the present invention employ a satellite receiving antenna to acquire real-time video broadcasts and periodic data broadcasts used to construct a program guide display. It should be understood, however, that many other delivery systems are readily applicable to alternate embodiments of the present invention. Such systems include wired or cable distribution systems, UHF\/VHF radio frequency systems or other terrestrial broadcast systems (e.g., MMDS, LMDS, etc.), and fiber optic networks.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0062","num":"0084"},"figref":["FIG. 1","FIG. 1"],"b":["100","100","102","104","106","102","104","106","102","108","110","112","114","116","118","120","112","122","104","106","124","126","128","130","132","134","136"]},"In operation, the programming sources  receive video and audio programming from a number of sources, including satellites, terrestrial fiber optics, cable, or tape. The received programming signals, along with data signals from the control data source , the data service source , and the program guide data sources , are sent to the video\/audio\/data encoding system  where they are digitally encoded into information data streams that are multiplexed into a packetized data stream or bitstream using a number of conventional algorithms. Each data packet within the packetized data stream includes a header that identifies the contents of the data packet and a service channel identifier (SCID) that identifies the data packet. In a conventional manner, the encoded bitstream is modulated and sent through the uplink frequency converter , which converts the modulated encoded bitstream to a frequency band suitable for reception by the satellite\/relay . The modulated, encoded bitstream is then routed from the uplink frequency converter  to the uplink antenna  where it is broadcast toward the satellite\/relay . The satellite\/relay  receives the modulated, encoded bitstream and re-broadcasts it downward toward an area on earth that includes the receiver station . The reception antenna  of the receiver station  receives the signal, which is typically shifted from, for example, the Ku-band signal down to, for example, an L-band signal by the LNB . The LNB output is then provided to the PC , the television  and\/or the video recorder . As noted above, the PC  includes conventional IRD functions (provided, for example, by plug-in circuit cards (boards). Thus, when the user commands the PC  to tune to a particular program, the PC  associates the user's program selection with a transponder and SCID number and tunes the IRD to receive data packets from the appropriate transponder and to select data packets having the appropriate SCID number from the multi-program data stream.","Although not necessary for proper operation of the disclosed system, the receiver station  may optionally incorporate a connection (e.g., Ethernet circuit or modem) to the network  for transmitting requests and other data back to the transmission station  or other location (or a device managing the transmission station  and overall flow of data in the system ) and for communicating with network devices  (e.g., websites) that may be on the network .","In general, the software executed by the PC  includes many conventional PC operations used to generate a graphical user interface (GUI) having a mouse-controlled cursor or the like, windows, dialogue boxes, buttons, pull-down menus, and other such features that facilitate user selection of various options. The GUI of the present invention is assembled using two basic types of external data: (1) real-time broadcast data (e.g. streaming data), and (2) file data (i.e., data that is periodically downloaded and stored). Real-time data includes conventional program guide data (e.g., program attribute data, tuning data, etc.), ticker data (e.g., stocks, sports scores, etc.), some SDP+ records, and announcements (e.g., updates to the webcast data catalog, etc.). File data includes information that is updated periodically such as still pictures, moving video clips, webpages, data catalog (webcast schedule), links to other internal or external sources of information, and various discrete software downloads. The GUI of the present invention organizes and simplifies the presentation of real-time broadcast data and file data by providing, inter alia, a plurality of pages, wherein each page has a display with several distinct segments. For example, a given page type may simultaneously provide still pictures, moving videos, text, graphics, audio, and data within separate segments.","The GUI of the present invention requires the presence of appropriate data at the receiver station . One method of generating appropriate data and reliably transferring it to the receiver station  using a hardware configuration as shown in , is disclosed in detail below in section G (Data Processing) of this disclosure. Generally, the method set forth in section G includes a data transfer technique, referred to herein as broadcast file download protocol (BFDP), that operates in a one-way broadcast communication link. BFDP breaks large data files for transmission into numerous small data packets, which are labeled in a sequential manner at the transmission station  and broadcast to the receiver station . BFDP facilitates the assembly of the labeled data packets back into the large data file and enables identification of missing or corrupt data packets at the receiver station . Any missing or corrupt data packets at the receiver station  can be obtained and inserted into their correct locations in the large data file during subsequent transmissions of the large data file. Thus, if during the transmission of a large data file a number of its data packets are missing or corrupt, only the missing or corrupt data packets need be reacquired during a subsequent re-broadcast of the large data file, and not the entire large data file.","A method for resolving an Internet protocol (IP) address into a physical address is also described in section G of this disclosure. This method is referred to herein as a broadcast address resolution protocol (BARP). BARP is necessary because all file data (for example a large file transferred using BFDP, as discussed above) transferred to the receiver station  are identified by IP addresses and, as previously noted, the receiver station  requires a transponder and SCID to tune to receive the broadcast file data. Accordingly, BARP allows the receiver station  to rapidly resolve an IP address for a desired program or service into a transponder and SCID.","To inform the user of when and on what IP address the large file mentioned above will be broadcast, session description protocol plus (SDP+) records are periodically broadcast by the transmission station . SDP+ records are processed by the receiver station  to produce a schedule of all data service information that will be broadcast by the transmission station . Additionally, the SDP+ records are used by the PC  to build GUI pages using selected information resident within the PC system (e.g., a basic page template  as shown in ) and selected dynamic data that is received from the satellite or an Internet connection. When the user launches the interface into another state or page, the GUI builds the destination page as instructed by the SDP+ records and displays it on the user's PC system monitor . More details about the SDP+ records are provided in Section I of this disclosure in connection with the descriptions of .","Now turning to , an example of a main menu page  for a preferred embodiment of the GUI of the present invention is illustrated. The main menu page  includes a central video window , a video title , a page title , a date\/time display , a video channel tuning bar , a Video Channels service link , a Best-of-Web (BOW) data service link , a Software Downloads service link , a Data Channels service link , a schedule function link , a messages function link , a settings function link , and a pop-up remote control link . In the embodiment shown these are all implemented with a standard PC system Windows\u2122 application window , as shown.","The main menu page  provides graphical \u201cbuttons\u201d that may be selected to launch, or provide links to, four services. The Video Channels service link  launches the GUI into a video and text-based electronic program guide. The Best-of-Web data service link  launches the GUI into a service for pre-selecting, previewing, and viewing various Internet websites that may be broadcast to the receiver station  via the satellite\/relay . The Software Downloads service link  launches the GUI into a service for selecting and scheduling software for downloading to the user's PC  of the receiver station . The Data Channels service link  launches the GUI into a service for selecting and scheduling various types of streaming data for downloading to the PC  of the receiver station .","The main menu page  also provides graphical \u201cbuttons\u201d that may be selected to launch, or provide links to, three \u201cfunctions\u201d: (1) the schedule function link , (2) the messages function link  and (3) the settings function link . All functions are represented by graphical buttons that, when selected by the user, launch the GUI into the schedule, messages, and settings functions, respectively. The schedule function provides a graphical multi-row scrolling grid-based guide that shows video\/audio programming that is scheduled for viewing and software files that are scheduled for downloading. The messages function provides textual promotional and status information related to the video, BOW, Data Channels, and Software Downloads services. For example, a message may be provided to the user that a requested software download was successfully completed, or that a new software title will be available at a particular time. The settings function allows the user to program or configure the various operational modes of the receiver station  with respect to the video, BOW, Data Channels, and Software Downloads services. The layout and content for each type of function page display of the present GUI depends on what service has been selected on the function page. Thus, the function pages of the present GUI change with the current service page context. For example, the layout and content of a settings function page changes as the user changes the function page type from Video Channels to Software Downloads. A more detailed description of each of the function pages and associated links are discussed below in section 3.e. in connection with .","Turning now to a more detailed description of the GUI, illustrated in  is the basic page template  that may be stored within a local memory of the PC , and which may be used to build many of, but not necessarily all, the various GUI pages underlying the main menu page  of the present invention. The basic page template  includes a main content frame , the page title , the date\/time display , and a control panel , all arranged as shown. The main content frame  displays information of primary interest as the user navigates through the various pages of the GUI. The main content frame  may contain live video\/audio programming, webpages, links to webpages or services, links to ticker data, program guide information, or links to any other information taken from streaming or file data that the user is interested in and which is consistent with the current page selected by the user. The page title  contains the name of the current GUI page or state. The date\/time display  continuously displays current date and time information that is received from the broadcast data stream and is corrected by the GUI software to reflect the local date and time for the PC's location.","The control panel  may further include a special links segment , a sub-page links segment , a functions toggle , the pop-up remote control link , and a main menu link . The special links segment  may contain a plurality of graphics representing programs and services of special interest to the user (e.g. websites, software titles available for download, etc.). Using conventional mouse-controlled point and click operations or the like, the user may select one or more of the special links graphics to launch the GUI directly into the selected service, program, etc. The sub-page links segment  typically contains graphic buttons representing other GUI pages that are linked to the current GUI page. The user may launch the GUI into one of the linked pages by selecting one of the graphic buttons in the sub-page links segment . The functions toggle , when selected by the user, launches the GUI into a modified display state having tabbed function pages within the main content frame  (e.g., as shown in ) that are layered underneath the service page from which the functions toggle  was selected. The pop-up remote control link  contains a graphic representing a pop-up remote control. The user may select this graphic to overlay a context sensitive (i.e., page dependent) simulated remote control (shown, e.g., in ) over a portion of the display. The format and operation of this context sensitive simulated remote control is discussed in section 4.b. (Pop-Up Remote Control) of this disclosure. The main menu link  contains a graphic representing a link to the main menu page (shown in ). The user may select this graphic to launch the GUI from a current page displaying the graphic back into the main menu page .","a. Best of the Web","As previously mentioned, webpage and\/or website information may be downloaded to the PC  and stored within the computing unit  for display on the monitor . This information is best accessed and presented using the GUI of the present invention. For example, the BOW data service described below allows the user to select various websites for downloading and storage on his or her receiver station .","As previously set forth, webpage information may be downloaded and stored in the receiver station . Accordingly, the GUI of the present invention is adapted to handle webpage information through a service referred to as Best-of-Web (BOW). Illustrated in  is a state diagram depicting a BOW data service . The BOW data service  includes the main menu page , the Best-of-Web data service link , the main menu link , and a BOW introduction page  that includes basic information for the user on how to use the BOW data service .","Additionally, the BOW data service  includes a linked group of BOW sub-pages . The linked group of BOW sub-pages  includes a My Selections sub-page  that allows a user to review and deselect websites for downloading from a personal library of websites, an Add Selections sub-page  that allows a user to preview and select or deselect available websites for regular download to the personal library of websites, a Special Events sub-page  that includes a group of topical or special interest mandatory websites (i.e., websites that are downloaded to the PC  whether or not they are requested by the user) that may be selected for viewing by the user, and a View Site sub-page  that allows a user to display selected websites.","The pages and sub-pages of the BOW data service  are linked together as shown in . The arrows represent directional links that, when selected by a user on a given page, launch the GUI along the direction of the arrow into another state or page. In the preferred embodiment, the links are represented by graphical buttons or logos that, when selected by the user, invoke the associated link and launch the GUI into the corresponding page display\/state. The BOW data service  is invoked by selecting the Best-of-Web data service link  from the main menu page . The first time the user launches the GUI along the Best-of-Web data service link , the GUI displays the BOW introduction page . From the BOW introduction page , the user may enter the Add Selections sub-page  by invoking a link , or may return to the main menu page  from the BOW introduction page  by invoking the main menu link . After the first use of the BOW data service , selection of the Best-of-Web data service link  directly launches the GUI into the My Selections sub-page . From the My Selections sub-page , the user may launch the GUI into the Add Selections sub-page  by invoking an Add Selections link , into the Special Events sub-page  by invoking a Special Events link , or into the View Site sub-page  by invoking a View Site link . From the Add Selections sub-page  the user may launch the GUI into the My Selections sub-page  by invoking a My Selections link  or the Special Events sub-page  by invoking the Special Events link . From the Special Events sub-page  the user may launch the GUI into the My Selections sub-page  by invoking the My Selections link , into the Add Selections sub-page  by invoking the Add Selections link , and into the View Site sub-page  by invoking the View Site link . From any page within the group of BOW sub-pages  the user may launch the GUI back to the main menu page  using the main menu link .","The sub-pages of the BOW data service  are constructed in accordance with the basic page template  (shown in ). Illustrated in  are examples of the Add Selections sub-page  and the My Selections sub-page  displays, respectively. As shown in these figures, the special links segment  contains a plurality of graphics or logos that represent topical, or otherwise noteworthy websites that are mandatory download websites. Mandatory download websites are regularly\/periodically downloaded and stored in the local memory of the user's PC  regardless of whether the user requests a download of any mandatory sites. When the user selects one of these graphics the GUI launches directly, via the View Site link , into the View Site sub-page  and displays the contents of the selected site to the user. The control panel  further includes the sub-page links segment . The sub-page links segment  contains a plurality of page links represented by graphic buttons. The graphic buttons have labels that indicate the page the GUI will be launched into when they are selected by the user. The sub-page links segment  includes graphic buttons representing the My Selections link , the Add Selections link , and the Special Events link . At the base of the control panel  are the pop-up remote control link  and the main menu link .","The content of the main content frame  varies with the particular sub-page in which the GUI currently resides. For example, when the GUI is in the Add Selections sub-page  (as shown in ) the main content frame  contains a matrix of graphic sub-segments representing a library of available websites. The website sub-segments are preferably arranged alphabetically within predetermined categories. Categories may be general areas of user interest such as Entertainment, Finance, Lifestyle, News, and Sports. Each of the website sub-segments , further includes a website logo  representing the website, a website title header , a website size indicator , a preview button , and a select button  or a deselect button . The user can preview a website by selecting either the website logo  or the preview button , which invokes the View Site link  and launches the GUI into the View Site sub-page . Selecting a website preview invokes a \u201cpop-up\u201d preview child window  (shown in ) that contains a general description of the contents of the particular website and a selection of media graphics.","Website sub-segments  that have been selected for download to the PC  have a highlighted (e.g., red) deselect button . Website segments that have not been selected for download have an alternately highlighted (e.g., gray) select button . By selecting the select button  or the deselect button  the user toggles the website between select and deselect conditions. The website selection\/deselection process may invoke the appearance of several child windows (not shown, but similar to the child window  shown in ). For example, when the user \u201cclicks on\u201d the select or deselect buttons, the system produces a pop-up child window that prompts the user to confirm the selection or deselection of the website. The user may additionally have the options of confirming\/accepting the requested selection\/deselection, canceling the selection\/deselection and returning to the page display that initiated the child window, and disabling future appearances of the interposing child window.","Alternatively, if the GUI is in the My Selections sub-page , as shown, for example, in , then the main content frame  includes a matrix of graphic sub-segments representing a library of user selected websites that are arranged, organized, and represented in a similar manner to those in the Add Selections sub-page  described above. The user may similarly view a website by either selecting the website logo , or a view button , which invokes the View Site link  and launches the GUI into the View Site sub-page . In the View Site sub-page , the main content frame  displays the selected website's pages. From the My Selections sub-page , the user may also deselect a site so that it is removed from the group of sites that are downloaded to the local memory of the PC . A pop-up child window confirming the requested deselection is preferably presented to the user. The logos for sites that are scheduled for removal from the satellite transmission system are displayed with a news button (not shown) rather than a view button. When the user selects the news button, an interposing pop-up child window warns of the pending discontinuation of the website from the satellite system and allows the user to launch into the View Site sub-page .","If the GUI is in the Special Events sub-page  (not shown, but similar to the Add Selections sub-page ), then the main content frame  displays rows of graphic sub-segments representing a group of topical or special interest mandatory download websites (not shown). As with the Add Selections sub-page  and My Selections sub-page  the website sub-segments are preferably arranged alphabetically within predetermined categories. Categories may be Hot Topics, Sites of the Month, or other similar topical headings. Each website sub-segment includes a logo representing the website, a website title header, a view button, and a preview description. The preview description provides a brief textual overview of the contents of the site. The user can view a site by selecting either the logo or the view button, which invokes the View Site link  and launches the GUI into the View Site sub-page .","The GUI of the present invention allows for the rapid determination and display of the availability of selected information. A web cache status (i.e., whether or not a webpage is stored on the PC ) is conveyed automatically to the user from various pages of the GUI. Within the Add Selections sub-page , the My Selections sub-page , and the Special events sub-page  a cursor rollover of any webpage logo\/sub-link will indicate to the user whether that particular webpage is locally cached or not. To perform this function rapidly enough to present the status to the user in real time, the system maintains a hash table of all the webpages that are cached in local memory (e.g., RAM or hard disk). A hash table of all the embedded links is created for each displayed frame of the GUI pages that include website logos. The system then makes a single request from the system's proxy server to retrieve the cached state of each link. The cached status for each embedded link is then stored in the hash table. Thus, as the user moves the cursor over a website logo\/link, the system can rapidly determine cached status and display this status to the user via an appropriate graphic (e.g. a finger\/no finger graphic may be used as a universal yes\/no indication).","b. Software Downloads","One type of file data that may be downloaded to the receiver station  and stored in the computing unit  is commercially-available software (e.g., Quicken\u2122).","Illustrated in  is a state diagram depicting a Software Downloads data service . The Software Downloads data service  includes the main menu page , the Software Downloads service link , the main menu link , a Software Downloads introduction page , and a linked group of Software Downloads sub-pages . The Software Downloads introduction page  includes basic text information for the user on how to use the Software Downloads data service .","The Software Downloads sub-pages  further include a Full List sub-page  that displays all software available for downloading, a Specials sub-page  that displays promotional software available for downloading, a Hot List sub-page  that displays popular software available for downloading, and a software preview sub-page  that contains a general text description of the user selected software. The pages of the Software Downloads data service  are linked together as shown in . The Software Downloads data service  is invoked by selecting the Software Downloads service link  from the main menu page . Once invoked, the Software Downloads data service  displays the Software Downloads introduction page . From the Software Downloads introduction page  the user may either return to the main menu page  via the main menu link , or may launch the GUI into the Full list sub-page  by invoking a Full list link . From the Full list sub-page , the user may launch the GUI into the Hot List sub-page  by invoking a Hot list link , into the software preview sub-page  by invoking a preview link , or into the Specials sub-page  by invoking a Specials link . From the Hot List sub-page , the user may launch the GUI into the Full List sub-page  by invoking the Full List link , into the software preview sub-page  by invoking the preview link , or into the Specials sub-page  by invoking the Specials link . From the Specials sub-page  the user may launch the GUI into the Full List sub-page  by invoking the Full list link , into the software preview sub-page  by invoking the preview link , and into the Hot List sub-page  by invoking the Hot list link . From the software preview sub-page  the user may launch the GUI into the Hot List sub-page  by invoking the Hot List link , into the Full List sub-page  by invoking the Full List link , or into the Specials sub-page  by invoking the Specials link . The user may launch the GUI back to the main menu from any of the pages of the Software Downloads data service  using the main menu link .","The pages of the Software Downloads data service  are constructed in accordance with the basic page template  (shown in ). Illustrated in  is an example of the Full list sub-page . As shown in , the special links segment  contains a plurality of graphics or logos representing the five most popular software titles that are available for downloading. When a user selects one of these logos\/graphics the GUI is launched into the software preview sub-page  from which the user is given a general textual description of the selected software. The control panel  further includes the sub-page links segment . The sub-page links segment  includes a plurality of page links represented by graphic buttons having labels that correspond to the page the GUI will be launched into when they are selected by the user. The sub-page links segment  includes graphic buttons that represent the Full List link , the Hot List link , and the Specials Link . Thus, by selecting the graphic button labeled \u201cHot List\u201d the GUI will be launched via the Hot List link  into the Hot List sub-page . The control panel  also includes the functions toggle . As described in greater detail below in connection with , the functions toggle  enables a user to freely navigate between the various function pages associated with the data service currently being used. Additionally, at the base of the control panel  are the pop-up remote control link  and the main menu link .","As previously noted, the content of the main content frame  varies with the particular sub-page in which the GUI currently resides. When the GUI is in the Full List sub-page  (as shown in ), the main content frame  contains a matrix of graphic sub-segments representing a library of software titles that are available for download. Each software sub-segment further includes a software logo  representing the particular software title, a software title header , a software preview button , a download button , and a textual software description . The user can preview a software title by selecting either the software logo  or the software preview button . Selecting either the software logo  or the software preview button  invokes the preview link , which launches the GUI into the software preview sub-page . In the software preview sub-page  the user is given a more detailed textual description of the selected software title. The user may download a software title by selecting the title using the download button  on the Full List sub-page  or from the software preview sub-page .","If the user selects the download button  for a particular software title, he\/she is presented with a set of choices for available download date\/times for that title. The GUI may display for the user a confirmation that they are about to schedule the download of a software title and may additionally provide other information pertinent to the download such as software version options. If the user selects one of the available download date\/times then a download is scheduled for that date\/time. At the scheduled date\/time for a download, the receiver station  automatically tunes to the proper transponder\/feed and uses BFDP to capture and record that download. A message is sent with success\/fail information for the download and is rescheduled if necessary.","The Hot List sub-page  is similar to the Full List sub-page  except the software titles shown are selected based on their popularity. The Specials sub-page  is also similar to the Full List sub-page  except the available software titles are selected for promotional purposes. Both the Hot List sub-page  and the Specials sub-page  allow the user to download software either directly via the download button , or through the software preview sub-page .","c. Data Channels","Illustrated in  is a state diagram depicting a Data Channels data service . The Data Channels data service  includes the main menu page , the Data Channels service link , the main menu link , a Data Channels introduction page  that includes basic textual information for the user on how to use the Data Channels data service , and a linked group of Data Channels sub-pages . The linked group of Data Channels sub-pages  further includes a Selection sub-page  that presents to the user the data services available, a Data Channels preview sub-page  that allows a user to preview a selected data service, a Schedule sub-page  that contains download information such as price, available software options and download schedule details, and a Confirmation sub-page  that acknowledges a newly downloaded data service for the user.","The pages and sub-pages of the Data Channels data service  are linked together as shown in . The Data Channels data service  is invoked by selecting the Data Channels service link  from the main menu page . By selecting the Data Channels service link , the GUI launches into the Data Channels introduction page . From the Data Channels introduction page  the user may go back to the main menu page  by selecting the main menu link  or may launch into the Selection sub-page  by invoking a Selection page link . From the Selection sub-page  the user may launch into the Schedule sub-page  by invoking a Schedule page link  or may launch into the Data Channels preview sub-page  by invoking a preview page link . From the Data Channels preview sub-page  the user may launch into the Selection sub-page  by invoking the Selection page link  or may launch into the Schedule sub-page  by invoking the Schedule page link . From the Schedule sub-page  the user may launch into the Data Channels preview sub-page  by invoking the preview page link  or may launch into the Confirmation sub-page  by invoking a Confirm page link . From the Confirmation sub-page  the user may return to the Selection sub-page  by invoking the Selection page link . Additionally, the user may return to the main menu from any of the sub-pages by selecting the main menu link .","The sub-pages of the Data Channels service  are constructed in accordance with the basic page template  (shown in ). Illustrated in  is an example of the Selection sub-page . The control panel  of the Selection sub-page  contains only the functions toggle , the pop-up remote control link , and the main menu link . The main content frame  of the Selection sub-page varies with the particular sub-page in which the GUI currently resides. For example, when the GUI is in the Selection sub-page  (as shown in ), the main content frame  contains a plurality of sub-segments representing the various data channel services that are available. Each data channel sub-segment contains a data channel logo , a data channel preview button , a data channel launch button , and a data channel description .","d. Video Channels","Selection of the Video Channels service link  () launches the GUI into a multi-segment electronic program guide  shown in . The electronic program guide  includes a grid-based channel guide , the channel tuning bar  (also displayed in the main menu page ), the pop-up remote control link , the main menu link , an active video window , a program description , and an electronic program guide configuration header .","The grid-based channel guide , uses a Gantt chart style layout with time of day along one axis and channels along the other. The user can tune to a desired channel by selecting a particular row\/column of the grid-based channel guide , using the channel tuning bar  or the pop-up remote control link . Both the channel tuning bar  and the pop-up remote control link  are described in more detail later in this disclosure under sections 4.a. (Tuning Bar) and 4.b. (Pop-Up Remote Control), respectively.","The active video window  displays programming from the currently selected channel. The program description  may include a variety of program information such as an abstract of the program, the time slot, the rating, and the availability of closed captioning for a currently highlighted grid guide program. The electronic program guide configuration header  allows the user to filter the contents of the program grid based on the day, the kind of program, the time slot, or according to predefined categories.","As described earlier, the GUI of the present invention provides several function pages that work to improve the GUI's flexibility, and assist the user in filtering and managing the large amount of information available. These function pages may be launched from the main menu page  (shown in ) via the function links , , , from a service page by selecting the functions toggle , or from the grid-based channel guide by selecting the tabs at the bottom of the guide.","e. Function Pages","Illustrated in  is a state diagram depicting the organization of the function pages that are associated with the main menu page . From the main menu page , the user may invoke the schedule function link  to launch the GUI into an interlinked group of schedule sub-pages , the messages function link  to launch the GUI into an interlinked group of messages sub-pages , or the settings function link  to launch the GUI into an interlinked group of settings sub-pages . The schedule sub-pages , messages sub-pages , and the settings sub-pages  are further interlinked via the schedule function link , the messages function link , and the settings function link  as shown in . The main menu link  may be invoked from any sub-page to go back to the main menu page .","The various function pages illustrated in  may also be accessed from the various service pages by selecting the functions toggle . In the preferred embodiment, if the user has selected a function page from within a data service (using the functions toggle ), in order to link to another data service the user must also exit the function pages via the data service from which the functions toggle was selected. Thus, the user can freely navigate between the various function pages associated with the available data services once the function pages have been linked to via the main menu or from within a data service page, but he\/she cannot navigate between data services from within the function pages. In other embodiments, it may, however, be desirable to allow the user to freely navigate between the various data services from within any state of the GUI.","The schedule sub-pages  include a TV schedule page , a Data Channels schedule page , a Software Downloads schedule page , and a Best-of-Web schedule page . These sub-pages  are all interlinked as shown. Additionally, the GUI may be launched from any schedule sub-page into a corresponding data service. From the TV schedule page  the GUI may be launched, via the Video Channels service link , into the electronic program guide  (shown in ). From the Data Channels schedule page  the GUI may be launched, via the Data Channels service link , into the Data Channels data service  (shown in ) if that service is currently active\/selected, from the Software Downloads schedule page  the GUI may be launched, via the Software Downloads service link , into the Software Downloads data service  (shown in ) if that service is currently active\/selected, and the from the Best-of-Web schedule page  the GUI may be launched, via the Best-of-Web data service link , into the BOW data service  (shown in ) if that service is currently active\/selected.","The schedule sub-pages  provide a user-defined multi-day event calendar  (shown, e.g., in ). From the event calendar , the user can review upcoming events (e.g. TV shows, software downloads, etc.), remove scheduled events, or may review past events. The multi-day event calendar  includes scroll arrows  that allow the user to adjust a central schedule view  up\/down by days or left\/right by hours. A filter section  allows the user to selectively filter what programs appear in the central schedule view . For example, the user may adjust the filters to display only scheduled software downloads. A current\/upcoming events section  displays a textual list of scheduled events, such as a television show, a software download, a special\/topical television program, etc. When the user highlights one event from the list of the events in the current\/upcoming events section  an events text box  displays additional information to the user associated with the highlighted event. A review button , when selected, allows the user to review details of a particular scheduled event. For example, the date and time for a software download can be reviewed, modified to an alternative date and time, or may be canceled. A history button , when selected, allows the user to review past software downloads and television programs.","The messages sub-pages  include a TV messages page , a Data Channels messages page , a Software Downloads messages page , and a Best-of-Web messages page . The messages sub-pages  are all interlinked as shown in . From the TV messages page  the GUI may be launched, via the Video Channels service link , into the electronic program guide  (shown in ) if that service is currently active\/selected. From the Data Channels messages page  the GUI may be launched, via the Data Channels service link , into the Data Channels data service  (shown in ) if that service is currently active\/selected, from the Software Downloads messages page  the GUI may be launched, via the Software Downloads service link , into the Software Downloads data service  (shown in ) if that service is currently active\/selected, and the from the Best-of-Web messages page  the GUI may be launched, via the Best-of-Web data service link , into the BOW data service  (shown in ) if that service is currently active\/selected. All the messages sub-pages allow a user to view promotional and status text messages related to the current service page type. For example, the Software Downloads messages page  (shown, e.g., in ) includes textual, promotional and status messages related to available or scheduled software downloads. A messages summary  provides one-line text summaries describing the various messages that can be selected for viewing by the user. A message body  is displayed for the currently highlighted message. A remove button , when selected, eliminates the currently highlighted message from the display.","The settings sub-pages  include a TV settings page , a Data Channels settings page , a Software Downloads settings page , and a Best-of-Web settings page . The settings sub-pages  are all interlinked as shown in . Additionally, from the TV settings page  the GUI may be launched, via the Video Channels service link , into the electronic program guide  (shown in ) if that data service is currently active\/selected. From the Data Channels settings page  the GUI may be launched, via the Data Channels service link , into the Data Channels data service  (shown in ) if that service is currently active\/selected, from the Software Downloads settings page  the GUI may be launched, via the Software Downloads service link , into the Software Downloads data service  (shown in ) if that data service is currently active\/selected, and the from the Best-of-Web settings page  the GUI may be launched, via the Best-of-Web data service link , into the BOW data service  (shown in ) if that data service is currently active\/selected.","The TV settings page  (shown, e.g., in ) allows a user to configure audio tracks (i.e. choice of language), select or lock-out satellite and broadcast channels, configure inputs (e.g. antenna, cable, HRC, IRC), set spending limits for pay-per-view selections, set ratings limits, modify display dimensions, configure the antenna (i.e. enter the antenna coordinates), activate closed captioning, service test the system, and configure an enriched TV mode (i.e., set the maximum cache size for enriched TV in kilobytes). The Software Downloads settings page  allows the user to set the download directory in which download files will be stored. The Best-of-Web settings page  allows a user to modify Internet settings (e.g., cache size), change webcast settings, and define the proxy server and browser specific settings.","a. Tuning Bar","An important aspect of the present invention is the graphical channel tuning bar . As shown in , the channel tuning bar  has a slider , an up arrow , a down arrow , a channel number , and a channel call-sign . The channel tuning bar  is automatically scaled so that the channels a particular user is entitled to see are evenly distributed along the vertical length of the channel tuning bar . In operation, the vertical position of the slider , the channel number , and the channel call-sign , all correspond to the incoming video\/audio programming that is currently being selected by a tuner  and a transport functional processing block  (shown in ), and routed to and optionally displayed in the central video window . The user can change the current video channel selection in four ways. First, the user may increment or decrement the selected video channel by selecting the up arrow  or the down arrow , respectively. Second, the user can move the slider  directly to a desired vertical position or channel by grabbing the slider with the cursor and dragging it along the channel tuning bar . Third, the user can move the cursor to point to a specific vertical position along the channel tuning bar , and fourth, the user may enter numeric, alpha, or alphanumeric information related to a new channel directly via the PC's keyboard.","Holding the cursor over any portion of the channel tuning bar  produces a pop-up window that displays to the user the channel number and call-sign of the channel associated with that location on the channel tuning bar . Thus, when the user sees a desired channel number or call-sign in the pop-up window they may select that point along the tuning bar so that the slider  moves directly to the channel associated with that position. Once a new channel has been selected, the channel number , the channel call-sign , the vertical position of the slider , the video displayed in the central video window , and the video title  are updated to correspond to the newly tuned\/selected channel.","In the disclosed embodiment, the channel tuning bar  is divided into a number of locations, or increments, equal to the number of available tunable channels, services or other available selections. It is known that individual users in high capacity DTH systems may subscribe to one or more available programming packages. Access to the available services is limited using conventional conditional access systems. Different users may subscribe to different channels, or a given subscriber may change its authorizations over time.","It is desirable, therefore, to accommodate changes in the channel authorizations so that channel tuning bar  has an evenly distributed display without any \u201cdead zones\u201d or gaps. The top-most position in the vertical channel tuning bar  could, for example, correspond to a first service (e.g. the lowest numbered channel that the particular user is authorized to receive), while the lowest position on the channel tuning bar  corresponds to the opposite extreme (e.g. the highest numbered channel the user is authorized to receive). Within this range, channels that the user is authorized to receive are dynamically distributed along the channel tuning bar  such that the spaces between each channel's \u201carea\u201d on the tuning bar is substantially equal, regardless of the number of channels available for viewing.","To achieve this result, processors within the PC's computing unit  () that are responsible for generating the GUI (including the slider  and channel tuning bar ) have access to stored information corresponding to the channel authorizations or a user defined subset of them. This local authorization information may be utilized to eliminate from the customer's grid display () grid lines or rows corresponding to unavailable channels. Alternatively, some unsubscribed channels may be displayed for promotional purposes. In the same manner, the channel authorization data may be used to assemble a complete subset of available services or other functions for use in allocating locations along the channel tuning bar .","It should be recognized that channels may be organized (i.e., allocated to locations) along the length of the tuning bar  in a variety of ways. For example, in typical implementations, channels may be organized along the length of the tuning bar  according to their channel number. Thus, using a numeric organization, channels may be arranged so that channel numbers ascend or descend when moving from the highest position on the to the lowest position on the tuning bar . In other implementations, the channels may be organized along the length of the tuning bar  according to their call-sign. Thus, the channels may be organized so that the channels are alphabetically or alphanumerically ordered along the length of the tuning bar . For example, the call-sign \u201cABC\u201d may be near one end of the tuning bar  and the call-sign \u201cWGN\u201d may be near the other end of the tuning bar .","In the disclosed embodiment, the channel tuning bar  is initialized or configured for display in one of three ways: (1) when the GUI code is first executed within the PC , (2) when the system receives a Main Program Guide (MPG) update message, or (3) when a user changes program guide display options (e.g., by changing one or more parameters within the electronic program guide configuration header  shown in ). The MPG contains the information needed to construct the electronic program guide  (shown in ), and is stored in the local memory of the PC . In addition, the PC  receives, via the transmitted data stream, messages that instruct the GUI software to update the locally stored MPG using information parsed from the transmitted data stream.","An initialization or configuration of the channel tuning bar  follows a procedure  illustrated in . In a first block , the system selects, from a copy of the MPG stored in memory, a list of the channel numbers and logo names that the user is entitled to view. In a second block , the selected channel numbers (n=number of selected channels) and their associated names are sorted either by number or name and are stored into the system's memory as a data structure or channel\/services table comprising (n) rows and two columns. In a third block , the total number of pixels available to display the channel tuning bar  is divided by the number of selected channels (n) to determine how many display pixels may be allocated to each of the user's available channels. In a fourth block , the total length of the channel tuning bar  may then be divided between the number of available services or other functions. In certain embodiments, the allocations to each channel or function are equal. In others, however, it may be desirable to allocate a broader increment or region of the channel tuning bar  to certain channels, services, or other functions. This would have the effect of making these services more prominent, and easier to tune (e.g. requiring less precision in placement of the slider ).","The displayed position of the slider  is tracked by the display generating software and compared to the calculated display pixel locations or increments for each channel, service, or action. The location or increment corresponding to each channel may then be correlated or mapped to tuning information. For example, a matrix or lookup table may correlate\/map tuning bar display positions to corresponding information about that channel, which is required for display or tuning purposes. In other embodiments, pointers may include a data structure that correlate\/map tuning bar increments so that the pointers point to tuning or other program guide information that correspond to the particular channel associated with the display position of the slider .","The channel tuning bar  is preferably implemented as an ActiveX\u2122 control. Because the computer code used by the PC  employs an object oriented encapsulation design, the channel tuning bar  may be easily incorporated within, and interact with, a wide variety of page displays. In addition, computer code implementing the tuning bar functionality is modular and may easily interact with any page within the present GUI because the various page displays do not have to assimilate the exact computer code implementation contained within the encapsulated tuning bar object.","The computer code that generates the channel tuning bar  is responsive to several types of inputs that allow a user to change the displayed channel or service. One type of input allows a user to move the cursor graphic over a particular portion of the channel tuning bar  and then \u201cclick\u201d on that portion to display the channel or service associated with that portion of the channel tuning bar . The system processes a \u201cclick\u201d event by following a procedure  that is illustrated in . In a first block  the desired tune slot or row in the channel\/services table is found by dividing the cursor's current pixel location by the total number of pixels allocated to each channel or service. In a second block  the channel number and name are retrieved from the calculated row or time slot in the channel\/services table. In a third block , the tuning bar code requests the system to tune to the retrieved channel number. In a fourth block , the displayed position of the slider  is updated to correspond to the newly selected channel, and the associated channel number and name are displayed adjacent to the channel tuning bar .","As described above, holding the cursor over any portion of the channel tuning bar  produces a pop-up window containing the channel number and call-sign associated with that location. Thus, a user's selection of a channel can be greatly facilitated by these \u201crollover\u201d events.","The system processes a \u201cdrag\u201d event using a procedure  that is illustrated in . In a first block , the tune slot or row in the channel\/services table is calculated by dividing the cursor's current pixel location by the number of pixels allocated to each channel or service. In a second block , the system retrieves the channel number and the associated name from the calculated row. In a third block , the slider position is updated and the channel identifiers are displayed adjacent to the corresponding location along the channel tuning bar . As a user moves the cursor along the channel tuning bar , a rapid succession of \u201crollover\u201d events will be executed to produce an apparently seamless display of changing channel numbers and associated names that uniquely correspond to the changing position of the cursor.","User's may also change the displayed channel or service by moving the cursor over the slider , holding the primary mouse button and dragging the slider  to a desired location along the channel tuning bar . A user may \u201cpick up\u201d the slider  with the systems's mouse and move it along the channel tuning bar . As the slider  is dragged along the channel tuning bar , a rapid series of \u201cdrag\u201d events are invoked within the system that are similar to the \u201crollover\u201d events described above. Channels and their associated names are selected from the channel\/services table based on the pixel location of the system's cursor. The slider  position is updated to correspond to the channel location along the tuning bar selected by the cursor. However, when the user releases the primary mouse button following a \u201cdrag\u201d event, a \u201cclick\u201d event is invoked to change the displayed channel\/service and to update the slider position, the displayed channel number, and the displayed channel name or call-sign.","Alternatively, users may invoke a change in the displayed channel\/service by entering numeric, alpha, or alphanumeric information via the system's keyboard. The system processes a displayed channel\/service change received through the system's keyboard by first searching the channel\/services table for a matching channel number or name. If a matching channel is found, the system initiates the logical equivalent of a \u201cclick\u201d event (as described above and illustrated in ) to complete the user requested change.","The channel tuning bar  is primarily directed to accommodating video and\/or audio programming which is available on selectable channels of a DTH or similar system. However, it is also possible to allocate portions of the channel tuning bar  to other services or functions which can be launched from the tuning bar . For example, positions of the channel tuning bar  may be correlated to locally cached information. The matrix or other correlating data would then point to or otherwise select, for example, a subroutine for performing a local function, rather than accessing program guide\/schedule information to initiate tuning. Portions of the channel tuning bar  may be reserved for linking the user to other functions of the system, such as other menu pages, for example, BOW, data services, etc. Links of this type could be grouped, for example, in a data services portion  of the tuning bar .","The channel tuning bar  may also be coded to intuitively convey selection information to the user. For example, several colors may be used to visually distinguish sections of the tuning bar that correspond to particular selection categories , , . If the lower portion of the bar is used for linking to alternative menus or functions, that portion of the bar may be shaded or colored in a distinct manner. Similarly, a user's favorite channels or other selected groupings of channels may be distinctly colored or shaded to facilitate their selection from along the length of the tuning bar. Selected channels along the tuning bar may be distinguished with lines , adjoining indicia , or some other indication in or adjoining the channel tuning bar . By way of example, the last three, five, or other number of previously tuned channels may be marked to facilitate returning to them. In other embodiments, a \u201cfavorites\u201d list, maintained elsewhere in the system, may be used to highlight or otherwise emphasize those locations corresponding to the selected favorite channels of a particular user. It will be understood by those skilled in this art that many alternative presentations and embodiments are similarly possible without departing from the scope or spirit of the present invention.","Although a single channel tuning bar  is shown, it is understood that multiple tuning bars may alternatively be utilized. This may be particularly helpful where a large number of channels are present, which would otherwise cause the increment corresponding to each individual channel to be undesirably small and require excessive precision in positioning the slider . Although the channel tuning bar  is illustrated in a vertical position, it should be understood that other positions, or combinations of positions, are similarly possible. The channel tuning bar  may be straight, curved, or some combination thereof.","To further facilitate tuning in a high capacity system (i.e. many available channels and services) it may be desirable to provide a resolution function or acceleration function that adjustably varies the rate at which the slider  moves along the channel tuning bar . For example, large user movements of the slider  relative to the channel tuning bar  may cause a rapid movement through available channels. However, when the user pauses at a particular location, the system may switch to a second resolution that effectively decreases the position sensitivity of the slider  so that the user may more easily select a particular channel within a few channels of the position paused in. For example, the GUI may actively rescale the pixel allocations in the channel\/services table so that the number of pixels allocated to channels immediately surrounding the cursor position is increased and the number of pixels allocated to channels that are not proximate to the cursor position are associated with relatively fewer pixels.","Those skilled in the art can immediately appreciate that video channel tuning using the channel tuning bar  described above will be highly intuitive and quick because users tend to make viewing selections based on memorized channel numbers and call-signs. Furthermore, users can directly select the desired channel for viewing without having to pass sequentially through all available channels, or having to key in a multi-digit channel number.","b. Pop-Up Remote Control","Another important aspect of the present invention is the pop-up remote control link , which can be selected by the user from several of the GUI pages to invoke the display of a graphic overlay that simulates a hand-held remote control unit. Illustrated in  are two possible configurations for the pop-up remote. Other configurations are possible, and may be predefined so that the pop-up remote closely matches the appearance, button layouts and button functions of a particular type of remote control with which the user is familiar. For example, if the user has an RCA\u00ae television, a pop-up remote graphic that replicates the RCA\u00ae remote may be specified. Although the GUI of the present invention typically accepts user inputs from a PC system's keyboard or mouse, many users may be more comfortable with, and may find it more intuitive to use, the keyboard or the mouse to manipulate a simulated remote control to navigate through the pages of the GUI.","The functionality, configuration, and button layout of the pop-up remote may vary according to the service page that launched the pop-up remote control. This context sensitive combination of pop-up remote appearance and associated functionality may be accomplished in a variety of ways. For example, the system may associate a plurality of graphic files and function subroutines using a simple data structure (e.g., a lookup table, a matrix or pointers). Typically, the user is presented with a pop-up remote graphic having a plurality of buttons that initiate functions that are consistent with, or complementary to, the content of the current service page displayed. When the user launches into a page, pop-up remote graphic files and function subroutines associated with that particular page are used to build both the graphic display of the pop-up remote and to provide the functionality underlying the displayed configuration. When the user selects a location associated with a particular button, the system may, for example, associate the button's position on the screen with a particular block of executable code (e.g., a subroutine) and execute that code.","For example, the pop-up remote shown in  may be associated exclusively with video channel service pages, and the pop-up remote shown in  may be associated exclusively with BOW broadcast service pages. Thus, the pop-up remote may be customized to provide functions complementary to the service page that launched it. The pop-up remote's functions for the BOW service pages preferably include those commands that are required for webpage navigation forward\/back a page, page load\/stop load, page printing, and help. The remote's functions for the Software Downloads service pages preferably include commands for screen printing and help.","Screen locations in the GUI corresponding to the selectable buttons of the remote are correlated to executable routines. The corresponding routines, when executed, perform the associated control function on the related hardware (e.g., video card, satellite IRD card), such as causing the channel selection to increment up when a \u201cchange ^\u201d arrow is selected. The correlations between control routines and screen locations may be contained in a selectable or predefined template file, and the remote graphic may be contained in a selectable or predefined graphic file.","A plurality of graphic files and associated template files may then be provided, wherein each graphic corresponds to a different configuration of remote control device that preferably correspond to the actual appearance\/configuration of the remote utilized by one of many manufacturers. Typically, the user will be presented with a remote configuration\/appearance that corresponds to one that they are familiar with (e.g., a remote which corresponds to their other equipment such as a television, or VCR).","As noted above, the GUI of the present invention is preferably implemented within a DTH PC-based satellite communication system  such as that depicted generally in . Discussed in more detail below is a preferred system and method for executing the GUI software of the present invention. In particular, a preferred receiver station  architecture is disclosed. In addition, preferred data transmission methods that facilitate the GUI's ability to receive and manage the large amount and variety of digital information that is broadcast within the DTH system  are disclosed.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0138","num":"0160"},"figref":["FIG. 22","FIG. 1"],"b":["106","106","124","126","128","128","130","132","122","132","418","420","418","422","424","418","426","428","430","432","420","434","438","436","418","420","126","418","426","428","430","432","432","432","424","432","422","420"]},"The transport functional processing block  passes the data to the video\/audio decoder  of the video\/audio decoder card . The authorized data of interest are stored in system RAM (not shown) for buffering, and the video\/audio decoder  retrieves the data from RAM as needed.","The allocation of memory and control functions may be arbitrarily divided between the PC system's function cards (e.g., the satellite receiver card , the video\/audio decoder card , etc.). Thus, a substantial amount, or possibly all, of the control and memory functions for operation of the present invention may be integrated within a single card, or alternatively, may be incorporated within the PC motherboard . When needed, the data is routed to the video\/audio decoder , which includes display circuitry. For video data, the video\/audio decoder  reads in the compressed video data from its RAM, parses it, creates quantized frequency domain coefficients, then performs an inverse quantization, inverse discrete cosine transform (DCT) and motion compensation. At this point, an image has been reconstructed in the spatial domain. This image is then stored in a frame buffer in the video decoder's RAM. At a later time, the image is read out of the frame buffer and passed through the display circuitry to the VGA output driver  and optionally, to the NTSC and\/or ATSC output driver . The display circuitry also generates the graphics that allow text such as the GUI electronic program guide data to be displayed.","Illustrated in  is a system architecture block diagram  depicting, by way of example only, a preferred organization of the PC's computing unit hardware and software which may implement aspects of the present invention. A tuner driver , a TV control block , a video MPEG driver , and a video VGA driver  provide the major functions of a conventional integrated receiver decoder (IRD). The tuner driver  receives a digital signal modulated on an RF carrier (e.g., a digital satellite downlink signal) on line , and performs known IRD functions to parse out and selectively control the flow of conditional access, video\/audio, and MPT data streams. The tuner driver  passes selected video\/audio data packets to the video MPEG driver  on line . The MPEG driver  controls the MPEG decoding hardware, synchronizes video and audio data, and manages the buffering of video and audio data to be displayed. The MPEG driver  passes decoded video information to the video VGA driver  via line . The VGA driver  processes the decoded video information  and provides a display signal that may be, for example, a standard RGB output on line . The TV control block  controls the size and location of the video window via an MPEG decode control signal on line  and a VGA window display control signal on line  that are passed to the video MPEG driver  and the video VGA driver  respectively.","With respect to file data, the tuner driver  passes file data (e.g., websites, software, etc.) as MPT data packets to a tuner NDIS driver . The NDIS driver  strips the MPT header and passes standard IP data packets  using Microsoft\u00ae NDIS protocol to a standard Windows\u00ae Winsock\u00ae interface . File data  may alternatively be passed to the Winsock\u00ae interface  as IP data packets via a network driver  that exchanges information with a network connection  that may, for example, be an Ethernet, ISDN, or POTS connection.","A data manager  functions as a data distributor or data hub. The data manager  receives and interprets file data from line . The data manager  further provides an optional HTTP proxy service via line , uses an SDP+ data store , and schedules data-related tuning requirements. The data manager  may store data files (e.g., HTML, GIF, etc.) on a local file system  (e.g., a hard disk) via a fifth data path .","The data manager  may use a TAPI library block  to communicate via a telephony application programming interface (TAPI) via line . The TAPI library block  is in direct communication with a modem  having a POTS phone line connection . In this way, the data manager  can report to a service provider which advertisements a particular user has viewed or selected (i.e., advertisement tracking). In addition, the data manager  communicates with a service\/CA manager , which sets tuning priorities\/controls, manages conditional access messages, and resolves messages relating to program tuning information that are exchanged via a third data path  to\/from the tuner driver block .","The SDP+ data store  is a database that contains all the current SDP+ record information. The SDP+ data store  passes DPG data store queries for data item description and display formatting information to a data program guide block  on line . The data program guide block  contains the dynamic HTML pages, including graphic content, that is currently being broadcast by the satellite communication system . The data program guide block  may retrieve files from the local file system  via a fourth data path . The SDP+ data store  may also pass enriched TV data store queries  to an enriched TV function  that serves to map a channel to an IP address and a port. The enriched TV function  may further receive tuning control information, via line , from a tuning control interface  and may, accordingly, pass screen formatting information to the TV control block  on line . The enriched TV function  and the data program guide block  may exchange information with a browser application  along a first data path  and a second data path , respectively.","As described in section IV.B.3.b. of this disclosure, a user may interact with the GUI to schedule the download of file data. The GUI utilizes SDP+ records to perform this task. The SDP+ records are stored in the SDP+ data store . At the scheduled time of reception, the data manager , which holds schedule information, examines the records in the SDP+ data store  to determine the multicast IP address on which the download will be broadcast. After the data manager  has determined the multicast IP address, the service manager  looks to the BARP table, which may be stored on the local file system , to determine tuning information for the multicast IP address found in the SDP+ record. For example, a broadcast of Quicken 98\u2122 software may be broadcast on multicast IP address 224.1.2.3 and that multicast IP address may correspond to tuning information indicating transponder two SCID five, according to the BARP table. Once the tuning information is determined, it is passed to the service\/CA manager , which tunes the tuner driver  to, for example, transponder two, SCID five.","File information received by the tuner  is passed to the tuner NDIS driver , where it is converted into IP data and passed to the Winsock\u00ae , via line . The Winsock\u00ae, in turn, passes the IP data to the data manager , which performs the BFDP function on the IP data to recover the data for Quicken '98\u2122. The data associated with Quicken '98\u2122 is stored on the local file system  for later use. Any data determined by BFDP to be missing from the received Quicken '98\u2122 file will be obtained on subsequent broadcasts of the file. When the complete file has been stored on the local file system , Quicken '98\u2122 is complete and ready to run.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0148","num":"0170"},"figref":["FIG. 24","FIG. 1","FIGS. 22 and 23","FIG. 23","FIG. 24"],"b":["100","106","510"]},"The architecture shown in  may be used to receive audio and video signals associated with television programming. When a user desires to watch television programming, the service\/CA manager  tunes the tuner driver  to the appropriate transponder and SCID or SCIDs to receive the appropriate programming signals. The received signals are passed to the MPEG video driver  via line . The MPEG video driver  appropriately processes the received signals to obtain audio and video signals that are passed to the video VGA driver , which, in turn, passes the signals to a monitor for display.","As discussed in section IV.A. of this disclosure, the GUI of the present invention requires the presence of appropriate data at the receiver station . Although a variety of data processing techniques could be used in conjunction with the GUI of the present invention, BFDP, BARP, and SDP+ are exemplary of preferred data processing methods. Respectively, these methods provide a way of reliably transferring file data in a one-way communication channel, resolving IP addresses into physical addresses, and announcing to the receiver station  how to display available data streams for selection, and when and how to tune to data streams selected by the user.","Illustrated in , is a preferred data flow through a protocol stack that utilizes the BFDP, BARP, and SDP+ data processing methods. The transmission station  (or \u201cheadend\u201d) builds transport data packets for transmission in accordance with the headend data flow arrow. There are four primary data flow paths through the protocol stack at the transmission station . File data begins at an application layer  and is passed down through a BFDP layer , a UDP layer , an IP layer , and is encapsulated for transmission to the receiver station  by an MPT layer  and a transport layer . Webcast data begins at the application layer  and is passed down through a webcast layer , the BFDP layer , the UDP layer , the IP layer , the MPT layer , and the transport layer . SDP+ records begin at the application layer  and are passed down through an SDP+ layer , the UDP layer , the IP layer , the MPT layer  and the transport layer . BARP information begins at the application layer  and is passed down through a BARP layer , the MPT layer  and the transport layer . Transport packets received at the receiver station  (or \u201csubscriber\u201d) are resolved into BARP information, SDP+ records, webcast information, and file data by passing the received packets up through the protocol stack in the direction indicated by the subscriber data flow arrow.","Illustrated in  is an exemplary method of processing a data packet using the protocol stack shown in .  are described is more detail below in connection with in-depth discussions regarding the BFDP, BARP, and SDP+ data processing methods.","As discussed earlier in section IV.B. of this disclosure, the GUI of the present invention facilitates the organization, selection, and display of audio\/video information, file data (e.g., software, websites, etc.), and streaming data (e.g., data tickers). For example, the Software Downloads data service  (shown in ) allows a user to schedule automatic downloads of software titles to the PC , and the BOW data service  (shown in ) allows a user to select websites for periodic\/regular downloading to the PC .","Downloading file data is especially difficult within the DTH system  (shown in ) because the DTH system  does not provide a backchannel communication path from the receiver station  to the transmission station  (i.e., the communication path is a one-way path to the receiver station ). The absence of a backchannel makes it impossible for the receiver station  to acknowledge to the transmission station  that a software file was completely received and error free. Additionally, the absence of a backchannel prevents the receiver station  from requesting rebroadcast of missing data from the transmission station . Although the communication channel associated with the DTH system  has a very low bit error rate, relatively long periods of signal interruption may occur. For example, snow or rain, either at the transmission station  or the receiver station  may cause the communication channels of the system  to fade, thereby causing received signal errors. Additionally, user activity, such as receiver station tuning or deactivation, may cause signal interruptions. If signal interruptions occur during the download of file data, the file data will be incomplete and inoperable.","One preferred method of addressing the difficulty associated with transmitting file data along a one-way communication path, such as that used by the GUI of the present invention, uses data carousels at the transmission station  that repeatedly broadcast the same file data to the receiver station  in conjunction with a data transfer protocol such as, for example, the broadcast file download protocol, which is described in greater detail herein. The Broadcast File Download Protocol (BFDP) prepends a header to the file before transmission of the data packets. This header allows a download file to be reassembled from information received during one or more broadcasts of the same download file. Thus, if some file data is lost or corrupted during a first broadcast of the download file, BFDP allows the receiver station  to \u201cfill in\u201d any missing or corrupted file data with file data received during a subsequent broadcast of the same download file, thereby avoiding the constraint of having to receive an entire file without corruption\/interruption during a single broadcast.","The details of BFDP will now be explained with reference to . If a file (e.g., a website, a software file, etc.) is to be broadcast from the transmission station  to the receiver station , data from the application layer , such as webcast, is passed to the BFDP layer . For purposes of explanation of the BFDP, it will be assumed that a data file  having 2 kilobytes (2K) of data is to be transmitted. The data file  is received by the BFDP layer , which if necessary, breaks the data file  into smaller data fragments  and . For purposes of explanation it is assumed that the data file  is split into two 1K data fragments ,  and that a BFDP header  is prepended to each of the data fragments , . The size of the fragments is a tradeoff between overhead and the probability of data loss. If low overhead is desired, the size of the data packet will be large with respect to the BFDP header on the data. However, if the probability of data loss is high, the size of the data packets should be made small to minimize the data lost if a single packet is lost. Typically, the probability of data loss is determined by channel characteristics. The remainder of the processing for each fragment is identical. A sample format for the BFDP header  is shown in .","The eight fields of the sample BFDP header  provide information concerning the number and order of the data fragments ,  that are broadcast to make up the data file . Each field in the sample BFDP header  is represented by four bytes, except for filename, which is represented by sixty-four bytes. The Sync. field contains information that may be used to assist in identifying the header. An ID field is a representation of the object ID for the file being broadcast. The object ID may be used for data filtering at the receiver station . The Version field indicates the version of the BFDP used to create the present packet. Filename is sixty-four bytes of information used to indicate the filename and path where the data fragment is to be stored on the receiver station  (e.g., C:\\downloads\\xyz). Preferably, the filename field is used only for special files and is not generally used. For example, when webcast information is transferred, a HTTP header is used and the filename field is ignored. The Modified field denotes the last time the fragment was modified. Preferably, this representation is in UNIX time_t format. Count, Number, and Size fields refer to the number of fragments used to make up the original file data that is broadcast, the number of this fragment, and the size of this fragment, respectively. The count, number, and size fields are key pieces of information that allow BFDP to reconstruct a complete data file from multiple broadcasts of the data file. For example, a data file may be broken into 10 fragments and, during transmission, fragments - and - were received by the receiver station . On subsequent broadcasts of the data file, the receiver station  examines all of the BFDP headers on the received fragments and only stores the data packets indicated as fragments  and  in their BFDP headers, thereby filling in the received data file.","As shown in , after the processing is complete at the BFDP layer , the resulting data packet is transferred to a UDP layer , which prepends a UDP header  to the packet. The UDP header , which is standard and well known in the art, is shown in . The UPD header  includes fields that denote source and destination ports for the data. That is, UDP header fields contain information indicating the application that is providing the data (source port) and the application that is to receive the data (destination port). At this point in the processing, the data packet is referred to as a UDP packet .","Data transferred to a computer through a connection is typically in an Internet protocol (IP) format, which is well known to those skilled in the art. Accordingly, the UDP packet  is passed to the IP layer , which in a well known manner, prepends an IP header  onto the UDP packet , thereby creating an IP packet . The IP header , which is shown in  denotes, inter alia, the IP addresses of the data source and destination computers. Information that is broadcast to a number of users preferably uses a multicast IP address. Alternatively, information may be addressed to specific users via a standard IP address.","After the UDP packet  has been properly processed by the IP layer  to create the IP packet , the IP packet  is passed to an MPT layer . The MPT layer  processes the IP packet  to create an appropriate number of MPT packets . For example, in digital video broadcasts (DVB) the size of the MPT packets may be 185 bytes. Alternatively, the MPT packets may be 127 bytes long for other direct to home (DTH) applications. For use in the present system , each the MPT packets  is 127 bytes long including a header and data. The MPT layer uses a number of packet configurations, shown in , to create the 127 byte packets. If the IP packet  contains 114 bytes or less, only one MPT packet referred to as an \u201cOnly Packet\u201d  needs to be created. The preferred format of the Only MPT packet  is shown in . The Only packet  includes: a six bit flag field that is preferably reserved and set to all zeros, a one bit start of frame (SOF) field that indicates that this packet is the start of the frame, a one bit end of frame (EOF) field that indicates that this packet is the end of the frame. If the IP packet  contains 114 bytes or less, only one MPT packet  will be sent, therefore the Only packet header indicates that the Only packet  is the start of the frame and the end of the frame. The Only packet  may also include a field indicating the sub-SCID address of the packet, which preferably includes a two byte type code and a four byte type-dependent code. Preferably, the type code is 0x0100, which signifies that the last four bytes are the multicast group address to which this frame belongs. The Only packet  may also include a frame type field, which identifies the type of content in the MPT frame. Preferably, this field is used to indicate whether the frame is an IP frame or a BARP frame. Preferably, the frame type field is filled using Internet Assigned Number Authority (IANA) standard numbers. Further, the Only packet  may include a cyclic redundancy check (CRC), which is a 32-bit number computed over the entire MPT frame.","If the IP packet  to be processed by the MPT layer  is longer than 114 bytes, then Start , Middle , and End 750 MPT packets shown in  are preferably used to process the IP packet . The headers of these packets use all combinations of the fields described in conjunction with the Only packet . As shown in , the first 118 bytes of the IP packet  are loaded into the MPT Start packet . The start header of the MPT packet denotes a MPT packet as the start of the frame by setting the SOF bit. If the IP packet  is larger than 244 bytes the appropriate number of Middle packets  will be filled with 126 byte sections of data from the IP packet . The SOF and EOF bits will not be set because the MPT packet is a middle packet. Numerous middle packets will be filled with the IP data until there is less than 122 bytes of data remaining in the IP packet . At this point an End packet , is filled with the last bytes of information and appended with a CRC. This method of using Only, Start, Middle, and End packets yields MPT packets that are all exactly 127 bytes long.","After each IP packet  has been converted to one of the MPT packets , each of the MPT packets  is passed to the transport layer . The transport layer  places each 127 byte packet into the 127 byte payload section of a transport data packet (shown in ). The complete transport data packet is passed to the uplink frequency converter  of  and broadcast to the receiver station .","As the receiver station , which is tuned to a particular transponder and SCID, receives packets of information, the data packets traverse up through the protocol stack as indicated by the subscriber data flow indicated on . The transport layer removes the payload from each transport packet. After the appropriate processing, the payload is passed to the MPT layer , which strips the MPT header from the packet and assembles all relevant data from MPT packets to assemble the IP data frame. The IP layer  strips the IP header  from the data, performs well-known IP processing functions, and routes the data to the UDP layer . The UDP layer  strips off the UDP header  and routes the remaining information to the proper application (port) as denoted by the UDP header. The BFDP layer  strips the BFDP header  from the data packets and, using the information in the headers, reassembles the data contained in the BFDP packets into the data file  as sent by the transmission station . Additionally, if necessary, the receiver station  denotes missing data packets through examination of the BFDP headers. Thus, the GUI of the present invention may reassemble the original data file in accordance with the BFDP header fields at the receiver station  after multiple broadcasts of the original data file. That is, any missing data after the data is broadcast will be \u201cfilled in\u201d with the appropriate data from subsequent broadcasts of the original data a file. For example, if a 1 megabyte (MB) file is broadcast and the receiver station  successfully acquires all but 1 kilobyte (KB) of the broadcast information, instead of having to reacquire all of the data that the receiver station  has already received, the receiver station  simply waits for and acquires the 1 KB of data that it needs to complete the 1 MB file.","As referenced earlier, the broadcast address resolution protocol (BARP) layer  is required to resolve IP addresses into physical (i.e., satellite transport) addresses. The BARP layer is coupled to the MPT layer  and is used to map a multicast source IP address to transport-specific tuning information. That is, BARP is a map that tells a receiver station  on which transponder or transponders and SCID or SCIDs, information from a particular source IP address may be found. For example, when a user selects information from the GUI, the receiver station  uses BARP to determine tuning parameters (e.g., transponder and SCID) for the information selected by the user. Preferably, BARP information is periodically sent on as many transponders as possible so that users have easy access to the most current BARP information.","BARP consists of a header followed by zero or more address records. BARP preferably uses MPT frame type 0x0806.  represent the format of a BARP header and a BARP address record, respectively. The BARP header includes version, change number, record count and reserved fields. In this example, version is a 1 byte field that represents the version of the BARP format used to create the header and address record. Change number is a 1 byte field that is incremented each time anything in the header or any of the address records change. Record count is a 2 byte field that indicates the number of address records that follow this BARP header. The reserved field is a four byte field that may be used to provide system flexibility in the future.","The BARP address record, as shown in , includes six fields. An IP address field contains a four byte representation of an IP address. Transponder is a bitmap field identifying the transponders on which the previously-noted IP address can be found. Each bit in the transponder field corresponds to a transponder. Set bits in the transponder field indicate the presence of the IP address on that transponder. For example, if the first bit is set (1) and the rest of the bits are clear (0) then the IP address listed in the IP address field is present only on the first transponder of the system. The SCID field denotes the 12 bit SCID that contains the information provided by the IP address listed in the first field of the header. Preferably, the four most significant bits are reserved. Channel is 10-bit channel number that is associated with the this SCID and transponder. For example, transponder two, SCID nine may correspond to channel . Preferably, the most significant 6 bits of the channel field are reserved for future use. Service type is the type and paradigm of the channel associated with the transponder and SCID in the address record. The reserved field is 3 bytes long and is preferably reserved for future system use. Information for channel and service type fields are preferably supplied by the broadcaster to satisfy tuning requirements of subscriber units.","While the BARP and BFDP protocol layers represent one preferred way of transmitting the information related to the GUI of the present invention, other transmission systems and methods may be substituted without departing from the spirit of the invention.","Another difficulty faced in utilizing the wide variety and large amount of information transmitted within the DTH system  is providing a way for the GUI to efficiently find and process the various kinds of data that are available at various times within the multi-program data stream. One preferred method that allows the GUI of the present invention to efficiently find and process information for presentation to a user are \u201csession description protocol plus\u201d (SDP+) records.","An SDP+ record is an announcement mechanism that includes a number of fields, which are assembled into a single record or file to provide information on available services such as webcasts, downloads, and streaming data or other services. The SDP+ protocol is a combination of standard SDP fields and augmentations, or extensions, to the standard SDP protocol. Additional details regarding the standard SDP protocol may be found in RFC 2327. The standard fields of the SDP protocol that are used in connection with the SDP+ protocol include, protocol version, the owner\/creator and session identifier (i.e., the IP address of the creator of the SDP record), the name of the SDP session (i.e., the name of the SDP record), a brief description of the session (i.e., what the SDP record is for), the multicast address on which the session is being broadcast, the start and end times of the broadcast, the repeat times of the broadcast, a list of Internet webpages that can provide additional information on the item that is going to be broadcast, what the port of the broadcast is (i.e., the UDP port of the broadcast), the type of broadcast (e.g., BFDP, Stream, Webcast or Intercast), sorting and filtering information.","As noted, an SDP+ record may also contain information such as the time a particular service will be broadcast, the multicast IP address on which the service will be broadcast, the size of the file that will be broadcast, and information relevant to the GUI such as text or images that should be displayed to the user. Each download service (e.g., each webcast, each software download, etc.) has its own SDP+ record, which is broadcast to all subscribers to inform them of the information that is available for download. With reference to GUI information, SDP+ records are used by the PC  to build particular sections of pages using selected information resident within the PC  (e.g., the basic page template ) and selected dynamic data that is received from a satellite in the form of SDP+ records. When the user launches the interface into another state or page, the GUI builds the destination page as instructed by the template  and by the SDP+ records. The page is then displayed on the user's PC monitor .","SDP+ records also allow users to pre-select download content from descriptions of the content, then filter for that information as it arrives in the one-way data stream of the DTH system . The descriptions of the content may include extended SDP records including protocol version, name, times of broadcast, IP address, mandatory download status, ID number, run command, category, file size, text messages, channel, images, keywords, etc.","As previously mentioned, SDP+ records also provide announcement information including content type, start time, duration, Internet address information, and actions to be taken on receipt of the information. Announcement management is critical to finding the data stream, discrete download or webcast information in the received transmission. SDP+ records can be rescinded and modified, once they are present on the user's PC . SDP+ records can be used to indicate mandatory download events such as software updates. The system user (client) uses SDP+ records to schedule program reception. After the client makes selections based on the SDP+ record information, the receiver station  properly tunes itself to receive the selected information.","SDP+ records are a combination of conventional SDP records and extensions to the conventional SDP records. Generally, the extensions to the standard SDP protocol consist of fields for linking different download services together, specifying if a download file is mandatory, archived or should be run upon download to the receiver station . The extensions also provide for specification and placement of graphics for the GUI, the notification of the user upon receipt of the SDP+ record, and the recission of previously sent SDP+ records. These unique extensions coupled with the standard SDP protocol yield the SDP+ protocol used in conjunction with the GUI of the present invention. The details of the conventional SDP fields and the unique extensions of the present invention are best described in conjunction with the exemplary SDP+records shown in .","Referring now to , fields indicating version (v), record ID (o), multicast IP address (c), time (t), and port (m) are required for all SDP+ records of any kind. Additionally, for any BFDP download the object ID BFDP code (a=key:) is needed. The run command (a=run:) is required for all streaming data downloads. For all streams having an entry in the MPG a channel link (a=channel) is required. Additionally, for all webcasts a URI address field (u=<uri>) is required.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0175","num":"0197"},"figref":"FIG. 32A","b":["106","106","106"]},"The SDP+ record shown in  includes \u201ca=key:1,\u201d which indicates that the object ID for this SDP+ record is 1. The object ID may be used for sorting or other functions. The object ID in the SDP+ record matches the object ID sent in the BFDP header. The field \u201ca=run: consoleticker\u201d indicates that when the download is complete, an executable file named consoleticker should be started. The standard SDP field \u201ca=keywds\u201d is used to correlate SDP records to one another. For example, in the SDP+ record shown in  \u201ctsetup\u201d is used to correlate this SDP+ record with another SDP+ record, such as a client download file.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0177","num":"0199"},"figref":["FIG. 32B","FIG. 32A","FIG. 32B","FIG. 32B"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0178","num":"0200"},"figref":["FIG. 32C","FIG. 6","FIG. 11"],"b":["234","308"]},"The webcast SDP+ record uses the unique extension \u201ca=display:type=\u201d to indicate how the information content from the webcast will be displayed to the user. Additionally, the unique SDP+ field \u201ca=img\u201d is used to associate an image file (in this case cnn.gif) with a webcast. This image may be used as a thumbnail or any other representation of the content of the webcast. The image field and the display type field can work together to provide information for the GUI. Display type may be used to indicate on which page of the GUI the image specified in the image field must be placed. For example, type may be used to specify Top 10 Webcasts, normal, Top 5 Downloads, Special Events, Tickers, Software Hot Links or Software Specials, each of which may be represented by a number. As shown in , type=1 is specified, which may correspond to Top 10 Webcasts. Accordingly the image cnn.gif will be placed on the control panel  of the GUI as shown in . Alternatively, type may indicate Top 5 Downloads, which corresponds to the control panel  shown on the Software Downloads page in . The specification of priority=8 denotes the particular location in which the cnn.gif image will be placed on the control panel . Referring to the control panel  shown in , different priorities correspond to different locations in the arrangement of the 10 Best-of-Web images shown. For example, Discover is priority 1, Rolling Stone is priority 2, Forbes is priority 3, etc.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0180","num":"0202"},"figref":"FIG. 32D"},"As previously noted, the DTH system  broadcasts discrete downloads. These downloads are data items that have well-defined broadcast schedules and require detailed announcement information to locate the items in the received data. Examples of discrete downloads include software applications, such as spreadsheets, word processors or games. Webcasting is a special case of the discrete download. A webcast is an ongoing and repeating download of specially selected web content. The content is usually grouped by domain. Minimal scheduling is required for downloading webcast information. Multiple groups of content may be identified by the same identifier, thereby creating a one-to-many relationship among the items of interest. The system  may archive webpages pages on a the PC  for later viewing.","As webpage information is received by the subscriber unit it is stored for later use. In the preferred embodiment, webpage information is received in a compressed format and is stored directly (i.e., without extraction) by the subscriber unit. Preferably, the present invention uses an archiving scheme based on the PKWare\u2122 PKZIP\u2122 format. However, other alternative archiving formats may be used. If the archived files are compressed, the files are preferably extracted on demand using a PKWare\u2122 extractor. If, however, the files are not compressed, any ZIP extractor may be used to extract and view the files. Preferably, the filenames used in the webcast archive are actually the uniform resource identifier (URI).","Preferably, webcast archive files have a dedicated filename extension. On any given data carousel, the contents of which is repeatedly broadcast, there must be exactly one main file for each webcast. Preferably, this file contains a snapshot of the entire website or website subset as selected for broadcast. Update archive files may be used to replace portions of the main file on the carousel. The subscriber unit stores all archive files in a subdirectory corresponding to the session ID of the webcast. Preferably, when a main file is received that is newer than the current main file in that directory, all other files in that directory will be removed and any links in the proxy server's cache map file for this webcast will be replaced with the URIs in the new main file.","In accordance with the present invention, the subscriber unit preferably maps uniform resource locators (URIs) to archive files. The map allows the subscriber unit to locate the archive file containing a URI that the user desires to view. When the subscriber unit receives the main file, the subscriber unit removes all files and cache map file links to the associated session prior to the receipt of the new main file. When the user requests a webpage, the subscriber unit extracts and decompresses the appropriate archive file data to a socket. This extraction is done in real time rather than extracting the entire archive file to disk. The subscriber unit also preferably has the capability to save partially downloaded files and acquire missing portions of the files on the next broadcast of the files as with all BFDP deliveries.","In accordance with the present invention, the headend unit is capable of manipulating the archived files using functions that archive files, determine the number of files in an archive file, return the name of a particular entry in an archive file, remove entries from an archive file, and merge a number of archive files into one archive file. The function that puts entries into an archive file includes a field denoting the file or files to be archived. Preferably, wildcard indicators may be used to specify a number of filenames for entry into the archive file. The archive function also preferably allows for a specification of a location to which the archive file should be written (e.g., a path name). In a preferred embodiment the archive function allows for specification of compression or no compression for the archived file. The archive function parses the specified files, reads the hypertext transport protocol (HTTP) header, and archives the specified files to an output file using the URI found in the HTTP header.","A function that counts the number of files in an archive is also preferably implemented at the headend unit. This function allows for a specification of an archive filename and returns the number of files stored in the archive file. Another desirable function is that of a function that returns the name of a file located in an archive file. This function allows for specification of an archive filename, the index or location of the file in question, the name of a buffer that will be filled with the name of the file in question, and the size of the specified buffer. Based on the inputs specified this function preferably returns the name of the file located in the specified index position in the specified archive file, the size of the file, and the length of the character string returned in the buffer size.","A function that erases portions of an archive file is also desirable. This erasing function allows for the specification of the archive file in question, the array index or indices to be erased from the archive file, and the number of elements specified in the index or indices to be erased. Preferably, a function is included that allows for the merging of two archive files. This merging function allows for the specification of two archive file names. One of the archive filenames is the file that is to be merged into the archive file bearing the other specified filename.","Of course, it should be understood that a range of changes and modifications can be made to the preferred embodiment described above. It is therefore intended that the foregoing detailed description be regarded as illustrative rather than limiting and that it be understood that it is the following claims, including all equivalents, which are intended to define the scope of this invention."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"III. BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":"FIG. 2A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIG. 2B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0034"},"figref":"FIG. 9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"figref":"FIG. 10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0037","num":"0036"},"figref":"FIG. 11"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0037"},"figref":"FIG. 12"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0039","num":"0038"},"figref":"FIG. 13"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0040","num":"0039"},"figref":"FIG. 14"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0041","num":"0040"},"figref":"FIG. 15"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0042","num":"0041"},"figref":"FIG. 16"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0043","num":"0042"},"figref":"FIG. 17"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0044","num":"0043"},"figref":"FIG. 18"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0045","num":"0044"},"figref":"FIG. 19"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0046","num":"0045"},"figref":"FIG. 20"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0047","num":"0046"},"figref":"FIG. 21"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0048","num":"0047"},"figref":["FIG. 22","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0049","num":"0048"},"figref":"FIG. 23"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0050","num":"0049"},"figref":["FIG. 24","FIGS. 1 and 2"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0051","num":"0050"},"figref":"FIG. 25"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0052","num":"0051"},"figref":"FIG. 26"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0053","num":"0052"},"figref":"FIG. 27"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0054","num":"0053"},"figref":"FIG. 28"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0055","num":"0054"},"figref":"FIG. 29"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0056","num":"0055"},"figref":"FIGS. 30A-30D"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0057","num":"0056"},"figref":"FIGS. 31A and 31B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0058","num":"0057"},"figref":"FIGS. 32A-32D"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
