---
title: Systems and methods using secondary signal backchanneling
abstract: Within a network environment, redundant capabilities for exchanging call-processing signals enhance reliability of telephony support for telephony endpoint devices. A data network, such as a telephony-over-local area network, provides primary support for the telephony endpoint devices, which may be telephony-enabled computers or Internet Protocol telephones. A second network has a first mode in which it is inactive with respect to telephony traffic to the telephony endpoint devices, but has a second mode in which call-processing signals are routed through the second network in response to a determination that the data network is disabled. As a result, telephone features such as call deflection may be continued when the primary support is disabled. In some implementations, the second network includes a third mode in which the voice information is also carried as a response to determining that the data network is disabled and the currently available bandwidth of the second network exceeds a threshold bandwidth level.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07130409&OS=07130409&RS=07130409
owner: Siemens Communications, Inc.
number: 07130409
owner_city: Boca Raton
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20021205
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF SPECIFIC EMBODIMENTS"],"p":["The invention relates generally to systems and methods for supporting telephony for an enterprise and relates more particularly to reducing the susceptibility of telephony systems to data network failures.","There are a variety of alternative approaches to supporting call sessions for telephones of an enterprise, such as a corporation. A traditional approach is to use a private branch exchange (PBX) to provide all of the call processing for telephony devices. The call processing by the PBX includes supporting call-related features, such as call forwarding and voice messaging, in addition to the required routing of incoming and outgoing calls.","Another known approach is to integrate the call processing with a data network, such as a local area network (LAN) of an enterprise. The separate components that are used to form a particular telephony-over-LAN (ToL) system will vary from implementation to implementation. Common components include gatekeepers, gateways, legacy PBXs, Internet Protocol (IP) phones and endpoints, and messaging servers.","An example of a ToL system is shown in . The ToL system includes a number of endpoints ,  and , with each endpoint including a personal computer  and a telephone . The personal computers are configured to run ToL software. Thus, each computer may be equipped with a telephony application programming interface (TAPI) that allows the computer to have telephone capability. The telephones  may be digital phones. While the system of  includes linked computers and telephones, the device endpoints of a ToL system may alternatively be standalone IP phones, and\/or the computers may be equipped with microphones and speakers that enable the computers to function as telephones.","The endpoints  transfer non time-critical data (such as electronic mail) and time-critical data (such as voice information) to each other using communication resources  of the data network , which is represented as a bus. The communication resources may include routers, switches and other conventional components. The computers  and telephones  are network endpoints that have unique addresses. For example, each of the computers may have a unique IP address that is used to uniquely identify the computer as the target endpoint for particular data and voice transfers.","In the example of , the data network  is a LAN. The system includes a gateway  and a gatekeeper . The gatekeeper maintains a database of the unique addresses for the endpoints of the network. Upon receiving a request for a data or voice transfer from an external telephony device to one of the network endpoints, such as the telephony-enabled personal computer  of the first workstation , the gatekeeper translates an endpoint alias (such as a host name or e-mail address) or translates a telephone address (such as an address in a telephone number format) to identify the network endpoint. The various functions of gatekeepers are known in the art.","The gateway is used to provide protocol conversions, when necessary. The gateway may translate call-processing signals and voice information from a packet-switched format used within the data network  to a circuit-switched format that is used by some external networks , such as the public switched telephone network (PSTN). The protocol conversion enables endpoints of the network  to communicate with external telephony devices, such as telephones, workstations of other enterprises, or workstations of the same enterprise (corporation) having facilities in more than one city. If the data network  is only connected to another data network, such as when networks are interconnected to form a wide area network (WAN), the gateway  may not be necessary, since protocol conversion may not be required.","The system of  also includes an off-network messaging system . The workstations ,  and  may be configured to allow a user to automatically transfer incoming calls to the messaging system when the user is going to be unavailable or when the user wishes to remain undisturbed. Messages that are recorded by the system  may be retrieved by the appropriate users at a later time.","The utilization of a data network  to support telephony capability for various endpoints ,  and  has a number of advantages. System upgrades are easily implemented. Often, the upgrade only requires the installation of software at the computers, with the software being downloaded and installed at the user's convenience. Moreover, sophisticated telephony features can be provided inexpensively, since the processing power of the computer may be employed.","Avoiding communication isolation is an important concern for corporations, whether the corporation employs separate data and telephony systems or integrates telephony and data communications support. U.S. Pat. No. 6,301,352 to Chung et al. describes a method and system that addresses the concern as applied to a network of computers that are not used for providing telephone conversations, but are linked to the PSTN in order to receive data from other computers or computer networks. Thus, there is a path from the PSTN to the LAN of computers. If the path to the LAN is disrupted, the computers will be able to interact with each other, but will be isolated from the PSTN. The Chung et al. patent specifically addresses the problem in which the path from a common channel signaling gateway to the LAN is disrupted. The Chung et al. system provides a second path to the LAN. The alternative signaling paths provide improved fault tolerance for connecting LANs to external networks.","According to a specific embodiment, the present invention provides a system for supporting telephony. The system includes a plurality of client telephony devices for initiating and receiving calls, and a telephony-over-local area network (ToL) enabled to support communications involving the client telephony devices with respect to both voice data and call-processing signals, thereby providing a first signal-handling capability of exchanging the call-processing signals for voice calls directed for connection to the client telephony devices via said ToL. The system also includes a second network enabled to provide a second signal-handling capability of exchanging the call-processing signals for said voice calls directed for connection to the client telephony devices via the ToL. The first and second signal-handling capabilities are redundant capabilities for exchanging the call-processing signals with individual the client telephony devices.","According to another specific embodiment, the present invention provides a communications system for an enterprise. The system includes a plurality of telephony endpoint devices, first enterprise telephony resources enabled to support the telephony endpoint devices for communications with a central communications network that is external to the enterprise, and second enterprise telephony resources having a backup mode in which call-processing signaling between the central communications network and the telephony endpoint devices is transmitted via the second enterprise telephony resources. The second enterprise telephony resources are components of an enterprise LAN. The system also includes a detector configured to activate the backup mode when the support of the telephony endpoint devices by the first enterprise telephony resources is disabled.","According to another specific embodiment, the present invention provides a method of supporting communication with a plurality of telephony endpoint devices. The method includes steps of utilizing a data network as a primary network for exchanging voice data and call-processing signals with the telephony endpoint devices, detecting occurrences in which the data network is disabled with respect to exchanging the call-processing signals with the telephony endpoint devices, and activating a secondary signal-handling capability upon detecting the occurrences. The secondary signal-handling capability is available via a second network that is linked to the telephony endpoint devices. The activating step including enabling the second network to transmit and receive the call-processing signals to and from the telephony endpoint devices.","These and other embodiments and the advantages and features of the present invention are further described below in conjunction with the following drawings.","The invention uses two networks that can separately access client telephony devices in order to provide redundant capabilities for exchanging call-processing signals with the client telephony devices. One network is a data network that supports telephony, such as a telephony-over-local area network (ToL) that is intended to provide the primary network for exchanging both voice data and the call-processing signals. The second network has a first mode in which it is inactive with respect to telephony traffic that was originally intended to be carried via the data network, but includes a second mode in which the call-processing signals of such traffic are routed through the second network in response to a determination that the data network is disabled. In some embodiments, the second network includes a third mode in which the voice data for such traffic is also carried, in response to a determination that the data network is disabled and the currently available bandwidth of the second network exceeds a threshold bandwidth level.","The data network may be dedicated to a particular enterprise, such as the ToL of a corporation. The client telephony devices may be telephones, telephony-enabled computers, or workstations in which each workstation includes both a computer and a telephone. The devices are typically user-dedicated and are endpoints of the network (i.e., telephony endpoint devices). Each client telephony device is configured to communicate directly with the second network when the data network is disabled.","In the corporate environment, the components of the data network may be considered to be first enterprise telephony resources, while the second network may be comprised of second enterprise telephony resources. Thus, the second network may be a wireless LAN that is used to support portable client telephony devices of the corporation, such as those carried to conference rooms. However, other second networks are considered, such as wired and wireless power line networks, infrared networks, and free-space optical networks.","An even more disruptive barrier, from a business viewpoint, is one in which the LAN itself fails, particularly if the LAN is used to support telephony. Without a properly operating LAN, the client telephony devices (whether telephony-enabled computers, telephones, or computer\/telephone combinations) will be isolated, and outside parties will be unaware of the isolation. What is needed is a system and method in which telephony continues to be at least partially supported even when the supporting data network is disabled.","By enabling the exchange of call-processing signals even when the data network is disabled, the features of the client telephony devices may be activated. For example, the client telephony devices may exchange signaling that forwards incoming calls to a messaging system, such as a voice message server.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 2","FIG. 1","FIG. 2"],"b":["32","20","24","26","32","34","36","38","28"]},"The first LAN  is designed to support telephony. Thus, in addition to enabling data communications, telephone communications involving the workstations ,  and  are enabled. In , each workstation includes a computer  and a telephone , such as an Internet Protocol (IP) telephone. As described with reference to , the workstations may be limited to a telephony-enabled computer or limited to the IP telephone. As another alternative, each workstation may include both the computer and the telephone, but with the two IP telephony endpoint devices being stand-alone devices, rather than being linked as shown in . As defined herein, telephony endpoint devices are devices that are the targets of incoming calls, with the calls being answered by individuals using the telephony endpoint devices.","Each workstation ,  and  is also shown as including a transceiver . The transceiver is illustrated as a separate component, but may be a combination of hardware and software built into one or both of the computer  and the telephone . The transceivers allow the workstations to communicate with a second network . Thus, in the embodiment shown in , the second network provides an alternative path from the gateway  to the individual workstations.","In the application in which the workstations ,  and  are on-premises client devices of a single enterprise, the components dedicated to the first LAN  are first enterprise telephony resources, while the components dedicated to the second network  may be second enterprise telephony resources. Within many enterprises, the first LAN is implemented as a ToL with wired connections to the workstations ,  and . In a practical implementation of , the second network  may be a wireless LAN. Wireless LANs are deployed to support telephony connections involving a limited number of client devices. For example, the second network may be used to enable wireless communications with portable telephones ,  and . Such portable telephones may be carried from conference room to conference room to allow continuous access to the users to which the telephones are assigned.","While perhaps the most practical implementation of the invention is the one in which the second network  is a wireless LAN, other embodiments are contemplated. The important feature of the invention is that the two networks  and  provide redundant capabilities for exchanging call-processing signals with individual workstations ,  and . Wired networks and other types of wireless networks may be used as a substitute for the wireless LAN to achieve the redundant capability for exchanging call-processing signals. Examples include power-line networks, infrared networks, and free-space optical networks. Moreover, it is not critical that the two capabilities for exchanging the call-processing signals utilize the same protocol. The second network may be an Ethernet LAN, but may alternatively use the Bluetooth technology or may use the 802.11b protocol.","In , the connections between the second network  and the portable telephones ,  and  are shown as dashed connections in order to represent wireless transmissions. While the connections to the transceivers  of the workstations ,  and  are shown as being solid lines, the transmissions are also likely to be wireless transmissions.","Under normal operating conditions, the first LAN  supports all call sessions involving one of the computers  or telephones . However, occurrences arise in which the first LAN is disabled. In , the first LAN is shown as including a detector  for identifying such occurrences. The type of detector is not critical to the invention. As one possibility, the detector may periodically \u201cping\u201d the various components of the system. If the components are not reachable, the detector may use the second network  to cause the components to switch to the backup mode in which the second network  is used for exchanging call-processing signals, such as call setup. That is, the backup mode of the second network may be triggered by notifying the communication resources , the gateway , the gatekeeper , and the workstations ,  and  that the call signal-handling capability of the second network is to be used. In this backup mode, the detector may continue to monitor the first network  for the purpose of detecting when the first network returns to a fully functional condition.","As another possible implementation of the detector , the illustrated detector represents software in each one of the relevant endpoints of the network, including the workstations ,  and , the communications resources , the gateway  and the gatekeeper . Then, when a signal is transmitted during normal operations of a device having the watchdog software, an absence of an appropriate response may be interpreted by the device as an indication of the unavailability of the first network. With the first network being unavailable, the device is automatically switched to the transmission of the same signal via the second network . In this embodiment, the clients are switched on a device-by-device basis from the first network to the second network. Alternatively, the first device to identify the unavailability of the first network may notify the other devices, such as the gateway  and the gatekeeper , that the second network is to be used until the availability of the first network is restored. In its first mode, the second network does not enter into operations intended to be performed by the first LAN . The backup mode activates the second signal-handling capability provided by the second network. In this mode, at least the call-processing signals of incoming calls are conducted from the gateway  through the second network to the individual workstations. Thus, in addition to its intended operations, the second network functions as a secondary signaling backchannel. As is well known in the art, there are a number of different call-processing signals. Such signals include call setup. For some technologies, such as ISDN, the call-processing signals are carried along a separate channel from the voice data. For other technologies, the voice data and call-processing signals are carried along the same channel, but are easily separated.","In some applications, the second network  will include a third mode. The second network is likely to have a limited bandwidth that does not enable the network to continuously support call sessions intended for transmissions via the first LAN . Restricting the second network to enabling the exchange of call-processing signals typically will not provide any bandwidth problems. For example, the second network may merely exchange signals with the first workstation , for example, so as to cause an incoming call to be deflected to the messaging system  that is not dependent upon proper operations of the first LAN . Consequently, if a user is aware that the first LAN is disabled, the user may configure the first workstation to deflect the calls to the messaging system. In the third mode of the second network , the network is identified as having a current available bandwidth that exceeds a threshold. Thus, if the second network is relatively idle, it will have sufficient bandwidth to allow support of a limited number of call sessions. When the threshold condition is satisfied, the third mode is triggered and at least a limited number of call sessions to the individual workstations will be supported.","An advantage of the invention is that it allows a business to preserve basic call-handling capability during times in which the first LAN  is experiencing problems. For example, the basic call messaging feature of a ToL system, or other rerouting feature, is preserved by using the second network . Ideally, the second network exists for other reasons, such as for supporting the portable telephones ,  and , so that implementing the invention merely requires an upgrade to the second network so as to provide the call-handling capabilities for the workstations ,  and .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0034"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":["56","58","60","62","64","56","64"]},"A detector  is used to identify conditions that indicate that telephony is unsupported by the first network resources . The detector transmits a control signal to the second network resources  to activate a secondary capability for exchanging call-processing signals. Thus, if the first network is disabled, the second network will at least preserve the basic call-handling features, such as call forwarding and call deflection to a messaging system, not shown.","As a modification to , the first network resources  may be connected to IP telephones and the second network resources  may be connected to the computers ,  and , which are not necessarily telephony enabled. In this application, the two networks operate independently with independent sets of client devices. The relationship of mutual independence is changed when the telephony support by the first network is disrupted. If the resources  of the second network have sufficient bandwidth to support the call sessions in combination with the data exchange sessions, the second network may be used to provide both capabilities while the first network is disabled. However, if the bandwidth of the second network is too limited to support both capabilities on a continuous basis, supporting voice communication by the second network may be limited to those times in which its current available bandwidth exceeds a predetermined bandwidth threshold.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0037"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 2"],"b":["68","28","24"]},"At step , the determination is made as to whether the ToL or other type of \u201cfirst network\u201d is enabled. Under normal operating conditions, an affirmative response is obtained. Consequently, normal processing is executed. In step , the affirmative response results in the ToL supporting both the signal transmissions and the voice transmissions. By signal transmissions, what is meant herein is the call-handling signals that are typically transparent to the user of a telephone, but are required for proper operation of the telephone and its enhanced features.","For occurrences in which the ToL or other telephony network is identified as being disabled, the secondary signal-handling capability is activated at step . The secondary signal-handling capability provides a backchannel for transmitting call-processing signals to and receiving call-processing signals from the individual client telephony devices, such as IP telephones.","Decision step  is optional. Where the second network has sufficient bandwidth to support both signal and voice transmissions, the process bypasses the decision and progresses to the step  of supporting the signal and voice transmissions via the second network. The advantage of the decision step  is in those applications in which the second network has a limited bandwidth and the enterprise wishes to maximize the utilization of the bandwidth. A threshold bandwidth level is selected and a determination is made as to whether the currently available bandwidth exceeds the threshold. If an affirmative response is returned, step  is executed. On the other hand, if the currently available bandwidth is insufficient to reliably support the incoming call, only the call-processing signals are transmitted via the second network, as indicated at step .","One possible call-processing signal that is transmitted during step  may be referred to as a call deflection signal, which forwards the incoming call to a messaging system that is not dependent upon the disabled ToL. At decision step , the process determines whether calls are being deflected by the target telephony device. If a negative response is received, the process will end. On the other hand, if the calls are being deflected to a messaging system, the incoming call is forwarded at step . Call deflection may alternatively be a call forwarding process to a second telephone that is fully functional. As previously noted, an advantage of the process is that enhancement features of the client telephony devices can be accessed even when the primary network is disabled.","One advantage of the invention is that call deflections can continue to occur at the different client devices, such as the workstations ,  and  of . Call deflections from the gateway  to the messaging system  may be universally provided by the gateway  when the first network  is disabled, but universal call deflection limits the options available to the individual users of the workstations. At times, a user of a telephony endpoint device will define complex deflection rules. For example, the user of the workstation  may deflect calls to a cellular telephone or pager during one block of time, a conference room during the subsequent block of time, and another workstation during a third block of time. Instead of relying upon the gateway  to provide a default deflection to the messaging system , the redundant capabilities for exchanging call-processing signals allow the complex deflection rules that were selected by the individual users to be enforced at the target devices."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIGS. 2 and 3"]}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
