---
title: System and method for enhancing XML schemas
abstract: A system and method for enhancing XML schemas is presented. A schema enhancer inputs an input schema, a parameter file, and (optionally) a preamble file to generate an enhanced schema. The optional preamble file comprises definitions and syntax for elements and/or attributes to be added and/or to modify relationships in the input schema to create the enhanced schema. Instructions for modifying the input schema to generate the enhanced schema comprise the parameter file.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07089491&OS=07089491&RS=07089491
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 07089491
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20020503
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["FIELD OF THE INVENTION","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION"],"p":["The present invention relates generally to the field of computing. More particularly, the invention relates to a system and method for enhancing schemas.","XML is short for eXtensible Markup Language, a programming language developed by the World Wide Web Consortium (W3C). Both XML and HTML are derivations of SGML, (Standard Generalized Markup Language), widely used for large documentation projects and the standard for creating a document structure. XML is actually a simplified but functionality-enhanced subset of SGML. XML is \u201cextensible\u201d because, unlike HTML, XML markup symbols are unlimited and self-defining.","HTML is widely used to display web pages on the Internet although HTML can also be used for documentation purposes and need not be rendered in a browser. HTML describes the content of a web page (mainly text and graphic images) only in terms of how it is to be displayed and interacted with. For example, in HTML the letter \u201cp\u201d placed within markup tags (\u201c<p>\u201d) informs the browser that the text that follows should be displayed as a new paragraph. The content to be displayed as the new paragraph is delimited by \u201c<\/p>\u201d, which signals the end of the paragraph. Thus, in HTML, content, and tags to control the presentation of the content, are intermingled. Hence it is difficult to write a program in HTML to display the first word of every sentence in bold because before every first word of every sentence a tag indicating \u201cstart bolding\u201d would have to be inserted and after every first word of every sentence a tag indicating \u201cstop bolding\u201d would have to be inserted.","XML is conceptually related to HTML and is an HTML-like formatting language, but has more functionality than HTML. Like HTML, XML makes use of tags and attributes. But while HTML specifies what each tag and attribute means, and often, how the text between them will look in a browser, XML uses the tags only to delimit pieces of data, and leaves the interpretation of the data to the application that processes the XML file. Thus, a \u201c<p>\u201d in an XML file may be a price, a parameter, a person, an order number, etc. For example, \u201c<p>\u201d could indicate that the data that followed it was a telephone number. If the XML file were processed purely as data by a program, perhaps the telephone number would be dialed. If the XML file were stored with similar data on another computer, the phone number might be stored. If, like an HTML file, the XML file were displayed, perhaps the phone number would be displayed. Hence, XML allows designers to create their own customized tags, thus expanding the amount and kinds of information that can be provided about the data held in files and enabling the definition, transmission, validation, and interpretation of formatted data between applications and between organizations.","The rules for XML files are strict. A forgotten tag, or an attribute without quotes makes an XML file invalid and unusable, while in HTML such a practice is tolerated and is often explicitly allowed. The official W3C XML specification prohibits applications from trying to guess what the creator of an invalid XML file meant to do. If the file is invalid, an application processing the file has to stop and report an error. Thus, it is helpful to validate an XML file before using it and it is especially helpful to have an automated tool to do the validating. It is even more helpful to be able to define a valid structure of an XML file so that the automated validation tool would be able to either verify that a file is correct, or list out the mistakes that were found in the XML file. Such an enabling file structure definition is called a \u201cschema\u201d.","\u201cSchema\u201d is a term borrowed from the database world where it is used to describe the structure of data in relational tables. In the context of XML, a schema describes a model for a class of files. For example, an XML schema can describe the possible arrangement of tags and text in a valid document.","In schemas, models are described in terms of constraints. A constraint defines what can appear in any given context. A content model constraint describes the order and sequence of elements. A datatype constraint describes valid units of data.","For example, a schema might describe a valid <address> with the content model constraint that it consist of a <name> element, followed by one or more <street> elements, followed by exactly one <city>, <state>, and <zip> element. The content of a <zip> might have a further datatype constraint that it consist of either a sequence of exactly five digits or a sequence of five digits, followed by a hyphen, followed by a sequence of exactly four digits. No other text is a valid ZIP code.","A schema enables machine validation of document structure. Every specific, individual file that does not violate any of the constraints of the schema is, by definition, valid according to that schema. For example, using the schema described above, a parser (validation tool) would be able to detect that the following address is not valid:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00001","num":"00001"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"left"}},"thead":{"row":{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":"<address>"},{"entry":"<name>John J. Jones<\/name>"},{"entry":"<Street>256 Eight Bit Lane<\/street>"},{"entry":"<city>East Yabip<\/city>"},{"entry":"<state>MA<\/state>"},{"entry":"<state>CT<\/state>"},{"entry":"<zip>blue<\/zip>"},{"entry":"<\/address>"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}},"The address above violates two constraints of the schema: it does not contain exactly one <state> and the ZIP code is not of the proper form. Therefore, the parser is able to flag the above address as invalid with respect to the <state> and <zip>.","There are many excellent reasons to validate an XML file, for example:\n\n","Using a schema and a validating parser offers one way to check XML files. (It is understood that even the most advanced validating parser can fail to detect some kinds of errors. Valid files can still contain the wrong content, e.g., a purchase order may ask for a hundred boxes of staples when only ten were actually wanted.) One way to think of a schema is that it is a contract between a producer of information and a consumer of information. The contract is enforced through validation of a particular document against the schema.","One way to define schemas is through the XML Schema Definition language XSD. The XML Schema Definition language enables the definition of structure and data types for XML files according to the W3C XML Schema Part 2: Datatypes specification. A schema, (i.e., an XSD schema), defines the elements, attributes, and data types that conform to the W3C XML Schema Part 1: Structures specification for the XML Schema Definition language. This reference is based on the W3C Apr. 4, 2001 Proposed Recommendation for Datatypes and W3C Mar. 30, 2001 Proposed Recommendation for Structures.","XML schemas as defined by the W3C standard can define a rich set of datatypes including booleans, dates, times, URIs (Uniform Resource Identifiers), integers, decimal numbers, real numbers, currencies and intervals of time. In addition to these simple, predefined types, other types including aggregate types and user-defined types, can be defined. For example, a user could define a \u201cPostalAddress\u201d datatype and then define two elements, \u201cShippingAddress\u201d and \u201cBillingAddress\u201d to be of that type. Attribute grouping enables the grouping of several attributes that apply to a number of elements. Substitution groups enable different flavors of attributes to be substituted based on features of the data content and express the relationship between similar kinds of elements. Substitution groups are typically used when one of several different elements would be appropriate to use in a given context. For example, a purchase order might permit an \u201caddress\u201d to be used, but not necessarily specify what type of address should be used in a particular document. The definition of an \u201caddress\u201d substitution group with elements \u201cUSAddress\u201d element and \u201cCanadianAddress\u201d as members of that substitution group is a way of indicating that an \u201caddress\u201d must either be a valid \u201cUSAddress\u201d or a valid \u201cCanadianAddress\u201d. Substitution groups also provide an easy way to add new members, such as \u201cUKAddress\u201d. Substitution groups facilitate the modification of XML files over time and are analogous to the idea of \u201cinheritance\u201d in object-oriented programming, but are applied to data only.","Because datatypes and data structures are so robust, schemas can be extremely complex, running into the thousands of lines of code. To complicate matters, applications typically are not static. In many cases, as applications and user requirements evolve, it is necessary to make global changes to complex schemas according to a set of predefined rules, a time-consuming, difficult, and repetitive task. Hence, maintaining these complex schemas can become a task of enormous proportions with correspondingly enormous potential for the introduction of errors.","Thus it would be very helpful to have a way to describe certain attributes and element definitions external to the schema and to automatically generate an enhanced schema from a simpler input schema.","The schema enhancer is a system and method for enhancing XML schemas. The schema enhancer merges a design time schema, a parameter file and a preamble file (if present) into a run time schema. Definitions and syntax for elements and attributes to be added to the design time schema are contained in the preamble file. If no elements or attributes are to be added, the preamble file may be missing. Instructions for adding the elements and attributes of the preamble file are contained in the parameter file.","The schema enhancer collects information from the parameter file, the preamble file, if present, and the design time schema and generates a run time schema in accordance with a set of rules that may be provided by a governing body and the user-defined rules defined in the parameter and preamble files.","Exemplary Computing Environment",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0035"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},"Although not required, the invention can be implemented via an application programming interface (API), for use by a developer, and\/or included within the network browsing software which will be described in the general context of computer-executable instructions, such as program modules, being executed by one or more computers, such as client workstations, servers, or other devices. Generally, program modules include routines, programs, objects, components, data structures and the like that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Typically, the functionality of the program modules may be combined or distributed as desired in various embodiments. Moreover, those skilled in the art will appreciate that the invention may be practiced with other computer system configurations. Other well known computing systems, environments, and\/or configurations that may be suitable for use with the invention include, but are not limited to, personal computers (PCs), automated teller machines, server computers, hand-held or laptop devices, multi-processor systems, microprocessor-based systems, programmable consumer electronics, network PCs, minicomputers, mainframe computers, and the like. The invention may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network or other data transmission medium. In a distributed computing environment, program modules may be located in both local and remote computer storage media including memory storage devices.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0037"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["100","100","100","100"]},"With reference to , an exemplary system for implementing the invention includes a general purpose computing device in the form of a computer . Components of computer  may include, but are not limited to, a processing unit , a system memory , and a system bus  that couples various system components including the system memory to the processing unit . The system bus  may be any of several types of bus structures including a memory bus or memory controller, a peripheral bus, and a local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. By way of example, and not limitation, such architectures include Industry Standard Architecture (ISA) bus, Micro Channel Architecture (MCA) bus, Enhanced ISA (EISA) bus, Video Electronics Standards Association (VESA) local bus, and Peripheral Component Interconnect (PCI) bus (also known as Mezzanine bus).","Computer  typically includes a variety of computer readable media. Computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by computer  and includes both volatile and nonvolatile media, removable and non-removable media. By way of example, and not limitation, computer readable media may comprise computer storage media and communication media. Computer storage media includes both volatile and nonvolatile, removable and non-removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions, data structures, program modules or other data. Computer storage media includes, but is not limited to, RAM, ROM, EEPROM, flash memory or other memory technology, CDROM, digital versatile disks (DVD) or other optical disk storage, magnetic cassettes, magnetic tape, magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices, or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by computer . Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions, data structures, program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term \u201cmodulated data signal\u201d means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example, and not limitation, communication media includes wired media such as a wired network or direct-wired connection, and wireless media such as acoustic, RF, infrared, and other wireless media. Combinations of any of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.","The system memory  includes computer storage media in the form of volatile and\/or nonvolatile memory such as read only memory (ROM)  and random access memory (RAM) . A basic input\/output system  (BIOS), containing the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within computer , such as during start-up, is typically stored in ROM . RAM  typically contains data and\/or program modules that are immediately accessible to and\/or presently being operated on by processing unit . By way of example, and not limitation,  illustrates operating system , application programs , other program modules , and program data .","The computer  may also include other removable\/non-removable, volatile\/nonvolatile computer storage media. By way of example only,  illustrates a hard disk drive  that reads from or writes to non-removable, nonvolatile magnetic media, a magnetic disk drive  that reads from or writes to a removable, nonvolatile magnetic disk , and an optical disk drive  that reads from or writes to a removable, nonvolatile optical disk , such as a CD ROM or other optical media. Other removable\/non-removable, volatile\/nonvolatile computer storage media that can be used in the exemplary operating environment include, but are not limited to, magnetic tape cassettes, flash memory cards, digital versatile disks, digital video tape, solid state RAM, solid state ROM, and the like. The hard disk drive  is typically connected to the system bus  through a non-removable memory interface such as interface , and magnetic disk drive  and optical disk drive  are typically connected to the system bus  by a removable memory interface, such as interface .","The drives and their associated computer storage media discussed above and illustrated in  provide storage of computer readable instructions, data structures, program modules and other data for the computer . In , for example, hard disk drive  is illustrated as storing operating system , application programs , other program modules , and program data . Note that these components can either be the same as or different from operating system , application programs , other program modules , and program data . Operating system , application programs , other program modules , and program data  are given different numbers here to illustrate that, at a minimum, they are different copies. A user may enter commands and information into the computer  through input devices such as a keyboard  and pointing device , commonly referred to as a mouse, trackball or touch pad. Other input devices (not shown) may include a microphone, joystick, game pad, satellite dish, scanner, or the like. These and other input devices are often connected to the processing unit  through a user input interface  that is coupled to the system bus , but may be connected by other interface and bus structures, such as a parallel port, game port or a universal serial bus (USB).","A monitor  or other type of display device is also connected to the system bus  via an interface, such as a video interface . A graphics interface , such as Northbridge, may also be connected to the system bus . Northbridge is a chipset that communicates with the CPU, or host processing unit , and assumes responsibility for accelerated graphics port (AGP) communications. One or more graphics processing units (GPUs)  may communicate with graphics interface . In this regard, GPUs  generally include on-chip memory storage, such as register storage and GPUs  communicate with a video memory . GPUs , however, are but one example of a coprocessor and thus a variety of coprocessing devices may be included in computer . A monitor  or other type of display device is also connected to the system bus  via an interface, such as a video interface , which may in turn communicate with video memory . In addition to monitor , computers may also include other peripheral output devices such as speakers  and printer , which may be connected through an output peripheral interface .","The computer  may operate in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers, such as a remote computer . The remote computer  may be a personal computer, a server, a router, a network PC, a peer device or other common network node, and typically includes many or all of the elements described above relative to the computer , although only a memory storage device  has been illustrated in . The logical connections depicted in  include a local area network (LAN)  and a wide area network (WAN) , but may also include other networks. Such networking environments are commonplace in offices, enterprise-wide computer networks, intranets and the Internet.","When used in a LAN networking environment, the computer  is connected to the LAN  through a network interface or adapter . When used in a WAN networking environment, the computer  typically includes a modem  or other means for establishing communications over the WAN , such as the Internet. The modem , which may be internal or external, may be connected to the system bus  via the user input interface , or other appropriate mechanism. In a networked environment, program modules depicted relative to the computer , or portions thereof, may be stored in the remote memory storage device. By way of example, and not limitation,  illustrates remote application programs  as residing on memory device . It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are exemplary and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers may be used.","One of ordinary skill in the art can appreciate that a computer  or other client device can be deployed as part of a computer network. In this regard, the present invention pertains to any computer system having any number of memory or storage units, and any number of applications and processes occurring across any number of storage units or volumes. The present invention may apply to an environment with server computers and client computers deployed in a network environment, having remote or local storage. The present invention may also apply to a standalone computing device, having programming language functionality, interpretation and execution capabilities.","Validation of XML Files Using a Schema",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0044","num":"0047"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":"202"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0045","num":"0048"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00002","num":"00002"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"203pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"<?xml version=\u201c1.0\u201d?>"]},{"entry":[{},"<ex:contact"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"left"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":"xmlns:ex =\u201chttp:\/\/schemas.company.com\/nesue\/example\/rt\/1\u201d>"}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"203pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"<ex:name>Joe Smith<\/ex:name>"]},{"entry":[{},"<ex:address>1 Main Street<\/ex:address>"]},{"entry":[{},"<ex:phone>(555) 555-1212<\/ex:phone>"]},{"entry":[{},"<ex:email>smith@smith.org<\/ex:email>"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"left"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":"\u2003<\/ex:contact>"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}},"XML file  and XSD Schema  are input to validating parser . An exemplary XSD schema , for example, might be as follows:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0047","num":"0050"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00003","num":"00003"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"21pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"196pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["201","<?xml version=\u201c1.0\u201d?>"]},{"entry":["202","<xs:schema"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"left"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":"targetNamespace=\u201chttp:\/\/schemas.company.com\/nesue\/example\/rt\/1\u201d"},{"entry":"xmlns:xs=\u201chttp:\/\/www.w3.org\/2001\/XMLSchema\u201d"},{"entry":"xmlns=\u201chttp:\/\/schemas.company.com\/nesue\/example\/rt\/1\u201d>"}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"21pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"196pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["203","<xs:element name=\u201ccontact\u201d>"]},{"entry":["204","\u2002\u2002<xs:complexType>"]},{"entry":["205","\u2002\u2002\u2002<xs:sequence>"]},{"entry":["206","\u2002\u2002\u2002\u2002\u2002<xs:element name=\u201cname\u201d type=\u201cxs:string\u201d\/>"]},{"entry":["207","\u2002\u2002\u2002\u2002\u2002<xs:element name=\u201caddress\u201d type=\u201cxs:string\u201d\/>"]},{"entry":["208","\u2002\u2002\u2002\u2002\u2002<xs:element name=\u201cphone\u201d type=\u201cxs:string\u201d\/>"]},{"entry":["209","\u2002\u2002\u2002\u2002\u2002<xs:element name=\u201cemail\u201d type=\u201cxs:string\u201d\/>"]},{"entry":["210","\u2002\u2002\u2002\u2002<\/xs:sequence>"]},{"entry":["211","\u2002\u2002\u2002<\/xs:complexType>"]},{"entry":["212","\u2002\u2002<\/xs:element>"]},{"entry":["213","\u2002<\/xs:schema>"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}},"Line  defines the Namespace as \u201cschemas.company.com\/nesue\/example\/rt\/1\u201d and identifies the rules being followed as the authority W3C's 2001 XML Schema rules. As can be seen from the reproduced code, the element \u201ccontact\u201d (line ) is defined as a complex Type (line ) comprising a sequence of name, (line ), address (line ), phone (line ), and email (line ). Name, address, phone and email are of datatype string (lines \u2013, respectively).","Parser  validates the XML file  to make sure it follows the XSD schema  and outputs a report  listing any errors found, or indicating that no errors have been found. In the example given, there are no errors.","Schema Enhancer",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0050","num":"0053"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 3"],"b":["304","306","308","308","310","306","304","302","308","304","302"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0051","num":"0054"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":["400","302","304","306","306","306","310","308","308","304","302","306","310"]},"The run time schema  produced may in turn be used to validate various files, such as exemplary document files ,  and  as illustrated in Document files ,  and  are XML documents that comply with the exemplary runtime schema described below, and demonstrate the use of the inserted language attribute and wrapper element.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0053","num":"0056"},"figref":"FIGS. 5","b":["6","7","8","9","308"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0054","num":"0057"},"figref":"FIG. 5","b":["500","500","304","302","308","310"]},"Design time schema  is reproduced below:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0056","num":"0059"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00004","num":"00004"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"21pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"196pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["501","<?xml version=\u201c1.0\u201d?>"]},{"entry":["502","<xs:schema"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"left"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":"targetNamespace=\u201chttp:\/\/schemas.company.com\/nesue\/example\/rt\/1\u201d"},{"entry":"xmlns:xs=\u201chttp:\/\/www.w3.org\/2001\/XMLSchema\u201d"},{"entry":"xmlns=\u201chttp:\/\/schemas.company.com\/nesue\/example\/rt\/1\u201d>"}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"21pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"196pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["503","<xs:element name=\u201ccontact\u201d>"]},{"entry":["504","\u2002\u2002<xs:complexType>"]},{"entry":["505","\u2002\u2002\u2002<xs:sequence>"]},{"entry":["506","\u2002\u2002\u2002\u2002\u2002<xs:element name=\u201cname\u201d type=\u201cxs:string\u201d\/>"]},{"entry":["507","\u2002\u2002\u2002\u2002\u2002<xs:element name=\u201caddress\u201d type=\u201cxs:string\u201d\/>"]},{"entry":["508","\u2002\u2002\u2002\u2002\u2002<xs:element name=\u201cphone\u201d type=\u201cxs:string\u201d\/>"]},{"entry":["509","\u2002\u2002\u2002\u2002\u2002<xs:element name=\u201cemail\u201d type=\u201cxs:string\u201d\/>"]},{"entry":["510","\u2002\u2002\u2002\u2002<\/xs:sequence>"]},{"entry":["511","\u2002\u2002\u2002<\/xs:complexType>"]},{"entry":["512","\u2002\u2002<\/xs:element>"]},{"entry":["513","\u2002<\/xs:schema>"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}},"Line  defines the Namespace as \u201cschemas.company.com\/nesue\/example\/rt\/1\u201d and identifies the rules being followed as the authority W3C's 2001 XML Schema rules. As can be seen from the reproduced code, the element \u201ccontact\u201d (line ) is defined as a complex Type (line ) comprising a sequence of name, (line ), address (line ), phone (line ), and email (line ). Name, address, phone and email are of datatype string (lines -, respectively).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0058","num":"0061"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 9"],"b":["600","600","306","500","310","304","900","600"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0059","num":"0062"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00005","num":"00005"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"189pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["601","<?xml version=\u201c1.0\u201d?>"]},{"entry":["602","<stp:parameters"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"left"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":"xmlns:stp=\u201chttp:\/\/schemas.company.com\/nesue\/schemaToolParam\/1\u201d>"}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"189pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":["603","\u2003<stp:targetNamespace prefix=\u201cex\u201d"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"left"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":"uri=\u201chttp:\/\/schemas.company.com\/nesue\/example\/rt\/1\u201d\/>"}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"189pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["604","<stp:preamble file=\u201cexample-preamble.xsd\u201d\/>"]},{"entry":["605","<stp:wrapper name=\u201cwrapper\u201d\/>"]},{"entry":["606","<stp:markAttributeGroup name=\u201clanguageAttribute\u201d\/>"]},{"entry":["607","<stp:exception name=\u201cemail\u201d\/>"]},{"entry":["608","<stp:outputFile name=\u201cexamplert.xsd\u201d\/>"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"21pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"196pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["609","<\/stp:parameters>"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}},"br":{},"b":["601","603","604","604","605","606","607","608","310"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0060","num":"0063"},"figref":"FIG. 7","b":["700","700","306","308","310","700"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0061","num":"0064"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00006","num":"00006"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"21pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"196pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["701","<?xml version=\u201c1.0\u201d?>"]},{"entry":["702","<xs:schema xmlns:xs=\u201chttp:\/\/www.w3.org\/2001\/XMLSchema\u201d"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"left"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":"xmlns ex=\u201chttp:\/\/schemas.company.com\/nesue\/example\/rt\/1\u201d"},{"entry":"targetNamespace=\u201chttp:\/\/schemas.company.com\/nesue\/example\/rt\/1\u201d>"}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"21pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"196pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":["703","<xs:attributeGroup name=\u201clanguageAttribute\u201d"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"203pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"xmlns:xsd=\u201chttp:\/\/www.w3.org\/2001\/XMLSchema\u201d>"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"21pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"196pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["704","\u2002<xs:attribute name=\u201clanguage\u201d>"]},{"entry":["705","\u2002\u2002<xs:simpleType>"]},{"entry":["706","\u2002\u2002\u2002<xs:restriction base=\u201cxs:string\u201d>"]},{"entry":["707","\u2002\u2002\u2002\u2002<xs:enumeration value=\u201cEnglish\u201d\/>"]},{"entry":["708","\u2002\u2002\u2002\u2002<xs:enumeration value=\u201cFrench\u201d\/>"]},{"entry":["709","\u2002\u2002\u2002\u2002<xs:enumeration value=\u201cSpanish\u201d\/>"]},{"entry":["710","\u2002\u2002\u2002\u2002<xs:enumeration value=\u201cGerman\u201d\/>"]},{"entry":["711","\u2002\u2002\u2002\u2002<xs:enumeration value=\u201cother\u201d\/>"]},{"entry":["712","\u2002\u2002\u2002<\/xs:restriction>"]},{"entry":["713","\u2002\u2002<\/xs:simpleType>"]},{"entry":["714","\u2002<\/xs:attribute>"]},{"entry":["715","<\/xs:attributeGroup>"]},{"entry":["716","<xs:element name=\u201cwrapper\u201d"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"left"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":"xmlns:ex=\u201chttp:\/\/schemas.company.com\/nesue\/example\/rt\/1\u201d>"}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"21pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"196pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["717","\u2002\u2002<xs:complexType mixed=\u201ctrue\u201d>"]},{"entry":["718","\u2002\u2002\u2002<xs:attributeGroup ref=\u201cex:languageAttribute\u201d\/>"]},{"entry":["719","\u2002\u2002<\/xs:complexType>"]},{"entry":["720","\u2002<\/xs:element>"]},{"entry":["721","<\/xs:schema>"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}},"Line  identifies the file as an XML file. Line  identifies the namespace as \u201cschemas.company.com\/nesue\/example\/rt\/1\u201d. Line  identifies an attribute group \u201clanguageAttribute\u201d, which contains one attribute \u201clanguage\u201d of simple type based on the datatype \u201cstring\u201d, restricted to \u201cEnglish\u201d, \u201cFrench\u201d, \u201cSpanish\u201d, \u201cGerman\u201d and \u201cother\u201d (lines \u2013). Element \u201cwrapper\u201d is defined at line , of mixed elements and plain text, i.e., in this case a wrapper element may have text contained within it. The attributes apply to the wrapper element which describes what language the text is written in. Because no elements were specified within the wrapper element definition, only text can appear in this case. In this particular situation the mixed complex type allows plain text to be contained between the <wrapper> and <\/wrapper> tags.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0063","num":"0066"},"figref":"FIGS. 8","i":"a\u2013b ","b":["800","800","500","700","600","308"]},"Run time schema  is reproduced below:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0065","num":"0068"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00007","num":"00007"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","pgwide":"1"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"21pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"238pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["801","<?xml version=\u201c1.0\u201d?>"]},{"entry":["802","<xsd:schema xmlns:ex=\u201chttp:\/\/schemas.company.com\/nesue\/example rt\/1\u201d"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"259pt","align":"left"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":"elementFormDefault=\u201cqualified\u201d targetNamespace=\u201chttp:\/\/schemas.company."},{"entry":"com\/nesue\/example\/rt\/1\u201d xmlns:xsd=\u201chttp:\/\/www.w3.org\/2001\/XMLSchema\u201d>"}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"21pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"238pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["803","<xsd:attributeGroup name=\u201clanguageAttribute\u201d>"]},{"entry":["804","\u2002<xsd:attribute name=\u201clanguage\u201d>"]},{"entry":["805","\u2002\u2002<xsd:simpleType>"]},{"entry":["806","\u2002\u2002\u2002<xsd:restriction base=\u201cxsd:string\u201d>"]},{"entry":["807","\u2002\u2002\u2002\u2002<xsd:enumeration value=\u201cEnglish\u201d\/>"]},{"entry":["808","\u2002\u2002\u2002\u2002<xsd:enumeration value=\u201cFrench\u201d\/>"]},{"entry":["809","\u2002\u2002\u2002\u2002<xsd:enumeration value=\u201cSpanish\u201d\/>"]},{"entry":["810","\u2002\u2002\u2002\u2002<xsd:enumeration value=\u201cGerman\u201d\/>"]},{"entry":["811","\u2002\u2002\u2002\u2002<xsd:enumeration value=\u201cother\u201d\/>"]},{"entry":["812","\u2002\u2002\u2002<\/xsd:restriction>"]},{"entry":["813","\u2002\u2002<\/xsd:simpleType>"]},{"entry":["814","\u2002<\/xsd:attribute>"]},{"entry":["815","<\/xsd:attributeGroup>"]},{"entry":["816","<xsd:element name=\u201cwrapper\u201d>"]},{"entry":["817","\u2002<xsd:complexType mixed=\u201ctrue\u201d>"]},{"entry":["818","\u2002\u2002\u2002<xsd:attributeGroup ref=\u201cex:languageAttribute\u201d\/>"]},{"entry":["819","\u2002\u2002<\/xsd:complexType>"]},{"entry":["820","\u2002<\/xsd:element>"]},{"entry":["821","<xsd:element name=\u201ccontact\u201d>"]},{"entry":["822","\u2002<xsd:complexType>"]},{"entry":["823","\u2002\u2002<xsd:sequence>"]},{"entry":["824","\u2002\u2002\u2002<xsd:element name=\u201cname\u201d>"]},{"entry":["825","\u2002\u2002\u2002\u2002<xsd:complexType mixed=\u201ctrue\u201d>"]},{"entry":["826","\u2002\u2002\u2002\u2002\u2002<xsd:sequence>"]},{"entry":["827","\u2002\u2002\u2002\u2002\u2002\u2002<xsd:element minOccurs=\u201c0\u201d maxOccurs=\u201cunbounded\u201d"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"259pt","align":"left"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":"ref=\u201cex:wrapper\u201d\/>"}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"21pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"238pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["828","\u2002\u2002\u2002\u2002\u2002\u2002<\/xsd:sequence>"]},{"entry":["829","\u2002\u2002\u2002\u2002\u2002\u2002<xsd:attributeGroup ref=\u201cex:languageAttribute\u201d\/>"]},{"entry":["830","\u2002\u2002\u2002\u2002\u2002<\/xsd:complexType>"]},{"entry":["831","\u2002\u2002\u2002\u2002<\/xsd:element>"]},{"entry":["832","\u2002\u2002\u2002\u2002<xsd:element name=\u201caddress\u201d>"]},{"entry":["833","\u2002\u2002\u2002\u2002\u2002<xsd:complexType mixed=\u201ctrue\u201d>"]},{"entry":["834","\u2002\u2002\u2002\u2002\u2002\u2002<xsd:sequence>"]},{"entry":["835","\u2002\u2002\u2002\u2002\u2002\u2002\u2002<xsd:element minOccurs=\u201c0\u201d maxOccurs=\u201cunbounded\u201d"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"259pt","align":"left"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":"ref=\u201cex:wrapper\u201d\/>"}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"21pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"238pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["836","\u2002\u2002\u2002\u2002\u2002\u2002\u2002<\/xsd:sequence>"]},{"entry":["837","\u2002\u2002\u2002\u2002\u2002\u2002\u2002<xsd:attributeGroup ref=\u201cex:languageAttribute\u201d\/>"]},{"entry":["838","\u2002\u2002\u2002\u2002\u2002\u2002<\/xsd:complexType>"]},{"entry":["839","\u2002\u2002\u2002\u2002\u2002<\/xsd:element>"]},{"entry":["840","\u2002\u2002\u2002\u2002\u2002<xsd:element name=\u201cphone\u201d>"]},{"entry":["841","\u2002\u2002\u2002\u2002\u2002<xsd:complexType mixed=\u201ctrue\u201d>"]},{"entry":["842","\u2002\u2002\u2002\u2002\u2002\u2002<xsd:sequence>"]},{"entry":["843","\u2002\u2002\u2002\u2002\u2002\u2002\u2002<xsd:element minOccurs=\u201c0\u201d maxOccurs=\u201cunbounded\u201d"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"259pt","align":"left"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":"ref=\u201cex:wrapper\u201d\/>"}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"21pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"238pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["844","\u2002\u2002\u2002\u2002\u2002\u2002\u2002<\/xsd:sequence>"]},{"entry":["845","\u2002\u2002\u2002\u2002\u2002\u2002\u2002<xsd:attributeGroup ref=\u201cex:languageAttribute\u201d\/>"]},{"entry":["846","\u2002\u2002\u2002\u2002\u2002\u2002<\/xsd:complexType>"]},{"entry":["847","\u2002\u2002\u2002\u2002\u2002<\/xsd:element>"]},{"entry":["848","\u2002\u2002\u2002\u2002\u2002<xsd:element name=\u201cemail\u201d type=\u201cxsd:string\u201d\/>"]},{"entry":["849","\u2002\u2002\u2002\u2002<\/xsd:sequence>"]},{"entry":["850","\u2002\u2002\u2002\u2002<xsd:attributeGroup ref=\u201cex:languageAttribute\u201d\/>"]},{"entry":["851","\u2002\u2002\u2002<\/xsd:complexType>"]},{"entry":["852","\u2002\u2002<\/xsd:element>"]},{"entry":["853","<\/xsd:schema>"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}},"Referring again to , in step , the schema enhancer  is initiated. Preferably, the schema enhancer  is invoked on a command line, although alternative methods of invoking the schema enhancer  are contemplated. For example, the schema enhancer  may be invoked as a subcomponent of another application, activated via a web service or other remoting protocol, or invoked by accessing a particular page on a web server using a browser. Many other ways of invoking the schema enhancer  are possible and are contemplated by the present invention. In one embodiment, the name of the schema to transform is provided on the command line as input.","It should be understood that the order of the steps ,  and  have been selected for exemplary purposes only and in practice any ordering or combination of these steps may be implemented by the conceived invention. At step  the enhancer retrieves exemplary parameter file  from the directory where the tool is invoked. Parameter file  is validated against parameter schema file .","If the parameter file  is invalid, the process stops, and an error list is preferably generated. If the parameter file is valid, the schema enhancer  opens the parameter file  and retrieves the parameters for this particular transformation.","Preferably, the parameter file  enables customization of the transformation process. For example, parameter file  may specify one or more elements to be excluded from the addition of the attribute group, (e.g., for example line  specifies that the language attribute of line  should not be applied to the email element). Different levels of exclusion are preferably allowed. Preferably, the parameter file provides XPATH pattern matching and transformation services. XPATH pattern matching and transforming enables rules to exclude or include nodes to be injected with elements or metadata based on whether the XPATH addresses those nodes. Alternatively, any suitable pattern matching and transformation service may be utilized.","In one embodiment, as discussed above the parameter file  may be used to specify the target namespace (on line ) for the generated schema (exemplary run time schema ), which need not match the target namespace of the input schema (exemplary design time schema ). Preferably, an optional \u201cuniversal attribute\u201d namespace may alternatively be specified. For all elements in the schema an any Attribute is preferably added if the universal attribute namespace is specified.","The parameter file  preferably specifies a \u201cpreamble\u201d file (on line ), which will subsequently be prepended to the design time schema (exemplary design time schema ). Preferably also included within the parameter file  is a specification of which attribute groups (line ) and which elements (lines ) to add pervasively to every complex type within the design time schema . The parameter file  preferably also specifies the name of the output file (on line ) where the run time schema (exemplary run time schema ) should be placed.","Schema enhancer  preferably reads parameter file  with a .NET based validating schema reader, although it should be understood that any suitable validating schema reader is contemplated by the invention. The validating schema reader checks that parameter file  has valid syntax. If errors are found in the parameter file , the errors are preferably reported and the process ends. If there are no errors in the parameter file , the process continues.","Schema enhancer  preferably also validates the inputs from the command line and parameter file . If the inputs are not valid, the errors are reported and the process ends.","At step , if the inputs are valid, the preamble file  (e.g., exemplary preamble file ), if any, is input. Preamble file  is preferably loaded into an XML Schema DOM (\u201cdocument object module\u201d) using a .NET validating reader. If there are errors in the preamble file , the errors are preferably reported and the process ends. If there are no errors in the preamble file , the process continues. If the preamble file  is valid, schema enhancer  ensures that design time schema  (e.g., exemplary design time schema ) exists. If design time schema  exists, design time schema  is preferably loaded into a schema DOM, using a NET validating reader.","If all the schemas and files have passed the validation steps, at step , schema enhancer  collects information about the run time schema  to be generated. For example, information such as the target namespace for the runtime schema  is retrieved from the parameter file  at line . The preamble schema (lines \u2013) is copied to the run time schema  (lines -). Preferably attribute groups and elements to be added to the design time schema  are not added to the preamble schema . Information about substitution groups and regular groups is retrieved from design time schema  lines -.","At step  the design time schema  is retrieved and traversed again, and this time the design time schema  is transformed by copying the transformation results to the runtime schema . For example, design time schema  lines \u2013 are copied to run time schema  at lines \u2013, ,  and  of the run time schema . Certain rules required by W3C are relaxed temporarily in order to accommodate matters of efficiency.","For example, when features such as but not limited to a filtering feature is enabled, the maxOccurs specification in some portions of the schema may need to be relaxed. This kind of feature is not illustrated in the provided examples. Preferably, the parameter file controls when this relaxation feature is enabled.","Each element of the schema preferably is examined. Attributes and elements are added based on the rules of the parameter file  and the definitions of the preamble file . Preferably, attributes are not added to elements listed on the exclusion list as discussed above.","Thus, there have been described systems and methods for generating an enhanced run-time schema. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that numerous changes and modifications can be made to the preferred embodiments of the invention, and that such changes and modifications can be made without departing from the spirit of the invention. It is intended, therefore, that the appended claims cover all such equivalent variations as fall within the true spirit and scope of the invention."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The foregoing summary, as well as the following detailed description of preferred embodiments, is better understood when read in conjunction with the appended drawings. For the purpose of illustrating the invention, there is shown in the drawings exemplary constructions of the invention; however, the invention is not limited to the specific methods and instrumentalities disclosed. In the drawings:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0025"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0026"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0028"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0029"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0030"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0031"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0032"},"figref":"FIGS. 8","i":"a\u2013b "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0033"},"figref":"FIGS. 9","i":"a\u2013b "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0034"},"figref":"FIGS. 10","i":"a\u2013c "}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
