---
title: Smart bookmarks
abstract: A smart bookmark article of manufacture can include both a network address pointing to the network location of content specifying a form; and, one or more field references, each field reference corresponding to fields specified in the form. The smart bookmark article of manufacture also can include at least one field attribute corresponding to at least one of the field references.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07051117&OS=07051117&RS=07051117
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 07051117
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20020725
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS"],"p":["1. Statement of the Technical Field","The present invention relates to the field of content browsing and more particularly to content browser bookmark based form processing.","2. Description of the Related Art","The popularization of the World Wide Web has facilitated the distribution of vast quantities of network content across a wide range of top interests. Whereas merely one decade ago network distributable content could be characterized, catalogued and accessed with some ease through such venerable content distribution systems like Archie and Veronica, today, the sheer volume of content available for review over the Internet far exceeds the capabilities of any one content management technology.","Recognizing the inherent challenges of identifying, locating and retrieving specific content of interest from among the vast content offerings of the Internet, information technology firms developed content searching engines able to identify and index content distributed about the Internet. These content searching engines further provide a computer-human interface through which end-users can keyword search or browse content listings for content which has been indexed by the content searching engine. Once the end-user has located a reference to content of interest, the content searching engine can provide direct access via hyperlink technology to the content of interest.","Still, in many cases, end-users identify, locate and visit network sites containing content of interest, yet later the end-users cannot recall the precise network location of the content of interest. In consequence, end-users can be compelled to continually rely upon content searching engines to locate content of interest, even when the end user already had located the content of interest previously. Though the use of content searching engines can be an effective strategy for locating content, the repetitive use of content searching engines can be a tedious and inefficient method of locating previously located content.","Fortunately, content browsing technologies often include a simple indexing technology for memorizing the network addresses of content distributing locations of interest to end users. Referred to in the art as \u201cbookmarks\u201d, this simple indexing technology, on command, can store the network address associated with content actively viewed through the content browser. Subsequently, the end-user can access a list of indexed and stored bookmarks to retrieve previously viewed content from a network address associated with the stored bookmark.","While bookmarking can be an effective tool for retrieving static content, certain common dynamic aspects of distributable content are not processable through bookmarking alone. Specifically, forms-based processing in network distributable content requires extensive end user interaction in order to complete and submit forms-based content. Thus, for an end-user to capitalize upon the convenience of bookmarking technology when submitting a form, network inefficiencies can arise.","Specifically, first the end-user must retrieve the content containing the blank form. After a first network exchange in which the request for the blank form can be submitted through the activation of a previously stored bookmark, a second network exchange will be required once the form has been completed so that a back end forms processor can process the completed form. Of course, one can store a network address combined with specific forms input in order to reduce the required network exchange to a single volley. Yet, to do so would limit the effectiveness of this hybrid bookmark to a single, specific user. Hence, what is needed is an intelligent bookmarking system in which forms based processing need not require multiple network exchanges.","The present invention is a smart bookmarking system, method, apparatus and article of manufacture. A smart bookmark article of manufacture can include both a network address pointing to the network location of content specifying a form; and, one or more field references, each field reference corresponding to fields specified in the form. The smart bookmark article of manufacture also can include at least one field attribute corresponding to at least one of the field references.","A smart bookmarking method can include the following steps. First, responsive to the activation of a smart bookmark reference in a content browser, both a network address of a form specified by network distributable content which had been previously viewed in the content browser, and also a list of form fields disposed in the form can be retrieved from a bookmark data structure. A user interface can be constructed with surrogate fields corresponding to the form fields in the list. User-specified data can be accepted through the surrogate fields. Name-value pairs can be formed with the user-specified data and the form fields. The network address and the name-value pairs can be combined into a network request. Finally, the network request can be forwarded to a content server at the network address. In consequence, the content server can process the network request as if the user-specified data had been accepted through the form rather than through the user-interface.","Importantly, responsive to the activation of an add bookmark command in the content browser, both the network address of a form specified in content displayed in the content browser, and also a list of form fields disposed in the form can be identified. The network address and the list of form fields can be stored in a smart bookmark. Additionally, the smart bookmark can be indexed in a list of bookmarks which can be accessed and selectively activated through the content browser. Notably, at least one field attribute for at least one form field in the list can be identified and stored in the smart bookmark. Moreover, the constructing step can include both constructing a user interface with surrogate fields corresponding to the form fields in the list; and also formatting at least one surrogate field according to a field attribute associated with a corresponding form field.","A smart bookmarking content browser can include a content browser with bookmark logic configured to store network addresses of content which has been viewed through the content browser. Smart bookmark storage further can be provided which can be configured to store smart bookmarks. Each smart bookmark can include a network address pointing to the network location of content specifying a form, and one or more field references. Each field reference can correspond to fields specified in the form. Finally, a surrogate form user interface generator can be configured to generate a user interface with surrogate fields based upon the field references corresponding to the fields specified in the form. The surrogate form user interface can be further configured for formulating a network request based upon the network address and name-value pairs for data specified through surrogate fields in the user interface.","The present invention is a smart bookmark. In accordance with the present invention, while accessing forms-based content through a content browser, both the network address and the form fields of the forms-based content can be stored and indexed as a bookmark. Upon activation of the bookmark, but prior to engaging in a communicative exchange with a server at the network address, a user interface can be presented to the end user with suitable user interface fields corresponding to the stored form fields. Once the end user has completed the user interface fields, a network request can be forwarded to the server at the network address with suitable name-value pairs associated with the completed user interface fields as if the end user had completed the forms-based content directly. Hence, only a single communicative transaction need occur in the completion of the forms-based content.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":["FIG. 1","FIG. 1"],"b":["120","155","140","110","105","140","140","145","145","150"]},"Once the client computing device  has received the requested content , a content browser  can render the content  including the form according to well-known content rendering principles. As in the case of conventional content browsers, circumstances can arise where it would be preferable to \u201cmemorize\u201d the network location of the content  so as to be able to quickly retrieve the content  at a future time. Whereas in conventional content browsers, however, merely a network address can be stored as a bookmark, in the present invention, the content browser  can be configured with a smart bookmarking process .","Specifically, so as to avoid excess network request-response exchanges ordinarily associated with the retrieval of a form in network distributable content, in the smart bookmarking process of the present invention, not only can the network address of the form  in the content  be stored in a smart bookmark table , but also references to the fields  of the form  in the content  can be stored. In consequence, upon subsequent activation of the stored smart bookmark from the smart bookmark table , prior to retrieving the form  from the content server  a dialog box can be presented with surrogate user interface elements corresponding to the stored fields .","Once the surrogate user fields in the client computing device  have been completed with user-supplied data, name-value pairs for the fields  and the user-supplied data can be assembled into a single network request . Once assembled, the network request  can be forwarded to the content server  as if the form  had been completed within the content . In this way, the initial network request-response exchange required to retrieve the form  can be bypassed resulting in enhanced communications efficiencies and cost savings.","In order to be able to sufficiently generate a client-side user interface with appropriate fields otherwise required by the form , the smart bookmarking process  can be configured with a process for storing not only the network address of the form , but also field information required to generate a user interface with surrogate fields. In that regard,  is a flow chart illustrating a method for storing a smart bookmark. The process can begin upon the activation of a command to bookmark particular content containing a form such as that displayed in a conventional content browser.","In block , the network address of the content and the form can be identified through the content browser application programming interface (API). Subsequently, in block  the network address can be stored in a bookmark data structure. In blocks  through , each of the fields in the form can be identified along with pertinent characteristics and also can be stored in the bookmark data structure. Specifically, in block  the first field in the form can be identified along with any associated parameters in block , such as permissible values, colors, and the like. In block , for each field in the form, the field identity and parameters can be stored in the bookmark data structure. In block , the process can repeat until all fields in the form have been processed.","In block , optionally, the new smart bookmark entry can be indexed among existing bookmarks, for instance alphabetically, topically, or by folder tree structure. Subsequently, in block  the bookmark structure can be written to fixed storage and made accessible through the user interface of the content browser.  is a flow chart illustrating a method for processing a stored smart bookmark in response to its activation through the user interface of the content browser.","Beginning in block , the network address for the activated smart bookmark can be retrieved from the bookmark data structure, as can the form fields and attributes in block . In block , a surrogate user interface for the form, such as a dialog box, computing window, or other such presentation component, can be created and populated with surrogate fields corresponding to the form fields stored in the bookmark data structure. For instance, where a markup language edit box had been referenced in the smart bookmark, a corresponding user interface widget pre-configured to be associated with the markup language edit box can be positioned in the dialog box. Importantly, where field attributes have been specified for a particular form field, the attributes can be applied to the dialog box, for instance a label, a field color, or a required value.","In block , once the dialog box has been created, the dialog box can be displayed and the end-user will be free to interact with the dialog box in much the same manner as the end-user could have interacted directly with the form in the network distributable content. In block , the end-user can continue to interact with the dialog box by providing data to the surrogate form until the end-user acquiesces through the activation of an OK button, a submit button, or other such similarly functional structure.","Once the end-user has completed the surrogate form, in block  the user-supplied form data can be extracted from the dialog box. Subsequently, in block  a network request, for instance a POST type request, can be generated by combining the network address for the form in the content, with name-value pairs for the end-user supplied form data and the corresponding form fields. In block , the request can be forwarded to the content server as if the end-user had completed the form through the content served by the content server.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":["FIGS. 3A and 3B","FIG. 3A"],"b":["335","310","345","330","340","335","320","315","325"]},"Upon activating the Add Bookmark command , a bookmark data structure  can be created, stored and indexed in a table of bookmarks. More particularly, the bookmark data structure  can include at least a reference to the network address  of the form , and a listing of the fields  in the form , and optionally any field attributes . Subsequently, referring now to , the smart bookmark can be activated through the selection of a reference  to the smart bookmark in the Bookmarks menu list . Unlike conventional bookmarks, however, upon activating a smart bookmark, a user interface , such as a dialog box, can be created and displayed with surrogate fields  corresponding to the fields  of the form. Additionally, optional attributes  can be applied to the user interface .","The end-user can complete the surrogate fields  as if the end-user had been directly interacting with the form . Of course, as one skilled in the art will recognized, the end-user can complete the surrogate fields  of the user interface  without requiring a communicative exchange with the content server from whence the form  can be served. In any case, upon completing the surrogate fields  of the user interface , the values provided by the end-user can be combined with field references to produce name-value pairs. The name-value pairs, in turn, can be combined with the stored network address  to form the basis of a request which can be forwarded to the content server. The content server, upon receiving the request, can proceed accordingly, as if the end-user had completed the fields  of the form directly.","The present invention can be realized in hardware, software, or a combination of hardware and software. An implementation of the smart bookmarking system and process of the present invention can be realized in a centralized fashion in one computer system, or in a distributed fashion where different elements are spread across several interconnected computer systems. Any kind of computer system, or other apparatus adapted for carrying out the methods described herein, is suited to perform the functions described herein.","A typical combination of hardware and software could be a general purpose computer system with a computer program that, when being loaded and executed, controls the computer system such that it carries out the methods described herein. The present invention can also be embedded in a computer program product, which comprises all the features enabling the implementation of the methods described herein, and which, when loaded in a computer system is able to carry out these methods.","Computer program or application in the present context means any expression, in any language, code or notation, of a set of instructions intended to cause a system having an information processing capability to perform a particular function either directly or after either or both of the following a) conversion to another language, code or notation; b) reproduction in a different material form. Significantly, this invention can be embodied in other specific forms without departing from the spirit or essential attributes thereof, and accordingly, reference should be had to the following claims, rather than to the foregoing specification, as indicating the scope of the invention."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["There are shown in the drawings embodiments which are presently preferred, it being understood, however, that the invention is not limited to the precise arrangements and instrumentalities shown, wherein:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 2A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 2B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIGS. 3A and 3B"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
