---
title: Co-extrusion of energetic materials using multiple twin screw extruders
abstract: The invention comprises a continuous, integrated process to produce a multiple layered energetic material where the layers comprise energetic materials having, at least, two different burning rates. The process uses at least two twin-screw extruders to process at least two different energetic materials. These energetic materials are extruded into a co-extrusion die that, first, thins each energetic material flow into layers, and, then, combines the layers into a multiple layered energetic material. One embodiment of the invention also includes a remote take away system that completes processing the multiple layered energetic material after it leaves the co-extrusion die. The outer edges of the multiple layered material are first trim cut, then rolled into wrapped spools. Finally, the wrapped spools are cut into specified lengths for final use. These cutting, trimming and rolling steps are all done automatically, with no personnel handling required.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07063810&OS=07063810&RS=07063810
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 07063810
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20021127
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"GOVINT":[{},{}],"heading":["STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENT INTEREST","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENT"],"p":["The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.","1. Field of the Invention","The present invention pertains to the process of making energetic materials, more particularly to a continuous process for making co-layered energetic materials, and most particularly to a continuous process for making co-layered energetic materials using multiple twin-screw extruders.","2. Description of the Related Art","For many years, it has been known that combining separate layers of different energetic materials produces a final energetic product that generates increased performance for certain uses. The current method of making co-layered or multi-layered energetic materials requires numerous processing steps.","First, different energetic formulations are mixed and extruded into ribbons. This extrusion can be accomplished using numerous methods disclosed within the prior art. The individual ribbons are then rolled to a desired thickness. These multiple ribbons are then rolled into a multi-layered ribbon. The multi-layered ribbon is finally cut into the final desired shapes. Their are many problems and limitations associated with this method. Due to the number of steps, the labor involved in each step, and the multiple pieces of equipment necessary for the number of steps, the manufacturing costs for the current process are quite high. Also, due to the number of processing steps that require personnel handling of the energetic material, the safety risks are great associated with the above described processing technique. Finally, due to the large number of cutting and trimming operations involved in the process, high amounts of waste material result.","One particular method has been developed to improve safety by reduction of handling for energetic material manufacture. U.S. Pat. No. 5,565,150 discloses a process of continuous mixing of energetic materials in a twin-screw extruder, followed by granulating and drying. The patent discloses a process of mixing energetic materials within the twin-screw extruder and having the twin-screws bulk granulate the material in order to obtain energetic granules used for gun propellants and other uses. This process reduces personnel handling of material resulting in a significant safety reduction. However, this process results in granules of energetic materials of one particular formulation and not ribbons of energetic materials of differing formulations.","Therefore, it is desired to provide a method of producing co or multi-layered energetic materials using multiple twin-screw extruders in order to reduce manufacturing costs and increase safety.","The present invention comprises a continuous process to produce multiple layered energetic materials. This process uses minimum personnel handling in order to increase safety versus the currently used process. The present invention also significantly reduces waste by using a remote take away system in order to complete processing of the multiple layered energetic material.","Accordingly, it is an object of this invention to provide a continuous process to produce multiple layered energetic materials.","It is a further object of this invention to provide a process to produce multiple layered energetic materials that reduces personnel handling over the prior art process.","A still further object of this invention is to provide a process to produce multiple layered energetic materials that reduces waste over the prior art process.","This invention accomplishes these objectives and other needs related to production of energetic materials by providing a continuous, integrated process to produce a multiple layered energetic material where the layers comprise energetic materials having, at least, two different burning rates. The process uses at least two twin-screw extruders to process at least two different energetic materials. These energetic materials are extruded into a co-extrusion die that, first, thins each energetic material flow into layers, and, then, combines the layers into a multiple layered energetic material. One embodiment of the invention also includes a remote take away system that completes processing the multiple layered energetic material after it leaves the co-extrusion die. The outer edges of the multiple layered material are first trim cut, then rolled into wrapped spools. Finally, the wrapped spools are cut into specified lengths for final use. These cutting, trimming and rolling steps are all done automatically, with no personnel handling required.","The invention, as embodied herein, comprises a continuous process for making multiple layered materials wherein the materials comprise energetic materials having different burning rates. In general, the process comprises the following steps. A first energetic fill material, a binder, and a plasticizer are fed into a first twin-screw extruder to make a first energetic material. A second energetic fill material, a binder, and a plasticizer are fed into a second twin-screw extruder to make a second energetic material. Normally, these energetic materials will have different burning rates. The process flow from each of the twin-screw extruders are both fed directly into a co-extrusion die. The die will first flatten each of the process flows and then combine them into layers to form a multiple layered energetic material. In one embodiment of the invention, further processing may include a remote take away system for the multiple layered energetic material. This remote take away system may include trim cutting the outer edges of the multiple layered energetic material, rolling the material, and cutting the material into selected lengths.","Referring to , one embodiment of the invention comprises solid feeder , containing an energetic feed material , and solid feeder , containing a binder , feed into a first twin-screw extruder . A liquid feeder , containing a plasticizer , also feeds into the twin-screw extruder . In one embodiment of the invention, a solid feeder , containing a burn rate modifier , may also feed into the twin-screw extruder . In a separate embodiment of the invention, the burn rate modifier  may be added into the same feeder  as the energetic feed material . A similar set-up for a second twin-screw extruder  comprises a solid feeder , containing an energetic feed material , and a solid feeder , containing a binder . A liquid feeder , containing a plasticizer , also feeds into the twin-screw extruder . An optional feeder , containing a burn rate modifier , may also feed into twin-screw extruder . Both twin-screw extruders ,  feed processed energetic materials ( and  respectively) into a die . The die  first thins energetic materials  and  and then combines said materials ,  into a multiple layered energetic material .","The mixing of energetic materials requires imparting energy via shear into the materials in a controlled manner to avoid an energetic materials incident. Safety regulations also require that personnel exposure be limited during energetic material processing. Therefore, the invention also may include a remote take away system  that completes processing of the multiple layered energetic material .","Solid feeders , , , and  can be any type of feeder normally used in energetic materials processing and may be selected by one skilled in the art. One specific preferred solid feeder , , ,  comprises a Vibratory Feeder manufactured by Thayer corporation. Liquid feeders  and  can also be any type of feeder normally used in energetic materials processing and may be selected by one skilled in the art. On specific preferred liquid feeder ,  comprises a Gear Pump manufactured by Zenith corporation.","Energetic feed materials  and  may also be selected by one skilled in the art depending upon the specific characteristics of the final material desired. These energetic feed materials may be the same or different from one another and may also include one or more burn rate modifiers , . Preferred materials include those used in manufacturing gun propellants. Some examples of energetic feed materials  and  inlcude compositions of RDX (Cyclotrimethylenetrinitramine), HMX (Cyclotetramethylenetetranitramine), TNT (Trinitrotoluene), and PETN (Pentaerythritol tetranitrate). Examples of burn rate modifiers ,  added to the energetic feed materials  and  include TAGZT (Triaminoguanidinium azotetrazolate), TATB (Triaminotrinitrobenzene), FOX 7 (Diaminodinitroethylene), and FOX 12 (Guanylurea dinitramide).","The binders  and  must be compatible with the energetic feed materials  and  and may be selected by one skilled in the art. For gun propellants, thermoplastic solid binders are preferred. Examples of such binders include Bamo Ammo (Bis(azidomethyl)-oxetane\/azidomethyl-methyl-oxetane) or Hytrel\u00ae (a thermoplastic polyether ester elastomer block copolymer manufactured by DuPont). Plasticizers  and  must be compatible with the binders  and  and may also be selected by one skilled in the art. Examples of preferred plasticizers inlcude Triacetin or BuNena (Butyl-nitroxyethyl-nitramine).","Referring to , the processing portion of a twin-screw  is depicted. Two rods  have screw extenders  that intermesh in order to process energetic materials. Arrow A shows the direction of the material flow. In the first stage mixing section , the binder ,  is melted and the plasticizer ,  is incorporated into the binder , . In the second stage mixing section , the energetic fill material ,  (and any burn rate modifier , ) is mixed into the melted binder , \/plasticizer , . Thus, from a feed standpoint, the binder ,  and the plasticizer ,  are fed into the twin-screw extruder  and  prior to feeding the energetic fill material ,  (and any burn rate modifier , ). As the materials are conveyed down the screws , a vacuum pump  pulls a vacuum in order to remove entrained air from mixture prior to extrusion. The vacuum pump  may be connected to the twin-screw extruder  by means of a standard hose . Similar vacuum pump  and hose  are depicted connected to twin-screw extruder . The amount of vacuum may be selected by one skilled in the art depending upon the material being processed. For most gun propellants, a vacuum of approximately 10 mm HG is used.","Referring to , the die  will be fed with the materials from both twin-screw extruders  and  into sections  and . A manifold  will separate the slower burning of the energetic materials  into two streams that enter the flow through sections . Sections  and  will separately press the energetic materials  and  into thin layers. The thickness and width of the layers are selected depending upon the materials and final product desired. One example provides layers having a thickness of about 0.15 inches from sections  and about 0.085 inches for section . Preferably, both sections provide layers having a thickness of approximately 5 inches. In section  of the die , the energetic materials  and  will converge and be pressed into a multiple layered energetic material . One preferred embodiment of the invention will produce a multiple layered energetic material  comprises one layer of the faster burning of the energetic materials  sandwiched between two layers of the slower burning of the energetic materials .","Referring to , the invention may also comprise a remote take away system . The remote take away system  comprises a trim cutter  that trim cuts the outer edges of the multiple layered energetic material  after said material  exits the die . A roller  rolls the multiple layered energetic material  into wrapped spools after trim cutting. Finally, a cutter  cuts the wrapped spools into selected lengths. The trim cutter , roller , and cutter  are all controlled remotely through controller means . Controller means  may be selected by one skilled in the art and may include software, electronic, and mechanical means or a combination thereof.","What is described are specific examples of many possible variations on the same invention and are not intended in a limiting sense. The claimed invention can be practiced using other variations not specifically described above."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The accompanying drawings, which are incorporated in and constitute a part of the specification, illustrate embodiments of the invention, and, together with the description, serve to explain the principles of the invention.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 4"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
