---
title: Methods and systems for selectively connecting and disconnecting conductors in a fabric
abstract: Methods and systems for selectively connecting and disconnecting conductors in a fabric are disclosed. First and second conductors are integrated into a fabric such that the conductors intersect at a crossover point. The conductors are bonded to each other at the crossover point to improve AC and DC characteristics. Disconnect areas may be provided near the crossover point to allow selective disconnection of the conductors from the crossover point.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=06852395&OS=06852395&RS=06852395
owner: North Carolina State University
number: 06852395
owner_city: Raleigh
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20020108
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"GOVINT":[{},{}],"heading":["GOVERNMENT INTEREST","TECHNICAL FIELD","BACKGROUND ART","DISCLOSURE OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION","DC Characteristics","AC Characteristics"],"p":["This work was supported by grant number N39998-98-C-3566 from the Department of Defense-Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DOD-DARPA). Thus, the U.S. government has certain rights in the invention.","The present invention relates to methods and systems for forming fabric-based electric circuits and\/or circuit boards. More particularly, the present invention relates to methods and systems for selectively connecting and disconnecting conductors in a fabric.","In order to increase the density and flexibility of electric circuits, electric circuits have been formed on non-rigid substrates, such as woven and non-woven fabrics. Exemplary applications for fabric-based electric circuits include communications devices, such as cellular telephones, tactile sensors, biomedical sensors, general purpose computers, etc. In addition, flexible electric circuits, such as fabric-based watches, can be integrated into articles of clothing.","One problem with conventional fabric-based electric circuits is that the electrical resistance of connection points in a fabric varies from one connection point to another. For example, if conductors are woven into a fabric as warp yarns and weft yarns, the space between contact points of the warp and weft yarns varies from one contact point to the next. As a result, uniform resistance between contact points cannot be achieved. In addition, reduced contact between conductors at contact points increases DC resistance and produces undesirable AC characteristics, such as parasitic capacitance and inductance. Thus, there exists a long-felt need for improved methods and systems for selectively connecting and disconnecting conductors in a fabric.","The present invention includes methods and systems for selectively connecting and disconnecting conductors in a fabric. According to one aspect of the invention, first and second conductors are woven into a fabric such that the first and second conductors intersect at a crossover point. Next, heat and\/or electrical energy is applied to the first and second conductors at the crossover point. The application of heat and\/or electrical energy bonds the conductors at the crossover point and thereby improves both AC and DC characteristics.","Because conductive fibers can be selectively connected and disconnected in a flexible substrate, such as a fabric, the footprint of the circuit board is reduced. For example, a fabric with interconnected conductive fibers can be rolled up and\/or folded to increase electrical component density.","According to another aspect of the invention, disconnect areas are provided in conductive fibers woven into a fabric. The disconnect areas may be floats that allow fibers to be selectively disconnected from a crossover point. In another example, the disconnect areas may be electrical, mechanical, or electro-mechanical switches.","Accordingly, it is an object of the invention to provide methods and systems for selectively connecting and disconnecting conductors in a fabric.","It is another object of the invention to provide methods and systems for selectively connecting and disconnecting conductors in a fabric that improve AC and DC signal characteristics.","It is another object of the invention to provide methods and systems for selectively connecting and disconnecting conductors in a fabric that are easily integratable into commercial fabric production processes, such as weaving.","Some of the objects of the invention having been stated hereinabove, other objects will become evident as the description proceeds when taken in connection with the accompanying drawings as best described hereinbelow.",{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00026","num":"00026"},"figref":["FIG. 1","FIG. 1"],"b":["100","102","104","106","108","102","104","102","104","102","104","102","104","106","108","106","108"]},"In the illustrated embodiment, conductors  are woven into the fabric as warp yarns, and conductors  are woven into the fabric as weft yarns. As such, each conductor  intersects each conductor  at a crossover point . According to an important aspect of the invention, conductors  and  are bonded to each other at crossover points . By \u201cbonded,\u201d it is meant that conductors  and  are joined in a manner to improve AC and DC electrical signal propagation characteristics.","According to a preferred embodiment of the present invention, conductive fibers  and  may be welded at crossover points . Welding conductive fibers  and  at crossover points  greatly improves AC and DC signal characteristics of electric circuits formed using conductive fibers  and . One exemplary welding method especially suitable for use with metallic fibers is resistance welding. Resistance welding involves adding heat and\/or electrical current to conductive fibers  and  at crossover points . The addition of heat and\/or electric current melts conductive fibers  and  at crossover points  to form a bond at crossover points . Exemplary resistance welding methods suitable for use with embodiments of the present invention will now be discussed in more detail.","One resistance welding method suitable for use in bonding conductors  and  at crossover points  is referred to as parallel probe resistance welding.  is a sectional view of fabric  taken along line A\u2014A in  illustrating an exemplary parallel probe resistance welding method used to bond conductive fibers at cross-over points according to an embodiment of the present invention. In , parallel probes  and  contact conductor  at crossover point . Fabric  is preferably placed on a rigid, non-conductive substrate  to facilitate the welding process. Conductive probes  and  may be any type of conductive probe suitable for resistance welding. One example of conductive probes suitable for use with embodiments of the present invention are the RWMAII UNIBOND\u00ae electrodes available from Unitech Equipment Corporation.","In operation, an electric current is applied to crossover point  through conductive probes  and . In the illustrated example, current flows from probe , through conductor , through conductor , back through conductor , and into probe . The electric current produces heat which bonds conductors  and  at crossover point . In general, the heat generated in resistance welding can be expressed as:\n\nHeat=\n\nwhere I is the weld current through the conductors to be welded, R is the electrical resistance in Ohms of the conductors, t is the time in seconds, milliseconds, or microseconds that current is applied to the conductors, and K is a thermal constant. The weld current I and the duration of the current t are controlled by the resistance welding power supply. The resistance of the conductors R is a function of the force applied by conductive probes  and  to crossover point  and the materials used. The thermal constant K is a function of the geometry of conductors  and  and the contact pressure applied by conductive probes  and  to crossover point . The bulk and contact resistance values of conductors  and , probes  and , and the interfaces between these objects affect the amount of heat generated.\n",{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00033","num":"00033"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 3"],"b":["1","200","2","2","104","200","3","104","4","104","102","5","102","102","6","102","104","7","104","8","104","202","9","202"]},"One goal of resistance welding at a crossover point in a fabric containing conductive and non-conductive fibers according to an embodiment of the present invention is to focus the heat generated close to crossover point  and avoid damaging non-conductive fibers  and  that are proximal to crossover point . The desired amount of current and desired current application time can be determined by calculating the total resistance as discussed above and determining the desired current and current application time required to melt a given material. Alternatively, optimal weld currents can be determined experimentally. In experiments performed on conductors in a woven fabric, it was determined that a weld current of 1400 Amperes produced the best AC and DC signal characteristics with the least amount of damage to non-conductive fibers.",{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00035","num":"00035"},"figref":["FIGS. 4A and 4B","FIG. 4A","FIG. 4B","FIGS. 4A and 4B","FIG. 4A","FIGS. 4A and 4B"],"b":["102","104","106","108","102","104","110","110","106","108"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00036","num":"00036"},"figref":["FIGS. 4C and 4D","FIG. 4C"],"b":["102","104","110","102","110"]},"Another resistance welding technique suitable for bonding conductive fibers at crossover points according to an embodiment of the present invention is top-bottom resistance welding. In top-bottom resistance welding, one probe is applied to the top side of the material to be welded, and the other probe is applied to the bottom side of the material to be welded.  illustrates an exemplary method for applying top-bottom resistance welding to bond conductors in a fabric according to an embodiment of the present invention. Referring to , one conductive probe  is applied to one side of fabric  at crossover point , and another probe  is applied to an opposing side of fabric  at crossover point . In operation, a power supply supplies a DC current to probe . The current flows from probe , through conductor , through conductor , and into probe . The heat generated by the current flowing through conductors  and  melts conductors  and , thereby bonding conductors  and  at crossover point . The amount and time of current application can be calculated in a similar manner to that described above with regard to parallel probe resistance welding. Like parallel probe resistance welding, top-bottom resistance welding improves AC and DC signal characteristics of conductors in a fabric over non-welded conductors. However, top-bottom resistance welding produced less favorable results than parallel-probe resistance welding.","Yet another resistance welding technique that can be used to bond conductive fibers in a fabric according to an embodiment of the present invention is conductive loop resistance welding. In conductive loop resistance welding, a single loop probe is applied to the material to be welded. A current is applied to the loop to generate heat. The heat generated by the resistance of the loop melts the material to be welded at the point of contact with the loop.",{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00039","num":"00039"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 6"],"b":["600","600","100","110","602","600","602","110","102","104","110","110","102","104"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00040","num":"00040"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 7"],"b":["100","102","104","102","104","700","702","704","706","702","704","702","704","702","704","702","706"]},"In most coaxial conductors, the center conductors carry the signal and the outer conductors are connected to ground. Accordingly, in order to design circuitry using coaxial conductors woven into a fabric, it is desirable to bond the inner conductors of the coaxial fibers at the crossover point. In order to bond inner conductor  of conductor  to inner conductor  of conductor , a solvent that dissolves insulating layer  may first be applied to crossover point . Next, a solvent that dissolves outer conductors  but not inner conductor  is preferably applied to crossover point . Next, insulator  is preferably dissolved using a suitable solvent. Once insulating layers  and  and outer conductors  are dissolved, inner conductors  can be bonded in any suitable means, for example, using any of the resistance welding techniques described above with respect to . Thus, embodiments of the present invention include fabrics with coaxial conductors bonded at crossover points .",{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00042","num":"00042"},"figref":["FIG. 8","FIG. 8"],"b":["100","102","104","800","802","800","804","802","806","800","802","804","806","800","802","804","806"]},"In twisted pair transmission lines, one conductor may function as a signal conductor and the other conductor may be connected to ground. Accordingly, in order to design circuits using twisted pair conductors in a fabric, it is preferable to interconnect at least the signal conductors at crossover points . In , it is assumed that conductors  are the signal conductors. In order to join conductors , a first solvent is preferably applied to crossover point  to dissolve insulating layers . The solvent preferably does not dissolve insulating layer . Next, conductors  may be bonded at crossover points  using any of the resistance welding techniques described above with regard to . Ground conductors  may be joined in a similar manner at different crossover points. For example, in order to join ground conductors , a solvent that dissolves insulating layer  may be applied to crossover point . Next, ground conductors  may be welded, as described above.","Although resistance welding is the primary method discussed herein for bonding conductors at crossover points, the present invention is not limited to resistance welding. Any suitable bonding method may be used. For example, conductors in a fabric may be bonded using ultrasonic welding, laser welding, microwave welding, solvent bonding, conductive adhesive or conductive epoxy.","According to another aspect, the present invention includes methods for selectively disconnecting conductive fibers in a fabric.  illustrates a plain woven fabric A. In , plain woven fabric A includes conductors  and  and nonconductive fibers  and . Conductive fibers  and  intersect at crossover point . Conductive fibers  and  are preferably bonded at crossover point . This bonding may be accomplished using any of the above described techniques.","According to an important aspect of the invention, conductive fibers  and  include disconnect areas  that allow selective electrical disconnection from crossover point . In the illustrated example, disconnect areas  are floats in fabric A. Providing floats in fibers  and  allows conductors  and  to be selectively cut and hence disconnected from crossover point . In a fabric including a plurality of conductive fibers, every crossover point may be bonded at manufacturing time. Disconnect areas , which may be floats, switches, or other types of disconnect areas, may be provided at each crossover point. Desired electric circuits may then be formed by selectively cutting conductive fibers  or  at specific crossover points.","The present invention is not limited to providing floats in conductive fibers in a fabric to form disconnect areas. In an alternate embodiment of the invention, floats  may be replaced by electrical, mechanical, or electro-mechanical switches. Disconnect areas  may comprise electrical, mechanical, or electromechanical switches.  is a schematic diagram of conductors  and  in which disconnect areas  comprise switches. In , each disconnect area  comprises a switch . One way for forming switches  is to integrate transistors, such as NPN transistors or MOSFETS, in conductive fibers  and . If transistors are integrated in conductors  and , the transistors can be selectively opened and closed to form desired electric circuits. Thus, unlike the embodiment illustrated in  where disconnect areas could only be used to disconnect conductors  and  from crossover point , switches  illustrated in  may be used to both connect and disconnect conductive fibers  and  and variable programmable circuitry can be constructed as desired.","As discussed above, the methods for connecting and disconnecting conductors in a fabric described herein greatly improve both AC and DC characteristics of circuits formed using the crossover points. Desirable DC characteristics that were achieved included reduced resistance over unwelded crossover points and substantially uniform resistance across multiple crossover points.","In one evaluation, copper conductors were welded in a fabric and resistance was measured using a HEWLETT PACKARD 3478A multimeter. In performing the measurements, one multimeter probe was placed on one conductor at a predetermined distance from a crossover point and another multimeter probe was placed on the other conductor at a predetermined distance from point. The resistance values for the welded sample were compared against resistance values for unwelded copper conductors in a fabric. In this example, the weld current applied was 1000 Amperes and top-bottom resistance welding was used.","Tables 1 through 3 shown below illustrate measured resistance values for the welded copper conductors.",{"@attributes":{"id":"P-d0e4382","num":"00002"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00001","num":"00001"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"center"}},"thead":{"row":{"entry":"TABLE 1"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":"DC Resistance Values for Welded Copper Sample A"}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"4"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"49pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"56pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"56pt","align":"center"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Resistance"," Measured",{},{}]},{"entry":["measured after 4","Resistance R","Contact","Actual Resistance"]},{"entry":["minutes","(Ohms)","Resistance (Rc)","(R-Rc)"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["Reading 1","0.3297","0.267","0.0627"]},{"entry":["Reading 2","0.3234","0.267","0.0564"]},{"entry":["Reading 3","0.3308","0.267","0.0638"]},{"entry":["Average","0.3279","0.267","0.0609"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-d0e4615","num":"00002"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00002","num":"00002"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"center"}},"thead":{"row":{"entry":"TABLE 2"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":"DC Resistance Values for Welded Copper Sample B"}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"4"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"49pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"56pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"56pt","align":"center"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Resistance","Measured",{},{}]},{"entry":["measured after 4","Resistance R","Contact","Actual Resistance"]},{"entry":["minutes","Ohms","Resistance (Rc)","(R-Rc)"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["Reading 1","0.3293","0.267","0.0623"]},{"entry":["Reading 2","0.3297","0.267","0.0627"]},{"entry":["Reading 3","0.3342","0.267","0.0672"]},{"entry":["Average","0.3310","0.267","0.064\u2002"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-d0e4848","num":"00002"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00003","num":"00003"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"center"}},"thead":{"row":{"entry":"TABLE 3"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":"DC Resistance Values for Welded Copper Sample C"}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"4"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"49pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"56pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"56pt","align":"center"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Resistance","Measured",{},{}]},{"entry":["measured after 4","Resistance R","Contact","Actual Resistance"]},{"entry":["minutes","(Ohms)","Resistance (Rc)","(R-Rc)"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["Reading 1","0.3394","0.267","0.0724"]},{"entry":["Reading 2","0.3313","0.267","0.0643"]},{"entry":["Reading 3","0.3313","0.267","0.0643"]},{"entry":["Average","0.3340","0.267","0.067\u2002"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}},"In Tables 1-3, resistance measurements were taken three times for each sample and averaged. The quantity Rin Tables 1-3 is the resistance measured by the multimeter including the resistance of the multimeter probes. The resistance Rc in Tables 1 through 3 is the resistance of the multimeter contacts or probes. The actual resistance R-Rc is the resistance of a circuit formed by a portion of conductor  between the multimeter probes, a portion of conductor  between the multimeter probes, and a crossover point . It can be seen from Tables 1-3 that the average resistance for each of the three samples is substantially uniform, i.e., about 0.06 Ohms.","The data illustrated in Tables 1-3 can be contrasted with the data for unwelded copper samples in Table 5.",{"@attributes":{"id":"P-d0e5121","num":"00002"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00004","num":"00004"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"center"}},"thead":{"row":{"entry":"TABLE 5"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":"DC Resistance Values for Unwelded Copper Conductors"}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"4"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"49pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"56pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"56pt","align":"center"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Resistance","Measured",{},{}]},{"entry":["measured after 4","Resistance R","Contact","Actual Resistance"]},{"entry":["minutes","(Ohms)","Resistance (Rc)","(R-Rc)"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"4"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"49pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"56pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"56pt","align":"char","char":"."}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Reading 1","0.6051","0.267","0.0627"]},{"entry":["Reading 2","0.5600","0.267","0.0564"]},{"entry":["Reading 3","0.5500","0.267","0.0638"]},{"entry":["Reading 4","0.5302","0.267","0.2632"]},{"entry":["Average","0.56132","0.267","0.29432"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}},"In Table 5, the average actual resistance of the unwelded copper samples taken over four different readings is 0.29432 Ohms, which is nearly five times the resistance of the welded copper samples. Accordingly, connecting conductive fibers at crossover points achieves substantially lower resistance than simply weaving conductive fibers into a fabric. As a result, electrical power dissipation at crossover points is reduced.","In addition to improving DC electrical characteristics, bonding conductors at crossover points also improved AC characteristics. Exemplary improvements in AC characteristics included and reduced parasitic capacitance and inductance over unwelded conductors in a fabric.",{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00055","num":"00055"},"figref":["FIGS. 11A and 11B","FIG. 11B","FIGS. 11A and 11B"],"b":"11"},"While the examples discussed herein relate to bonding conductors in a woven fabric, the present invention is not limited to connecting and disconnecting conductors in woven fabrics. The methods described herein can be used to connect and disconnect conductors in any type of fabric in which conductors intersect at crossover points, such as knitted fabrics and non-wovens. In addition, the present invention is not limited to connecting and disconnecting conductors in plain woven fabrics. The methods and systems described herein can also be used to bond conductors woven in a fabric in weaves, such as twill weave, basket weave, multilayered fabric weaves, and weaves in three-dimensional fabrics.","It will be understood that various details of the invention may be changed without departing from the scope of the invention. Furthermore, the foregoing description is for the purpose of illustration only, and not for the purpose of limitation\u2014the invention being defined by the claims."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["Preferred embodiment of the invention will now be explained with reference to the accompanying drawings of which:",{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00014","num":"00014"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00015","num":"00015"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":["100","1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00016","num":"00016"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00017","num":"00017"},"figref":"FIGS. 4A and 4B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00018","num":"00018"},"figref":"FIGS. 4C and 4D"},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00019","num":"00019"},"figref":"FIG. 5","b":["100","1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00020","num":"00020"},"figref":"FIG. 6","b":["100","1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00021","num":"00021"},"figref":"FIG. 7","b":"110"},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00022","num":"00022"},"figref":"FIG. 8","b":"110"},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00023","num":"00023"},"figref":"FIG. 9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00024","num":"00024"},"figref":"FIG. 10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00025","num":"00025"},"figref":"FIGS. 11A and 11B"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
