---
title: Telephony and voice interface for voice server system management
abstract: A method of administering a voice server can include, within the voice server, receiving a call from a system administrator. Call control data of the received call can be matched with a system administration application of the voice server. The system administration application can be executed. Responsive to the executing step, communications between the system administration application and a resource management system of the voice server can be established such that the system administrator can interact with the resource management system to request administrative functions over the call.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07099442&OS=07099442&RS=07099442
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 07099442
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20021122
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION"],"p":["1. Technical Field","This invention relates to the field of telecommunications and, more particularly, to managing and administering a voice server through a voice and\/or telephony interface.","2. Description of the Related Art","Voice-based applications have become increasingly popular as a means to access data and applications. Voice-based applications are those that allow a user to select menu items or enter data into entry fields using a conventional telephone, a wireless telephone, or another audio interface. Advances in the interfaces between the digital data domain and the voice domain have led to increased use of voice-based technology for accessing traditional personal and business applications. In consequence, more often than not, users can interact with systems through traditional voice communications and\/or a telephone keypad.","Typically, voice-based services are implemented using one or more distributed computers or servers executing appropriate software, which collectively can be referred to as a \u201cvoice server\u201d. A voice server can provide functionality such as a telephony platform connector for interfacing with a telecommunications network, speech processing resources for performing text-to-speech and speech recognition, development tools, and\/or other interfaces which allow the voice server to interact with one or more application programs and control systems.","Presently, system management and administration in a voice server environment follows the traditional model of command-line or console-based control. That is, a system administrator interacts with the voice server via a conventional computer terminal, having a keyboard and display, which is communicatively linked to the voice server. The administration terminal frequently is located \u201con-premises\u201d with the voice server. The system administrator can receive notifications and monitor the voice server by viewing messages on the administration terminal display. The system administrator can provide instructions, queries, or other commands to the voice server by entering the appropriate information into a command line interface of the administration terminal display using the administrative terminal keyboard.","Through the administration terminal, the system administrator can interact with the voice server to perform administrative, managerial, and maintenance functions. Legacy software components, for example components written in the C programming language, typically are managed through Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMP) via the administration terminal.","Other systems have come to use a resource management system for handling communications between the administration terminal and the voice server. For example, within a Java environment, the resource management system can be a Java Management Extension (JMX) enabled system for managing Java components. JMX is defined in the document entitled , v1.1 (March 2002), published by Sun Microsystems, Inc. of Palo Alto, Calif. The JMX specification, which is incorporated herein by reference, defines an architecture, design patterns, application programming interfaces (APIs), and services for application and network management using the Java programming language. The JMX specification is a set of specifications and development tools for managing Java environments and building management solutions.","Conventional console-based administrative terminals lack an interface which exploits the technology which the voice server was designed to provide to users. In consequence, conventional voice servers lack a more natural interface through which the voice server can be managed, administered, and\/or maintained by a system administrator.","The invention disclosed herein provides a solution for administering, managing, and maintaining (collectively \u201cadministering\u201d) a voice server. More particularly, the present invention allows a voice server to be administered over a telecommunications network rather than via a conventional administrative console which typically resides \u201con-premises\u201d with the voice server or interactive voice response system. Accordingly, a system administrator can perform various functions-with regard to a voice server through a telephone or other voice communications link whether the system administrator is located \u201con-premises\u201d with the voice server or is remotely located in relation to the voice server.","For example, functions regarding security, data back-up and redundancy, reporting voice server loads or generating other reports, reloading applications and\/or data, performing system resets and the like can be performed by a system administrator over a telecommunications network over an established inbound call. Still, the voice server can initiate an outbound call over the telecommunications network to a system administrator in the event that a particular condition within the voice server is detected. Accordingly, those functions which are accessed using an administrative terminal in conventional systems can be accessed via a speech and\/or telephony interface in the present invention.","One aspect of the present invention can include a method of administering a voice server. The method can include, within a voice server, receiving a call from a system administrator. Call control data of the received call can be matched with a system administration application of the voice server. The system administration application can be retrieved from an application server and loaded into a voice browser included within the voice server. Notably, the system administration application can be implemented as a Voice Extensible Markup Language document.","The system administration application can be executed. Responsive to the execution of the system administration application, communications between the system administration application and a resource management system of the voice server can be established. For example, the resource management system can include a Java Management Extension enabled system and\/or a Simple Network Management Protocol based system. Accordingly, the system administrator can interact with the resource management system to request administrative functions over the call.","The method further can include receiving input from the system administrator over the call. The input, for example, can include speech signals and\/or dual tone multi-frequency signals. In any case, the input can be processed to determine an administrative function for the voice server which corresponds to the input. The administrative function can be activated within the voice server through the resource management system. Notably, the system administration application can query the resource management system for administrative information. Administrative information from the voice server can be provided over the call.","According to another aspect of the present invention, a triggering event within the voice server can be detected. The triggering event can be matched to a predetermined system administration application, which can be invoked thereby establishing communications between the system administration application and the resource management system of the voice server. The invoking step can include instructing a voice browser within the voice server to retrieve the system administration application from an application server, load the system administration application into the voice browser, and execute the system administration application. The system administration application can be implemented as a Voice Extensible Markup Language document.","As mentioned, the resource management system can include a Java Management Extension enabled system and\/or a Simple Network Management Protocol based system. An outbound call can be placed to a number specified by the system administration application. The system administration application can query the resource management system for administration information corresponding to the triggering event. Administration information associated with the triggering event can be provided over the call.","The method further can include receiving input from a system administrator via the call, processing the input to determine an administrative function for the voice server which corresponds to the input, and activating the administrative function within the voice server.","Another aspect of the present invention can include, within a voice server, receiving a call from a system administrator. Call control data of the call can be matched with an application configured to dynamically generate a system administration application of the voice server. The application can be executed to generate the system administration application. Notably, according to one embodiment of the invention, an operational state of the voice server can be detected and the system administration application can be generated in accordance with the detected operational state.","The system administration application can be executed thereby establishing communications between the system administration application and a resource management system of the voice server. Accordingly, the system administrator can interact with the resource management system to request administrative functions over the call.","Another embodiment of the present invention can include detecting a triggering event within the voice server and matching the triggering event with a predetermined application configured to dynamically generate a system administration application of the voice server. The application can be executed to generate the system administration application. The dynamically generated system administration application can be invoked thereby establishing communications between the system administration application and a resource management system of the voice server. An outbound call can be placed by the voice server to a number specified by the system administration application.","Another aspect of the present invention can include a voice server which can be administered via a telecommunications link. The voice server can include an application execution environment and a telephony-enabled system administration application executing within the application execution environment of the voice server. The voice server can include a telephony interface configured to place outbound calls or to receive inbound calls thereby establishing a telecommunications link under the direction of the telephony-enabled system administration application. The voice server also can include a resource management system configured to monitor and manage resources of the voice server. The voice server further can include a system management component configured to exchange communications between the telephony-enabled system administration application and the resource management system. Accordingly, the resource management system can respond to administration commands received over the telecommunications link and can provide administration information to the telephony-enabled system administration application to be played over the telecommunications link.","The invention disclosed herein provides a solution for administering, managing, and maintaining (collectively \u201cadministering\u201d) a voice server. More particularly, the present invention allows a voice server to be administered over a telecommunications network rather than via a conventional administrative console. Accordingly, a system administrator can perform various administrative functions with regard to a voice server through a telephony or voice interface which is communicatively linked with the voice server through a telecommunications network. Moreover, the voice server can initiate communications with a system administrator via the telecommunications network in the event that a particular event or condition within the voice server should arise.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["100","105","100","110","115","105","120","110","115","110","105"]},"The voice server , as shown, can include a voice browser , a telephony interface , speech processing resources , a system management component , as well as a resource management system . The voice browser  can provide access to dialog, speech recognition, text-to-speech, call control, and other interactive voice response functions. The voice browser  can be configured to execute any of a variety scripts or applications implemented with markup languages suited to the aforementioned functions. For example, the voice browser  can retrieve, load, and execute Voice Extensible Markup Language (VoiceXML), speech synthesis markup language, Call Control XML, or other suitable markup language documents. Notably, the Voice Browser Workgroup operating under the auspices of the World Wide Web Consortium is presently attempting to define standards for voice browsers. In any case, the voice browser  also can include a data store which specifies associations of call control data, and particularly calling and\/or called telephone numbers, with system administration applications to be described herein in greater detail. The data store further can specify associations of voice server events with system administration applications.","The telephony interface  can serve as the interface between the voice server  and the gateway . Accordingly, the telephony interface  can route packetized call control data and audio data between the voice server  and the gateway . The speech processing resources  can include a speech recognition engine and a text-to-speech engine. The speech processing resources  can be accessed by the voice browser  when executing one or more scripts to convert received user speech to text as well as convert text to speech for playback to a caller, for example, through the telephony interface .","The system management component  serves as an interface to the resource management system . Generally, the system management component  can translate commands received from the voice browser  into a format that can be understood by the resource management system , as well as translate information received from the resource management system  to a format suitable for use by the voice browser . Accordingly, the system management component  facilitates communications between the resource management system  and the voice processing functionality of the voice server .","The resource management system  can be implemented, for example, as a Java Management Extension (JMX) enabled system. As noted, JMX defines an architecture, design patterns, application programming interfaces, and services for application and network management and monitoring in the Java programming language. The JMX specification defines how to instrument Java code, create smart Java agents, implement distributed management middleware and managers, and smoothly integrate these solutions into existing management and monitoring systems.","The application server  can communicate with the voice server , and the voice browser  through a data communications protocol suitable for exchanging applications, markup language documents, and\/or scripts. According to one embodiment of the present invention, the application server  can communicate using Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP), but is not limited to such a configuration.","The application server  can include a data store , having stored therein one or more system administration applications. More particularly, the system administration applications can include one or more markup language documents or scripts, including scripts capable of dynamic markup language generation, which can be executed within the voice browser . The system administration applications can perform administrative functions that traditionally were accessed through an administrative console.","For example, the data store  can include system administration applications configured to handle inbound calls from a system administrator  which permit the caller to interact with the voice server  and perform administrative functions to the voice server . The data store  also can include system administration applications configured to initiate outbound calls in the event a failure or other event is detected within the voice server . Such a system administration application can be configured to query the voice server  to determine relevant administration information about the triggering event so that the determined information can be communicated to the system administrator  when called.","As noted, the application server  can include programs, for example servlets, which can dynamically generate system administration applications such as markup language documents. Such programs for dynamic generation of system administration applications can be provided to the voice server , and more particularly, to a virtual machine executing within the voice server . The applications, upon execution, can generate appropriate system administration applications to be executed by the voice browser .","According to another embodiment of the present invention, the applications for dynamic generation of system administration applications can execute within a virtual machine disposed within the application server . In that case, the applications can be called via the voice server, and upon execution, generate system administration applications such as markup language documents which can be provided to the voice browser  for execution.","Those skilled in the art, however, should appreciate that although the present invention can utilize a voice browser for executing telephony-based system administration applications, any of a variety of different application environments can be used. For example, possible application execution environments can include an application programming interface (API) for use with Java Beans wherein telephony-based system administration applications are implemented as Java Beans, or a Speech Applications Language Tags (SALT) compliant application execution environment. Further, as new markup language standards continue to emerge and evolve, appropriate markup language formats can be used to implement system administration applications which can execute within a suitable browser or virtual machine. Accordingly, any of a variety of application platforms and application formats can be used.","In operation, the system administrator  can call the voice server  via the telecommunications network  and the gateway . Call control and audio data for the call can be provided to the telephony interface  from the gateway . The telephony interface  can provide the audio data and call control data to the voice browser  for processing. The voice browser , having received the call control data, can match the inbound call to an appropriate system administration application using the data store of associations between system management applications and call control data. Accordingly, the voice browser  can retrieve the determined system administration application from the application server , load the system administration application, and execute the system administration application.","Once the system administration application begins execution, the voice browser  can process speech input and keypad input such as dual tone multi-frequency input signals from the system administrator . The voice browser  can route audio and keypad information to the speech processing resources  for conversion to text or other appropriate data representations. Similarly, any text which originates within the voice server  that is to be provided to the calling system administrator  can be routed to the speech processing resources  by the voice browser  for conversion to speech. The resulting speech can be played back to the system administrator  over the established call.","Notably, inputs from the system administrator , whether keypad or speech, once converted to text or another suitable data format, can be provided from the voice browser  to the system management component . The system management component  can translate any received input to a format that is compatible with the resource management system . In this manner, the system administrator can query the voice server , and perform any necessary administrative tasks over a telecommunications network connection.","Information determined by the resource management system  such as codes, flags, or other events can be provided to the system management component  for translation to a text format which can be provided to the voice browser . The information can be text-to-speech converted by the speech processing resources , and eventually played to the calling system administrator.","Accordingly, functionality which typically is available only through an administrative console can be provided to system administrators calling from remote locations through the telecommunications network . Notably, a system administrator that is \u201con-premises\u201d with the voice server  also can call the voice server  to perform administrative functions and need not access an administrative console or terminal.","The voice server configuration disclosed herein also can initiate outbound calls to one or more designated numbers. The system management component  can receive events from the resource management system . Responsive to particular events, the system management component  can direct the voice browser  to retrieve one or more system administration applications which, when executed, can initiate a call to a designated number. Once the call has been established with the number, the system administrator  can interact with the voice server  as described. Notably, the voice server  can initiate calls to pagers or other communications devices to provide notification of a detected event or condition.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0045","num":"0044"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":["200","200","205"]},"Notably, although not shown in , it should be appreciated that one or more security measures can be used to verify the identity of a caller. For example, as the voice server is equipped with speech processing resources, voice matching technology as well as one or more passwords, whether keyed or spoken, can be used for identifying the calling system administrator.","In step , the telephony interface in the voice server can receive the call from the system administrator. The audio data and call control data associated with the received call can be routed to the voice browser. In step , the voice browser can determine the appropriate system administration application to retrieve to process the received call. For example, the voice browser can utilize the calling number, the called number, or a combination of both as specified by the call control information received from the telephony interface to identify a system administration application.","In step , the voice browser can fetch the determined system administration application from the application server data store. Once retrieved, the system administration application can be loaded into the voice browser. In step , the voice browser can execute the system administration application. Accordingly, communications can be established between the system administration application and the resource management system. In step , the system administration application can receive speech and\/or keypad data from the system administrator, process that data, and provide commands, queries, or instructions to the resource management system via the system management component. Likewise, information determined by the resource management system can be provided to the system administration application executing in the voice browser via the system management component. The voice browser can provide the information to the speech processing resources to convert the data to speech to be provided to the system administrator over the established call.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0049","num":"0048"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":["300","300","305"]},"For example, the resource management system can be configured to provide all events to the system management component and allow the system management component to determine which events are relevant for purposes of contacting a system administrator. For instance, the system management component can compare each event to a listing of events which have been determined to be problematic or likely to require administrative attention. Alternatively, only selected events which have been determined to be of significance can be provided to the system management component. Regardless, the received event can indicate a condition or operational state within the voice server which requires administrative attention.","In step  the system management component can invoke the voice browser such that a system administration application will be executed. The system management component can notify the voice browser of the particular received voice server system event. Accordingly, the voice browser can cross-reference the received event with one or more system administration applications stored in the application server. In an alternative embodiment of the present invention, the system management component can include necessary data for cross-referencing one or more particular system administration applications according to the event received from the resource management system.","It should be appreciated that although a one to one correspondence can exist between voice server system events and system administration applications, according to another aspect of the present invention, multiple events can be mapped to one or more system administration applications. Accordingly, the proper system administration application can be selected based upon a series of events which can, for example, indicate an escalating condition within the voice server.","In step , the voice browser can fetch the determined system administration application from the application server data store. In step , the voice browser can load and execute the retrieved system administration application. Execution of the system administration application can cause the voice server, and in particular, the telephony interface of the voice server, to initiate an outbound call to a predetermined number. In addition, the system administration application can establish communications with the resource management system via the system management component.","In step , the telephony interface can place the outbound call. In step , the call can be established with the called number. Accordingly, the system administrator can receive the call. Once the call is established, the voice server can provide administrative information describing the detected condition to the system administrator. The system administrator can interact with the voice server to perform one or more administrative functions.","According to another aspect of the present invention, the predetermined number can correspond to a messaging device rather than a conventional telephone or other voice communications device. Accordingly, the system administration application can be configured to deliver a text message to the called device. The text message can indicate the detected event or condition within the voice server. Regardless of the device called by the voice server, it should be appreciated that additional information beyond the particular triggering event can be provided to the called device. For example, the system administration application can be configured to query the voice server and acquire specific information according to the detected event or events. This information can be provided to the called device in a desired format.","The present invention can be realized in hardware, software, or a combination of hardware and software. The present invention can be realized in a centralized fashion in one computer system, or in a distributed fashion where different elements are spread across several interconnected computer systems. Any kind of computer system or other apparatus adapted for carrying out the methods described herein is suited. A typical combination of hardware and software can be a general purpose computer system with a computer program that, when being loaded and executed, controls the computer system such that it carries out the methods described herein.","The present invention also can be embedded in a computer program product, which comprises all the features enabling the implementation of the methods described herein, and which when loaded in a computer system is able to carry out these methods. Computer program or application in the present context means any expression, in any language, code or notation, of a set of instructions intended to cause a system having an information processing capability to perform a particular function either directly or after either or both of the following: a) conversion to another language, code or notation; b) reproduction in a different material form.","This invention can be embodied in other forms without departing from the spirit or essential attributes thereof. Accordingly, reference should be made to the following claims, rather than to the foregoing specification, as indicating the scope of the invention."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["There are shown in the drawings embodiments which are presently preferred, it being understood, however, that the invention is not limited to the precise arrangements and instrumentalities shown.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":"FIG. 3"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
