---
title: Method for advertising information
abstract: Methods for advertising information include: displaying user-selectable category and geographic vicinity information at a port; and, at a database that is not at the same location as the port; responding to user input at the port to display, at the port, advertising information that is associated with a user-selected category and geographic vicinity. Methods for updating advertising information in a database include: storing advertising information about a plurality of places in the database; updating the advertising information from a first port connected to the database through the Internet; and responding, at the database, to user inputs at a second port connected to the database through the Internet, to display updated advertising information at the second port. Advertisements can be tagged to items of interest and displayed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08296335&OS=08296335&RS=08296335
owner: Civix-DDI, LLC
number: 08296335
owner_city: Boulder
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20020701
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["Related Application","COMPUTER PROGRAM LISTING","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["This is a continuing application of commonly owned U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09\/816,829, filed Mar. 23, 2001 (now U.S. Pat. No. 6,415,291), which is a continuation of Ser. No. 08\/920,044, filed Aug. 28, 1997 (now U.S. Pat. No. 6,408,307), which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 08\/371,425, filed Jan. 11, 1995 (now U.S. Pat. No. 5,682,525).","A portion of the disclosure of this patent document contains material which is subject to copyright protection. The copyright owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction by anyone of the patent document or the patent disclosure, as it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office patent file or records, but otherwise reserves all copyright rights whatsoever.","This application contains a computer program listing appendix contained within a compact disc and incorporated herein by reference.","Electronic directories for identifying selected subscribers within a city are known in the prior art. For example, U.S. Pat. No. 4,974,170 describes one system which includes a fixed kiosk with an internal memory for storing locations such as businesses and historical sites within a predetermined distance from the kiosk. An input panel on the kiosk provides access to the data within the memory, and a map is generated by the system thereby locating the selected information from the kiosk.","However, such a system is inflexible. The map generated by the system is predefined; and thus the user cannot access or select information about businesses and historical sites outside of the predefined map. A user of the system must also know the exact location of the kiosk in order to use the system. Tourists and business travelers to the city are unlikely to know of the kiosk; and thus the kiosk system is of little use to such users. Further, a user must be physically present at the kiosk in order to access the information about the businesses and\/or sites in the surrounding area.","In addition, the information stored within the kiosk's memory must be manually updated. This requires a series of cumbersome steps\u2014including the physical acts of loading and downloading to the memory at the kiosk\u2014to update the system in the event that information about a selected business changes, e.g., the business closes.","It is, accordingly, an object of the invention to provide systems and methods which reduce or remove the aforementioned difficulties.","It is yet another object of the invention to provide a system for remotely accessing selective items of interest from a database; and for displaying a geographic vicinity of the items of interest to the user selectively and at the remote location.","Still another object of the invention is to provide a system for remotely providing information identifying locations of selected items of interest at a selected destination location.","These and other objects will be apparent in the specification which follows.","As used herein, \u201citems of interest\u201d means services, products, geographic sites, architectural sites, stores, restaurants, public services, and other items which a user of the invention may wish to locate. \u201cPort,\u201d \u201cremote access port,\u201d \u201cterminal,\u201d or \u201cremote access terminal\u201d are used interchangeably to denote a terminal, e.g., a personal computer with modem, from which a user of the invention can access the database storing the information about the items of interest. \u201cRemote database\u201d or \u201cdatabase\u201d are used herein to denote a database, e.g., a client server, which stores information for access by a user of the invention from a port. \u201cCommunication link\u201d is used to denote means, including for example a telephone line, for communicating between the database and the port. \u201cGeographic vicinity,\u201d and \u201cmap\u201d are used to denote a geographic region which includes and surrounds selected items of interest.","In one aspect, the invention provides a system for remotely determining the position of a selected category of items of interest in a selected geographic vicinity from a database. A database stores information about a plurality of items of interest, including, for each of the items of interest, positional coordinates, a geographic vicinity, and at least one associated category. A communications link facilitates communications between a user of the system and the database. The system also provides for transmitting a portion of the information in the database to a user via the link upon receipt of a request signal representative of a selected category and geographic vicinity. Preferably, that transmitted portion of the information includes identification of a position for the items of interest within the selected category and geographic vicinity. The system further provides a port for remotely accessing the portion of information via the link. Specifically, the port generates the request signal in response to inputs by a user of the system; that signal being representative of the selected category and geographic vicinity. A user interface at the port accepts the inputs and communicates the position of each of the items of interest in the selected category and geographic vicinity to the user.","In accord with other aspects of the invention, the communications link can include several technologies, including a telephone link, satellite link, radio-frequency link, infra-red link, internet link, facsimile link, fiber-optic link, coaxial cable link and television link. The database is, typically, a personal computer, mainframe, work-station, mini-computer, or digital data processor. To communicate the information to a user, the user interface can include a television, telephone, facsimile, audible speaker, and\/or personal computer display. To accept user inputs at the port, the user interface can further include a television interface, telephone interface, facsimile interface, and\/or a personal computer interface.","Preferably, the geographic vicinity includes certain spatial detail of the items of interest. For example, the geographic vicinity can include a map of the items of interest in the selected category, as well as street and landmark information displayed relative to the user's position at the remote port. As such, the set of positional coordinates generally identifies either (i) a location of a user of the system, or (ii) a destination location within the geographic vicinity.","In certain aspects of the invention, the information within the database further includes additional detail about at least one of the items of interest. Such a feature is advantageous in that, once the port displays the geographic vicinity with the items of interest, a user can thereafter select further additional detail about one or more of the items of interest. In this manner, for example, an item of interest such as a restaurant can display a picture of the interior of the restaurant to the user. The additional detail can include other multimedia information, such as video, prerecorded music, and digital pictures.","In still another aspect, the invention also communicates at least one advertisement associated with at least one of the items of interest to the user. As such, certain advertisers that are connected with the selected category of items of interest can promote a name or business.","In one aspect of the invention, the information within the database is arranged hierarchically. In this aspect, there are a plurality of discrete geographic vicinities (each set of positional coordinates corresponding to one discrete location within the geographic vicinity). The system thus provides for hierarchically selecting any of the discrete vicinities from the port in a hierarchical manner.","In still another aspect of the invention, database apparatus is provided for storing information about a plurality of items of interest. As above, that information includes, for each of the items of interest, positional coordinates, a geographic vicinity, and at least one associated category. A communications link provides for communicating between a user of the database apparatus and a remote port. The database apparatus further provides for transmitting a portion of the information to a user via the link upon receipt of a request signal representative of a geographic vicinity and a selected category of the items of interest. That transmitted portion of the information includes an identification of a position for the items of interest within the selected category and geographic vicinity.","The invention also provides, in another aspect, a remote access port for remotely accessing a selected category of items of interest in a selected geographic vicinity from a database such as described above. The port includes means for generating a request signal representative of a selected category and a selected geographic vicinity of the items of interest in response to inputs by a user of the port. A user interface accepts the inputs and indicates the position of each of the items of interest within the selected category and geographic vicinity.","In another aspect, the information includes additional detail for at least one of the items of interest, and the port further includes means for (i) generating a signal representative of a selection of at least one of the items of interest, and (ii) communicating the additional detail to the user.","The invention also provides a method for remotely determining the position of a selected category of items of interest in a selected geographic vicinity from a database, comprising the steps of: (i) storing information about a plurality of items of interest in the database, the information including, for each of the items of interest, positional coordinates, a geographic vicinity, and at least one associated category; (ii) accessing the database from a remote location and over a communication link; (iii) communicating, from the remote location, information representative of a selected category and a selected geographic vicinity to the database; and (iv) transmitting a portion of the information from the database and to the user over the link, the information including, at least, identification of a position for the items of interest within the selected category and geographic vicinity.","The invention is next described further in connection with preferred embodiments, and it will be apparent that various additions, subtractions, and modifications can be made by those skilled in the art without departing from the scope of the invention.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0041","num":"0040"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["10","12","12","14","16","18","12","12","16","16","16","20","22","24","25","22"]},"Specifically, the information within the database  includes, for each of the items of interest, positional coordinates, a geographic vicinity, and at least one associated category. Preferably, this information includes a graphical representation so that a user can easily interpret the information.  shows one exemplary display  of information locating computer products in downtown Boston, Mass. Accordingly, the associated category in this example is \u201ccomputer products,\u201d and, in the illustrated display , the geographic vicinity includes the selected items of interest, including (i) the two computer stores ,  at, respectively,  Congress Street and  Federal Street; and (ii) that area which is displayed within the display  and which surrounds the items of interest, such as that area displayed between the streets of High Street and State Street.","The positional coordinates, as part of the selected information, operate to locate the geographic vicinity. Briefly, the positional coordinates locate one location within the geographic vicinity\u2014such as the center of the vicinity\u2014so that items of interest can be determined relative to the positional coordinates and within the geographic vicinity. In addition, the geographic vicinity is preferably a rectangle of information, with North situated upwards.","In one preferred aspect of the invention, the display  is centered relative to the location of the user (as such, the positional coordinates of the information are set to the user's present position). For example, if the hotel  at  Franklin Street has a port  therein, a user of the invention can (i) access that particular port and hence the information within the database , and (ii) display the items of interest relative to the user's current location, i.e., at the hotel . Accordingly, in this embodiment, the display  is generated with the hotel  at the center of the display\u2014corresponding to the positional coordinates of  Franklin Street\u2014and the selected items of interest in the associated category are displayed on streets relative to the hotel . In this fashion, a user can easily walk or drive to the items of interest after leaving the hotel . Such a feature also gives the \u201cappearance\u201d to the user that the hotel  is at the center of activity, a desirable marketing feature for the invention.","With further reference to , the controller  preferably includes a display  and a keyboard  so that an operator of the system  can add and modify the information within the database . This is especially useful because information about the items of interest changes regularly; and thus the information within the database  is preferably updated on a regular basis so that users of the system  receive accurate information. For example, in a typical commercial location such as illustrated in , new retail stores open and existing retail stores close throughout the year. The invention thus provides for updating information within the database , such as through the control of a system operator typing commands at the keyboard .","Alternatively, the system  provides for remotely updating the database  with new information via any of the ports  or via a remote computer with a modem, described in more detail in connection with . Specifically, the controller  provides access security which allows only authorized access for modification of the database . As such, a system administrator at a remote port  can download information to the database, or modify existing information within the database, as needed and without physically operating the keyboard .","The communications link  of the invention can take many forms. It is generally impractical to \u201chard-wire\u201d each remote access port  to the database ; so the form of the communications link  generally includes existing communication networks, such as one or more of the following: telephone lines, fiber-optic cabling, satellite communications, cellular communications, radio and microwave-frequency communicators, infra-red communicators, the facsimile mechanism, airphones, modems, the internet, co-axial cabling, television including interactive TV communications, and the like. These communication networks and subsystems are readily known to those skilled in the art without further reference hereto. Nevertheless,  illustrate representative communication links, according to the invention, which comprise one or more of these communication networks.","The displays  and  of  include those displays known to those skilled in the art, including the cathode-ray-tube (CRT), Liquid Crystal Display (LCD), and an array of Light Emitting Diodes (LEDs). However, the display  can also take the form of a paper or voice communication port, such as a facsimile output (hard-copy), printer, a voice communication synthesizer with automated digitized voice responses, a voice-driven menu systems, or as other devices capable of rendering digitized or analogue output signals.  below illustrate some of these alternative forms of the display .","The remote access port  is generally provided at locations of public access in a city. Accordingly, the invention supports a nearly unlimited number of ports  that are connected for communication with the database , each of the ports being connected to the database  such as shown in  and such as described in more detail below. For example, the port  of the invention is appropriately placed in one or more hotels, restaurants, and public facilities (such as a train station) in the city. In Boston, Mass., therefore, the port  of the invention would ideally be accessible at several different locations, particularly at busy locations, such as at (i) North and South Stations, (ii) Logan Airport and at each of the several airport terminals, (iii) within several (or many, if not all) of Boston's hotels and restaurants, and (iv) at car rental locations.","The invention provides, generally, two modes of operation for a user accessing _ the port . In the first mode of operation, the user within the desired geographic vicinity accesses the database through the port  for information about the items of interest located near-by. This mode was described in connection with . That is, when the user is located within the geographic vicinity, e.g., at the hotel , a user can locate any of the items of interest relative to the hotel  and display items of interest in the associated category, e.g., computer products, through a street map connecting streets to and from the hotel . In this manner, as described above, a user can easily locate the items of interest from his or her present location, which determines the positional coordinates of the geographic vicinity.","In one embodiment of the invention, a user accesses this first mode of operation by selecting the \u201cLOCAL INFO\u201d key  on the keyboard , . Upon selection, the system  provides information, such as a graphical display shown in , at the port  to locate items of interest within the geographic vicinity of the user and relative to the user's current location. The scope of the geographic vicinity is generally within walking distance.","In the second mode of operation, a user is nowhere near the desired geographic vicinity but nevertheless desires information about items of interest at a destination location (for example, it is generally impractical to display all items of interest within a one hundred mile radius; rather it is more convenient to display locations of items of interest in a format that is relative to his desired destination). In one embodiment of the invention, such a user selects the \u201cREMOTE-INFO\u201d key  to access the desired set of destination position coordinates. For example, a user who is leaving Boston Logan Airport for Los Angeles International Airport (LAX) can access a port  at Logan and display, selectively, items of interest in an associated category relative to LAX. For example, if a user of the invention wishes to locate music stores upon arrival in Los Angeles, she can command the display of music stores relative to LAX so that they are easily located.","In order to command the display of items of interest at the destination location, and in accord with one embodiment of the invention, a user first selects \u201cUSA\u201d at the port  via the keyboard , then the user sequentially selects \u201cCalifornia,\u201d \u201cLos Angeles,\u201d and finally \u201cLos Angeles International Airport.\u201d Each of these selections are provided to the user in a menu format on the display , such as known to those skilled in the art.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0054","num":"0053"},"figref":["FIGS. 3-3C","FIGS. 3-3C","FIG. 1","FIG. 1","FIG. 3","FIG. 3A","FIG. 3B"],"b":["22","10","22","50","52","10","22","54","56","25","58"]},"With the outline of California displayed, a user can select \u201cLos Angeles\u201d by again pointing the mouse pointer  onto the city identified as Los Angeles and clicking the mouse tracker . Thereafter, an alphabetic listing  of well-known places is provided by the system to the display , as shown in , so that a user can, appropriately, select a geographic vicinity within which to locate the items of interest. In this example, a user would appropriately select Los Angeles International Airport, as illustrated with a check-mark .","As should be clear to those skilled in the art, the successive display of information within the display  can be accomplished in several ways, each of which is within the scope of the invention. For example, the display of information shown in  can be done through menus only, and without the map illustrations shown in . That is, a menu of information can replace the maps of , such as for example provided in . A menu of the United States, for example, at least includes a listing of the several states; and a map of California at least includes a menu listing of its major cities.","Likewise, the display of information on the display  can entirely be in graphical form. In such a case, the menus of  are replaced, respectively, with (i) graphical representations of the world, and (ii) graphical locations of key items of interest within the greater Los Angeles area.","Accordingly, the default display of information to a user monitoring the display  is a mixture of graphics and menus, such as shown in . However, a user can select only the display of graphic information by activating the \u201cGRAPHICS\u201d key , . Likewise, a user can also select the \u201cMENU\u201d key  to display information in the menu (text) mode. Those skilled in the art should appreciate that other keys, key names, and combinations of keys can be used in accord with the invention to select and\/or display other information. For example, a print key  provides a command for printing the current display of the port , which therefore preferably includes an attached printer  connected via communication line .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0059","num":"0058"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":["73","73"]},"Thus, it is preferred, according to the invention, that a user's selected display of items of interest within an associated category and geographic vicinity is accessed hierarchically within the database . As such, each set of positional coordinates corresponds to a discrete remote port location of one geographic vicinity.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0061","num":"0060"},"figref":"FIGS. 4 and 4A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0062","num":"0061"},"figref":["FIG. 4A","FIG. 4A"],"b":["74","75","76","75","76","74","76","75","74","76","77","75","76"],"i":["a","a ","a","a","a","a. "]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0063","num":"0062"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 1"],"b":["16","76","76","46"]},"By way of example, upon pressing the key ,  illustrates one embodiment of the invention which provides a listing of possible categories of items of interest in a menu . A user of the system  can select any desired category in the menu, such as by pointing and clicking on the selected item. In this example, the user has selected \u201ccomputer products,\u201d a category which was used in the illustration of  and which shows the selection by a check-mark . A user can thereafter press the \u201cADD CATEGORY\u201d key  and select one other desired category in the menu, such as \u201csporting goods stores\u201d.","Alternative to the embodiment shown in , another embodiment of the invention provides a word association technique, known to those skilled in the art, which allows any category of items of interest to be selected by directly typing the desired search area. For example, a user of the invention could press the \u201cNEW SEARCH\u201d key  and thereafter type \u201ccomputer equipment\u201d or \u201ccomputers,\u201d or other similar association, and the controller  of  would determine the best fit to the possible categories stored in the database  to display to the user. If the association were narrow enough, the system  immediately displays the items of interest within the \u201ccomputer products\u201d category, as above. However, if the search is too broad, the system can prompt the user for more information (such as known to those skilled in the art). By way of example, if a user types \u201ccomputers,\u201d the system can question, or prompt, the user at the port  for \u201cproducts,\u201d \u201cservices,\u201d or \u201crentals,\u201d which can thereafter be selected by the user.","The advantages of a system constructed according to the invention are several. Specifically, the invention provides a selectable display of items of interest at nearly any location, remote from the user, or centered relative to the user within the desired geographical vicinity. Further, once the display of the selected items of interest is isolated, the system provides a hard-copy for the user to walk away with. With increased usage of the invention, a corresponding increase in the number of remote access ports provides flexibility for users who can, thereby, access the system from widely accessible commercial locations, e.g., airports, car rental agencies, and train stations. In addition, the remote access port of the invention can be located at a user's home, providing even greater flexibility for those persons who regularly travel (or who regularly need information about items of interest at a selected geographic vicinity). A person's home computer system provides data processing capability which, with a modem and software configured to communicate with the database, can provide many, if not all, of the features of the remote access port  described above. As such, the remote access port of the invention can include personal computers, subnotebooks, notebooks, Apple's Newton product, facsimiles, phones, cellular, mainframes, minis, interactive television and\/or hybrid products.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0067","num":"0066"},"figref":["FIG. 6A","FIG. 6A","FIG. 1","FIG. 1"],"b":["12","14","12","14","12","14","16","16","80","14","18","18","82","84","86","84","16","80","18","16"],"i":["a ","a","a","a ","a","a","a","a ","a ","a","a\u2032 ","a "]},"It should be apparent to those skilled in the art, for example, that the lines and can also be constructed with fiber-optic cabling, co-axial cabling, internet communications and the like.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0069","num":"0068"},"figref":"FIG. 6B","b":["12","14","16","88","14","90","92","16","94","88","16","12"],"i":["b ","b ","b","b ","b","b","b ","b. "]},"It should again be apparent to those skilled in the art that the communications methods described and illustrated herein can be modified, in accord with the invention, to form other communication links. For example, portions of the communications link of  can be mixed with portions of the link of  to establish a working and acceptable link according to the invention.","Further, the communications link of  can be replaced with other communications mechanisms known to those in the art. For example, the antennas ,  and communicators , can be replaced by radiowave or microwave devices which communicate via a compatible network instead of a cellular network .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0072","num":"0071"},"figref":["FIG. 7A","FIG. 1","FIG. 1"],"b":["22","22","100","16","102","16","12","24","25","100"],"i":["c","c ","c ","c ","c"]},"It should be apparent to those skilled in the art that one acceptable remote port, according to the invention, includes a port comprising a printer  and a telephone (not shown). In such an embodiment, a user accesses the database by telephoning the database and requesting a display of items of interest in the selected category and geographic vicinity. The controller  of  can include voice recognition software and hardware, known to those skilled in the art, which prompts the user for requests and identifies and responds to the user's verbal replies. After identifying the user's desired category and present location (or intended destination location), the database transmits information in a form recognizable by the printer  so that the geographic vicinity and items of interest are displayed to the user at the telephone\/printer remote port.","Alternatively, a user can fax selections for the category and geographic vicinity of interest as a hard-copy. A system administrator at the database can interpret the user's selection sheet and command the transmission of the requested information, including the items of interest, back to the user. Alternatively, the database can interpret the user's selections on the sheet to automatically respond and transmit the appropriate display of information, including the items of interest, to the user.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0075","num":"0074"},"figref":"FIG. 7B","b":["16","110","112","16","22","24"],"i":["d ","d","d"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0076","num":"0075"},"figref":["FIG. 8","FIG. 1"],"b":["118","122","124","122","16","122","12","118"],"i":"e"},"The invention generally incorporates software to facilitate the several embodiments described herein and to support the principles of the invention. As known to those in the art, the data within the database can be maintained, for example, on a SQL-server, or in xBASE. The software is preferably portable to other operating systems, such as to Apple, Apple\/IBM, Unix, DEC, OS\/2, DOS, Windows 3.1, Windows '95; and preferably allows scalability to 64-bit architectures and greater, as technology advances.","In accord with the invention, software code supporting the database interaction with the remote port can include object-oriented programming, Visual Basic, and other software architectures configured to allow user interaction, portability to other platforms, interface with the internet or other gateways, and relational management.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0079","num":"0078"},"figref":["FIG. 9","FIG. 1","FIG. 1","FIG. 10"],"b":["130","12","130","131","132","16","140","141","142","143","142","143","144","142","143"],"i":["a ","a","a","a. "]},"Other modules within the database architectures  and\/or  include the following:\n\n","The flow and control of information by the information controller , , can include several of the functions shown illustratively in . Specifically, a display manager  controls the drawing of maps (i.e., geographic vacinities) on the screen  and further controls status messages to a user of the system. The manager  responds to requests for screen updates and status message display from a system kernel module , described in more detail below. It also sends requests to a map manager  when rendering maps to the display, and sends requests to a data manager  in order to obtain system information required to update the display  or to present status messages to the user.","A map manager  manages map data and provides data for drawing maps to the display manager . The manager  responds to requests from the display manager  by providing information appropriate to the current context of the session, such as the graphical image (e.g., the geographic vicinity and advertising information) that needs to be displayed, the locations on the screen  of the items of interest, and the location and content of the titles of the items of interest.","A data manager  handles all data requests from the system kernel module , map manager , and print manager , and further interfaces to external data sources ,  (these databases ,  store raw data as the database information). The manager  determines the need for remote data access via a communications manager , and passes on remote data requests to the manager . The manager  also provides all data access services to other managers and modules within the controller . For example, if the data is not stored locally, the data manager  sends a request to the communications manager  to provide the desired data.","A print manager  handles and controls printing activities in the system, such as to a connected printer  (similar to the printer , ; or such as a printer connected directly to the database ). By way of example, the manager  requests map and other data from the data manager  to create and print outputs requested by the system kernel module . Specifically, the manger  responds to requests from the system kernel module  for print services, and sends requests to the data manager  based upon the system kernel requests. The manager  uses the information supplied by the data manager  to create formatted output for printing, such as by utilizing a standard Windows\u2122 print driver interface to print the requested output.","The communications manager  handles all remote communications requirements, including remote data requests, and further accepts and transfers raw data from a remote data source  (such as data downloads to modify or add to data within the database). The manager  responds to requests from the system kernel module  for initialization, connection, and shutdown of remote connections appropriate with the actual hardware in use. It also responds to remote data requests from the data manager  by sending the request for remote data to the remote data source . When the remote data source  responds to the request, the communications manager  passes that response on to the data manager .","The system kernel module  traps all user inputs and determines required actions in the system, including those actions responsive to a user's inputs  (such as described above in connection with the keyboard ). Specifically, the module  responds to mouse movements, mouse button clicking, and typing. Depending on the user's input, the module  will send requests for services to (i) the display manager  to update the display, (ii) the data manager  to provide information concerning the map and\/or other system needs, (iii) the print manager for printing services, and (iv) the communications manager  for remote communications services.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0087","num":"0093"},"figref":["FIG. 12","FIG. 12","FIG. 2"],"b":["30","180","180"]},"It should be apparent to those skilled in the art that any of the items of interest within a displayed geographic vicinity can be selected by a user and that the database can thereafter supply additional detail about that selected item of interest. In such an embodiment of the invention, the database is configured to store such additional detail and also to transmit this information to the remote port when selected. The remote port, in turn, displays the information for the user. By way of example, if the selected category is \u201crestaurants\u201d and a user selects a particular restaurant (i.e., one of the items of interest), a display of additional detail can, for example, include a digital picture of the layout of the dining room or bar. Additionally, the entertainment scheduled for that evening can be displayed while a recording of any associated music is played at the remote port's speakers.","Thus, a further embodiment of the invention includes a digitized, multi-media presentation that is transmitted to the remote port when an associated item of interest is selected. Using a camrecorder and\/or other video capture, storage, and editing analogue or digital devices, for example, a short video clip is embedded in the data associated with the information about the items of interest and transmitted and displayed when selected.","In order to utilize the above-described multi-media presentation, the system of the invention must provide sufficient bandwidth, processing speed, and display resolution, and the remote port must display the multi-media transmissions with sufficient speed and resolution so as to be convenient to the user of that information. Typically, the minimum central processing unit of the database and remote port run at least at 16 MHZ and is based on a CISC (complex instruction set) architecture. Further, the database, remote port and communications link should be able to transmit data at an uncompressed speed of 9600 baud per second; preferably, these devices should be faster, e.g., 28.8 Kbps, utilizing modems that subscribe to emerging industry standards such as V.34. Additionally, special connections may be required at the server, including what are known to those skilled in the art as SLIP, PPP, and TC\/ICP protocols. In some cases, where additional bandwidth may be required, the modem is replaced with special interfaces provided by regional telecommunications systems that also provide dedicated optic fiber cabling. Some of those linkages are known as T, ISDN, and 56 Kbps wide band-width connections. In addition, bandwidth may be enhanced by microwave and other communication links that do not require direct cabled connections.","Appendix A contains, for disclosure purposes, subject matter setting forth non-limiting source code which is suitable for application with the invention. Appendix A is herein incorporated by reference.","The invention thus attains the objects set forth above, in addition to those apparent from the preceding description. Since certain changes may be made in the apparatus and methods described herein without departing from the scope of the invention, it is intended that all matter contained in the above description or shown in the accompanying drawing be interpreted as illustrative and not in a limiting sense.","It is also understood that the following claims cover all the specific and generic features of the invention described herein, and all statements of the scope of the invention which, as a matter of language, might be said to fall there between."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE ILLUSTRATE EMBODIMENTS","p":["A more complete understanding of the invention may be obtained by reference to the drawings, in which:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":["FIG. 3A","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":["FIG. 3B","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":["FIG. 3C","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":"FIG. 4A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"figref":["FIGS. 6A and 6B","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0034"},"figref":["FIGS. 7A and 7B","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0037","num":"0036"},"figref":["FIG. 9","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0037"},"figref":"FIG. 10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0039","num":"0038"},"figref":"FIG. 11"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0040","num":"0039"},"figref":"FIG. 12"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
