---
title: Data based over the air provisioning for wireless services
abstract: A wireless service provider recognizes a data transmission from a wireless user as a request to provision the mobile terminal and become a subscriber by an over the air process. An Internet protocol provisioning server automatically transmits a text-based message to be displayed on the user's equipment identifying information to be provided by the user for provisioning. In response the user transmits a reply text-based message to the server supplying the requested information. The server stores this information for utilization in provisioning the required infrastructure facilities. Provisioning data required to be stored in the user's equipment is downloaded to the user's equipment. This process permits an over the air provisioning to be accomplished without requiring the use of a voice channel between the user and a customer service representative of the wireless service provider.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07787825&OS=07787825&RS=07787825
owner: Alcatel-Lucent USA Inc.
number: 07787825
owner_city: Murray Hill
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20021224
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["RELATED APPLICATIONS","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF EMBODIMENTS"],"p":["This application is related to provisional applications serial Nos. 60\/378,704 and 60\/378,927 both filed on May 8, 2002 that are incorporated herein by reference.","This invention generally relates to telecommunication systems that provide wireless communications for subscribers, and more specifically relates to over the air provisioning of a new or existing mobile terminal and wireless user as a subscriber.","A common way of provisioning a mobile terminal is by the new user visiting a service provider store for the desired wireless service. The service center can provide the user with a new mobile terminal that has been provisioned to access the service provider's network and for subscriber specific data or can reconfigure a compatible mobile terminal already owned by the user. The mobile terminal to be used by the new subscriber has to be registered with the service provider. Either the dealer provides information about the new user and the new mobile terminal to the service provider, or provides the user with instructions for calling the service provider to register as a new subscriber.","Another common way to provision new mobile terminal is using Over the Air Service Provisioning (OTASP). This involves the new subscriber initiating OTASP session from their terminal and providing their details in a voice conversation to the Customer Service Representative (CSR) followed by CSR performing OTASP using Short Message Service (SMS) based IS683 messaging.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0006","num":"0005"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["10","12","14","16","18","20","14","22","24","26","22","28","30","32","34","38","24","36","36","38","40","42","14","36","38","43"]},"A typical process of initially provisioning a new mobile terminal  for service begins with the user causing mobile terminal  to establish communications with base station . The user has been provided with instructions to then press a series of buttons. These series of buttons cause a predetermined dialed number sequence recognized by the mobile switching center  as representing a request to provision a mobile terminal. Normally, a request for access to the service provider's network from an unregistered mobile terminal would be denied. Since the mobile switching center  recognized receipt of the special predetermined number, it initiates a voice communication link by voice network  to customer service representative telephone . The customer service representative engages in a voice conversation with the user of mobile terminal  and obtains needed information from the user in order to provision network services. The needed information may include the user's name, mailing address, billing information and billing address, requested telephone number (if any), service options elected, etc. At the conclusion of the voice call the user is advised by the customer service representative how long it will take before the user will become a registered subscriber in the system so that wireless telecommunications services can be accessed. The customer service representative, using workstation , provides the appropriate commands and data to network elements , , , , and  to cause the new user to become a registered subscriber. The customer service representative, using workstation , provides the appropriate commands and data to network element  to cause the mobile terminal  to be provisioned with the necessary data to function properly. The interfaces , ,  and  are known, i.e. based on standards. Network elements , , , , , and  may be made by a variety of different companies and use a variety of communication protocols that must be supported by the workstation  to access and communicate with each. Thus, each of the network elements that require provisioning may have to be separately provisioned due to the lack of a common standard controlling the provisioning of these elements.","In general, the initial provisioning of a new subscriber by using a voice call between the subscriber and customer service representative of the service provider has been effective. This is not an efficient process from the service provider's perspective since it requires the use of a voice channel and the availability of a customer service representative. From the perspective of a subscriber who is primarily seeking wireless voice communications, the process is effective. However, for a subscriber who is primarily or only interested in data services, the requirement to establish a voice call with the customer service representative is an undesired burden, especially when the subscriber will be using a data-only mobile terminal that is not capable of voice. This is especially troublesome for a new subscriber for data-only wireless services, such as a subscriber desiring to utilize a wireless data card with his personal digital assistant or a laptop computer. Thus, there exists a need for an improved process and corresponding infrastructure to minimize these disadvantages and automate the over the air provisioning of wireless users.","It is an object of the invention to provide a data based over the air provisioning process, and corresponding improved infrastructure for provisioning a mobile terminal and subscriber over the air for wireless communication services without requiring a voice communication with a customer service representative of the service provider.","In accordance with an embodiment of the invention, a provisioning server includes a receiver for receiving a first IP packet from a wireless user indicating that the user seeks to become a new subscriber or provision the mobile terminal. A mechanism is provided for automatically transmitting second packets to the wireless user containing requests for information to be displayed on a screen of a device used by the wireless user. The packet receiver receives third packets from the wireless user containing responses to the information sought by the second packets. A storage device stores the information provided by the wireless user in a database for use in provisioning wireless services for this user.","A method for provisioning a mobile terminal over the air for wireless communication services without requiring a voice communication with a customer service representative of the service provider is also an embodiment of the present invention.","If the same element appears in multiple Figures, the same reference numeral is used in each of the Figures to reference the same element.","Automated Collection of needed Subscriber Information without Setting up a Voice Call",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1"],"b":["60","62","12","64","16","18","12","12","66","68","72","72","74","72","36","76","68","72","70","68"]},"The OTAF & Provisioning Server  plays an important role in this embodiment of the present invention. It receives user-provided information contained in packets and automatically transmits queries for information from the user that are presented on the user's display. This allows the user, over a non-voice communication channel, to initiate a request to become a wireless subscriber, receive instructions and requests for user information needed to become a subscriber, and transmit the required information to the service provider. As shown in , the exemplary OTAF & Provisioning Server  is connected to the IP data server  via the IP Network . The IP Data Server  is connected to workstation  of customer service representative facility . The IP data server  is automated and programmed to present the data collected from subscriber by OTAF & Provisioning Server  to the workstation . OTAF & Provisioning Server  is automated and programmed to conduct a communication session with the user to obtain information needed to establish wireless services for the user in response to receiving a user-provided request for such services. Although the IP data server  is shown as a separate device in , it will be apparent to those skilled in the art that the functionality of the IP data server could be incorporated into other elements, e.g. workstation .","As previously explained with regard to , a customer service representative utilizing workstation  establishes services for a new wireless user by provisioning a corresponding new user account\/record on the billing center , authentication authorization and accounting center , voicemail center , message center , and the home location register . Using the OTAF part of the OTAF & Provisioning Server , the Mobile Terminal  can also be provisioned over the air. The registration information gathered by provisioning server part of the OTAF & Provisioning Server  can be stored in the IP data server  for presentation on the workstation  for use by a customer service representative who will provision the required elements to establish the user as a registered subscriber. Alternatively, the registration information received from OTAF & Provisioning Server  by the IP data server can be displayed on the screen of the workstation  for near real-time use by the customer service representative.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 1"],"b":["72","80","24","38","64","68","82","84","86","88","36"]},"Instructions stored in the memory elements of the provisioning part of OTAF & Provisioning Server  enable the CPU  to be able to receive and transmit packets, especially packets to and from a user seeking to become a wireless subscriber. In response to receipt of a packet from the user representing a request to become a new subscriber, the CPU automatically generates and transmits packets to the user seeking information required for registration as a subscriber. The information sought from the user is displayed on the screen of the device associated with the user. The user responds to the requested information by sending the requested information in packets to provisioning part of OTAF & Provisioning Server . This user information is received and stored by provisioning part of OTAF & Provisioning","Server  for sending to the Server  for use by a customer service representative in provisioning services for the user. Thereby provisioning part of OTAF & Provisioning Server  provides an automated facility for obtaining user-information required in order to provision the user over the air as a new wireless subscriber by a customer service representative. This process is completed without a voice communication channel being established between the user and a customer service representative, and without direct communications between the user and the customer service representative.","The IP Data Server  may have a structure identical to that shown in  except that the interface would be connected to the workstation and the IP Network. The operation of server  is consistent with known servers that function to gather and store information for use by a served function, the workstation in this case.","An exemplary method for new wireless user registration is explained with reference to . The vendor of the wireless data card  will have provided the user with software for laptop computer  to enable communications between the computer and modem of commands, status information, and data transfer. The user is provided with software, such as from the vendor of the wireless data card or the wireless service provider, to enable the laptop computer  to communicate with the wireless service provider. In this example the wireless data card vendor or the wireless service provider has pre-provisioned the wireless data card with information on System Selection or included in the computer laptop software the same information such that it is available to the wireless data card for the purposes of system selection. If such a list had not been provided, the software shall provide means of specifying the system to select. The wireless data card shall acquire the wireless system based on the system selection criteria or specified system.","Upon acquiring the wireless system and upon the initiation of a request by the user to become a subscriber via laptop computer , an origination message is sent from the computer by wireless data card  and base station  to mobile switching center . The origination message will typically include information identifying a packet data service option depending on the capabilities of the user's equipment (laptop  and wireless data card ) and the system selected. The origination message will also include an IP Based Over the Air Provisioning feature code, identifying the user as requesting initial service provisioning via a data channel.","Upon receipt by the mobile switching center  of the origination message with the IP Based Over the Air Provisioning feature code, the user will be recognized as needing provisioning. The establishment of a restricted data traffic channel, radio link protocols and point-to-point protocols will be facilitated even though a lookup of the registration of the user in the home location register will fail since the user is not a currently registered subscriber. The data traffic channel supports communications between the user's equipment and the provisioning part of OTAF & Provisioning Server  via base station , packet data switching node , and IP network . In order to facilitate data communications with the user's equipment, the provisioning part of OTAF & Provisioning Server  sends its IP address via mobile switching center to the user's equipment.","Once the user's equipment is synchronized and on the assigned data traffic channel, an over the air provisioning application on laptop  will send a message (packet) to the provisioning part of OTAF & Provisioning Server  requesting provisioning as a new subscriber. In response to the receipt of this message, the provisioning part of OTAF & Provisioning Server  will launch an over the air the air provisioning application program that will generate and transmit packets to the user's equipment containing requests for needed information that will be displayed on the screen of laptop . For example, the information needed for provisioning may be specified as a table or form format displayed on the screen of the laptop to be completed by the user. Once the user has entered the requested registration information and indicated the completion of the table or form, the over the air application on laptop  will transmit the provisioning information entered by the user by packets to provisioning part of OTAF & Provisioning Server . Known techniques in validating user inputs are preferably employed to check for errors in the information provided by the user. If an error is determined, the provisioning part of OTAF & Provisioning Server  will transmit additional packets to the user's equipment seeking corrected data. Once the information provided by the user is determined to be acceptable, the information can be stored as a record in a database of provisioning part of OTAF & Provisioning Server  for use in provisioning the user as a new subscriber. If the provisioning does not occur immediately following the completion by the user of the requested information, the user can be transmitted a message indicating the anticipated time in which the provisioning will be completed. Preferably this record is transmitted to IP data server  as soon as it is complete in anticipation of use by a customer service representative.","Alternatively, following the collection of information from the user by provisioning part of OTAF & Provisioning Server  an IP based message shall be sent to IP data server , a customer service representative may be immediately alerted to a request for provisioning by the transmission of a message from the IP data server to workstation . This preferably occurs while the data traffic channel with the user is still open. This permits the customer service representative using workstation  and IP data server  to \u201cchat\u201d with the user if needed using a data channel. For example, data entered by the user may be determined to be invalid based upon inspection by the customer service representative, or data that was entered by the user may not be understood by the customer service representative. Clarification of the error can be addressed by communications between the user and the customer service representative by the transmission of messages (packets) over the data traffic channel. Once the customer service representative is satisfied with the information supplied by the user, the customer service representative can immediately begin the provisioning of the required infrastructure elements and data terminal  by workstation . Depending on the time required for the customer service representative to complete the provisioning, the user may be asked to remain on the data traffic channel. Assuming that the user remains on the data traffic channel and the customer service representative completes the provisioning of the required infrastructure elements, the user will be notified of the successful completion of such provisioning and provisioning data required to be stored in the user's equipment is downloaded to laptop  using the established communication link to complete the provisioning of the user as a subscriber. If the customer service representative cannot complete the provisioning of the required infrastructure elements within a reasonable time while the user remains on the established data channel, the data channel can be released and the user instructed to re-establish a specified communication link at a time when the provisioning of the infrastructure elements will have been completed in order to receive the download of data to be stored on the subscriber's equipment.","Automated User Registration and Provisioning",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},"Comparing  with , it will be seen that the illustrated embodiments have substantial similarities. Only the differences associated with the embodiment of  relative to  will be discussed. The automated provisioning server  incorporates the functionality of Provisioning Server part of OTAF & Provisioning Server  () in obtaining and validating user supplied registration information over a data traffic channel. After validating the user's registration information, this information is parsed to separate the information as required for provisioning by different infrastructure elements , , , , , and mobile terminal . Server  includes communications and protocol interfaces required to provision new users on each of the required infrastructure facilities. After the user provided information has been parsed, the information required for provisioning is automatically transmitted to each infrastructure facility. After the infrastructure facilities have been provisioned, server  transmits instructions to the OTAF & Provisioning Server  and mobile switching center  causing data required to be stored in the user's equipment to be downloaded to the user's equipment. This completes the provisioning of the infrastructure facilities and of the user's equipment whereby the user is now a registered subscriber in the wireless communications system.","The automated provisioning server  is shown in  as being associated with the OTAF . This association is suggested merely as a matter of convenience since the functions of the automatic registration server and feature provisioning server are related. It will be apparent to those skilled in the art that the automated provisioning server  could comprise a stand-alone facility, or be integrated as part of another facility in the communications system.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"figref":"FIG. 5","b":["94","100","68","102","100","72","104","106","104","108","94","100"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0037","num":"0036"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 5"],"b":["94","120","122","124","126","128","122"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0037"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIGS. 2 and 4"],"b":["60","62","140","140","142","144","12","146","148","150","12","66","150","74","42"]},"Laptop computers  and  support Internet protocol (IP) and the higher level-transmission control protocol (TCP) over IP. In a preferred embodiment, a standardized IP port number is assigned for use by wireless communication devices so that provisioning information can be transmitted to the wireless communication devices using TCP\/IP by the port number address. The over the air provisioning application software on the user's laptop is programmed to be aware of the standardized IP port number and to monitor the receipt of data on this port. The data required to be stored on the user's wireless equipment to support communications with the service provider and provide service, can be provisioned over the air by sending the required information by TCP\/IP from the OTAF  to the IP port number assigned for receipt of such information on a wireless device to be provisioned. The use of TCP\/IP provides for increased data size. The use of a standardized IP port number allows provisioning data to be directly transmitted to the user's equipment without requiring that the user's equipment have a specified status or condition, such as requiring the user's equipment to have an Internet browser that is active.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0040","num":"0039"},"figref":["FIG. 8","FIG. 7"],"b":["62","60","12","60"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0041","num":"0040"},"figref":["FIG. 9","FIG. 9","FIG. 8","FIG. 9"],"b":["144","140","144","140","144","140","144","140","144","140","144"]},"For mobile terminals that have a built in browser and support a complete TCP\/IP stack the TCP\/IP port for receiving the provisioning data may reside in the mobile terminal. The application to collect the user data may run on the mobile terminal or on the terminal equipment if one is attached to the mobile terminal.","Although embodiments of the present invention have been described and shown in the accompanying drawings, the scope of the invention is defined by the appended claims. Elements in the claims are not intended to be construed according to a \u201cmeans plus function\u201d meaning unless the explicit use of the word \u201cmeans\u201d is recited in the corresponding claim element."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 2"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 4"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 5"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIGS. 8 and 9"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
