---
title: Parameter estimator for a multiuser detection receiver
abstract: A Parameter Estimator for accurately estimating signature responses of multiple co-channel interfering digital transmission signals. The Parameter Estimator is used in a Multiuser Detection (MUD) Receiver to significantly reduce the error rate. The Parameter Estimator comprises a plurality of software components, including a Signature Waveform Estimator, Training Sequence Locator, Noise Estimator, Active Users Tester, Initial Transformation Matrix Builder, a Transformation Matrix Rebuilder, and a Transformation Matrix Selector, and generates an estimated noise power, a training sequence index and estimated signature waveforms.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=06947502&OS=06947502&RS=06947502
owner: 
number: 06947502
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20020826
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS REFERENCE OF RELATED APPLICATIONS","STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENT INTEREST","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DESCRIPTION OF THE ILLUSTRATIVE EMBODIMENTS"],"p":["This is a nonprovisional patent application claiming priority of provisional application for patent Ser. No. 60\/ 372,956, filed Apr. 16, 2002.","This invention was made with the support of the United States Government. The United States Government may have rights in this invention.","1. Field of the Invention","This invention relates to a multiuser communication system and in particular to a multiuser detection (MUD) receiver for jointly demodulating co-channel interfering digital signals using estimates of the parameters of each individual signal, as distorted by their unique propagation channels, such estimates being generated by a parameter estimator.","2. Description of Related Art","Prior art methods for multiuser detection are included in the textbook \u201cMultiuser Detection, Cambridge University Press, 1998 by Verdu. Verdu describes several different types of multiuser detectors, but assumes that the parameters of the individual signals are known a priori, and that the signature waveforms (one of the required parameters) do not extend past the symbol boundaries.","Other prior art methods for multiuser detection are described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09\/923,709, filed by Rachel Learned et al. on Aug. 7, 2001, entitled \u201cMethod for Overusing Frequencies to Permit Simultaneous Transmission of Signals From Two or More Users on the Same Frequency and Time Slot\u201d, and in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09\/943,770, filed by Rachel Learned on Mar. 28, 2002, entitled \u201cSystems for Parameter Estimation and Tracking of Interfering Digitally Modulated Signals\u201d. These patent applications estimate the parameters by assuming that signals are added to the propagation channel one at a time, but give no method for estimating parameters when the channel is always occupied by multiple users. In addition, Learned makes the assumption that the shape of the signature waveform is known, although it is often unknown due to multipath and other dispersive channel propagation effects.","U.S. Pat. No. 5,790,606 issued Aug. 4, 1998 to Paul W. Dent and assigned to Ericsson Inc., of North Carolina, entitled \u201cJoint Demodulation Using Spatial Maximum Likelihood\u201d discloses a type of multiuser communication system that uses several antennas which receive overlapping co-channel transmissions from several users (i.e. cell phones). Unfortunately, Dent's design will not work when the bit transitions of the various co-channel transmitters are not aligned in time at every antenna (a virtually impossible condition to meet). In virtually all real world applications, the digital signal is passed through a filter, which smoothes the rectangular digital signal and extends its influence into neighboring symbols. This intersymbol interference (ISI) then must be accounted for when attempting to jointly demodulate a co-channel aggregate signal. In addition, ISI can also be caused by multipath and other dispersive channel propagation effects. These effects are normally mitigated through the use of adaptive equalizers, but these equalizers do not work in the co-channel interfering signal case. The second drawback of this approach is that it requires multiple (and usually a large number) of antennas.","U.S. Pat. No. 6,122,269, issued to Wales on Sep. 19, 2000 performs multiuser detection and parameter estimation for a packet radio application. This procedure uses MUD to jointly demodulate packets that have unintentionally collided in time. The procedure uses known symbol sequences to solve for the unknown channel impulse response coefficients, and a correlation process to locate the positions of the known symbol sequences. In the case of short \u201csnapshots\u201d (vectors of received waveform samples), the correlation process will produce noisy data, and inaccurate known symbol sequence position estimates. In addition, the waveforms correlated against do not include the (unknown) channel impulse response, and will therefore also be adversely affected by leaving those out of the correlation equation. In addition, there is no mention of a method to determine the number of users which are colliding at any given time, and which users are colliding (as identified by their unique known symbol sequences).","Accordingly, it is therefore an object of this invention to provide a means for accurately estimating signature waveforms for multiple co-channel interfering digital signals.","It is also an object of this invention to accurately estimate the location of training sequences in the received signal, estimate the average noise power in the signal and accurately estimate which users are transmitting for any given snapshot of the received signal.","It is an object of this invention to provide a communication system having a multiuser detection receiver with a parameter estimator to accurately estimate the signature waveforms for multiple co-channel interfering digital signals.","It is a further object of this invention to provide a method of parameter estimation that does not require each user's transmission to be exactly synchronized in time, and instead they only have to be close enough so that they are not shifted more that the width of the Training Sequence Locator sliding search windows.","It is another object of this invention to significantly reduce the error rate in a multiuser detection (MUD) receiver.","These and other objects are accomplished by a parameter estimator of a multiuser detection receiver comprising means for estimating a location index (\u03c4) of the composite training sequence in each frame of a received baseband signal, means for calculating an estimate of the average noise power ({circumflex over (\u03c3)}(p)) in the received baseband signal in accordance with the training sequence location index (\u03c4) input, means for estimating the signature waveforms (s(n,p)) unique to each user (k) and each diversity port (p) in the received baseband signal in accordance with the training sequence location index (\u03c4) input and the transformation matrix () input, means coupled to an output of the estimate of an average noise power calculating means and to an output of the signature waveforms estimating means, for determining the number of active users; and means, coupled to the means for determining the number of active users and to prestored known training sequences for each user, for generating the transformation matrix () to send to the signature waveform estimating means. The means for calculating an estimate of an average noise power in the received baseband signal comprises training sequence selector means for selecting the composite training sequences ({circumflex over (\u03b2)}(n, p)) in each frame (m) of the received baseband signal (r(n,p)) in accordance with the training sequence index (\u03c4) and a known number of samples per frame of the received baseband signal, a first averager means for determining an average ({circumflex over (\u03b2)}(n, p)) of the composite training sequences ({circumflex over (\u03b2)}(n, p)), means for subtracting the average ({circumflex over (\u03b2)}(n, p)) of the composite training sequences from the estimate of composite training sequences {circumflex over (\u03b2)}(n, p) to obtain an estimated noise signal, means for calculating a variance of each noise signal for estimating the average noise power in each frame, and a second averager coupled to an output of the variance calculating means for determining the estimate of an average noise power from the average noise power in each frame (m). The means for estimating signature waveforms unique to each user in the received baseband signal comprises means for selecting the received composite training sequence in each frame of the received baseband signal, and means for multiplying this received composite training sequence in each frame by the transformation matrix to obtain the estimated signature waveforms. The transformation matrix comprises an initial transformation matrix built from pre-stored known training sequences for each user for an initial matrix multiplication calculation, and the transformation matrix on subsequent matrix multiplication calculations is determined by a transformation matrix rebuilder receiving signature estimates of active users. The means for generating the transformation matrix comprises means, coupled to a memory, for building an initial transformation matrix () in response to the pre-stored known training sequences for each user, means for rebuilding the transformation matrix () in response to an output of the active users determining means, and means coupled to the initial transformation matrix generator and the transformation matrix rebuilder for selecting a transformation matrix to send to the signature waveform estimating means. The multiuser detection receiver comprises means for storing the known training sequence for each user.","The objects are further accomplished by a multiuser communication system comprising a plurality of user transmitters transmitting co-channel interfering signals, a receiver having means for receiving a composite waveform signal from the plurality of user transmitters, the receiver further comprises means for converting the received composite waveform signal to a received baseband signal, means, coupled to the received baseband signal, for generating estimated signature waveforms of each user (k) for each diversity port (p) by using the received baseband signal from each diversity port in accordance with known training sequences of each of the plurality of user transmitters, means for storing the known training sequence of each of the plurality of user transmitters, and means for demodulating the received baseband signal in accordance with information received from the estimated signature waveform generating means to generate symbols for each of the plurality of user transmitters. The receiver comprises a single polarized antenna. The receiver may comprise a dual polarized antenna for reducing symbol error rate, and each polarized port of the antenna comprises the means for converting the received composite waveform signal to a received baseband signal. The receiver may also comprise at least two polarized antennas, each of the antennas having either a single polarization or a dual polarization for reducing symbol error rate, and each polarized port of each of the antennas comprises means for converting the received composite waveform signal to a received baseband signal.","The objects are further accomplished by a method of estimating parameters of a received baseband signal in a multiuser detection receiver comprising the steps of estimating a training sequence location index in each frame of the received baseband signal, estimating signature waveforms unique to each user in each received baseband signal in response to the training sequence location index and a transformation matrix, determining a number of active users with means coupled to outputs of the average noise power and an estimation of the signature waveforms unique to each user in the receive baseband signal, and generating the transformation matrix with first means coupled to outputs of the number of active users determining means and second means coupled to outputs of prestored known training sequence. The step of generating the transformation matrix comprises the steps of building an initial transformation matrix in response to the prestored known training sequences for each user for use during a first iteration of a signature estimation loop, rebuilding the transformation matrix in response to an output from the number of active users determining means for use during subsequent iterations of the signature estimation loop, and selecting a transformation matrix from the initial transformation matrix iteration or the rebuilt transformation matrix iterations of the signature estimation loop, to feed to the means for estimating signature waveforms unique to each user.","Referring to , a system block diagram is shown of a Communication System  comprising a Multiuser Detection (MUD) Receiver  and a plurality of User Transmitters to which are all simultaneously transmitting co-channel, interfering digital signals, all on the same frequency, all using the same type of modulation scheme such as digital phase shift key (PSK) or quadrature amplitude modulated (QAM) signals, with the same nominal data rate. Each of the User Transmitters to has a unique, known training sequence. The training sequences are roughly aligned as received at a Receiver Antenna , so that the training sequences mostly overlap. This type of synchronization is normally provided in communication systems through the use of a synchronization signal transmitted from a unit co-located with the MUD receiver . Alignment of the symbol transitions is not required. A Table at the end of the Description summarizes the nomenclature used herein.","The MUD Receiver  comprises the Antenna , a Signal Sampler , and a Downconverter , and the output (baseband signals) of the Downconverter  are fed to a Multiuser Detector  and a Parameter Estimator  which estimates the signature waveforms for each user.","K signals from the User Transmitters to are received by the Antenna  as the sum of the signals from Transmitters to . The Antenna  is a singly polarized antenna with a single connection to the Signal Sampler . This connection is made by a transmission line or Waveguide  that connects from one Antenna  to one Signal Sampler .","The Signal Sampler  may be embodied by an analog-to-digital converter (A\/D). The output of the Signal Sampler  is a Snapshot  of the sampled waveform (R) received from the antenna  and this Snapshot  is composed of at least the number of samples in two frames of data. Alternately, the snapshot  may be composed of the number of samples in several frames of data. The Snapshot  is fed to a Downconverter , which is typically used in digital radios to translate the frequency of the received signal, R, to baseband. The output  of the Downconverter  is a complex baseband signal, r(n,l), which contains information from all K co-channel interfering signals in the same frequency and time space.","The baseband signal, r(n,l), is sent to the Parameter Estimator . The Multiuser Detector  jointly demodulates the co-channel interfering digital signals, using information provided by the Parameter Estimator . The Parameter Estimator  uses knowledge of the unique training symbols transmitted by User Transmitters to , and contained in the composite received signal r(n,l) to solve for the signature waveforms of the K signals. The term \u201csignature waveform\u201d is herein used to denote the impulse response of the channel through which the signal passes. The term \u201cchannel\u201d is used herein to include not only the propagation channel and antenna effects, but also any filtering used in the transmitters to and Receiver  front end. In addition, in a direct sequence spread spectrum system, it would also include the spreading code.","The optimal Multiuser Detector  is one that minimizes the mean square error between the received signal and all possible combinations of each users transmitted data symbols transformed by their unique signature response. This optimal Multiuser Detector  is expressed mathematically as follows: \n\n\nwhere \u03a9=the constraint set of all possible combinations of transmitted data symbols.\n","The purpose of the Parameter Estimator  is to supply the Multiuser Detector  with the information needed to solve this equation. The most important is the Signature Waveforms , unique to each user and each diversity port. The Signature Waveforms  describe the transformation of each users transmitted symbols as they propagate from Transmitters to to Receiver . This includes pulse shape filtering on the Transmitters to and receiver filtering on the Receiver . Some multiuser detectors may also require information about the location of the training sequence in each frame of data for synchronization, and they may also require information about the noise power in the received signal to make better estimates of the transmitted symbols for each user. The Parameter Estimator  described herein calculates each one of these parameters, and therefore, will operate with any Multiuser Detector  that requires these inputs.","The Parameter Estimator  generates outputs, which occur once per snapshot and contain parameter estimates for each frame of data in that snapshot. These parameter estimates include an estimated signature waveforms , \u015d(n, p, m), for each diversity port (p), frame (m), and active user (k). The outputs also include an estimated noise power  {circumflex over (\u03c3)}(p) , which is a scalar that represents the average power of the noise and a training sequence index , \u03c4, which is a pointer to the location of the training sequence in each frame of the snapshot . The outputs also include an active users vector  (u(k)) that contains the state of each user, k. State refers to the user being \u201cactively transmitting\u201d or \u201cnot transmitting\u201d. The outputs of the Parameter Estimator  are sent to the MUD , which also receives the r(n,l) baseband signal , and produces separate streams of transmitter  symbols  to transmitter K symbols  for signal , signal , up to signal K which correspond to each of the K co-channel interfering signals sent by Transmitters to .","Referring now to , a block diagram is shown of a first alternate embodiment of the Communication System  of  having a Dual Polarized Antenna . The inclusion of a Dual Polarized Antenna  provides more information to the Multiuser Detector , to make better symbol decisions, thereby reducing the symbol error rate. This extra information derives from the fact that the signals received by orthogonally polarized antenna ports travel through effectively different channels. The Parameter Estimator  will provide to the Multiuser Detector  the signature waveforms for each user \u201ck\u201d received by both antenna ports (p=1,2). Hence, there will be K\u00d72 signature waveforms passed to the Multiuser Detection . Therefore, the Multiuser Detector  will have twice as many equations compared to only one polarization, but the same number of symbols to solve for.","The use of a dual polarized antenna will be of benefit in the following two cases: first, where the signal is transmitted in dual orthogonal polarizations, and second, where electromagnetic scattering causes significant cross polarized energy to be received at the receive antenna, even though only one polarization was transmitted.","Referring to , a block diagram is shown of a second alternate embodiment of the Communication System  of  comprising more than one antenna, each antenna having one or two polarizations. The inclusion of extra antenna ports provides even more information to the Multiuser Detector , enabling the Multiuser Detector  to make better symbol decisions, thereby reducing the symbol error rate. In order to provide added benefit, the extra antennas must be space diverse. In other words, the antennas must be spaced far enough apart that they provide a significantly different propagation channel. In this case, the Parameter Estimator  processes, the signal r(n,p) where p=1, 2, . . . ,P and produces K\u00d7P signature waveforms to pass to MUD .","Referring to , a diagram is shown of the frame structure underlying r(n,p) for the case of multiple (K) co-channel interfering signals for a given diversity port signal \u201cp\u201d showing a sequence of framed segments, f(n,p), having a received composite training sequence, \u03b2(n,p), at the same location of each frame segment. The received composite training sequence, \u03b2(n,p), is defined as the complex baseband version of the sum of each users training sequence, b(n), convolved (indicated by an asterisk) with its respective signature waveform, s(n,p), plus additive white gaussian noise, w(n,p). This relation is defined mathematically as follows: \n\n",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0042","num":"0041"},"figref":"FIG. 4","u":["l","l","l"],"sub":["m","p","m","m","m"],"b":["90","56","6","90"]},"Referring now to , a block diagram of the Parameter Estimator  is shown comprising software components which include a Training Sequence Locator  that is used to estimate the location index, \u03c4, in each frame of received data, \u0192(n,p), of the composite received training sequence, \u03b2(n,p), a Noise Estimator  that is used to calculate an estimate of the average noise power ({circumflex over (\u03c3)}(p)) in the received signal r(n,p) for each diversity port, p, and a Signature Waveform Estimator  that is used to estimate the characteristic signature waveforms, \u015d(n, p, m), unique to each user K, and each diversity port p, for each frame m, in the snapshot. The output of the Signature Waveform Estimator  is fed to an Active Users Tester  which detects which users signals are present in the given snapshot, and provides an output to a Transformation Matrix Rebuilder  which rebuilds the Transformation Matrix () that is used in the Signature Waveform Estimator . This matrix is rebuilt by using only the training sequences, b(n), of the active users as calculated by the Active Users Tester . The output of the Transformation Matrix Rebuilder  is fed to a Transformation Matrix Selector  which selects the output from an Initial Transformation Matrix Builder  or the output from the Transformation Matrix Rebuilder to send to the Signature Waveform Estimator . The Transformation Matrix Selector  always selects for the initial estimate of the signature waveforms in the given snapshot, and always selects for all subsequent recalculations of the signature estimates for the same snapshot of data. This allows the Signature Waveform Estimator  to calculate a better estimate of the characteristic signature waveforms, \u015d(n, p, m), for only the active users as determined by the Active User Tester . This process of performing the Signature Waveform Estimator , performing the Active User Tester , and running the Transformation Matrix Rebuilder  is know as the Signature Estimation Loop  and is shown in FIG. . The Signature Estimation Loop  can be repeated until the output of the Active User Tester  calculated on the previous iteration equals the output of the Active User Tester  on the current iteration. It is also possible to set the maximum number of Signature Estimators Loops  in the Parameter Estimation  component. It is important to note that with each iteration through this Loop , the number of signature waveforms at the output of the Signature Waveform Estimator  is equal to the number of active users calculated on the previous iteration. It is also important to note that on the first iteration, the number of signature estimates is equal to the total number of possible users, K. Once the final signature estimates of the active users are calculated, the resulting waveforms are passed as outputs of the Parameter Estimator  along with the user states vector, u(k) that reports which users are active in the current snapshot.","The Initial Transformation Matrix Builder  receives known training sequence data, b(n), for each user, which is prestored in a Memory  of the Multiuser Detection Receiver . Each user's training sequence data is used to build the Initial Transformation Matrix, , which is fed to the Transformation Matrix Selector .","The Noise Estimator  estimates the noise power in the incoming signal, r(n,p) for all p=1,2, . . . P, diversity ports and feeds the information to the Active User Tester  and the Multiuser Detector . This estimation is typically done once per snapshot wherein the snapshot is at least the number of samples in two frames, but need not be done as often if the noise power is changing slowly or not at all. It is also important to note that the accuracy of the Noise Estimator  improves as the number of composite training sequence estimates, {circumflex over (\u03b2)}(n, p), increases. To increase the number of composite training sequence estimates, the number of frames, \u0192(n,p), in the received complex baseband signal, r(n,p), must increase, resulting in an increased snapshot size, or the Training Sequence Selector  must store the composite training sequence estimates, {circumflex over (\u03b2)}(n, p), for multiple snapshots of received data and calculate the estimated noise power using the total number of stored composite training sequence estimates {circumflex over (\u03b2)}(n, p) . The Training Sequence Locator  determines the position of the training sequence in each frame, \u0192(n,p) of the received snapshot vector, r(n,p) and feeds this information in the form of a sample index, \u03c4, referred to as the Training Sequence Location Index , to the Multiuser Detector . In addition, the position of the training sequence in the received snapshot is fed to the Noise Estimator  and to the Signature Waveform Estimator  where it is used to determine which section of each frame, \u0192(n,p), in r(n,p) to process in order to determine the average noise power estimate, {circumflex over (\u03c3)}(p)and signature estimates \u015d(n, p, m), respectively. The Signature Waveform Estimator  estimates the signature waveforms \u015d(n, p, m) in each frame, m, of each K individual co-channel interfering signal in the composite received input signal, r(n,p), for each diversity port p, and outputs this information to the Active User Tester  and Multiuser Detector .","Referring to ,  shows a flow chart of the Training Sequence Locator  component for locating the training sequence in the received complex baseband signal, r(n,p), received from each diversity port, (p=1,2 . . . ,P), and it includes processing a minimum of two frames of received data. Because the number of samples in a transmitted frame of data (F) is known to the receiver, each received frame, \u0192(n,p), in r(n,p) repeats at the same time rate as a transmitted frame of data. Therefore, the location of the composite training sequence, \u03b2(n,p), will be the same for each frame, \u0192(n,p), of received data, but because the transmitted and received frames of data are not initially synchronized, the beginning of a transmitted frame of data may not start at the beginning of a frame, \u0192(n,p), of received data. This means that the location of the training sequence in each frame of received data also may not start at the beginning of each frame.","The Training Sequence Locator  finds the location of the training sequence in each frame of received data. To do this a sliding search window vector, (\u03c4,p), that is L samples long (the same length as the received composite training sequence) is applied simultaneously through each frame of received data, and the correlation between each combination of windowed frames is computed and then averaged in a Detection Statistic Calculator . The result is a detection statistic, d(\u03c4), which is exactly the length of a frame of received data (F samples long). Because the payload data is uncorrelated from frame to frame, the detection statistic will have a very low value when the sliding search windows are over the payload data in each frame. On the other hand, the composite training sequence, \u03b2(n,p), is highly correlated from frame to frame; therefore, the detection statistic will be very high when the sliding search windows are over the composite training sequence in each frame. Thus, the location \u03c4, of the peak in the detection statistic, d(\u03c4), will be the location of the training sequence in each frame sequence, \u0192(n,p).","Still referring to , the inputs to the Training Sequence Locator  component are complex baseband received signals, r(n,p), from each diversity port, (p=1,2, . . . P). An estimate of the training sequence location index, \u03c4, is calculated separately for each diversity port signal, r(n,p) by the Detection Statistic Calculator . The first step in estimating the training sequence location index, \u03c4, is to provide the received signal, r(n,p), to the Detection Statistic Calculator , for calculating the detection statistic, d(\u03c4), using that received signal. As previously stated, each element of this detection statistic is generated by calculating the correlation coefficients, \u03c1(\u03c4,p), for each combination of sliding search windows for a given training sequence sample index, \u03c4. Once each combination of correlation coefficients are calculated, they are averaged and output as the value of the detection statistic, d(\u03c4), for the specified value of \u03c4. The step by step calculations needed to perform this process are as follows:","Step 1. Define the sliding search window, (\u03c4,p) for each frame of received data in the given signal, r(n,p), for the given search window sample index, \u03c4. \n\n","Step 2. Calculate the energy, e(\u03c4,p), in each sliding search window, (\u03c4,p):\n\n(\u03c4, )=(\u03c4, )(\u03c4, ), \u22001,2\u2003\u2003(4)\n","Step 3. Calculate the correlation coefficient, \u03c1(\u03c4,p), for each combination of sliding search windows: \n\n","Step 4. Calculate the detection statistic, d(\u03c4), for the given search window sample index, \u03c4, for diversity port, p, by averaging the corresponding correlation coefficients: \n\n","This process (steps 1-4) is repeated for each search window sample index, {\u03c4=1,2, . . . ,F} and for each diversity port {p=1,2, . . . P}.","Still referring to , once the detection statistic, d(\u03c4), for each diversity ports received signal, r(n,p), is calculated, it is fed to a Training Index Finder , where the estimated location, \u03c4, of the training sequence for each diversity port signal is calculated by finding the sliding search window index, \u03c4, that maximizes the detection statistic. The Training Index Finder , calculates the following equation for each detection statistic, d(\u03c4): \n\n","Next, a Confidence Metric Calculator , calculates a confidence metric from each detection statistic. This is done by calculating the peak to rms value of each detection statistic. This process is implemented by performing the following calculation for each detection statistic, d(\u03c4). \n\n","As previously stated, this entire detection process is applied to the received signal, r(n,p), of each diversity port, p, separately. Once the training sequence location, \u03c4, has been estimated and the confidence metric, c, has been computed for each signal, a decision test is applied to determine which estimate to use. Comparator  performs this decision test by comparing the values of each confidence metric and setting the output training sequence location, \u03c4, equal to the estimated training sequence, \u03c4, that has the highest confidence metric, c. This process is described mathematically in the following equation: \n\n","Referring to FIG.  and ,  is a block diagram of the Noise Estimator  of the Parameter Estimator  which calculates an accurate estimate of the average noise power in the received signal, r(n,p), from each diversity port p. In this system, as in most receivers, the dominant noise source is the thermal noise generated by the first stage of low noise amplifiers (LNAs) in the Signal Sampler . This noise can be accurately modeled as complex zero mean additive white gaussian noise (AWGN). Because each diversity port p contains its own stage of LNAs, the noise power in the received signal, r(n,p), may be slightly different from port to port. Therefore, it is important to obtain a separate estimate of the noise power for each diversity port p. Because the noise is additive, the section in each frame of received data, r(n,p), which contains the composite training sequence, \u03b2(n,p), can be modeled as the composite training sequence plus additive white noise, w(n,p). This noise is also considered to be statistically independent of the received data. The Training Sequence Locator  component (described above) determines the location index in each frame f(n,p) of received data that contains the composite training sequences. This allows the Noise Estimator  to extract the section of each frame, which contains an estimate of the received composite training sequence {circumflex over (\u03b2)}(n, p).","Referring to , Training Sequence Selector  receives the complex baseband signal r(n,p) for diversity port p into a routine that outputs the sections of that signal corresponding to the received training sequence for each frame of received data. Training Sequence Selector  also receives the training sequence index, \u03c4 and the number of frames of data, M, captured in the received signal r(n,p) for use in selecting such outputs. M is calculated based on the size of the received signal r(n,p) and the known number of samples per frame, F. The Training Sequence Selector  outputs, {circumflex over (\u03b2)}(n, p) for (m=1,2, . . . M), which are fed to an Averager  that calculates the average, value of each of the vectors, {circumflex over (\u03b2)}(n, p) in order to get a good representation of the composite training sequences {circumflex over (\u03b2)}(n, p). The Averager  comprises a summing routine  and a 1\/M routine . The next step is to subtract the estimated signal, {circumflex over (\u03b2)}(n, p), from each vector, {circumflex over (\u03b2)}(n, p), in summers , , . . . to obtain an estimated noise signal, \u0175(n, p), contained in each vector, {circumflex over (\u03b2)}(n, p). Then each noise signal, \u0175(n, p),\u0175(n, p), . . . \u0175(n, p), is fed to a variance calculator , . . . where the variance of each noise signal is calculated to obtain an estimate of the average noise power, {circumflex over (\u03c3)}(p), in each frame, M. The average noise power, {circumflex over (\u03c3)}(p), in each frame is fed to an Averager  which determines an estimate of the average noise power, {circumflex over (\u03c3)}(p), in the received signal r(n,p) for diversity port p. If there is more than one diversity port, the above process is repeated to obtain a noise power estimate for the received signal, r(n,p) received by each diversity port (p=1,2, . . . ,P).","Still referring to , an accurate estimate of the received composite training sequence, {circumflex over (\u03b2)}(n, p), is used to obtain a noise power estimate for the received signal, r(n,p), from each diversity port, p, separately. The first step in estimating the noise power in the received signal, r(n,p), for diversity port, p, is for the Training Sequence Selector  to extract the estimated composite training sequences, {circumflex over (\u03b2)}(n, p), in each frame of received data based on the training sequence location index (\u03c4), the number of samples per frame (F), the number of samples in each received training sequence to process (N) and the offset into each received training sequence (\u03b4) to use. It is important to note that both Nand \u03b4are parameters that are stored in the memory of the Training Sequence Selector , and therefore can be modified to select any section of the received composite training sequences. These values would typically be set so that the central portion of each composite received training sequence is extracted from the received signal, r(n,p). The Training Sequence Selector is described mathematically as follows: \n\n","Once the estimated received training sequences, {circumflex over (\u03b2)}(n, p), for each frame, m, of received data have been extracted from the received signal, r(n,p), they are all averaged with each other by the Averager  in order to minimize the affects of the noise vector, w(n,p), added to each estimate of the received training sequence. This produces a more accurate estimate of the actual received training sequence, {circumflex over (\u03b2)}(n, p). This process is expressed mathematically as follows: \n\n","Once this is done, this estimated received training sequence, {circumflex over (\u03b2)}(n, p), is subtracted from each vector, {circumflex over (\u03b2)}(n, p), in order to obtain an estimate of the noise signal, \u0175(n, p) contained in each.","Next, the variance of each noise signal is calculated by Variance Calculators to to obtain an estimate of the average noise power, {circumflex over (\u03c3)}(p), in each frame. This calculation is expressed as follows: \n\n","Each of these noise power estimates, {circumflex over (\u03c3)}(p), are then averaged in Averager  to obtain an estimate of the average noise power, {circumflex over (\u03c3)}(p)in the received signal, r(n,p). This averaging is performed mathematically as follows: \n\n","This entire process is repeated for each diversity port, p, in order to obtain a noise power estimate for each received signal, r(n,p).","Referring to , a flow chart of the Signature Waveform Estimator  component is shown comprising a Training Sequence Selector  which provides the received training sequence, {circumflex over (\u03b2)}(n, p) , for each frame m of received data, to Matrix Multiplier . The Signature Waveform Estimator  estimates the characteristic signature waveforms \u015d(n, p, m) that transform each user's transmission signal as it propagates from transmitter to receiver, for each diversity port, p, and each frame, m, of received data. This transformation is expressed mathematically as follows: \n\n","This equation shows that the complex baseband signal received from diversity port (p) is the sum of each users transmission signal, d(n), convolved (indicated by the asterisk) with a corresponding characteristic signature waveform, s(nT,p), sampled at Tseconds per sample, that is unique to user, k, and diversity port, p, plus additive white noise, w(n,p). This expression can be rewritten in matrix form as follows: \n\n\nwhere: \n\n","For a given diversity port, p, the approach used to estimate these signatureresponses is to compare the section of the received signal that contains the composite training sequence, \u03b2(n,p), with the actual known training sequences, b(n), transmitted by each user, k=1,2, . . . K. This can be accomplished because the transmitted training sequences, b(n), from each user are known by the Receiver  and because an estimate of the received composite training sequence, \u03b2(n,p) can be extracted from the received signal, r(n,p), using the Training Sequence Locator . In this case\n\n()=(), ()=\u03b2(), and ()=()\u2003\u2003(19)\n","The maximum likelihood estimate of the characteristic signature waveforms \u015d(n, p), for each user, k, and each diversity port, p, is the one that collectively minimize the square error between the received composite training sequence, \u03b2(n,p), and the sum of each users training sequence convolved with its corresponding signature waveform \n\n\nThis maximum likelihood estimate is expressed mathematically in matrix form as follows: \n\n","Where: \u03a9=The set of all possible combonations of ","Using the maximum likelihood approach, the signature estimates can be solved for by using a zero forcing criteria. This is done by setting the expression inside the minimization equal to zero as follows:\n\n\u2225()\u2212()\u2225=0\u2003\u2003(21)\n\nOnce this is done it is clear that the characteristic signature waveform vector can be calculated by solving the above set of linear equations for (p) as follows:\n\n()=(())()\u2003\u2003(22)\n","Based on the solution of the maximum likelihood equation above, the first step is for Training Sequence Selector  in the Signature Waveform Estimator  to extract the portion of the received signal, r(n,p), for each frame, m, that contains the received composite training sequence, {circumflex over (\u03b2)}(n, p), in that frame. This is done in the Training Sequence Selector (step ) and is based on the location of the training sequence, \u03c4, the number of samples per frame, F, the number of samples of the received training sequence to select, N, and the offset into each received training sequence, \u03b4, to use. It is important to note that N is equal to (N+N\u22121), where Nis the number of samples to use for each signature estimate, and Nis the number of samples to in the known training sequences. It is also important to note that Nand \u03b4 are parameters that are stored in the memory of this Training Sequence Selector  and therefore can be modified to select any section of the received composite training sequences in each frame. These values would typically be set so that the entire composite received training sequence is extracted from the received signal, r(n,p). This Training Sequence Selector step  is described mathematically as follows: \n\n\nThe next step to in estimating the signature waveforms is to multiply the transformation matrix , received from the Transformation Matrix Selector , with the section of the received complex baseband signal that contains the composite received training sequence estimate, {circumflex over (\u03b2)}(n, p), for each frame, m, where m=1,2, . . . M, using the Matrix Multiplier step to as follows:\n\n\u2003()=[{circumflex over (\u03b2)}(1){circumflex over (\u03b2)}(2) . . . {circumflex over (\u03b2)}()]1,2\u2003\u2003(24)\n\n()=(), \u22001,2\u2003\u2003(25)\n\nwhere: \n\n\n(Note: A=total number of active users and k=index of the aactive user. Therefore, for the first iteration through the signature estimation loop, k=k and A=K for k\u22121,2, . . . K because for the first iteration it is assumed that all K users are active.)\n","On the initial calculation of the signature waveform estimates the transformation matrix, , is passed into the Signature Waveform Estimator  from the Initial Transformation Matrix Builder by way of the Transformation Matrix Selector  routine. On all subsequent estimates of the signature waveforms for the given complex baseband received signal, r(n,p), the Transformation matrix is passed to the Signature Waveform Estimator  from the Transformation matrix Rebuilder  by way of the Transformation Matrix Selector routine . This is done so that only signature estimates of the Active users (k) are calculated. It is important to note that the dimensions of the Transformation Matrix are a function of the number of samples (N) in each characteristic signature estimate, \u015d(n, p, m), the estimated number of currently active users (A) and the number of samples (N) in each received composite training sequence estimate ({circumflex over (\u03b2)}(n, p))","Referring to , a flow chart is shown for the Active User Tester  component. The purpose of the active user test is to determine which users are transmitting information in each snapshot of received data, r(n,p). This test is performed once for each iteration of the signature estimation loop. This is done by calculating the average received power in users signal based on the signature estimates, \u015d(n, p, m), for each user, k, in each frame of received data, m, across each diversity port, p. These power estimates, {circumflex over (P)}(p, m), are averaged across each frame, m, and the result, {circumflex over (P)}(p), is compared to a predefined threshold, r, that is set relative to the estimated noise floor, {circumflex over (\u03c3)}(p).","To perform the Active User Test, the signature estimates, \u015d(n, p, m), are processed for each diversity port, p, separately by a step referred to as the Active User Test For Diversity Port \u201cp\u201d. The output of this step is a sequence, u(k), of ones and zeros that is (K) elements long. If u(k)=0, then user k is estimated to be \u201cinactive\u201d and if u(k)=1, then user k is estimated to be \u201cactively transmitting\u201d based on the signature estimates for diversity port p. This output sequence, u(k), is referred to as the active user test results sequence for diversity port p. Once this test result sequence is calculated for each diversity port, they are passed to a logical \u201cOR\u201d Operator . This logical \u201cOR\u201d function sets the combined active user test result sequence, u(k), equal to 1 if any of the P u(k) sequences are equal to 1 for each value of k, where k={1,2, . . . K}. Therefore, the combined active user test result sequence u(k)=1 if any of the u(k) sequences equal 1 and u(k)=0 otherwise, for each user k=1,2, . . . K.","Referring to , a flow chart is shown for the Active User Test For Diversity Port \u201cp\u201d of FIG. . For a given diversity port, p, the active user test result, u(k), is calculated for the given user k, which was calculated to be active in the previous iteration of the signature estimation loop, by performing the following process:","The first step to is to estimate the average received signal power for each user (k) using the estimated characteristic signature response, \u015d(n, p, m), for each frame, m, and each user, k, where k=k, k, . . . kas shown in , and it is calculated as follows: \n\n\n","In the next step to , these estimated signature powers for each user (k=k, k, . . . ,k) are compared to a detection threshold, r, relative to the estimated noise floor, {circumflex over (\u03c3)}(p). If the estimated signature power, {circumflex over (P)}(p), for user kis greater than or equal to the product of the relative threshold, r, with the estimated noise floor, {circumflex over (\u03c3)}(p), then the active user test result, u(k), for that user kis set to 1. Otherwise, it is set to 0. This test is expressed mathematically as follows: \n\n\nIn Combine Results step , all of the results for u(k) are then combined with the original user states vector, u(k) as follows: \n\n","Referring again to , the Transformation Matrix Rebuilder  uses the results of the Active User Tester  to rebuild the transformation matrix, , which is used by the Signature Waveform Estimator  to estimate the signature responses for each user, k, diversity port, p, and frame, m. This transformation matrix is rebuilt by removing the sub matrices, , in the training sequence matrix, , that correspond to the inactive users. This is done to create an updated transformation matrix, , that is used to only estimate the signature responses of the active users, k. This process is applied mathematically as follows:\n\n\u2518\u2003\u2003(31)\n\n\u2234=()\u2003\u2003(32)\n\nWhere kcan be defined using the following algorithm:\n",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0078","num":"0078"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00001","num":"00001"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"70pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"147pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"a = 1;"]},{"entry":[{},"for k = 1:K"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"84pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"133pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"if(u(k) = 1)"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"98pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"119pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"k= k"]},{"entry":[{},"a = a + 1"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"84pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"133pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"end"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"70pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"147pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"end"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}}]}}},"The updated transformation matrix, , is passed to the Signature Waveform Estimator  by way of the Transformation Matrix Selector . Inside the Signature Waveform Estimator  the updated transformation matrix, , is reapplied to each estimated received training sequence, {circumflex over (\u03b2)}(n, p) , for each diversity port, p, and for each frame, m, in order to calculate more accurate signature waveform estimates for only the active users.","Still referring to , the Initial Transformation Matrix Builder calculates the initial transformation matrix , based on the known training sequences (b(n)), which are Nsamples long, for each possible user (k=1,2, . . . K). This transformation matrix is calculated as follows:","First, the known training sequence convolution matrix () is determined: \n\n","Second, the transformation matrix () is calculated as follows: \n\n","The Initial Transformation Matrix (), is passed to the Signature Waveform Estimator by way of the Transformation Matrix Selector , and is used to calculate the initial signature waveform estimates, \u015d(n, p, m), for each possible user, k, across each diversity port, p, and each frame, m, of received data. Also, the known training sequence convolution matrix is passed to the Transformation Matrix Rebuilder  so that the sub matrices (, . . . ) do not need to be regenerated for each iteration of the signature estimation loop.","The Transformation Matrix Selector  component is used to select which transformation matrix will be passed to the Signature Waveform Estimator . For a given snapshot of the complex baseband received signal, r(n,p), the initial signature waveform estimates, \u015d(n, p, m), are calculated using the initial transformation matrix, . Therefore, in this case, the Transformation Matrix Selector passes to the Signature Waveform Estimator  by setting its output, , equal to . Once the Signature Waveform Estimator  estimates the signature waveforms for each user, the results are passed to the Active User Tester  to determine which users are currently active. These results are then passed to the Transformation Matrix Rebuilder  to rebuild the transformation matrix using only the known training sequence convolution matrices () for the active users. Therefore, after the initial signature waveform estimates have been calculated, the Transformation Matrix Selector  passes the rebuilt transformation matrix, , to the Signature Waveform Estimator  by setting its output, , equal to .","This invention has been disclosed in terms of certain embodiments. It will be apparent that many modifications can be made to the disclosed apparatus without departing from the invention. Therefore, it is the intent of the appended claims to cover all such variations and modifications as come within the true spirit and scope of this invention.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0086","num":"0086"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00002","num":"00002"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"175pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":"TABLE"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["SYMBOL","DESCRIPTION"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["n","Time sample index"]},{"entry":["p","Diversity port index"]},{"entry":["P","Total number of diversity port"]},{"entry":["k","User index"]},{"entry":["K","Total number of possible users"]},{"entry":["k","User index for the aactive user (this is updated with each"]},{"entry":[{},"iteration through the signature estimation loop)"]},{"entry":["A","Total number of active users calculated by the Active User"]},{"entry":[{},"Tester (this is updated with each iteration through the"]},{"entry":[{},"signature estimation loop)"]},{"entry":["m","Frame index"]},{"entry":["M","Total number of frames of received data"]},{"entry":["F","Total number of samples per frame"]},{"entry":["N","Total number of samples in the estimated signature"]},{"entry":[{},"response sequences"]},{"entry":["N","Total number of samples in the known training sequences"]},{"entry":["N","Total number of samples in the composite received"]},{"entry":[{},"training sequences (NN-1)"]},{"entry":["N","Number of samples in the composite received training"]},{"entry":[{},"sequences used to estimate the average noise power of"]},{"entry":[{},"each received signal"]},{"entry":["F","Number of samples per symbol in the complex baseband"]},{"entry":[{},"received signal r(n, p)"]},{"entry":["\u03b4","Offset in samples from the start of the composite received"]},{"entry":[{},"training sequences used to estimate the signature waveforms"]},{"entry":["\u03b4","Offset in samples from the start of the composite received"]},{"entry":[{},"training sequences used to estimate the average noise"]},{"entry":[{},"power of each received signal"]},{"entry":["L","Total number of samples in the training sequence search"]},{"entry":[{},"window"]},{"entry":["b(n)","Known training sequence for user (k)"]},{"entry":[{"u":"B","sub":"k"},"Known training sequence convolution matrix for user (k)"]},{"entry":[{"u":"B"},"Combined known training sequence convolution matrix"]},{"entry":[{},"for all K users"]},{"entry":[{"u":"B","sub":["k",{"sub2":"a"}]},"Known training sequence convolution matrix for"]},{"entry":[{},"active user (k"]},{"entry":[{"u":"{tilde over (B)}"},"Rebuilt combined known training sequence convolution"]},{"entry":[{},"matrix for all A active users"]},{"entry":["d(n)","Transmitted data sequence from user k"]},{"entry":["{circumflex over (d)}","Maximum likelihood estimate of the transmitted data stream"]},{"entry":[{},"for each user"]},{"entry":[{"u":"D","sub":"k"},"Transmitted sequence convolution matrix for user (k)"]},{"entry":[{"u":"D"},"Combined transmitted sequence convolution matrix for all"]},{"entry":[{},"K users"]},{"entry":["R","The received sampled composite waveform"]},{"entry":["r(n, p)","The received complex baseband data sequence for diversity"]},{"entry":[{},"port (p)"]},{"entry":["f(n, p)","mframe of received data for diversity port (p)"]},{"entry":["s(nT, p)","Actual characteristic signature responses unique to the"]},{"entry":[{},"kusers co-channel interfering transmission"]},{"entry":[{},"signal received by diversity port (p) and sampled"]},{"entry":[{},"at Tseconds per sample"]},{"entry":["\u015c(n, p, m)","Estimated characteristic signature responses unique"]},{"entry":[{},"to the kusers co-channel interfering"]},{"entry":[{},"transmission signal received by diversity port"]},{"entry":[{},"(p) and estimated in frame (m)"]},{"entry":["\u015c(n, p, m)","Estimated characteristic signature responses"]},{"entry":[{},"unique to the active user k = kfor diversity port (p) and"]},{"entry":[{},"estimated in frame (m)"]},{"entry":[{"u":"S"},"Maximum likelihood signature waveform stacked vector for"]},{"entry":[{},"diversity port (p)"]},{"entry":[{"u":"T","sub":"r"},"Linear transformation matrix that is applied to a section"]},{"entry":[{},"of the received waveform and used to estimate the signature"]},{"entry":[{},"responses"]},{"entry":[{"u":"T","sub":["r",{"sub2":"1"}]},"Linear transformation matrix that is used by the Signature"]},{"entry":[{},"Waveform Estimator to calculate the initial estimates of"]},{"entry":[{},"the signature waveforms for each possible user"]},{"entry":[{},"(k = 1, 2, . . . , K)"]},{"entry":[{"u":"T","sub":["r",{"sub2":"2"}]},"Rebuilt linear transformation matrix that is used by the"]},{"entry":[{},"Signature Waveform Estimator to calculate the subsequent"]},{"entry":[{},"estimates of the signature waveforms for each active"]},{"entry":[{},"user (k = k, k, . . . K"]},{"entry":["{circumflex over (\u03c3)}(p)","Estimated noise power received from diversity port (p)"]},{"entry":"{circumflex over (\u03c4)}(p)"},{"entry":["\u0175(n, p)","Estimated noise sequence in the received training sequence"]},{"entry":[{},"(\u03b2(n, p)) for frame m"]},{"entry":["{circumflex over (\u03b2)}(n, p)","Estimated received composite training sequence waveform"]},{"entry":[{},"for diversity port (p) and frame m"]},{"entry":["\u03b2(n, p)","Actual composite received training sequence waveform for"]},{"entry":[{},"diversity port (p)"]},{"entry":["\u03c4","Sample shift index (used in the training sequence locator"]},{"entry":[{},"algorithm)"]},{"entry":["\u03c4","Estimated training sequence location index for diversity"]},{"entry":[{},"port (p)"]},{"entry":["\u03c4","Combined estimated training sequence location index"]},{"entry":[{},"(this is the output of the training sequence locator"]},{"entry":[{},"algorithm)"]},{"entry":["C","Training sequence confidence metric for diversity port (p)"]},{"entry":["d(\u03c4)","Training sequence detection statistic for diversity port (p)"]},{"entry":[{"u":"l","sub":"m"},"Training sequence search vector at sample shift (\u03c4), for"]},{"entry":[{},"received frame (m) and diversity port (p)"]},{"entry":["e(\u03c4, p)","Energy in the mtraining sequence search vector for"]},{"entry":[{},"sample shift (\u03c4) and diversity port (p)"]},{"entry":["\u03c1(\u03c4, p)","Correlation coefficient between training sequence"]},{"entry":[{},"search vectors (\u03c4, p) and (\u03c4,p)"]},{"entry":[{},"at sample shift (\u03c4) and diversity port (p)"]},{"entry":["u(k)","Active user test results sequence for diversity port (p)"]},{"entry":[{},"NOTE: u(k) = 0 if user \u201ck\u201d is inactive;"]},{"entry":[{},"u(k) = 1 is user \u201ck\u201d is active)"]},{"entry":["u(k)","Combined active user test results"]},{"entry":[{},"NOTE: u(k) = 0 if user \u201ck\u201d is inactive;"]},{"entry":[{},"u(k) = 1 if user \u201ck\u201d is active)"]},{"entry":["{circumflex over (P)}(p, m)","Estimated received signal power for user (k = k)"]},{"entry":[{},"received by frame (m) on diversity port (p)"]},{"entry":["{circumflex over (P)}(p)","Estimated received signal power for user (k = k)"]},{"entry":[{},"received on diversity port (p) averaged over all frames"]},{"entry":[{},"(m = 1, 2, . . . M)"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}}],"GOVINT":[{},{}],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The various objects, advantages and novel features of this invention will be more fully apparent from a reading of the following detailed description in conjunction with the accompanying drawings in which like reference numerals refer to like parts, and in which:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 4","sub":["m","m"],"u":"l"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIG. 9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":"FIG. 10"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
