---
title: Flame suppression agent, system and uses
abstract: Aqueous droplets encapsulated in a flame retardant polymer are useful in suppressing combustion. Upon exposure to a flame, the encapsulated aqueous droplets rupture and vaporize, removing heat and displacing oxygen to retard the combustion process. The polymer encapsulant, through decomposition, may further add free radicals to the combustion atmosphere, thereby further retarding the combustion process. The encapsulated aqueous droplets may be used as a replacement to halon, water mist and dry powder flame suppression systems.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08511396&OS=08511396&RS=08511396
owner: The United States of America as Represented by the Administrator of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration
number: 08511396
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20020520
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["RELATED APPLICATION","STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENT INTEREST","TECHNICAL FIELD OF THE INVENTION","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION","Example 1","Microencapsulation of Water in Poly(4-bromostyrene) by In-Liquid Drying","Example 2","Microencapsulation of Water with Poly(4-bromostyrene) by Selective Polymer Solubility","Example 3","Microencapsulation of Water with Poly(1,6-hexamethlylene tetrabromoterephthalate) by Interfacial Polymerization","Conclusion"],"p":["This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional patent application Ser. No. 60\/293,918 filed May 25, 2001 and titled \u201cNon-Toxic Environmentally Safe Halon Replacement,\u201d which is commonly assigned and incorporated by reference herein.","The invention described herein was made by an employee of the United States Government and may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.","The present invention is directed to a fire extinguishing, or flame suppression, agent.","It is well known that water effectively suppresses or \u201cputs out\u201d a flame by lowering the flame temperature and reducing the concentration of oxygen available for the combustion process. For example, water mists have met with recent success as a fire suppression agent. The temperature of the flame is lowered because the high latent heat of vaporization of water absorbs energy from the flame as the water evaporates. The concentration of oxygen is lowered because the water droplets actually displace oxygen as they evaporate.","One of the drawbacks of employing water mists is the difficulty in producing such mists in confined areas and the fact that water can evaporate before it reaches the base of the flame. Halons have been used to overcome these types of problems; however, they contribute to global warming and ozone depletion. Furthermore, production of halons is currently banned by international agreement. Conventional halon replacements have been found to be either ineffective and may contribute to global warming and\/or ozone depletion.","There is a current need for a water droplet system that can effectively deliver water droplets to the flame, extract sufficient energy from the flame by evaporation of the water droplets, displace oxygen with the vaporized water, and inhibit the flame propagation reaction.","When halon production was barred in the early 90's due to its strong contribution to ozone depletion and global warming, an intensified effort was begun to find suitable replacement agents. Because the agent should be adaptable for indoor use, it was necessary to find non-toxic agents. In addition, because of the need to suppress fires that may endanger and even engulf electronic components, it was necessary for the agent to be gaseous or liquid with low residue.","After considering a variety of materials, small particle water mist (from 10-100\u03bc in size) was found to meet many of the requirements of a successful flame suppression agent. For example, advantages to the chemical nature of water include the following:\n\n","However, water droplets have several problems that must be overcome before they can be utilized in flame suppression. These problems include:\n\n","As will become clear from the following, the present invention provides a way of realizing the benefits from using small size water droplets, or water-containing droplets, to retard and suppress a flame while, at the same time, overcoming the known problems associated with the use of such water droplets.","The present invention is directed to a nontoxic, non-ozone depleting, and non-global warming fire-extinguishing agent. This material is a water or water gel that is microencapsulated in a polymer that has fire-extinguishing properties. Aqueous droplets encapsulated in a flame retardant polymer are useful in suppressing combustion. Upon exposure to a flame or excessive heat, the encapsulated aqueous droplets rupture and vaporize, removing heat and displacing oxygen to retard the combustion process. The polymer encapsulant, through decomposition, may further add free radicals to the combustion atmosphere. Thereby further retarding the combustion process. The encapsulated aqueous droplets may be used as a replacement to halon, water mist and dry powder flame suppression systems.","For one embodiment, the invention provides a flame suppression agent. The flame suppression agent includes aqueous droplets encapsulated in a flame retardant polymer. For another embodiment, the invention provides a method of suppressing a flame. The method includes applying encapsulated aqueous droplets to the flame. For yet another embodiment the invention provides a flame suppression system. The flame suppression system includes a container containing encapsulated aqueous droplets and a dispenser for dispensing the encapsulated aqueous droplets from the container upon demand. The invention further includes methods and apparatus of varying scope.","The following embodiments of the present invention are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the invention, and it is to be understood that other embodiments may be utilized and that changes may be made without departing from the scope of the present invention. The following detailed description is, therefore, not to be taken in a limiting sense, and the scope of the present invention is defined only by the appended claims and equivalents thereof.","The present invention is directed to a flame suppression system utilizing small size aqueous droplets encapsulated in a flame retardant polymer. Microencapsulation serves to stabilize the aqueous droplets and prevent their premature evaporation. For embodiments using a halogenated polymer for encapsulation, decomposition of the encapsulated aqueous droplets will give rise to free radicals, which function to further inhibit flame propagation. The microencapsulated aqueous flame suppression system can be used to replace current agents in halon, water mist and dry powder fire extinguishers.","The commercial application of microencapsulation techniques began in 1940 with the development for the first carbonless copy paper by Barrett Green (, held in Chicago, August 1973, Jan E. Vandegaer, Ed., Plenum Press, NY and London, p3.) and by 1959 with the development of new methods and commercial applications the field began an explosive growth. Microencapsulation techniques are thus well known and many are suitable for the encapsulation of aqueous droplets. As one example, a review of microencapsulation methods by Thies (, Kirk-Othmer, Encyclopedia of Chemical Technology, pp 628-651, Vol. 16, 4Ed, John Wiley & Sons, New York) finds several techniques that are suitable for use with the invention:\n\n","Several examples are provided herein for the manufacture of encapsulated aqueous droplets in accordance with the invention. However, the invention is not limited to a specific microencapsulation technique.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0043"},"figref":["FIGS. 1A-1C","FIG. 1A"],"b":["115","110"]},"For one embodiment, the aqueous phase  is essentially water. For another embodiment, the aqueous phase  contains a gelling agent in addition to water. For yet another embodiment, the aqueous phase  additionally contains a surfactant to aid in forming the droplets. The aqueous phase  may further contain additional components that do not materially affect the basic and novel properties of the flame suppression agents disclosed herein. The organic phase  contains the encapsulant in solution.","Encapsulants for use with the invention are fire retardant polymers. Examples of some fire retardant polymers include halogenated polymers and, more specifically, brominated polymers. For one embodiment, the brominated polymer is a bromostyrene polymer, such as poly(4-bromostyrene). However, other polymers with fire retardant properties may be used. In general, the fire retardant polymer should be self-extinguishing upon removal of a beat source. For one embodiment, the organic phase  contains poly(4-bromostyrene) dissolved in methylene chloride.","In , a second aqueous phase  is added to the emulsion, thereby generating a (water-in-oil)-in-water emulsion. For one embodiment, the second aqueous phase  contains substantially the same composition as the first aqueous phase . For another embodiment, the second aqueous phase  contains water and a gelling agent having a concentration of the gelling agent of less than the first aqueous phase. Solvent  is then driven from the organic phase  to leave droplets of the aqueous phase  encapsulated in the fire retardant polymer  as shown in .","Additional detail on the foregoing encapsulation technique may be found in , Marcel Dekker, Inc., Pub., 1979, page 110, in a described by A. Kondo and J. W. van Valkenburg. The principle of this method is to disperse the core material, i.e., the aqueous phase, in a solution of wall-forming material, i.e., the hydrophobic solvent containing the fire retardant polymer. The initial dispersion is then dispersed in an aqueous solution of a protective colloid (gelatin or similar material) followed by evaporation of the hydrophobic solvent. Once the solvent is evaporated, the encapsulated product may be isolated by filtration, washed with water to remove excess protective colloid, and air-dried.","For one embodiment, microencapsulation by selective polymer solubility is used to form the encapsulated aqueous droplets. Such encapsulation can be achieved by controlling the solubility of a polymer dissolved in a continuous phase of an emulsion. Solubility control is accomplished by adjusting the ratio of the two miscible hydrophobic solvents, one of which is a solvent for the polymer and one of which is not in general, an aqueous phase is dispersed in a first hydrophobic solvent phase to produce a water-in-oil emulsion. The aqueous phase may contain a surfactant and\/or gelling agent to aid in forming the desired droplets. The first hydrophobic solvent phase contains an encapsulant dissolved in a first hydrophobic solvent.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0049"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":["205","210"]},"At , the aqueous phase is dispersed in the hydrophobic phase to form an emulsion of the aqueous phase as the dispersed phase and the hydrophobic phase as the continuous phase. At , a second hydrophobic solvent is added slowly to the continuous phase. The first hydrophobic solvent is soluble, and preferably miscible, in the second hydrophobic solvent Further, the fire retardant polymer is substantially insoluble in the second hydrophobic solvent. This reduces the solubility of the fire retardant polymer in the first hydrophobic solvent, thus causing the polymer to deposit on the surface of the dispersed droplets of the aqueous phase. At , the encapsulated droplets are isolated or otherwise separated from the mixture. This can include a variety of separation techniques, including driving off the solvents through evaporation, filtering the encapsulated droplets from the mixture, centrifugal separation, etc.","For another embodiment, aqueous droplets are encapsulated using interfacial polymerization. Basically, microencapsulation by interfacial polymerization reactions occurs through condensation polymerization reactions, where some small molecule is eliminated in the process. For example, a polyester or polyamide can be prepared by reacting an acid chloride with an alcohol or an amine by eliminating a HCl molecule, see equations 1 and 2.\n\nRCOCl+HOR\u2032+RCOOR\u2032+HCl\u2003\u2003Eq. 1\n\nRCOCl+HNR\u2032+RCONHR\u2032+HCl\u2003\u2003Eq. 2\n","Condensation reactions in equations 1 or 2 take place between two different functional groups. For polymerization reactions, it requires that each monomer molecule unit have two functional groups. This means that either one monomer-molecule has the two different groups or two different molecules have two functional groups of the same type. Polymerization of each type of monomer system is illustrated in equations 3 and 4.\n\nHNRCOCl\u2192H(NHRCO)Cl+(1)HCl\u2003\u2003Eq. 3\n\nCIOCRCOCl+HNR\u2032NH\u2192Cl(OCRCONHR\u2032NH)H+(1)HCl\u2003\u2003Eq. 4\n","There are generally four basic options for microencapsulation processes that use interfacial polymerization reactions to form the encapsulating shell. These options usually start by introducing a dispersed phase in the continuous phase by emulsification under agitation or by dispersing single droplets of the dispersed phase into the continuous phase with a nozzle or atomizer. The interfacial polymerization reaction then occurs using one of the following mechanisms:\n\n",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0058"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 3"]},"At , an aqueous phase is prepared as a dispersed phase containing a first monomer. The aqueous phase is then emulsified in a hydrophobic continuous phase at . A second monomer is added to the continuous phase at . The first and second monomers are then reacted at  to form the polymer encapsulant around the dispersed droplets of the aqueous phase.","Upon isolation of the encapsulated aqueous droplets, the encapsulated droplets may be used in a variety of flame suppression systems or may be otherwise applied to a flame for suppression. For example, in a typical dry powder fire extinguisher or suppression system, the encapsulated aqueous droplets can be used as the dry powder. By applying the encapsulated aqueous droplets to a flame, the vaporization of the contained water and other mechanisms described above can be used to suppress the flame.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0061"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 4"],"b":["405","405","410","410","415","415","405","410","410","405","420","410","405","410","425","430","430","420","425"]},"The following non-limiting examples set forth below illustrate specific examples of the manufacture of flame suppression agents in accordance with embodiments of the invention.","In this example, poly(4-bromostyrene), the encapsulating polymer, was dissolved in methylene chloride, and food-grade unflavored gelatin was used to gel water and to serve as the protective colloid. A solution of 1.023 g of poly(4-bromostyrene) dissolved in 10 mL of methylene chloride was used as the continuous organic phase. A second solution, which was used as the dispersed phase, contained 0.412 g of gelatin dissolved in 9.607 g of deionized (DI) water. These solutions were mixed in a 39 mL flat bottom culture tube at 10,000 rpm with a Fisher model 700 Homogenizer with a saw-tooth generator (10 mm\u00d7195 mm) for 30 seconds. The resulting emulsion was poured into a 502 g solution of DI water that contained 5.007 g of food-grade unflavored gelatin that was agitated at approximately 2100 rpm with the model 700 Homogenizer with a flat bottom generator (35 mm\u00d7195 mm). The solution was agitated for 5 minutes at ambient temperature, and then the temperature was increased to 40\u00b0 C. and held there until the methylene chloride had evaporated (approximately 1 hr). Filtering the mixture through a 2.7-micron glass-microfiber filter isolated the resulting microencapsulated water\/gel. The crude product was washed 3 times with 200 mL of DI water, 1 time with 100 mL of a 0.1% gelatin solution, and 1 time with 100 mL of a 50:50 (vol:vol) solution of isopropyl alcohol (IPA). This process produced 0.639 g of microencapsulated particles in the 5 to 40 micron size range. When the speed of the generator for the second stage was decreased from approximately 2100 rpm to approximately 1400 rpm, the size of the final encapsulated material increased from the range of about 5 to 40 microns, to the range of about 60 to 70 microns; however, some of the material was as large as 250 micron. In addition, the yield of the microencapsulated particles increased when the DI water used in second stage and subsequent washing was saturated with methylene chloride. The bromine content in the polymer\/gelatin residue, measured by SEM\/EDS was the same as the polymer, poly(4-bromostyrene), 44 percent, implying that the gelatin content in the final product was low. The amount of water microencapsulated based on weight loss at 105\u00b0 C. was approximately 21 percent.","In this example, the solubility of a polymer is controlled by the ratio of two miscible solvents, e.g., hexane and methylene chloride. The fire retardant polymer, e.g., poly(4-bromostyrene), is soluble in the methylene chloride, but generally insoluble in the hexane. In a first stage, a solution of 0.28 g poly(4-bromostyrene) in 5.6 g methylene chloride was prepared. In a second stage, an aqueous gel was prepared by mixing 0.002 g of methyl cellulose and 0.001 g of sorbitan sesquioleate (an emulsifier) in 0.5 g of DI water. The aqueous gel was dispersed into the polymer solution prepared in the first stage using a homogenizer, e.g., a Fisher model 700. The speed was controlled to 1800 rpm to produce the desired particle size. 10 g of hexane was slowly added to the dispersion, thus lowering the solubility of poly(4-bromostyrene) in methylene chloride and causing the polymer to deposit on the surface of the dispersed droplets of aqueous phase. The resulting thickness of the encapsulating polymer is controlled by the ratio of polymer to dispersed aqueous phase. The final microencapsulated particles were in the 20 to 40 micron size.","In a first stage, an aqueous solution was prepared by dissolving 0.0073 g of 1,6-hexamethlyene diamine in 0.25 g water followed by the addition of 0.0029 g of sorbitan sesquioleate, 0.0041 g of sodium hydroxide, and 0.0013 g of methyl cellulose. In a second stage, a solution of 0.025 g of tetrabromoterephthaloyl chloride in 2.5 g of methylene chloride was prepared. 3.5 g of mineral spirits were added to a suitable mixing vessel followed by the addition of the aqueous solution prepared in the first stage. Next the solution prepared in the second stage was slowly added to the mixing vessel. This mixture was emulsified with a Fisher Model 700 Homogenizer at approximately 2800 rpm for 2 to 5 seconds. The desired speed is dependent upon the desired particle size, but, in general, increased agitation results in smaller particles. The reaction mixture was filtered through a 2.7-micron glass microfiber filter to isolate the microcapsules in the 5 to 20 micron size range. When toluene was substituted for mineral spirits and mixed in the same way, the isolated particles were in the 15 to 60 micron size range. A third variation on this process that used the same solutions prepared in the first and second stages, started by mixing 7 g of mineral spirits and the solution prepared in the second stage in a suitable mixing vessel. Then the solution prepared in the first stage was slowly added to the mixture in the mixing vessel through a fine capillary tube, which produced very small droplets of the first stage solution in the mineral spirit\/second stage solution. These small droplets of the first stage solution were microencapsulated by the second stage solution to yield particles in the 10 to 50 micron size range.","Aqueous droplets encapsulated in a flame retardant polymer have been described for use in suppressing combustion. Upon exposure to a flame, the encapsulated aqueous droplets rupture and vaporize, removing heat and displacing oxygen to retard the combustion process. The polymer encapsulant, through decomposition, may further add free radicals to the combustion atmosphere, thereby further retarding the combustion process. The encapsulated aqueous droplets may be used as a replacement to halon, water mist and dry powder flame suppression systems."],"GOVINT":[{},{}],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIGS. 1A-1C"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0025"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0026"},"figref":"FIG. 4"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
