---
title: Method, system and computer product for formulating a bi-directional color match
abstract: Method, system and computer product for formulating a bi-directional color match. In this disclosure, a computing unit obtains spectral measurements of a target bi-directional color. The computing unit uses a bi-directional color formulation tool determine a combination of pigments, dyes and platelet-shaped pigments that generates spectral measurements that match the spectral measurements of the target bi-directional color.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=06870614&OS=06870614&RS=06870614
owner: General Electric Company
number: 06870614
owner_city: Niskayuna
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20020530
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["BACKGROUND OF INVENTION","SUMMARY OF INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["This disclosure relates generally to color formulation and more particularly to generating a color formula for matching a bi-directional color.","Bi-directional colors, unlike typical diffuse colors, appear to change color as the angle of illumination and observation changes. Examples of bi-directional colors include metallic colors, pearlescent colors, and interference colors. Bi-directional colors have been used for decades in small volumes by the paint and cosmetic industry. More recently, bi-directional colors are beginning to spread to new mainstream applications in the plastic, paint, textile, ink, and cosmetic industries.","To achieve a bi-directional color, usually a flake, disk or platelet-shaped pigment ingredient is used in the material's formula. These platelet-shaped pigments typically have particle diameters that are sufficiently large (10 to 100 microns) with a relatively smooth surface, yet are relatively thin (0.1 to 1 microns). Light that hits one of these platelet-shaped pigment particles, can either undergo specular mirror like reflection as in the case of metallic flake pigments or can be partially transmitted and undergo interference as in the case of interference or pearlescent pigments. For both of these cases, the platelet-shaped pigment particles do not scatter the light in a diffuse way like typical spherical, cubical, or low aspect ratio irregularly shaped pigment particles. Because the platelet-shaped particle does not scatter the light in a diffuse manner, it maintains its bi-directional nature. Another property of the platelet-shaped pigment particle is its ability to align with flow during mixing and processing due to its high aspect ratio. This partial or full alignment can significantly change the angle dependence of the physical color.","When color matching bi-directional colors, the industry has had to rely on trial and error methods and artistic expertise because of the lack of computational methods and measurement tools. Typically, a color technician is given a physical sample of the target bi-directional color to match. They measure the target color using a spectrophotometer to get a color measurement. With this measurement, the technician uses standard diffuse color matching tools and methods, such as described in U.S. Pat. No. 5,668,633, entitled Method and System for Formulating a Color Match, to get a diffuse color formula. This diffuse color formula is composed of pigments and dyes of various concentrations that when mixed and compounded together in a material generate a physical color that is diffuse. The technician would then use this diffuse color formula as a starting point and begin a trial-and-error process. First the technician would produce a trial batch using the starting point formula and evaluate how well it matched the physical target color under all angles of observation and illumination. To improve the match under the various angles, the technician would use their own expertise to decide what concentrations of platelet-shaped pigment particles to add in order to better match the bi-directional color. They would then produce another trial batch and once again evaluate how well it matched the physical target color under all angles of observation and illumination. This iterative process would proceed until either a match was achieved or the technician gave up. The industry calls this process \u201cmatching the color flop.\u201d","The problem with this trial-and-error approach is that it is very slow and relies on the presence of a very experienced color technician who can evaluate a color under multiple angles and decide on how best to modify the color formula. Because the number of application of bi-directional colors is increasing, there is now the need for an efficient systematic computational approach that can generate a color formula composed of pigments and dyes that matches a bi-directional color under all angles of observation and illumination.","In one embodiment of this disclosure, there is a method and computer readable medium that stores instructions for instructing a computer system, to formulate a bi-directional color match. This embodiment comprises obtaining a plurality of spectral measurements of a target bi-directional color and determining a combination of pigments, dyes and platelet-shaped pigments having a plurality of predicted spectral measurements that match the plurality of spectral measurements of the target bi-directional color.","In a second embodiment of this disclosure, there is a method and computer readable medium that stores instructions for instructing a computer system, to formulate a bi-directional color match from a set of previously used bi-directional color formulations. This embodiment comprises obtaining a plurality of spectral measurements of a target bi-directional color; searching the set of previously used directional color formulations for color formulas that approximates the target bi-directional color; determining from the color formulas a formula that best matches the target bi-directional color; and adapting the concentrations of the pigments, dyes and platelet-shaped pigments.","In another embodiment, there is a method and computer readable medium that stores instructions for instructing a computer system to formulate a bi-directional color match from a set of previously used bi-directional color formulations. This embodiment comprises obtaining a plurality of spectral measurements of a target bi-directional color; receiving matching requirements for obtaining color formulas that approximates the target bi-directional color; searching the set of previously used bi-directional color formulations according to the matching requirements; determining from the set of color formulas a color formula that best matches the target bi-directional color according to the matching requirements; adapting the concentrations of the pigments, dyes and platelet-shaped pigments in the color formula; and determining if the adapted color formula matches the target bi-directional color.","In a fourth embodiment, there is a method and computer readable medium that stores instructions for instructing a computer system, to formulate a bi-directional color match from a set of previously used bi-directional color formulations. This embodiment comprises obtaining a plurality of spectral measurements of a target bi-directional color; entering matching requirements for obtaining color formulas that approximates the target bi-directional color; searching the set of previously used bi-directional color formulations according to the matching requirements; determining from the set of color formulas a color formula that best matches the target bi-directional color according to the matching requirements; adapting the concentrations of the pigments, dyes and platelet-shaped pigments in the color formula to improve the match with the target bi-directional color if the formula is unacceptable; determining if the adapted color formula matches the target bi-directional color; and modifying the adapted color formula if the formula is unacceptable, the modifying comprising at least one of manual adjusting the concentrations of the pigments, dyes and platelet-shaped pigments in the color formula, synthesizing a match with the target bi-directional color, or searching through the set of previously used bi-directional color formulations until there is an acceptable match.","In still another embodiment, there is a system for formulating a bi-directional color match. In this embodiment, a spectrophotometer obtains a plurality of spectral measurements of a target bi-directional color. A computing unit determines a combination of pigments, dyes and platelet-shaped pigments having a plurality of predicted spectral measurements that match the plurality of spectral measurements of the target bi-directional color.","In a sixth embodiment, there is a formulating a bi-directional color match from a set of previously used bi-directional color formulations. In this embodiment, there is a spectrophotometer that obtains a plurality of spectral measurements of a target bi-directional color. A color database contains a plurality of previously used bi-directional color formulations and a plurality of optical parameters associated with each of the pigments, dyes and platelet-shaped pigments used in the bi-directional color formulations. A computing unit, coupled to the spectrophotometer and color database, searches the color database for a set of color formulas that approximates the target bi-directional color and determines from the set of color formulas a color formula that best matches the target bi-directional color measured by the spectrophotometer.","In still another embodiment, there is a bi-directional color formulation tool. In this embodiment, there is a data acquisition component that obtains a plurality of spectral measurement of a target bi-directional color from a spectrophotometer. A data extraction component extracts a set of previously used color formulations that approximates the target bi-directional color data from a color database and determines a formula from the set that best matches the target bi-directional color. A bi-directional color matching component determines the concentrations of the pigments, dyes and platelet-shaped pigments in the formula to generate a predicted visible spectra that matches the target bi-directional color spectra.",{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00019","num":"00019"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":"10"},"Referring again to , the system  comprises a spectrophotometer  that measures the color of the target bi-directional color. The spectrophotometer  is a multi-angle spectrophotometer such as a goniospectrophotometer that measures the spectral transmittance, spectral reflectance or relative spectral emittance of the target bi-directional color with a variety of observation and illumination angles (e.g., four) using bi-directional geometry. The goniospectrophotometer may be a GretagMacbeth CE-740 goniospectrophotometer, however, other commercially available goniospectrophotometers are suitable. The system  also comprises another spectrophotometer  that measures the color of the target bi-directional color. The spectrophotometer  is an integrating sphere spectrophotometer that can either collect light reflected or transmitted from a specimen into a hemisphere or to provide isotropic irradiation of a specimen from a complete hemisphere, consisting of an approximately spherical cavity with apertures (ports) for admitting and detecting light. The integrating sphere spectrophotometer may be a GretagMacbeth CE-7000 spectrophotometer, however, other commercially available integrating sphere spectrophotometers are suitable. Although the system  shows the combination of a goniospectrophotometer and an integrating sphere spectrophotometer, one of ordinary in the art will recognize that the goniospectrophotometer can be used without the integrating sphere spectrophotometer to provide a plurality of spectral measurements of the target bi-directional color.","The system  in  also shows a color database  containing a variety of color information. Some of the information stored in the color database  comprises a plurality of previously used bi-directional color formulations and their respective spectrophotometer measurements, wherein each formulation contains the pigments, dyes and platelet-shaped pigments used in the formula along with their respective concentrations. In addition, each color formulation comprises a plurality of optical parameters associated with each of the pigments, dyes and platelet-shaped pigments used in the bi-directional color formula. The plurality of optical parameters for the platelet-shaped pigments comprise items such as the pigment's complex refractive index by wavelength, the type or shape of platelet-shaped pigments used in the formula, the particle dimensions and thicknesses, the size distributions of the platelet-shaped pigments in the formula, the composition of the platelet-shaped pigments in the formula (e.g., aluminum, metal oxides, TiO2 coated mica), the orientation distribution function of the platelet-shaped pigments, the adsorption and scattering coefficients by wavelength for the platelet-shaped pigments, and the scattering re-distribution function for the platelet-shaped pigments. The optical parameters for the pigment and dye colorants include items such as the complex refractive index by wavelength for the pigments and dyes, the particle diameter and size distribution of the pigments in the formula, the adsorption and scattering coefficients by wavelength for the pigments and dyes, and the scattering phase function for the pigments. One of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that the color database  may include other color data such as tristimulus color coefficients, scattering phase functions, and concentrations for pigment concentrates, mixtures, or composites.","A computing unit , coupled to the spectrophotometers  and  and color database , searches the color database for a set of color formulas that approximates the target bi-directional color and determines from the set of color formulas a color formula that best matches the target bi-directional color measured by the spectrophotometers under a multiple of angles. For the formula deemed to have the best match with the target bi-directional color, the computing unit  retrieves the optical parameters for the pigments, dyes and platelet-shaped pigments used in the formula and inputs them into a single particle scattering algorithm.","The purpose of the single particle scattering algorithm is used to calculate the adsorption and scattering coefficient, and the scattering re-distribution function by wavelength for each pigment, dye and platelet-shaped pigment. The single particle scattering algorithm in this disclosure uses Mie theory equations for particles less than 10 microns and a Monte Carlo method based on geometric optics ray-tracing for particles larger than 10 microns in size. For multi-layer or coated pigment particles, equations for the reflection and transmission by a multi-layer thin film are used to account for the constructive and destructive interference nature of light. Once the single particle scattering algorithm calculates the adsorption and scattering coefficient, and the scattering re-distribution function by wavelength for each pigment, dye and platelet-shaped pigment, it will then use the concentrations of the pigments, dyes and platelet-shaped pigments in the bi-directional color formula to calculate an average adsorption and scattering coefficient, and the scattering re-distribution function by wavelength for the bi-directional color formula.","The computing unit  then takes the output from the single particle scattering algorithm for the bi-directional color formula and inputs it into a multiple scattering algorithm. The multiple scattering algorithm uses an Adding and Doubling matrix method to handle the zenith angle dependence of multiple scattering and a Fourier series expansion technique to handle the azmuthal angle dependence of the light scattering.","The computing unit  then utilizes a non-linear squares fitting method to determine the concentrations of the pigments, dyes, platelet-shaped pigments that will generate a predicted visible spectra that matches the measured spectra of the target bi-directional color. Below is a more detailed discussion of the single particle scattering algorithm, multiple scattering algorithm and non-linear squares fitting method.",{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00026","num":"00026"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":["18","1","18","20","22","24","20","22","20","22","22","22","20"]},"The input\/output devices may comprise a keyboard  and a mouse  that enter data and instructions into the computing unit . Also, a display  may be used to allow a user to see what the computing unit has accomplished. Other output devices may include a printer, plotter, synthesizer and speakers. A communication device  such as a telephone or cable modem or a network card such as an Ethernet adapter, local area network (LAN) adapter, integrated services digital network (ISDN) adapter, Digital Subscriber Line (DSL) adapter or wireless access card, enables the computing unit  to access other computers and resources on a network such as a LAN, wireless LAN or wide area network (WAN). A mass storage device  may be used to allow the computing unit  to permanently retain large amounts of data. The mass storage device may include all types of disk drives such as floppy disks, hard disks and optical disks, as well as tape drives that can read and write data onto a tape that could include digital audio tapes (DAT), digital linear tapes (DLT), or other magnetically coded media. The above-described computing unit  can take the form of a handheld digital computer, personal digital assistant computer, notebook computer, personal computer, workstation, mini-computer, mainframe computer or supercomputer.",{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00028","num":"00028"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":["36","18","2","36","38","12","14","38","38"]},"The bi-directional color formulation tool  also comprises a data extraction component  that extracts the color data from the color database . The data extraction component  receives color measurements of the target bi-directional color from the data acquisition component  and matching requirements entered by a user of the tool  and extracts a plurality of formula keys corresponding to the color spectrum of the target bi-directional color. Each of the plurality of formula keys has a different combination of pigments, dyes, platelet-shaped pigments that formulate the target bi-directional color. The plurality of formula keys are restricted to combinations that have a greater probability of generating a color match with the target bi-directional color. The data extraction component  evaluates each of the plurality of formula keys in order of their probability of generating a color match with the target bi-directional color to determine whether the pigments, dyes, platelet-shaped pigments in each formula key can be combined to reproduce the target bi-directional color. The formula keys having a greater probability of generating a color match are evaluated prior to formula keys having a lesser probability of generating a color match. For each evaluation, the data extraction component  generates a degree of match between the formula key and the target bi-directional color. The data extraction component  then compares the degrees of match generated from all of the plurality of formula keys to determine the best match with the target bi-directional color. U.S. Pat. No. 5,720,017, entitled System And Method For Formulating A Color Match Using Color Keys, provides a more detailed discussion on using color keys to match a color standard. The data extraction component  can extract the formula keys from the color database  by using commercially available modules available from Microsoft, Oracle, etc, which directly extract the keys into the bi-directional color formulation tool , however, one of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that one can write specialized code to extract the keys into a common format and write additional specialized code to import the keys.","The bi-directional color formulation tool  also comprises a bi-directional color matching component  that determines the concentrations of the pigments, dyes and platelet-shaped pigments in the bi-directional color formula that was deemed to be the best match with target bi-directional color, so that the predicted visible spectra of the formula will match the measured spectra of the target bi-directional color. To find the concentrations of pigments, dyes and platelet-shaped pigments, the bi-directional color matching component  first retrieves the optical parameters for the pigments, dyes and platelet-shaped pigments used in the formula from the color database  and inputs them into the single particle scattering algorithm.","As mentioned above, the purpose of the single particle scattering algorithm is used to calculate the adsorption and scattering coefficient, and the scattering re-distribution function by wavelength for each pigment, dye and platelet-shaped pigment. The adsorption coefficient characterizes the probability of the particle adsorbing light of a particular wavelength. The scattering coefficient characterizes the probability of the particle scattering light of a particular wavelength. The scattering re-distribution function characterizes in what angles and proportions is the light scattered from incident light coming in from a given angle. The calculated adsorption and scattering coefficient and the scattering re-distribution function for each pigment, dye, and platelet-shaped pigment can be stored in the color database  in order to save future computational time. Once the single particle scattering algorithm calculates the adsorption and scattering coefficient, and the scattering re-distribution function by wavelength for each pigment, dye and platelet-shaped pigment, it will then use the concentrations of the pigments, dyes and platelet-shaped pigments in the bi-directional color formula to calculate an average adsorption and scattering coefficient, and the scattering re-distribution function by wavelength for the bi-directional color formula. The average adsorption and scattering coefficient is calculated based on the volume fraction concentration of each pigment, dye and platelet-shaped pigment present in the bi-directional color formula. The average scattering re-distribution function is calculated based on the combine mathematical weight of volume fraction concentration and scattering coefficient contribution of each pigment, dye and platelet-shaped pigment present in the bi-directional color formula.","The inputs to the single particle scattering algorithm for typical pigments and dyes include the complex refractive index by wavelength and the size distribution of any particle. Since typical pigments and dyes have particle sizes less than 10 microns, the single particle scattering algorithm uses Mie theory equations, which are well known and described in many publications and books including \u201cThe Scattering of Light and Other Electromagnetic Radiation\u201d by Milton Kerker, Academic Press, 1969. Mie theory equations relate the complex refractive index, particle size, and the wavelength of light to the adsorption and scattering coefficient and the scattering re-distribution function. The algorithm will calculate the adsorption and scattering coefficient and the scattering re-distribution function for each particle size present in the inputted particle size distribution. The algorithm will then calculate an average adsorption and scattering coefficient based on the volume fraction of each particle size present in the particle size distribution. The algorithm will then calculate an average scattering re-distribution function based on the combine mathematical weight of volume fraction and scattering coefficient contribution for each particle size in the particle size distribution.","The inputs to the single particle scattering algorithm for platelet-shaped pigment include the complex refractive index by wavelength, shape and size distribution of the pigment, and the orientation distribution function of the pigment. Since platelet-shaped pigments are of particle sizes greater than 10 microns, the assumption of geometric optics is made. The single particle scattering algorithm uses a Monte Carlo approach of randomly firing rays from different angles of incidence at the pigment particle at a given orientation and using a standard geometric ray tracing technique that is based on Snell's law and Fresnels' equations to determine how much of the light ray is adsorbed and scattered and in which direction it is scattered. By firing 10,000 or more rays of light at particles at orientations that are randomly selected based on the frequency of occurrence in the orientation distribution function, the algorithm will calculate the adsorption and scattering coefficient and the scattering re-distribution function within a statistical confidence interval. Additionally, if the platelet-shaped pigments have a particle size distribution, the algorithm will randomly select the particle size based on the frequency of occurrence in the particle size distribution function.","For platelet-shaped pigment that are multi-layered or coated (e.g. TiOcoated Mica) which can generate interference and pearlescent effects, additional input information is required by the single particle scattering algorithm. The additional inputs for these multi-layer or coated platelet-shaped pigments include the number of different composition layers, their respective layer thickness, and complex refractive indexes of these layers by wavelength. For these multi-layer particles, the single particle scattering algorithm replaces Fresnels\u2033 equations that describe the reflection and transmission at an interface with more complicated equations for the reflection and transmission by a multi-layer thin film. These multi-layer thin film equations account for the constructive and destructive interference nature of light and their derivation can be found in a number of different sources including \u201cOptical Electronics\u201d by Ajoy Ghatak, K. Thyagarajan, Cambridge University Press, 1989.","The bi-directional color matching component  then takes the output from the single particle scattering algorithm for the bi-directional color formula and inputs it into the multiple scattering algorithm. As mentioned above, the multiple scattering algorithm uses an Adding and Doubling matrix method to handle the zenith angle dependence of multiple scattering and a Fourier series expansion technique to handle the azmuthal angle dependence of the light scattering. The adding and double method divides the material up into a series of infinitesimal thin planes in order to reach the condition of single scattering per plane. Once the condition of single scattering is achieved, the outputs from the single particle scattering algorithm for the bi-directional color formula, which include the adsorption and scattering coefficient, and the scattering re-distribution function by wavelength, is used to describe this single scattering plane.","The Adding or Doubling method uses a two dimensional reflection and transmission matrix for an infinitesimal thin plane to hold the proportion of light that is reflected and transmitted through the plane as described by the outputs from the single particle scattering algorithm for the bi-directional color formula. Through a series of matrix based multiplications and additions, the reflection and transmission matrices of a single layer can be doubled to produce the reflection and transmission matrices of a layer that is twice as thick as the primary layer. This doubling of the matrices is done until the desired thickness of the sample is generated. Then the air surface reflection and transmission matrices are added that represent the boundary between air and the material. The surface reflection and transmission matrices are obtained using Fresnel's equations, although the addition of rough surface equations could be easily applied. Each of the reflection and transmission matrices has dimensions that are dependent upon the number of discrete polar angles. Typically, sixteen different polar angles is selected for calculations, however more or less could be used in a trade off between computational speed and predictive accuracy. A general Fourier series expansion technique is used decouple the azmuthal angle dependence in the light scattering matrix equations. A number of different publications describe the details of the Adding and Doubling method and the Fourier series expansion technique including the reference \u201cMatrix Operator Theory of Radiative Transfer. 1: Rayleigh Scattering\u201d by G Plass, G. Kattawar, F. Catchings, Applied Optics, Vol 12, No 2, 1973. One of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that there are other mathematical methods to handle the multiple light scattering which fall under the general heading of radiative transfer and multi-flux theories. The Adding and Doubling method is used because of its speed and ease of implementation for multi-layer materials. Multi-layer materials are composed of different layers in a material with each layer having a different color formula composed of pigments, dyes and platelet-shaped pigments. In this disclosure, the Adding and Doubling method is used to predict the bi-directional color in multi-layer materials.","The bi-directional color matching component  then utilizes a non-linear least squares fitting method to determine the concentrations of the pigments, dyes, platelet-shaped pigments that will generate a predicted visible spectra that matches the measured spectra of the target bi-directional color. The Levenberg-Marquardt Method for least squares fitting non-linear models as described by Marquardt, D. W. 1963, Journal of the Society for Industrial and Applied Mathematics, vol. 11 pp 431-441 is used to calculate the concentrations of the pigments. The Levenberg-Marquardt Method is a generic least squares fitting method and can be used for any non-linear function F (e.g. Y=F(X)). Through an iterative approach, it will find the best X parameters that generate the Y response that has the lowest squares error with respect to the Y target value. For this implementation the spectral measurements and their respective tristimulus values for the targeted bi-directional color and the desired total concentration of colorants are the Y target values. The concentration of the pigments, dyes, and platelet-shaped pigments to be used in the bi-directional color formula are the X parameters to be found through the least squares fitting method. The single particle scattering algorithm and the multiple scattering algorithm is the non-linear function that relates the concentrations, or X parameters, to the predicted Y response values including predicted spectral measurements, tristimulus values, and total colorant concentration.","Referring again to , the bi-directional color formulation tool  also comprises a color modifying component  that modifies the color formula to the target bi-directional color if the formula of the best match is unacceptable. The color modifying component  modifies the color formula by performing one of three functions. One function is permitting the user of the bi-directional color formulation tool  to manually adjust the concentration of the pigments, dyes, and platelet-shaped pigments in the color formula to produce a better match with the target bi-directional color. The user does this by entering changes through the keyboard  and mouse . Once the user changes the concentrations of the pigments, dyes and platelet-shaped pigments, the color modifying component  will show how well the modified formula matches the spectral curve of the target bi-directional color. Additionally, the user can use the least squares fitting procedure to change the concentrations of the pigments, dyes and platelet-shaped pigments to try to improve the match with the spectral curve of the target bi-directional color. Another function that the color modifying component  may perform is synthesizing or building a better match with the target bi-directional color. The user may synthesize a match with any of the pigments, dyes and platelet-shaped pigments in the color database . Generally, the user will employ the synthesize function if the original match was not satisfactory. In order to build a match with the synthesizing function, the color modifying component  selects combinations of pigments, dyes and platelet-shaped pigments that are most likely to provide a match, based on a statistical analysis of previous matches and initiates a search of the color database  to find the best match. The color modifying component  stops the search when the matching requirements have been satisfied. Also, the user can stop the search when satisfied with the results or when a set number of trials have been evaluated. The third function is for the color modifying component  to search again through the previously used bi-directional color formulations stored in the color database  until it finds a more acceptable match. U.S. Pat. No. 5,608,633 entitled \u201cMethod And System For Formulating A Color Match\u201d provides a more detailed discussion on manually adjusting colorants to obtain a match, synthesizing a match or searching the color database to find another match.",{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00039","num":"00039"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":["1","44","18","12","14","18","26","28","46","36"]},"Next, the bi-directional color formulation tool  searches the color database at  for a set of formulations that will most likely match the target bi-directional color. The bi-directional color formulation tool  searches the database according to the multiple measurements taken by the spectrophotometers  and  and the matching requirements entered by the user. The bi-directional color formulation tool  extracts formula keys that have a greater probability of generating a match with the target bi-directional color. The bi-directional color formulation tool  then evaluates each of the formula keys in order of their probability of generating a color match with the target bi-directional color to determine whether the pigments, dyes, platelet-shaped pigments in each formula key can be combined to reproduce the target bi-directional color. The formula key having the best match to the target bi-directional color is then presented to the user. The user then pulls a physical sample of the best match at  and inspects the sample at  to determine if the color of the sample does indeed provide an acceptable match with the target bi-directional color. This disclosure is not limited to examining a physical sample and one of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that one can achieve this step by viewing the color of the best match on the display  of the computing unit .","If the match is acceptable, then the process is over. Sometimes the match is not satisfactory and therefore the concentrations of the pigments, dyes and platelet-shaped pigments in the formula have to be adapted. Any changes to the concentrations of the pigments, dyes and platelet-shaped pigments occur at . The bi-directional color matching component  makes the changes to the concentrations of the pigments, dyes and platelet-shaped pigments in the aforementioned manner. Next, samples of color plaques are made at  using the modified formula of pigments, dyes and platelet-shaped pigments. The spectrophotometers  and  then measure the color plaques at  under a multiple of viewing angles. The user then decides at  whether the spectral measurements and visual appearance of the plaques are a good enough match with the target bi-directional color. If the new match is acceptable then the formula of pigments, dyes and platelet-shaped pigments and their modified concentrations are saved into the database at  and the bi-directional color matching process is over.","However, if the match is not acceptable, then there are three options available. One option is to manually or automatically adjust the concentrations of the pigments, dyes and platelet-shaped pigments at . Another option available to the user is to synthesize or build a match from scratch using any of the pigments, dyes and platelet-shaped pigments stored in the color database at . The third option available to the user is to search the color database again at  to find a different match and then repeat any modifications to the concentrations of the pigments, dyes and platelet-shaped pigments. After one of the three options is performed the processing of blocks - continues until a match is found at . When a match is approved, the bi-directional color formula for that match is stored in the color database at  so that it can be used as a previous case for a future match. This allows the bi-directional color formulation system to learn new matches and grow as time goes by.","The foregoing flow diagram of  shows the functionality and operation of the system. In this regard, some of the blocks that pertain to the bi-directional color formulation tool represent a module, segment, or portion of code, which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified logical function(s). It should also be noted that in some alternative implementations, the functions noted in the blocks may occur out of the order noted in the figure or, for example, may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or in the reverse order, depending upon the functionality involved. Furthermore, the functions can be implemented in programming languages such as Java, however, other languages such as C\/C++, Fortran, Basic, and Pascal can be used.",{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00044","num":"00044"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 3","FIG. 5","FIG. 5"],"b":["70","1","36","18","36","18","12","14","72","36","18","74","18","36","18","36","36","76","78","36","16","36","76"]},"If desired, the system  may have functionality that enables authentication and access control of users accessing the bi-directional color formulation tool . Both authentication and access control can be handled at the web server level by the bi-directional color formulation tool  itself, or by commercially available packages such as Netegrity SITEMINDER. Information to enable authentication and access control such as the user's name, location, telephone number, organization, login identification, password, access privileges to certain resources, physical devices in the network, services available to physical devices, etc. can be retained in a database directory. The database directory can take the form of a lightweight directory access protocol (LDAP) database; however, other directory type databases with other types of schema may be used including relational databases, object-oriented databases, flat files, or other data management systems.","In this implementation, the bi-directional color formulation tool  may run on the web server  in the form of servlets, which are applets (e.g., Java applets) that run a server. Alternatively, the bi-directional color formulation tool  may run on the web server  in the form of CGI (Common Gateway Interface) programs. The servlets access the color database  using JDBC or Java database connectivity, which is a Java application programming interface that enables Java programs to execute SQL (structured query language) statements. Alternatively, the servlets may access the color database  using ODBC or open database connectivity. Using hypertext transfer protocol or HTTP, the web browser  obtains a variety of applets that execute the bi-directional color formulation tool  on the computing unit  allowing the user to perform the processing steps detailed in FIG. .","The above-described systems and tool comprise an ordered listing of executable instructions for implementing logical functions. The ordered listing can be embodied in any computer-readable medium for use by or in connection with a computer-based system that can retrieve the instructions and execute them. In the context of this application, the computer-readable medium can be any means that can contain, store, communicate, propagate, transmit or transport the instructions. The computer readable medium can be an electronic, a magnetic, an optical, an electromagnetic, or an infrared system, apparatus, or device. An illustrative, but non-exhaustive list of computer-readable mediums can include an electrical connection (electronic) having one or more wires, a portable computer diskette (magnetic), a random access memory (RAM) (magnetic), a read-only memory (ROM) (magnetic), an erasable programmable read-only memory (EPROM or Flash memory) (magnetic), an optical fiber (optical), and a portable compact disc read-only memory (CDROM) (optical).","Note that the computer readable medium may comprise paper or another suitable medium upon which the instructions are printed. For instance, the instructions can be electronically captured via optical scanning of the paper or other medium, then compiled, interpreted or otherwise processed in a suitable manner if necessary, and then stored in a computer memory.","It is apparent that there has been provided in accordance with this invention, a method, system and computer product for formulating a bi-directional color match. While the invention has been particularly shown and described in conjunction with a preferred embodiment thereof, it will be appreciated that variations and modifications can be effected by a person of ordinary skill in the art without departing from the scope of the invention."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00014","num":"00014"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00015","num":"00015"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00016","num":"00016"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 2"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00017","num":"00017"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00018","num":"00018"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 3"],"b":"1"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
