---
title: Wireless sensors for system monitoring and diagnostics
abstract: A plurality of wireless sensors can be placed within a large system in various locations to monitor critical elements of that system. Each wireless sensor can include sensor elements usable to monitor one or more parameters of an element of the system and a wireless signal transmitter, such as, for example, a speaker or an antenna. Each sensor can transmit one or more unique identifying signals to a signal-receiving device, which can be processed by a signal processor. The signal processor can determine each received signal, the sensor corresponding to that identified signal, and the time the wireless signal was generated. Based on this information, the wireless signals can be diagnostically compared against expected values for the system being monitored and evaluated. If a discrepancy is detected, then the components and/or subsystems within the system that are implicated in the discrepant wireless signals can be evaluated for possible errors.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07548171&OS=07548171&RS=07548171
owner: Xerox Corporation
number: 07548171
owner_city: Norwalk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20021219
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF EXEMPLARY EMBODIMENTS"],"p":["1. Field of Invention","This invention is directed to systems and methods for monitoring and diagnosing systems using wireless sensors.","2. Description of Related Art","Large, complex electro-mechanical systems, such as modern printers, require precise interaction of components to ensure healthy operation. Using advanced diagnostics helps reduce maintenance costs and extend the life of such systems. Current techniques for monitoring and diagnosing subsystems, such as paper paths of printers or copiers, can be accomplished by using sensors. To diagnose faults and errors resulting from degrading components and subsystems, precise knowledge of the position, the motion and\/or the condition of the components and subsystems at a given moment is needed. This can be accomplished by a monitoring system that uses sensors.","In a printer, the paper path is a critical system that requires monitoring. By measuring the motion of paper sheets along the path using fault-tolerant measurement techniques, it is possible to diagnostically evaluate critical components. There are two ways to implement such measuring techniques into large systems, such as a printer system. One is to design the measurement capability into the system at the factory. The second way is to retrofit existing systems by service personnel. In this second way, a technician can either fit the measurement apparatus onto a printer and leave it there permanently, or can install the apparatus onto the system only for that particular repair session.","Many known techniques for monitoring and diagnosing subsystems, such as paper paths, are based on infrared (IR) sensors. When used to monitor the paper paths of printers, such sensors can detect the edge of paper sheets. One such IR sensor is the optical sensor found in an optical mouse. When used in a printer for monitoring and diagnosis, optical sensors can collect velocity and positional data.","However, these optical sensors are unable to monitor high-speed operations and rely heavily on the aggregate velocity measurements of many optical sensors. Increased computational power of digital electronics, the availability of wireless electronics, and the availability of microelectronic sensing components enable use of low cost collaborative sensor and diagnostic systems.","The requirements for building faster and\/or more robust electro-mechanical require sensing technologies that can provide continuous measurements of critical parameters of those systems.","This invention provides systems and methods for monitoring and diagnosing large systems.","This invention separately provides systems and methods for using wireless sensors to continuously monitor and transmit system information.","This invention separately provides systems and methods for receiving and processing system information.","This information separately provides systems and methods for diagnosing system information.","In various exemplary embodiments of the systems and methods according to this invention, a multitude of self-powered wireless sensors can be placed within a large system in various locations to monitor critical elements of the system.","In various exemplary embodiments of the systems and methods according to this invention, each wireless sensor can include sensor elements usable to monitor one or more parameters of an element of the system, digital and analog circuits, an amplifier, and\/or a signal transmitter, such as, for example, a speaker or an antenna.","In various exemplary embodiments of the systems and methods according to this invention, each sensor can transmit a unique identifying signal to a signal-receiving device. The one or more unique identifying signals received by the signal-receiving device can be processed by a signal processor. The processor can determine the unique identifying signal and the sensor corresponding to that identified signal, as well as determine the time the wireless signal was generated. Based on the originating sensor type and timing of the wireless signals, the wireless signals can be used to diagnose faults in the system.","In various other exemplary embodiments of the systems and methods according to this invention, the originating sensor type and\/or timing data of the wireless sensor signals can be diagnostically compared against expected values for the particular system being monitored and evaluated. If a discrepancy is detected, then the components and\/or subsystems within the system that are implicated in the discrepant wireless signals can be evaluated for possible errors.","These and other features and advantages of this invention are described in, or are apparent from, the following detailed description of various exemplary embodiments of the systems and methods according to this invention.","The systems and methods of this invention enable diagnostic analysis of large electro-mechanical systems and\/or devices by using wireless sensors to monitor critical elements. Each self-powered sensor can monitor one or more parameters and transmit a unique identifying signal to a signal processor. The signal processor uses the unique identifying signal to diagnostically determine system faults and errors. It should be appreciated that, for ease of explanation only, the following exemplary embodiments are directed to one particular such system or device, a paper transport subsystem of a printer system. It should be further appreciated that the principles of this invention, as outlined and\/or discussed below, can be equally applied to any known or later-developed large system monitoring and diagnostic methods, beyond the printer system specifically discussed herein.","For example, the inability of current sensing techniques to measure position and velocity of paper sheets along paper paths in high-speed printers limits the performance of system diagnostics for such systems. In various exemplary embodiments of the systems and methods of this invention, the position and velocity of paper sheets moving in a paper path of a printer are measured by using a multitude of wireless sensors. In various exemplary embodiments, the systems and methods according to this invention will detect motion of paper along the paper path by sensing one or more specially marked paper sheets. It should be appreciated that the type of sensors used along the paper path may be predicated on the type of printer system being monitored. It should further be appreciated that the number of sensors used along a paper path may vary depending on the printer being diagnosed.","It should also be appreciated that, in various exemplary embodiments of the systems and methods according to this invention, multiple ones of the wireless sensors can be activated at any time. Thus, each of the sensors generally outputs its sensor signals at such that at least one of the characteristics of the sensor signal from one sensor can be distinguished from that of the other sensors. In this way, different sensors can be activated at the same time while still being able to identify which sensors were active and, possibly, some values indicated by the sensor signals of those sensors. For example, in the example referenced above, in various exemplary embodiments, multiple sheets may be traveling along the paper path at the same time, such that different ones of the various wireless sensors positioned along the paper path may be actively generating their sensor signals at the same time, in such a way that each sensor can be distinguished from all of the other sensors.","It should further be appreciated that, in various exemplary embodiments of the systems and methods according to this invention, the sensors wirelessly transmit their sensor signals in a burst mode. In contrast, in various other exemplary embodiments, the sensors wirelessly transmit their signals in other than a burst mode. In a burst mode, the sensor signal outputs a signal for only a relatively short period of time. For example, when the sensors generate audio or electro-magnetic signals, the frequency of the signals can be used to distinguish the signal from one sensor from that of another sensor. When using the burst mode, at most only a few cycles of the audio or electro-magnetic signal are generated, for example, 3-10 cycles.","Transmitting the sensor signals using a burst mode is advantageous for a number of reasons. First, because the signals are short, it is less likely that a large number, or even two, signals will over lap. Second, even when signals overlap, only a few cycles are needed to distinguish a signal at one frequency from one or more other signals at different frequencies. Third, the signals are less likely to cause environmental problems. For example, for audio signals, if the signals are at frequencies within the range of human hearing, which is very likely, short signals that have minimal overlap with other signals are more tolerable to the human operator of the system in which the sensors are mounted. Likewise, for electro-magnetic signals, using a burst mode is less likely to generate significant interference in other nearby electro-magnetic devices.","In various exemplary embodiments, the sensors transmit a predefined, unique signal. The techniques the sensors use to transmit this predefined unique signal may vary. It should be appreciated that the type of signal transmitted by the wireless sensor may be dependent upon the type of printer used and\/or the signal receiver used. For example, in various exemplary embodiments, each sensor emits an audible chirp at a sensor-specific frequency when measuring prepaper sheets as the sheets move along the paper path. In various other exemplary embodiments, each sensor transmits a signal using a sensor-specific radio frequency.","In various exemplary embodiments, a signal processor receives and determines the motion data of all the sheets transported along the paper path. By comparing the velocity and position of sheets within the paper path to a predetermined model for the printer system, faults and errors within the printer system may be determined. It should be appreciated that the signals can be transmitted by the sensors in real time and received by the signal processor in real time. Alternatively, the signals can be transmitted may be recorded and stored and the stored signals diagnostically analyzed at a later time.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0037"},"figref":["FIG. 1","FIG. 1"],"b":["100","100","10","200","200","110"]},"In various exemplary embodiments, the number of sensors  are portable, reusable wireless devices capable of sensing a parameter of the paper path , such as the motion of paper sheets moving along the paper path  during printing. In various exemplary embodiments, the number of sensors  may comprise any suitable set of devices or arrangement of devices, either known or later developed.","In various exemplary embodiments, the paper path  includes the components of the printer system  that define the path the paper sheets follow between a paper tray that stores the paper sheets and the an output tray of the printer system . The paper path  may include a series of rollers, solenoids, and\/or gates and the like that controllably move the paper sheets along a predetermined path.","The number of sensors  shown in  are positioned along the paper path  such that a paper sheet is continuously monitored by one or more of the number of sensors  as the paper sheet moves along the paper path  between the paper tray and the output tray. It should be appreciated that more than one paper sheet can be continuously monitored by the number of sensors  as the paper sheets moves along the paper path  between the paper tray and the output tray. The distances between any set of the number of the sensors  do not need to be predetermined. In various exemplary embodiments, the distances between any set of the number of sensors  should be less than the width and\/or length of a paper sheet. The sensors  can be mounted using adhesives, any known or later-developed mechanical fasteners, magnetic fasteners, or any combination of these attaching techniques.","It should be appreciated that the types of the various ones of the number of sensors  and the number and type of the associated signal processor(s) used to monitor and evaluate the printer system  may vary or differ depending on the type of sensors  and\/or signal processor(s) being used. The systems and methods of this invention do not depend on any specific sensor(s) and\/or signal processor(s). Accordingly, the systems and methods are usable with any appropriate sensor(s) and\/or signal processor(s). In particular, any signal processing techniques, methods, devices and the like can be used with the wireless sensors and methods according to this invention so long as the implemented signals processing technique, method, device and\/or the like is able to adequately distinguish from one another the sensor signals generated by two or more of the wireless sensors.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0043","num":"0042"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 2","FIG. 2"],"b":["300","200","300","310","400","310","200","310","400","312","312","312"]},"It should be appreciated that the signal receivers , the signal processor system , and the printer system , while depicted separately, are not necessarily separate and distinct components. Thus, the functions and\/or operations of each of these elements may be carried out by one or more devices, structures, and\/or systems that combine two or more of these functions and\/or operations into a single element.","As shown in , the one or more signal receivers  may be any devices that are capable of receiving signals from the number of sensors , such as audible signals and\/or radio frequency signals. For example, the one or more signal receivers  may be microphones capable of detecting audible signals from the number of sensors . In this case, the one or more signal receivers  may be implemented using a microphone, such as a microphone that is present into a laptop computer, personal digital assistant, cell phone or other mobile computing device that is carried to the device containing the wireless sensors  by a technician or the like.","Alternatively, the one or more signal receiver  may be radio-frequency receivers capable of receiving radio frequency electro-magnetic signals. In general, any known or later-developed hardware and\/or software system capable of receiving data and information from the number of sensors  used in a particular application may be used to implement one or more of the one or more signal receivers . In various exemplary embodiments, the one or more signal receivers  may be implemented using a radio-frequency receiver that is present into a laptop computer, personal digital assistant, cell phone or other mobile computing device that is carried to the device containing the wireless sensors  by a technician or the like.","In various exemplary embodiments, the received sensor signals are analyzed by a signal processing circuit, routine, or application, as outlined below, incorporated into and\/or executing on the mobile computing device or another device wirelessly-connected or wiredly-connected to the mobile computing device. In various exemplary embodiments where audio signals are generated, the received sensor signals can be stored into a sound file, such as a WAV file, for later analysis. Similarly, in various exemplary embodiments where electro-magnetic signals are generated, the received sensor signals can be stored into a file for later analysis.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0048","num":"0047"},"figref":["FIGS. 3 and 4","FIGS. 3 and 4","FIGS. 3 and 4"],"b":["200","200","110","200","110","200","210","220","230","240","200","100","250","200","200","110","250"]},"In various exemplary embodiments, the reflective sensor element , as shown in , includes a light emitter  and a light detector . The light emitter  can be any type of device that emits a light signal, such as, for example, an LED. The light emitter  can be any device that emits electromagnetic radiation in any portion of the spectrum that is compatible with the type of measurement required. For example, to reduce the effects of ambient light noise in a printer, the infrared portion of the electromagnetic spectrum may be used by the light emitter . The light detector  measures the amount of electromagnetic energy output by the light emitter  that is reflected off a surface. The light detector  can convert the received electromagnetic energy into a modulation of one or more parameters of an output signal, such as a voltage amplitude, a D.C. value, a frequency, and\/or a phase, or the like.","As seen in , the battery  represents any device that provides power to the sensor . The signal transmitter  can be any device usable to transmit the output signal to the one or more signal receiver . The signal transmitter  may be implemented using an audio speaker, as a radio-frequency transmitter, as an infrared frequency transmitter, or using any other appropriate know or later-developed signal transmitter.","The sensor processor  shown in  can be implemented as a physically distinct hardware circuit, a discrete logic element, a discrete circuit element or a software application, manager, routine or the like. The particular form of the circuit, routine or manager used to implement the sensor  will be obvious and predictable to those skilled in the art.","In operation, the output signal output from the light detector  to the sensor processor  based on the amount of electromagnetic energy reflected from the light emitter  by the paper sheet is processed by the sensor processor . The sensor processor  can then generate a sensor signal based upon the output signal and output the sensor signal to the signal transmitter .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0053","num":"0052"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 6"],"b":["210","500","500","200","212","500","214","200","500","500","210","214","212"]},"In various exemplary embodiments, in operation, the sensors  placed along the paper path  detect one or more sheets of the test paper  preprinted with relatively higher reflectively and relatively lower reflectivity bands, as depicted in .  shows an exemplary embodiment of a preprinted test sheet  with alternating white bands  and dark bands . As shown in , a sensor  is situated over the preprinted test paper  so that the sensor  is able to sense the bands  and  as the test sheet  moves along a paper direction  of the paper path .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0055","num":"0054"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 7","FIG. 7"],"b":["240","210","500","240","241","242","243","244","240","200","200","310"]},"It should be appreciated that each sensor module  outputs a unique sensor signal. The unique output sensor signal is modulated by the varying levels of electromagnetic energy reflected off the test sheets . Electromagnetic energy received by the light detector  generates a modulated output signal that is provided to the sensor processor . The modulation of the output signal from the light detector  is a function of the amount of electromagnetic energy reflected by the preprinted bands on the test sheet .","In operation, the light detector  provides the modulated output signal to the analog-to-digital converter . As discussed above, the level of modulation can vary based upon the presence or absence of pre-printed bands. For example, white bands reflect more electromagnetic energy than black bands, resulting in a higher modulated signal from the light detector . The analog-to-digital converter  converts the analog electromagnetic energy signal into a digital waveform. The waveform rising edge, for the white band , and the waveform falling edge, for the black band , is detected by the edge detector .","Based upon whether a rising edge or falling edge is detected by the edge detector , the frequency selector  selects a frequency at which to transmit the signal. In various exemplary embodiments, the frequency for each sensor  is unique. Further, a distinct frequency can be selected by each sensor  when detecting a waveform rising edge and when detecting a waveform falling edge. The selected frequency is then generated by the bi-frequency signal generator  and transmitted by the signal transmitter . It should be appreciated that the sensor processor  may vary and the particular design, capability, and\/or function that the sensor processor  takes will be obvious to those skilled in the art.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0059","num":"0058"},"figref":["FIG. 8","FIG. 8"],"b":["216","218","245","500","214","216","500","510","520","216","500","500","510","216","520","216","510","210","216","510","520","500"]},"As shown in , the digital waveform  is depicted overlaid the output signal . In various exemplary embodiments, the digital waveform  can be generated by the analog-to-digital converter  using the analog output signal . In various exemplary embodiments, detection of the rising and falling edges of the digital waveform  by the sensor processor  can initiate the transmission of the sensor signal .","As shown in , the sensor signal  is composed of a frequency  and a frequency selected, for example, from a look-up table of stored frequencies of various wavelengths. The detection of the rising edge of the output signal  initiates a sensor signal  to be transmitted at a frequency  and the falling edge initiates a sensor signal  to be transmitted at a frequency . The duration of the transmission of the sensor signal at the frequencies  and\/or  can vary depending on the systems monitored and\/or systems used to process the sensor signals . In various exemplary embodiments, the sensor signals  are transmitted in a burst mode where only a few cycles of the sensor signal  at the frequency  or  are generated in response to the rising or falling edges of the output signal .","While the above-outlined exemplary embodiment has focused on detecting bands on a specially-prepared sheet of paper as it travels along a paper path, it should be appreciated that the systems and methods according to this invention, as illustrated by this exemplary embodiment, can be used in any number of situations and in any desired location in any desired system as appropriate. Thus, this above-outlined embodiment should be understood to be exemplary only, and not limiting of the scope and breadth of the systems and methods according to this invention.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0063","num":"0062"},"figref":["FIG. 9","FIG. 9"],"b":["400","310","400","410","420","430","440","450","460"]},"As shown in , in various exemplary embodiments, the memory  can be implemented using any appropriate combination of alterable, volatile, or nonmemory or nonor fixed memory. The alterable memory, whether volatile, or noncan be implemented using any one or more static or dynamic ram, a floppy disk and disk drive, a writeable or rewriteable optical disk and disk drive, a hard drive, flash memory or the like. Similarly, the nonor fixed memory can be implemented using any one or more of ROM, PROM, EPROM, EEPROM, and gaps on optical ROM disk, such as a CD or DVDdisk, and disk drive or the like.","It should be appreciated that the signal processor system  shown in  can be implemented as one or more portions of a programmed general-purpose computer used to control and analyze the signals received from the one or more sensors . The signal processor system  can be implemented using one or more of any of a digital signal processor (DSP), an ASIC, a FPGA, a PLD, a PLA, or a PAL, or using physically distinct hardware circuits, such as discrete logic elements or discrete circuit elements. The particular form the signal processor  will take is a design choice and will be obvious to those skilled in the art.","Alternatively, the signal processor device  can be implemented as one or more portions of a software program usable to form the overall control of the computing device. In this case, each of the controller , the signal analysis circuit, routine or application , and\/or the diagnostic circuit, routine or application  can be implemented as software routines, objects and\/or application programming interfaces or the like.","In operation, the signal analysis circuit, routine or application  receives the unique signals from the one or more signal receivers  via the input output interface . In various exemplary embodiments, the unique signals will overlap each other at least partially, so that two or more of the unique signals may occur at the same time in the net signal received by the one or more signal receivers. The signal analysis circuit, routine or application  identifies the unique frequencies transmitted by the individual sensors  that are contained in the net sensor signal and determines the time each frequency was emitted. By identifying the particular sensors  whose sensor signals were received by the one or more signal receivers  and timing data for those sensor signals, the system containing the one or more wireless sensors can be analyzed. For example, in the exemplary embodiment outlined above, full motion data of the test sheets  passing through the paper path  can be ascertained.","The signal analysis circuit, routine or application  analyzes the received signal frequencies for content. In various exemplary embodiments, since the signal content of the net sensor signal, i.e., the total set of sensor signals received by the signal receivers , changes over time, a typical function is used to analyze the signal frequency components within a moving time window. For example, the windowed fast Fourier (WFF) transform function may be used. In various exemplary embodiments, when a signal frequency is identified as a likely signal candidate from one of the one or more sensors , a band-pass filter is set to that frequency to filter out the other signal frequencies.","In various exemplary embodiments, the filtered time window is subjected to a correlation test, where a time-convolution is run against a predetermined signal template. In various exemplary embodiments, the time where the highest correlation occurs when compared against the predetermined signal template indicates the beginning of the unique sensor signal. Since one or more sensor signals can occur at a given time, band-pass filtering and correlation may be done based on a plurality of signal templates. The most accurate identification is then determined.","The diagnostic circuit, routine or application  takes the identified signals from the signal analysis circuit, routine or application  and analyzes the system containing the one or more wireless sensors. For example, in the exemplary embodiment outlined above, the diagnostic circuit, routine or application  reconstructs the instantaneous velocity and positional data of all the test sheets  in the paper path . In this exemplary embodiment, the positional and sensing data derived from the signal analysis circuit, routine or application  are compared against expected values derived from detailed dynamical models of the printer system . If a discrepancy is detected, then the components driving the test sheets  along the paper path  at the current time instance identified become fault candidates. It should be appreciated that future and past measurements can be considered to isolate possible component faults.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0071","num":"0070"},"figref":["FIG. 10","FIG. 10"],"b":["200","200","214","214","200","400"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0072","num":"0071"},"figref":"FIG. 11","b":["100","200","300","400","500"]},"In step S, the transmitted modulated sensor signal is received by a signal processor that is capable of receiving the transmitted sensor signal. For example, the signal processor can be capable of receiving an audio signal or a broadcast electromagnetic signal. Next, in step S, the received sensor signal is analyzed. Then, in step S, a determination is made whether to stop the process. If the process is to be stopped, operation continues to step S where the operation of the method ends. Otherwise, operation jumps back to step S.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0074","num":"0073"},"figref":"FIG. 12","b":["600","605","610","615","620"]},"In step S, a band pass filter is selected to isolate the potential frequency of the candidate sensor. Next, in step S, the identified filtered frequency is tested against a table of frequency templates corresponding to the various sensors present in the system or device being tested. Then, in step S, a determination is made whether a correlation was established between the recorded frequency signal and the template frequency. If a correlation is obtained, operation continues to step S. Otherwise, operation jumps directly to step S.","In step S, the time at which the signal was generated is determined. Then, in step S, the signal and its corresponding time are stored. Next, in step S, a determination is made whether additional frequencies are still associated with the selected sensor. If no additional frequencies are associated with the sensor, operation continues to step S. Otherwise, operation jumps back to step S. In step S, a determination is made whether another sensor for analysis should be selected. If no other sensor is to be selected, operation continues to step S. Otherwise, operation jumps back to step S.","In step S, diagnostics are performed based on the identified signals and the associated times the identified signals were generated. Operation then continues to step S, where the operation of the method returns to step S.","While the exemplary embodiments described above involve using the wireless sensor systems and methods according to this invention with a printer system, it should be understood that the system and methods of this invention may be used with any other systems that could use the wireless sensor systems and methods according to this invention.","While this invention has been described in conjunction with the exemplary embodiments outlined above, it is evident that many alternatives, modifications and variations will be apparent to those skilled in the art. Accordingly, the exemplary embodiments of the invention, as set forth above, are intended to be illustrative, not limiting. Various changes may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["Various exemplary embodiments of this invention will be described in detail, with reference to the following figures, wherein:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIGS. 3 and 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":"FIG. 9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIG. 10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":"FIG. 11"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":"FIG. 12"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
