---
title: Progressive to lossless embedded audio coder (PLEAC) with multiple factorization reversible transform
abstract: A system and method for lossless and/or progressive to lossless data coding (e.g., audio and/or image) is provided. The system and method employ a multiple factorization reversible transform component that provides quantized coefficients based, at least in part, upon a multiple factorization reversible transform. The multiple factorization reversible transform component can employ an N-point modulated lapped transform in accordance with one aspect of the present invention. The multiple factorization reversible transform component can comprise a modulation stage, a pre-FFT rotation stage, a complex FFT stage and a post-FFT rotation stage.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07395210&OS=07395210&RS=07395210
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 07395210
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20021121
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["TECHNICAL FIELD","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION"],"p":["The present invention relates generally to data coding, and more particularly to a system and method facilitating audio and\/or picture encoding and\/or decoding.","The amount of information available via computers has dramatically increased with the wide spread proliferation of computer networks, the Internet and digital storage means. With such increased amount of information has come the need to transmit information quickly and to store the information efficiently. Data compression is a technology that facilitates the effective transmitting and storing of information","Data compression reduces an amount of space necessary to represent information, and can be used for many information types. The demand for compression of digital information, including images, text, audio and video has been ever increasing. Typically, data compression is used with standard computer systems; however, other technologies make use of data compression, such as but not limited to digital and satellite television as well as cellular\/digital phones.","As the demand for handling, transmitting and processing large amounts of information increases, the demand for compression of such data increases as well. Although storage device capacity has increased significantly, the demand for information has outpaced capacity advancements. For example, an uncompressed digital music source can require 5 megabytes of space whereas the same music can be compressed without loss and require only 2.5 megabytes of space. Thus, data compression facilitates transferring larger amounts of information. Even with the increase of transmission rates, such as broadband, DSL, cable modem Internet and the like, transmission limits are easily reached with uncompressed information. For example, transmission of an uncompressed music over a DSL line can take ten minutes. However, the same music can be transmitted in about one minute when compressed thus providing a ten-fold gain in data throughput.","In general, there are two types of compression, lossless and lossy. Lossless compression allows exact original data to be recovered after compression, while lossy compression allows for data recovered after compression to differ from the original data. A tradeoff exists between the two compression modes in that lossy compression provides for a better compression ratio than lossless compression because some degree of data integrity compromise is tolerated. Lossless compression may be used, for example, when compressing critical audio recording, because failure to reconstruct exactly the data can dramatically affect quality and analysis of the audio content. Lossy compression can be used with consumer music or non-critical audio recording where a certain amount of distortion or noise is tolerable to human senses.","Audio compression is an important technical problem. Most Web pages today host digital music, and digital music playing devices have become increasing popular these days.","Further, there are many existing schemes for encoding audio files. Several such schemes attempt to achieve higher compression rations by using known human psychoacoustic characteristics to mask the audio file. A psychoacoustic coder is an audio encoder which has been designed to take advantage of human auditory masking by dividing the audio spectrum of one or more audio channels into narrow frequency bands of different sizes optimized with respect to the frequency selectivity of human hearing. This makes it possible to sharply filter coding noise so that it is forced to stay very close in frequency to the frequency components of the audio signal being coded. By reducing the level of coding noise wherever there are no audio signals to mask it, the sound quality of the original signal can be subjectively preserved.","In fact, virtually all state-of-the-art audio coders, including the G.722.1 coder, the MPEG-1 Layer 3 coder, the MPEG-2 AAC coder, and the MPEG-4 T\/F coder, recognize the importance of the psychoacoustic characteristics, and adopt auditory masking techniques in coding audio files. In particular, using human psychoacoustic hearing characteristics in audio file compression allows for fewer bits to be used to encode audio components that are less audible to the human ear. Conversely, more bits can then be used to encode any psychoacoustic components of the audio file to which the human ear is more sensitive. Such psychoacoustic coding makes it possible to greatly improve the quality of an encoded audio at given bit rate.","Psychoacoustic characteristics are typically incorporated into an audio coding scheme in the following way. First, the encoder explicitly computes auditory masking thresholds of a group of audio coefficients, usually a \u201ccritical band,\u201d to generate an \u201caudio mask.\u201d These thresholds are then transmitted to the decoder in certain forms, such as, for example, the quantization step size of the coefficients. Next, the encoder quantizes the audio coefficients according to the auditory mask. For auditory sensitive coefficients, i.e., those to which the human ear is more sensitive, a smaller quantization step size is typically used. For auditory insensitive coefficients, i.e., those to which the human ear is less sensitive, a larger quantization step size is typically used. The quantized audio coefficients are then typically entropy encoded, either through a Huffman coder such as the MPEG-4 AAC quantization & coding, a vector quantizer such as the MPEG-4 TwinVQ, or a scalable bitplane coder such as the MPEG-4 BSAC coder.","In each of the aforementioned conventional audio coding schemes, the auditory masking is applied before the process of entropy coding. Consequently, the masking threshold is transmitted to the decoder as overhead information. As a result, the quality of the encoded audio at a given bit rate is reduced to the extent of the bits required to encode the auditory masking threshold information.","High performance audio codec brings digital music into reality. Popular audio compression technologies, such as MP3, MPEG-4 audio, Real\u2122 and Windows Media Audio (WMA\u2122), are usually lossy in nature. The audio waveform is distorted in exchange for higher compression ratio. In quality critical applications such as a recording\/editing studio, it is imperative to maintain the best sound quality possible, i.e., the audio should be compressed in a lossless fashion. Since lossless compression ratio is usually limited, it is desirable that the lossless compressed bitstream be scaled to a lossy bitstream of high compression ratio. Most lossless audio coding approaches, simply build upon a lossy audio coder, and further encode the residue. The compression ratio of such approaches is often affected by the underlying lossy coder. Since the quantization noise in the lossy coder is difficult to model, the approaches usually lead to inefficiency in the lossless audio coding. Moreover, it is also more complex, as it requires a base coder and a residue coder. Some other approaches build the lossless audio coder directly through a predictive filter and then encode the prediction residue. The approaches may achieve good compression ratio, however, it is not compatible with existing lossy audio coding framework. Since the compression ratio of a lossless coder is rather limited, usually 2-3:1, the ability to scale a lossless bit stream is very useful. The bit stream generated by the predictive filter based lossless coder cannot be scaled. A lossy\/residue coder can generate a bit stream with two layers, a lossy base layer and a lossless enhancement layer. However, the scaling cannot go beyond the lossy base layer. If further scaling in the lossless enhancement layer is required, it is necessary to match the design of the residue coder with that of the lossy coder, which causes significant complications. Some other approaches build the lossless audio coder directly through a predictive filter and then encode the prediction residue. Though achieving a good compression ratio, such approach is not compatible with existing lossy audio coding framework. Moreover, the resultant bitstream cannot be scaled.","The following presents a simplified summary of the invention in order to provide a basic understanding of some aspects of the invention. This summary is not an extensive overview of the invention. It is not intended to identify key\/critical elements of the invention or to delineate the scope of the invention. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts of the invention in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.","The present invention provides for a system and method for lossless and\/or progressive to lossless data encoding. The system and method employ a multiple factorization reversible transform component that provides quantized coefficients that mimic a non-reversible linear transform as closely as possible.","In accordance with an aspect of the present invention, a lossless data coder system comprising a multiple factorization reversible transform component and an entropy encoder is provided. The system can losslessly encode data (e.g., image, picture and\/or audio). The system receives a digital input (e.g., from an analog to digital converter) associated with, for example, an audio waveform. The system can be employed, for example, in a vast array of audio and\/or document image applications, including, but not limited to, digital audio systems, segmented layered image systems, photocopiers, document scanners, optical character recognition systems, personal digital assistants, fax machines, digital cameras, digital video cameras and\/or video games.","Conventionally, a reversible transform component(s) receive an integer input signal and provide an output of quantized coefficients corresponding to the input signal. It is said to be reversible because with such transform, it is possible to exactly recover the input signal from the quantized coefficient. With a reversible transform, lossless compression of the input signal becomes the lossless compression of the quantized coefficients, which are decorrelated and are easy to compress. Traditionally, a reversible transform is designed with a blueprint from a non-reversible linear transform, and by making substantially every component of the linear transform reversible. However, in such a design process, the quantization noise, which is the difference between the outcome of the reversible transform and its linear transform counterpart, can be large.","In accordance with an aspect of the present invention, in order to reduce quantization noise of the reversible transform, a multiple factorization reversible transform component is used which can factor a linear transform component with multiple reversible forms. In one example, a linear rotation operation is factorized into four different reversible operations. The core of all operations is a three step non-linear operation. However, the pair of input\/output variables can be swapped before and after the certain non-linear operation. The sign of the input\/output can be changed as well in certain other cases. The additional forms of factorization lead to different parameters for substantially the same rotation angle, and, thus allows the reversible transform to mimic that of a linear non-reversible transform (e.g., as closely as possible).","The multiple factorization reversible transform component can be employed in an N-point MLT in accordance with one aspect of the present invention. The MLT can comprise a modulation stage, a pre-FFT rotation stage, a complex FFT stage and a post-FFT rotation stage.","The modulation stage and pre-FFT rotation stage comprise multiple factorization rotation operation(s). The core of the complex FFT stage is a multiple factorization butterfly calculation, which is in turn implemented via multiple factorization rotation. The core of the post-FFT rotation stage is the conjugate rotation operation, which can be implemented by changing the sign of the imaginary part after a normal rotation.","The entropy encoder digitally entropy encodes the quantized coefficients and can employ any suitable entropy encoding technique(s).","Another aspect of the present invention provides for a progressive to lossless data coder system comprising a multiple factorization reversible transform component and an embedded entropy encoder. The progressive to lossless data coder system can be employed to code audio and\/or images. The multiple factorization reversible transform component coupled with the embedded entropy encoder (e.g., a high performance embedded entropy codec) empowers the system with both lossless capability and fine granular scalability progressiveness. The system generates a bit stream that if fully decoded, substantially recovers the original waveform (e.g., audio) without loss and facilitates lossless compression. If a higher compression ratio is desired, the application may extract a subset of the compressed bit stream and form a higher compression ratio bit stream of lossy nature. Such scaling can be performed in a very large bit rate range, with granularity down to a single byte. With the progressive to lossless functionality of the system, the application can easily balance between the amount of compression required and the desired quality, from a fairly high compression ratio all the way to lossless (e.g., based on available bandwidth and\/or user preference).","The embedded entropy encoder can employ any suitable embedded entropy encoding technique(s). In one example, the embedded entropy encoder employs a fully scalable psychoacoustic audio coder that derives auditory masking thresholds from previously coded coefficients, and uses the derived thresholds for optimizing the order of coding.","Yet another aspect of the present invention provides for a progressive to lossless audio coder system comprising a reversible multiplexer, multiple factorization reversible transform component(s), embedded entropy encoder(s) and a bit stream assembler. The system receives an input audio waveform which first goes through the reversible multiplexer. If the input audio is stereo, it is separated into L+R and L\u2212R components. The waveform of each audio component is then transformed by the multiple factorization reversible transform component(s) (e.g., a multiple factorization reversible modulated lapped transform).","The reversible multiplexer receives, for example, a stereo audio input. The reversible multiplexer separates the stereo audio input into L+R and L\u2212R components, where L and R represent the waveform on the left and right audio channel, respectively. If the input audio is mono, the reversible multiplexer passes through the audio. Each component is then encoded separately.","The bit stream assembler receives the embedded bit stream of the L+R and L\u2212R channels from the embedded entropy encoders and forms the final bit stream of the system. The bit stream assembler thus allocates the available coding bit rate among multiple timeslots and channels, truncates the embedded bit stream of each timeslot and channel according to the allocated bit rate, and produces a final compressed bit stream.","To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends, certain illustrative aspects of the invention are described herein in connection with the following description and the annexed drawings. These aspects are indicative, however, of but a few of the various ways in which the principles of the invention may be employed and the present invention is intended to include all such aspects and their equivalents. Other advantages and novel features of the invention may become apparent from the following detailed description of the invention when considered in conjunction with the drawings.","The present invention is now described with reference to the drawings, wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description, for purposes of explanation, numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention. It may be evident, however, that the present invention may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances, well-known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing the present invention.","As used in this application, the term \u201ccomputer component\u201d is intended to refer to a computer-related entity, either hardware, a combination of hardware and software, software, or software in execution. For example, a computer component may be, but is not limited to being, a process running on a processor, a processor, an object, an executable, a thread of execution, a program, and\/or a computer. By way of illustration, both an application running on a server and the server can be a computer component. One or more computer components may reside within a process and\/or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and\/or distributed between two or more computers.","Referring to , a lossless data coder system  in accordance with an aspect of the present invention is illustrated. The system comprises a multiple factorization reversible transform component  and an entropy encoder .","The system  can losslessly encode data (e.g., image, picture and\/or audio). The system  receives a digital input (e.g., from an analog to digital converter) associated with, for example, an audio waveform. The system  can be employed, for example, in a vast array of audio and\/or document image applications, including, but not limited to, digital audio systems, segmented layered image systems, photocopiers, document scanners, optical character recognition systems, personal digital assistants, fax machines, digital cameras, digital video cameras and\/or video games.","The multiple factorization reversible transform component  receives an input signal and provides an output of quantized coefficients corresponding to the input signal. The multiple factorization reversible transform component  can employ, for example, a reversible modulated lapped transform, a reversible DCT, a reversible DST and\/or a reversible FFT.","For example, the output of quantized coefficients can be based, at least in part, upon a reversible modulated lapped transform (MLT). The lossless compression efficiency is affected by the similarity between the reversible MLT and its non-reversible counter part. Therefore, the reversible MLT is designed so that its transform result mimics the result of a non-reversible MLT (e.g., as much as possible). In conventional system(s), the reversible MLT is built with reference to a linear non-reversible MLT, and by making substantially every component of the non-reversible MLT reversible.","The rotation operation is a key element of a non-reversible MLT, as well as other non-reversible transforms commonly used in compression, such as DCT, DST and\/or FFT. To build the reversible MLT, a reversible rotation is built:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0049","num":"0048"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00001","num":"00001"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mo":["[","]"],"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":{"msup":{"mi":["x","\u2032"]}}},{"mtd":{"msup":{"mi":["y","\u2032"]}}}]}},{"mrow":[{"mo":["[","]"],"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mi":["cos","\u03b8"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}}},{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mo":"-","mi":"sin"},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mi":"\u03b8"}}]},{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mi":["sin","\u03b8"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}}},{"mrow":{"mi":["cos","\u03b8"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}}}]}]}},{"mo":["[","]"],"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":{"mi":"x"}},{"mtd":{"mi":"y"}}]}}],"mo":"\u2061"}],"mo":"="}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"1"}}]}}}},"br":{}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0050","num":"0049"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00002","num":"00002"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mo":"\u2003","mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mi":["cos","\u03b8"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}}},{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mo":"-","mi":"sin"},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mi":"\u03b8"}}]},{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mi":["sin","\u03b8"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}}},{"mrow":{"mi":["cos","\u03b8"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}}}]}]}}}}},"br":{},"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0001","list-style":"none"},"li":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0001-0001","num":"0000"},"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0002","list-style":"none"},"li":"a. For integer input"}}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0051","num":"0051"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00003","num":"00003"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":{"mi":"x"}},{"mtd":{"mi":"y"}}]}},"mo":","}}},"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0003","list-style":"none"},"li":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0003-0001","num":"0000"},"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0004","list-style":"none"},"li":"\u2003the outcome"}}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0052","num":"0053"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00004","num":"00004"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mo":"\u2003","mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":{"msup":{"mi":["x","\u2032"]}}},{"mtd":{"msup":{"mi":["y","\u2032"]}}}]}}}}},"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0005","list-style":"none"},"li":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0005-0001","num":"0000"},"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0006","list-style":"none"},"li":["\u2003of the reversible rotation should be quantized coefficients, i.e., integer value as well.","b. With proper inverse operation, it is possible to exactly recover"]}}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0053","num":"0056"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00005","num":"00005"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mo":"\u2003","mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":{"mi":"x"}},{"mtd":{"mi":"y"}}]}}}}},"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0007","list-style":"none"},"li":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0007-0001","num":"0000"},"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0008","list-style":"none"},"li":"\u2003from"}}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0054","num":"0058"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00006","num":"00006"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":{"msup":{"mi":["x","\u2032"]}}},{"mtd":{"msup":{"mi":["y","\u2032"]}}}]}},"mo":"."}}},"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0009","list-style":"none"},"li":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0009-0001","num":"0000"},"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0010","list-style":"none"},"li":"c. The outcome"}}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0055","num":"0060"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00007","num":"00007"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mo":"\u2003","mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":{"msup":{"mi":["x","\u2032"]}}},{"mtd":{"msup":{"mi":["y","\u2032"]}}}]}}}}},"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0011","list-style":"none"},"li":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0011-0001","num":"0000"},"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0012","list-style":"none"},"li":"\u2003should bear close resemblance to that of a linear rotation. The difference between the integer outcome"}}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0056","num":"0062"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00008","num":"00008"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mo":"\u2003","mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":{"msup":{"mi":["x","\u2032"]}}},{"mtd":{"msup":{"mi":["y","\u2032"]}}}]}}}}},"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0013","list-style":"none"},"li":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0013-0001","num":"0000"},"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0014","list-style":"none"},"li":"\u2003and the linear rotation result is defined as the quantization error.\n\nTraditionally, a rotation can be factored into a three step non-linear operations:\n"}}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0057","num":"0064"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00009","num":"00009"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mo":"{","mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mi":["step","z"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":[{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},{"mtext":":"},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}}],"mn":"0"},{"mi":"x","mo":"+","mrow":{"mo":["\u230a","\u230b"],"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"c","mn":"0"},"mo":"\u2062","mi":"y"}}}],"mo":"="},"mo":"\u2062","mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}}}}},{"mtd":{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mi":"step","mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":[{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},{"mtext":":"},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}}],"mn":"1","msup":{"mi":["x","\u2032"]}},{"mi":"y","mo":"+","mrow":{"mo":["\u230a","\u230b"],"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"c","mn":"1"},"mo":"\u2062","mi":"z"}}}],"mo":"="},"mo":"\u2062","mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}}}}},{"mtd":{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mi":"step","mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":[{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},{"mtext":":"},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}}],"mn":"2","msup":{"mi":["y","\u2032"]}},{"mi":"z","mo":"+","mrow":{"mo":["\u230a","\u230b"],"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"c","mn":"0"},"mo":"\u2062","msup":{"mi":["x","\u2032"]}}}}],"mo":"="},"mo":"\u2062","mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}}}}]}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"2"}}]}}}},"br":{},"sub":["o","1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0058","num":"0065"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00010","num":"00010"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mo":["[","]"],"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":{"msup":{"mi":["x","\u2032"]}}},{"mtd":{"msup":{"mi":["y","\u2032"]}}}]}},{"mrow":[{"mo":["[","]"],"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":[{"mn":"1"},{"msub":{"mi":"c","mn":"0"}}]},{"mtd":[{"mn":"0"},{"mn":"1"}]}]}},{"mo":"\u2003","mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":{"mi":"x"}},{"mtd":{"mi":"y"}}]}}}],"mo":"\u2062"}],"mo":"="}}},"br":{},"sub":"0"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0059","num":"0066"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00011","num":"00011"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mo":["[","]"],"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":{"msup":{"mi":["x","\u2032"]}}},{"mtd":{"msup":{"mi":["y","\u2032"]}}}]}},{"mrow":[{"mo":["[","]"],"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":[{"mn":"1"},{"mn":"0"}]},{"mtd":[{"msub":{"mi":"c","mn":"1"}},{"mn":"1"}]}]}},{"mo":["[","]"],"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":{"mi":"x"}},{"mtd":{"mi":"y"}}]}}],"mo":"\u2061"}],"mo":"="}}},"br":{},"sub":"1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0060","num":"0067"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00012","num":"00012"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mo":["[","]"],"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mi":["cos","\u03b8"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}}},{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mo":"-","mi":"sin"},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mi":"\u03b8"}}]},{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mi":["sin","\u03b8"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}}},{"mrow":{"mi":["cos","\u03b8"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}}}]}]}},{"mrow":[{"mo":["[","]"],"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":[{"mn":"1"},{"mfrac":{"mrow":[{"mrow":{"mi":["cos","\u03b8"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}},"mo":"-","mn":"1"},{"mi":["sin","\u03b8"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}}]}}]},{"mtd":[{"mn":"0"},{"mn":"1"}]}]}},{"mo":["[","]"],"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":[{"mn":"1"},{"mn":"0"}]},{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mi":["sin","\u03b8"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}}},{"mn":"1"}]}]}},{"mo":["[","]"],"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":[{"mn":"1"},{"mfrac":{"mrow":[{"mrow":{"mi":["cos","\u03b8"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}},"mo":"-","mn":"1"},{"mi":["sin","\u03b8"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}}]}}]},{"mtd":[{"mn":"0"},{"mn":"1"}]}]}}],"mo":["\u00b7","\u00b7"]}],"mo":"="}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"3"}}]}}}}},"It is to be appreciated that a reversible transform employing the factorization set forth in equation (2) as the basic reversible rotation operation satisfies for the reversible transform yields a reversible transform with compact data representation. However, with certain rotation angle \u03b8, the quantization noise can be fairly large, and can lead to poor signal representation.","Significantly, in accordance with an aspect of the present invention, instead of factoring a linear transform, e.g., a linear rotation into a single reversible factorization form, e.g., in (3), multiple forms of factorization are used. In one example, a proper form of reversible factorization is selected based on one or more transform parameter(s). With multiple factorization, it is possible to achieve much smaller quantization noise, and thus enables the reversible transform to mimic its linear transform counter part as closely as possible. This approach is referred to herein as \u201cmultiple factorization reversible transform\u201d.","For example, a reversible rotation can be factorized with three additional forms:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0064","num":"0071"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00013","num":"00013"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mo":["[","]"],"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mi":["cos","\u03b8"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}}},{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mo":"-","mi":"sin"},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mi":"\u03b8"}}]},{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mi":["sin","\u03b8"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}}},{"mrow":{"mi":["cos","\u03b8"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}}}]}]}},{"mrow":[{"mo":["[","]"],"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":[{"mn":"0"},{"mn":"1"}]},{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mo":"-","mn":"1"}},{"mn":"0"}]}]}},{"mo":"\u2003","mrow":{"mrow":[{"mo":["[","]"],"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":[{"mn":"1"},{"mfrac":{"mrow":[{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mo":"-","mi":"sin"},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mi":"\u03b8"},"mo":"-","mn":"1"},{"mi":["cos","\u03b8"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}}]}}]},{"mtd":[{"mn":"0"},{"mn":"1"}]}]}},{"mo":["[","]"],"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":[{"mn":"1"},{"mn":"0"}]},{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mi":["cos","\u03b8"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}}},{"mn":"1"}]}]}},{"mo":["[","]"],"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":[{"mn":"1"},{"mfrac":{"mrow":[{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mo":"-","mi":"sin"},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mi":"\u03b8"},"mo":"-","mn":"1"},{"mi":["cos","\u03b8"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}}]}}]},{"mtd":[{"mn":"0"},{"mn":"1"}]}]}}],"mo":["\u00b7","\u00b7"]}}],"mo":"\u2062"}],"mo":"="}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"4"}}]},{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mo":["[","]"],"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mi":["cos","\u03b8"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}}},{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mo":"-","mi":"sin"},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mi":"\u03b8"}}]},{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mi":["sin","\u03b8"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}}},{"mrow":{"mi":["cos","\u03b8"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}}}]}]}},{"mrow":[{"mo":["[","]"],"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mo":"-","mn":"1"}},{"mn":"0"}]},{"mtd":[{"mn":"0"},{"mn":"1"}]}]}},{"mo":"\u2003","mrow":{"mrow":[{"mo":["[","]"],"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":[{"mn":"1"},{"mfrac":{"mrow":[{"mrow":{"mi":["sin","\u03b8"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}},"mo":"-","mn":"1"},{"mi":["cos","\u03b8"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}}]}}]},{"mtd":[{"mn":"0"},{"mn":"1"}]}]}},{"mo":["[","]"],"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":[{"mn":"1"},{"mn":"0"}]},{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mi":["cos","\u03b8"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}}},{"mn":"1"}]}]}},{"mrow":[{"mo":["[","]"],"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":[{"mn":"1"},{"mfrac":{"mrow":[{"mrow":{"mi":["sin","\u03b8"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}},"mo":"-","mn":"1"},{"mi":["cos","\u03b8"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}}]}}]},{"mtd":[{"mn":"0"},{"mn":"1"}]}]}},{"mo":["[","]"],"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":[{"mn":"0"},{"mn":"1"}]},{"mtd":[{"mn":"1"},{"mn":"0"}]}]}}],"mo":"\u2061"}],"mo":["\u00b7","\u00b7","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":[{"mtext":{}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"10.6em","height":"10.6ex"}}}]}}],"mo":"\u2062"}],"mo":"="}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"5"}}]},{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mo":["[","]"],"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mi":["cos","\u03b8"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}}},{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mo":"-","mi":"sin"},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mi":"\u03b8"}}]},{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mi":["sin","\u03b8"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}}},{"mrow":{"mi":["cos","\u03b8"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}}}]}]}},{"mrow":[{"mo":["[","]"],"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mo":"-","mn":"1"}},{"mn":"0"}]},{"mtd":[{"mn":"0"},{"mn":"1"}]}]}},{"mo":"\u2003","mrow":{"mrow":[{"mo":["[","]"],"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":[{"mn":"1"},{"mfrac":{"mrow":[{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mo":"-","mi":"cos"},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mi":"\u03b8"},"mo":"-","mn":"1"},{"mi":["sin","\u03b8"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}}]}}]},{"mtd":[{"mn":"0"},{"mn":"1"}]}]}},{"mo":["[","]"],"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":[{"mn":"1"},{"mn":"0"}]},{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mi":["sin","\u03b8"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}}},{"mn":"1"}]}]}},{"mrow":[{"mo":["[","]"],"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":[{"mn":"1"},{"mfrac":{"mrow":[{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mo":"-","mi":"cos"},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mi":"\u03b8"},"mo":"-","mn":"1"},{"mi":["sin","\u03b8"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}}]}}]},{"mtd":[{"mn":"0"},{"mn":"1"}]}]}},{"mo":["[","]"],"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":[{"mn":"1"},{"mn":"0"}]},{"mtd":[{"mn":"0"},{"mrow":{"mo":"-","mn":"1"}}]}]}}],"mo":"\u2061"}],"mo":["\u00b7","\u00b7","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":[{"mtext":{}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"10.6em","height":"10.6ex"}}}]}}],"mo":"\u2062"}],"mo":"="}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"6"}}]}]}}}},"The core of the factorization is still the three step non-linear operation set forth in equation (3). However, the pair of input\/output variables can be swapped before (as in equation (5)) and after (as in equation (4)) the non-linear operation. The sign of the input\/output can be changed as well in certain cases. The additional forms of factorization lead to different non-linear parameters cand cfor substantially the same rotation angle \u03b8, and, thus allows the reversible transform to mimic that of a linear non-reversible transform (e.g., as closely as possible).","Let \u0394x\u2032 and \u0394y\u2032 represent quantization noise. Quantization noise is the difference between the outcome of a reversible transform and that of a linear non-reversible transform. In accordance with an aspect of the present invention, a reversible transform that minimizes the average energy of the quantization noise E[\u0394x\u2032]+E[\u0394y\u2032] is desired. The integerize operation introduces the quantization noise into the reversible transform (e.g., based upon truncation and\/or rounding). The coefficient swapping and sign changing operations in equations (4)-(6) do not introduce additional quantization noise. Let \u0394 represent the quantization noise of a single integerize operation:\n\n\u2003\u2003(7)\n\nThe quantization noise in the reversible transform can be modeled as:\n",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0067","num":"0074"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00014","num":"00014"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mo":["[","]"],"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":{"mrow":{"mi":"\u0394","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"msup":{"mi":["x","\u2032"]}}}},{"mtd":{"mrow":{"mi":"\u0394","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"msup":{"mi":["y","\u2032"]}}}}]}},{"mo":["[","]"],"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":"c","mn":"1"},{"mi":"\u0394","mn":"0"}],"mo":"\u2062"},"mo":"+","msub":{"mi":"\u0394","mn":"1"}},"mo":"\u2062","mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"8.3em","height":"8.3ex"}}}}}},{"mtd":{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":"c","mn":"0"},{"mi":"c","mn":"1"}],"mo":"\u2062"},"mo":"+","mn":"1"}},"mo":"\u2062","msub":{"mi":"\u0394","mn":"0"}},{"msub":[{"mi":"c","mn":"0"},{"mi":"\u0394","mn":"1"}],"mo":"\u2062"}],"mo":["+","+"],"msub":{"mi":"\u0394","mn":"2"}}}}]}}],"mo":"="}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"8"}}]}}}},"br":[{},{}],"sub":["0","2 ","0","1","0","1"],"sup":["2",",2",",2","2","2","2","2"],"in-line-formulae":[{},{}],"i":["E\u2514\u0394x\u2032","\u2518+E\u2514\u0394y\u2032","+c","c","+c","+c","}E\u2514\u0394"]},"A graph  illustrating the quantization noise versus rotation angles for different factorization forms as set forth in equations (3)-(6) in accordance with an aspect of the present invention is illustrated in . A line  denoted by \u201co\u201d corresponds to equation (3). A line  denoted by \u201cx\u201d corresponds to equation (4). A line  denoted by \u201c+\u201d corresponds to equation (5). A line  denoted by \u201c\u22c4\u201d corresponds to equation (6).","It can be observed that with any single factorization, the quantization noise can be large at certain rotation angle. By switching among different factorizations, more specifically, by using factorization forms (3), (4), (5) and (6) for rotation angles (\u22120.25\u03c0, 0.25\u03c0), (\u22120.75\u03c0,\u22120.25\u03c0), (0.25\u03c0, 0.75\u03c0) and (0.75\u03c0, 1.25\u03c0), respectively, the quantization noise can be controlled to be at most 3.2 E[\u0394]. In one example, a subset of the factorization forms (3)-(6) are used, for example, for reduced complexity, albeit at a slightly large quantization noise. For example, factorization form (3) can be used for rotation angle (\u22120.5 \u03c0, 0.5 \u03c0), and form (6) for rotation angle (0.5 \u03c0, 1.5 \u03c0). In such a case, the quantization noise is capped at 4 E[\u0394].","To achieve reduced quantization noise, in one example, rounding towards the nearest integer can be employed as the integerize operation. In another example, truncation can be employed as the integerize operation. However, rounding toward the nearest integer can lead to significantly smaller quantization noise and better lossless compression performance, as it has a smaller single step quantization noise E[\u0394].","A common operation in the reversible operation is a multiplication+integerize operation in the non-linear operation, which is in the form of \u2514cy\u2518. In C\/C++ implementation of reversible transform, the operation is generally implemented as:\n\n(1(c2*SHIFT_INT)0.5);\n\nwhere y is usually a 32 bit integer, cis a floating number represented by a 32 bit integer c, the number cis related to the 32 bit integer c through\n\n2^(\u2212SHIFT_INT),\n\nwhere SHIFT_TNT is a system constant, which is 24 in one example. This can be the most computational intensive operation of the entire reversible transform. On an x86 system, this can be implemented as inline assembly as:\n",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0072","num":"0079"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00001","num":"00001"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"203pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"_asm"]},{"entry":[{},"{"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"4"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"35pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"77pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"63pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"MOV","eax, y;",{}]},{"entry":[{},"IMUL","c;","\/\/ edx:eax = x*y;"]},{"entry":[{},"SHL","edx, SHIFT_REST;"]},{"entry":[{},"SHR","eax, SHIFT_INT;"]},{"entry":[{},"ADC","eax, edx;"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"203pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"};"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}}]}},"br":{}},"In one example, the multiple factorization reversible transform component  can employ a reversible MLT that can be factored into a window modulation and a type IV Discrete Cosine Transform (DCT); the latter of which can be further factored into a pre-Fast Fourier Transform (FFT) rotation, a complex FFT, and a post-FFT rotation operation; each of which can be further built upon multiple factorized reversible rotation.","Referring to , a multiple factorization reversible transform component  employing an 8-point MLT in accordance with an aspect of the present invention is illustrated. The MLT  comprises a modulation stage , a pre-FFT rotation stage , a complex FFT stage  and a post-FFT rotation stage . The multiple factorization reversible transform component  is one example of a multiple factorization reversible transform component that can be employed by the multiple factorization reversible transform component .","The modulation stage  and pre-FFT rotation stage  comprise rotation operation as set forth in equation (1) that can be reversibly implemented. The core of the complex FFT stage  is the butterfly calculation:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0076","num":"0083"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00015","num":"00015"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mo":["[","]"],"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["y","c"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"\u2148"}}}},{"mtd":{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["y","c"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"j"}}}}]}},{"mrow":[{"mrow":[{"mo":["[","]"],"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":[{"mn":"1"},{"mn":"0"}]},{"mtd":[{"mn":"0"},{"msup":{"mi":"\u2147","mrow":{"mrow":{"mo":"-","mi":"j\u03c0"},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mi":"\u03c9"}}}]}]}},{"mo":["[","]"],"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":[{"mn":"1"},{"mn":"1"}]},{"mtd":[{"mn":"1"},{"mrow":{"mo":"-","mn":"1"}}]}]}}],"mo":"\u2061"},{"mo":["[","]"],"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["x","c"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"\u2148"}}}},{"mtd":{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["x","c"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"j"}}}}]}}],"mo":"\u00b7"}],"mo":"="},"mo":","}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"10"}}]}}}},"br":{},"sub":["c","c","c","c"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0077","num":"0084"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00016","num":"00016"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mo":["[","]"],"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["y","c"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"\u2148"}}}},{"mtd":{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["y","c"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"j"}}}}]}},{"mrow":[{"mrow":[{"mo":["[","]"],"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":[{"mn":"1"},{"mn":"0"}]},{"mtd":[{"mn":"0"},{"msup":{"mi":"\u2147","mrow":{"mrow":{"mo":"-","mi":"j\u03c0"},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mi":"\u03c9"}}}]}]}},{"mo":["[","]"],"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mn":"1","mo":"\/","msqrt":{"mn":"2"}}},{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mo":"-","mn":"1"},"mo":"\u2062","msqrt":{"mn":"2"}}}]},{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mn":"1","mo":"\/","msqrt":{"mn":"2"}}},{"mrow":{"mn":"1","mo":"\/","msqrt":{"mn":"2"}}}]}]}}],"mo":"\u2061"},{"mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["x","c"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"\u2148"}}}},{"mtd":{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["x","c"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"j"}}}}]}},"mo":"."}],"mo":"\u00b7"}],"mo":"="}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"11"}}]}}}},"br":{},"sub":["c","c"]},"The core of the post-FFT rotation stage  is the conjugate rotation operation, which can be implemented by changing the sign of the imaginary part after a normal rotation:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0079","num":"0086"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00017","num":"00017"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mo":["[","]"],"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":{"msup":{"mi":["x","\u2032"]}}},{"mtd":{"msup":{"mi":["y","\u2032"]}}}]}},{"mrow":[{"mrow":[{"mo":["[","]"],"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mi":["cos","\u03b8"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}}},{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mo":"-","mi":"sin"},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mi":"\u03b8"}}]},{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mo":"-","mi":"sin"},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mi":"\u03b8"}},{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mo":"-","mi":"cos"},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mi":"\u03b8"}}]}]}},{"mo":["[","]"],"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":{"mi":"x"}},{"mtd":{"mi":"y"}}]}}],"mo":"\u2061"},{"mrow":[{"mrow":[{"mo":["[","]"],"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":[{"mn":"1"},{"mn":"0"}]},{"mtd":[{"mn":"0"},{"mrow":{"mo":"-","mn":"1"}}]}]}},{"mo":["[","]"],"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mi":["cos","\u03b8"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}}},{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mo":"-","mi":"sin"},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mi":"\u03b8"}}]},{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mi":["sin","\u03b8"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}}},{"mrow":{"mi":["cos","\u03b8"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}}}]}]}}],"mo":"\u2061"},{"mo":["[","]"],"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":{"mi":"x"}},{"mtd":{"mi":"y"}}]}}],"mo":"\u2061"}],"mo":"="}],"mo":"="},"mo":","}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"12"}}]}}}},"br":{}},"The reversible rotation has a determinant of 1, and the operations of swapping coefficients and changing sign have a determinant of \u22121. The absolute determinant of the entire reversible MLT is thus 1. Because a determinant 1 transform preserves the signal energy, the quantization noise of the reversible MLT is roughly proportional to the number of rotations in the transform, which is O(NlogN)E[\u0394] for an N-point MLT (note that there are two rotations per butterfly in the complex FFT). Such implementation is more favorable than factoring the reversible MLT (or type IV DCT) through an N-point LU transform, where the quantization noise that is caused by a long chain of non-linear operation can be much larger.","Referring back to , the entropy encoder  digitally entropy encodes the quantized coefficients. The entropy encoder  can employ any suitable entropy encoding technique(s). Accordingly, any suitable entropy encoding technique for employment in connection with the present invention is intended to fall within the scope of the appended claims.","While  is a block diagram illustrating components for the lossless data coder system  that uses a multiple factorization reversible transform components. It is to be appreciated that the lossless data coder system , the multiple factorization reversible transform component  and\/or the entropy encoder  can be implemented as one or more computer components, as that term is defined herein. Thus, it is to be appreciated that computer executable components operable to implement the lossless data coder system , the multiple factorization reversible transform component  and\/or the entropy encoder  can be stored on computer readable media including, but not limited to, an ASIC (application specific integrated circuit), CD (compact disc), DVD (digital video disk), ROM (read only memory), floppy disk, hard disk, EEPROM (electrically erasable programmable read only memory) and memory stick in accordance with the present invention.","Next, referring to , a lossless data decoder system  in accordance with an aspect of the present invention is illustrated. The system  comprises an entropy decoder  and an inverse transform component .","The entropy decoder  receives a bit stream (e.g., produced by a corresponding entropy encoder) and decodes the bit stream. Thus, the entropy decoder  digitally entropy decodes the input bit stream and provides the decoded information to the inverse transform component .","The inverse transform component  receives output values from the entropy decoder . The inverse transform component  transforms the output values from the entropy decoder  and provides output values. In one example, the inverse transform component  utilizes an inverse reversible MLT, to essentially revert the computations in the multiple factorization reversible transform component .","It is to be appreciated that the lossless data decoder system , the entropy decoder  and\/or the inverse transform component  can be computer components as that term is defined herein.","Turning to , a progressive to lossless data coder system  in accordance with an aspect of the present invention is illustrated. The system  comprises a multiple factorization reversible transform component  and an embedded entropy encoder .","The progressive to lossless data coder system  can be employed to code audio and\/or images. In one example, the system  is based on reversible transform that is designed to mimic the non-reversible transform in a normal psychoacoustic audio coder (e.g., as much as possible). The multiple factorization reversible transform component  coupled with the embedded entropy encoder  (e.g., a high performance embedded entropy codec) empowers the system  with both lossless capability and fine granular scalability progressiveness. The system  generates a bit stream that if fully decoded, substantially recovers the original audio waveform without loss and facilitates lossless compression. If a higher compression ratio is desired, the application may extract a subset of the compressed bit stream and form a higher compression ratio bit stream of lossy nature. Such scaling can be performed in a very large bit rate range, with granularity down to a single byte. With the progressive to lossless functionality of the system , the application can easily balance between the amount of compression required and the desired audio quality, from a fairly high compression ratio all the way to lossless (e.g., based on available bandwidth and\/or user preference).","The embedded entropy encoder  can employ any suitable embedded entropy encoding technique(s). Accordingly, any suitable embedded entropy encoding technique for employment in connection with the present invention is intended to fall within the scope of the appended claims.","In one example, the embedded entropy encoder  employs a fully scalable psychoacoustic audio coder that derives auditory masking thresholds from previously coded coefficients, and uses the derived thresholds for optimizing the order of coding. The basic theory behind acoustic or auditory masking is described in general terms herein.","In general, the basic theory behind auditory masking is that humans do not have the ability to hear minute differences in frequency. For example, it is very difficult to discern the difference between a 1,000 Hz signal and a signal that is 1,001 Hz. It becomes even more difficult for a human to differentiate such signals if the two signals are playing at the same time. Further, studies have shown the 1,000 Hz signal would also affect a human's ability to hear a signal that is 1,010 Hz, or 1,100 Hz, or 990 Hz. This concept is known as masking. If the 1,000 Hz signal is strong, it will mask signals at nearby frequencies, making them inaudible to the listener. In addition, there are two other types of acoustic masking which affects human auditory perception. In particular, as discussed below, both temporal masking and noise masking also effect human audio perception. These ideas are used to improve audio compression because any frequency components in the audio file which fall below a masking threshold can be discarded, as they will not be perceived by a human listener.","In this example, the embedded entropy encoder  is a fully scalable generic audio coder that uses implicit auditory masking that is intermixed with a scalable entropy coding process. Further, auditory masking thresholds are not sent to the decoder, instead, they are derived from the already coded coefficients. Furthermore, rather than quantizing the audio coefficients according to the auditory masking thresholds, the masking thresholds are used to control the order that the coefficients are encoded. In particular, during the scalable coding, larger audio coefficients are encoded first, as the larger components are the coefficients that contribute most to the audio energy level and lead to a higher auditory masking threshold.","For example, the MLT transform coefficients received from the multiple factorization reversible transform component  are split into a number of sections. This section split operation enables the scalability of the audio sampling rate. Such scalability is particularly useful where different frequency responses of the decoded audio file are desired. For example, where one or more playback speakers associated with the decoder do not have a high frequency response, or where it is necessary for the decoder to save either or both computation power and time, one or more sections corresponding to particular high frequency components of the MLT transform coefficients can be discarded.","Each section of the MLT transform coefficients is then entropy encoded into an embedded bit stream, which can be truncated and reassembled at a later stage. Further, to improve the efficiency of the entropy coder, the MLT coefficients are grouped into a number of consecutive windows termed a timeslot. In a one example, a timeslot consists of 16 long MLT windows or 128 short MLT windows. However, it should be clear to those skilled in the art that the number of windows can easily be changed.","In particular, first, the auditory masking is used to determine the order that the transform coefficients are encoded, rather than to change the transform coefficients by quantizing them. Instead of coding any auditory insensitive coefficients coarsely, in this example, the embedded entropy coder  encodes such coefficients in a later stage. By using the auditory masking to govern the coding order, rather than the coding content, the embedded entropy coder  achieves embedded coding up to and including lossless encoding of the audio input, as all content is eventually encoded. Further, the quality of the audio becomes less sensitive to the auditory masking, as slight inaccuracies in the auditory masking simply cause certain audio coefficients to be encoded later.","Second, in this example, the auditory masking threshold is derived from the already encoded coefficients, and gradually refined with the embedded coder (e.g., \u201cimplicit auditory masking\u201d). In implementing the implicit audio masking, the most important portion of the transform coefficients (e.g., the top bitplanes), are encoded first. A preliminary auditory masking threshold is calculated based on the already coded transform coefficients. Since the decoder automatically derives the same auditory masking threshold from the coded transform coefficients, the value of the auditory masking threshold does not need to be sent to the decoder. Further, the calculated auditory masking threshold is used to govern which part of the transform coefficients is to be refined.","After the next part of the transform coefficients has been encoded, a new set of auditory masking threshold is calculated. This process repeats until a desired end criterion has been met, e.g., all transform coefficients have been encoded, a desired coding bit rate has been reached, or a desired coding quality has been reached. By deriving the auditory masking threshold from the already coded coefficients, bits normally required to encode the auditory masking threshold are saved. Consequently, the coding quality is improved, especially when the coding bit rate is low.","In another example, the embedded entropy encoder  employs a traditional coder which carries the auditory masking threshold as a head of the bit stream.","Thus, after the reversible transform is performed by the multiple factorization reversible transform component , the MLT coefficients of multiple windows are grouped into a timeslot. The coefficients of each timeslot are then entropy encoded by the embedded entropy encoder  which not only efficiently compresses the coefficients, but also renders the output bit stream with the embedding (e.g., progressive) property, so that the bit stream (e.g., of each channel) can be truncated at any point.","It is to be appreciated that the system  and\/or the embedded entropy encoder  can be computer components as that term is defined herein.","Referring to , a progressive to lossless data decoder system  in accordance with an aspect of the present invention is illustrated. The system comprises an embedded entropy decoder  and an inverse transform component .","The embedded entropy decoder  receives a bit stream (e.g., produced by a corresponding entropy encoder) and decodes the bit stream. Thus, the embedded entropy decoder  digitally entropy decodes the input bit stream and provides the decoded information to the inverse transform component .","The inverse transform component  receives output values from the embedded entropy decoder . The inverse transform component  transforms the output values from the embedded entropy decoder  and provides output values. In one example, the inverse transform component  utilizes an inverse reversible MLT, to essentially revert the computations in the multiple factorization reversible transform component .","It is to be appreciated that the progressive to lossless data decoder system  and\/or the embedded entropy decoder  can be computer components as that term is defined herein.","Next, turning to , a progressive to lossless stereo audio coder system  in accordance with an aspect of the present invention is illustrated. The system  comprises a reversible multiplexer , multiple factorization reversible transform components , , embedded entropy encoders , and a bit stream assembler .","The system  receives an input audio waveform which first goes through the reversible multiplexer . If the input audio is stereo, it is separated into L+R and L\u2212R components. The waveform of each audio component is then transformed by the multiple factorization reversible transform components , (e.g., with switching windows). In one example, the window size can be either 2048 or 256 samples. After the multiple factorization reversible transform components , , the MLT coefficients of a number of consecutive windows are grouped into a timeslot.","For example, a timeslot can consist of 16 long MLT windows or 128 short windows. A timeslot therefore consists of 32,768 samples, which is about 0.74 second if the input audio is sampled at 44.1 kHz. The coefficients in the timeslot are then entropy encoded by the embedded entropy encoders , whose output bit stream can be truncated at any point later.","The reversible multiplexer  receives, for example, a stereo audio input. The reversible multiplexer  separates the stereo audio input into L+R and L\u2212R components using conventional techniques, where L and R represent the waveform on the left and right audio channel, respectively. If the input audio is mono, the reversible multiplexer passes through the audio. Each component is then encoded separately.","Let x and y be the left and right channel, x\u2032 and y\u2032 be the multiplexed channel L+R and L\u2212R, a reversible multiplexer can be implemented in non-linear form as:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0110","num":"0117"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00018","num":"00018"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mo":["[","]"],"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":{"msup":{"mi":["x","\u2032"]}}},{"mtd":{"msup":{"mi":["y","\u2032"]}}}]}},{"mrow":[{"mrow":[{"mo":["[","]"],"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":[{"mn":"1"},{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mo":"-","mn":"1"},"mo":"\/","mn":"2"}}]},{"mtd":[{"mn":"0"},{"mn":"1"}]}]}},{"mo":["[","]"],"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":[{"mn":"1"},{"mn":"0"}]},{"mtd":[{"mn":"1"},{"mrow":{"mo":"-","mn":"1"}}]}]}}],"mo":"\u2061"},{"mo":["[","]"],"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":{"mi":"x"}},{"mtd":{"mi":"y"}}]}}],"mo":"\u2061"}],"mo":"="}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"13"}}]}}}},"br":{}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0111","num":"0118"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00019","num":"00019"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mo":"{","mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mi":"step","mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":[{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},{"mtext":":"},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}}],"mn":"0","msup":{"mi":["y","\u2032"]}},{"mi":["x","y"],"mo":"-"}],"mo":"="},"mo":"\u2062","mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"3.3em","height":"3.3ex"}}}}}},{"mtd":{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mi":"step","mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":[{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},{"mtext":":"},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}}],"mn":"1","msup":{"mi":["x","\u2032"]}},{"mi":"x","mo":"-","mrow":{"mo":["\u230a","\u230b"],"mrow":{"msup":{"mi":["y","\u2032"]},"mo":"\/","mn":"2"}}}],"mo":"="}}}]}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"14"}}]}}}},"br":{}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0112","num":"0119"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00020","num":"00020"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mo":["[","]"],"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":{"msup":{"mi":["x","\u2032"]}}},{"mtd":{"msup":{"mi":["y","\u2032"]}}}]}},{"mrow":[{"mo":["[","]"],"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mn":["1","2"],"mo":"\/"}},{"mrow":{"mn":["1","2"],"mo":"\/"}}]},{"mtd":[{"mn":"1"},{"mrow":{"mo":"-","mn":"1"}}]}]}},{"mo":["[","]"],"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":{"mi":"x"}},{"mtd":{"mi":"y"}}]}}],"mo":"\u2061"}],"mo":"="}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"15"}}]}}}},"br":{}},"There are alternative implementations of the reversible multiplexer, e.g., with a rotation by 0.25\u03c0 operation, or via:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0114","num":"0121"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00021","num":"00021"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mo":"{","mrow":{"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mi":"step","mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":[{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},{"mtext":":"},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}}],"mn":"0","msup":{"mi":["y","\u2032"]}},{"mi":["x","y"],"mo":"-"}],"mo":"="}}},{"mtd":{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mi":"step","mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":[{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},{"mtext":":"},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}}],"mn":"1","msup":{"mi":["x","\u2032"]}},{"mi":["x","y"],"mo":"+"}],"mo":"="}}}]},"mo":","}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"16"}}]}}}},"br":{},"sup":["2","2"]},"The bit stream assembler  receives the embedded bit stream of the L+R and L\u2212R channels from the embedded entropy encoders , . The bit stream assembler forms the final bit stream of the system .","An exemplary bit stream  in accordance with an aspect of the present invention is illustrated in . The bit stream  comprises a global header , which is followed by a first timeslot through an Ntimeslot , N being an integer greater than or equal to one. Each timeslot  comprises a timeslot header , which records the length of the compressed bit stream in the L+R and L\u2212R channels, and is followed by the actual embedded bit stream of the channels , . If exact waveform reconstruction is required, the entire bit stream will be decoded. In case higher compression ratio is called for, a subset from the losslessly encoded bit stream to form a bit stream of higher compression ratio is extracted. Since this is achieved by truncating the embedded bit stream of the L+R and L\u2212R channels of individual timeslot, the operation can be performed very fast. It is also possible to convert the compressed audio from stereo to mono by removing the compressed bit stream associated with the L\u2212R channel.","Turning back to , the bit stream assembler  thus allocates the available coding bit rate among multiple timeslots and channels, truncates the embedded bit stream of each timeslot and channel according to the allocated bit rate, and produces a final compressed bit stream.","It is to be appreciated that the system , the reversible multiplexer  and\/or the bit stream assembler  can be computer components as that term is defined herein.","Referring next to , a progressive to lossless audio decoder system  in accordance with an aspect of the present invention is illustrated. The system  comprises a bit stream unassembler , embedded entropy decoders , , inverse transform components , and a reversible demultiplexer .","The bit stream unassembler  receives an input bit stream (e.g., from a corresponding bit stream assembler ). The bit stream unassembler separates the L+R channel and the L\u2212R channel and provides the separated channels to the embedded entropy decoders , .","Each of the embedded entropy decoders , receives a channel of information from the bit stream unassembler  and decodes the bit stream. Thus, the embedded entropy decoders , digitally entropy decodes the input bit stream and provides the decoded information to the inverse transform components , .","The inverse transform components , receive output values from the embedded entropy decoders , . The inverse transform components , transform the output values from the embedded entropy decoders , and provides output values. In one example, the inverse transform components , utilize an inverse reversible MLT, to essentially revert the computations in the multiple factorization reversible transform component .","The reversible demultiplexer  receives the outputs of the inverse transform components , and demultiplexes the outputs into a stereo audio waveform.","It is to be appreciated that the system , the bit stream unassembler  and\/or the reversible demultiplexer  can be computer components as that term is defined herein.","Turning briefly to , , ,  and , methodologies that may be implemented in accordance with the present invention are illustrated. While, for purposes of simplicity of explanation, the methodologies are shown and described as a series of blocks, it is to be understood and appreciated that the present invention is not limited by the order of the blocks, as some blocks may, in accordance with the present invention, occur in different orders and\/or concurrently with other blocks from that shown and described herein. Moreover, not all illustrated blocks may be required to implement the methodologies in accordance with the present invention.","The invention may be described in the general context of computer-executable instructions, such as program modules, executed by one or more components. Generally, program modules include routines, programs, objects, data structures, etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Typically the functionality of the program modules may be combined or distributed as desired in various embodiments.","Referring to , a method for lossless data encoding  in accordance with an aspect of the present invention is illustrated. At , an input signal is received (e.g., audio and\/or image). At , quantized coefficients corresponding to the input signal based, at least in part, upon a multiple factorization reversible transform (e.g., reversible modulated lapped transform) is provided. For example, the reversible modulated lapped transform can be based upon equations (3), (4), (5), (6), (9), (10) and\/or (11). The multiple factorization reversible transform can comprise a modulation stage, a pre-FFT rotation stage, a complex FFT stage and\/or a post-FFT rotation stage. At , the quantized coefficients are entropy encoded.","Next, turning to , a method for lossless data decoding  in accordance with an aspect of the present invention is illustrated. At , a digitally entropy encoded input bit stream is received. At , the bit stream is entropy decoded and transform coefficients are provided. At , output values based on an inverse transform of the transform coefficients are provided. The inverse transform can be based on a reversible modulated lapped transform.","Referring to , a method for progressive to lossless data encoding  in accordance with an aspect of the present invention is illustrated. At , an input signal is received (e.g., audio and\/or image). At , quantized coefficients corresponding to the input signal based, at least in part, upon a multiple factorization reversible transform (e.g., reversible modulated lapped transform) is provided. For example, the multiple factorization reversible transform can be based upon equations (3), (4), (5), (6), (9), (10) and\/or (11). The multiple factorization reversible transform can comprise a modulation stage, a pre-FFT rotation stage, a complex FFT stage and\/or a post-FFT rotation stage. At , a progressive bit stream based upon embedded encoding of the quantized coefficients is provided.","Turning to , a method for progressive to lossless audio encoding  in accordance with an aspect of the present invention is illustrated. At , an input signal is received. At , the input signal is separated into a first component (L+R) and a second component (L\u2212R) (e.g., by a reversible multiplexer ).","At , quantized coefficients corresponding to the first component based, at least in part, upon a multiple factorization reversible transform (e.g., reversible modulated lapped transform) are provided. For example, the multiple factorization reversible lapped transform can be based upon equations (3), (4), (5), (6), (9), (10) and\/or (11). The multiple factorization reversible transform can comprise a modulation stage, a pre-FFT rotation stage, a complex FFT stage and\/or a post-FFT rotation stage. At , a progressive bit stream based upon embedded encoding of the quantized coefficients associated with the first component is provided.","At , quantized coefficients corresponding to the second component based, at least in part, upon a multiple factorization reversible transform (e.g., reversible modulated lapped transform) are provided. For example, the multiple factorization reversible transform can be based upon equations (3), (4), (5), (6), (9), (10) and\/or (11). The multiple factorization reversible transform can comprise a modulation stage, a pre-FFT rotation stage, a complex FFT stage and\/or a post-FFT rotation stage. At , a progressive bit stream based upon embedded encoding of the quantized coefficients associated with the second component is provided.","At , the progressive bit stream of the embedded entropy encoded quantized coefficients associated with the first and second component are assembled into an output bit stream (e.g., by a bit stream assembler ).","Referring to , a method of multiple factorization reversible transform  in accordance with an aspect of the present invention is illustrated. At , at least one factorization of the multiple factorization reversible transform is performed. At , a factorization which produces a minimum amount of quantization noise based, at least in part, upon a parameter of the transform, is selected. For example, the factorization can be based upon equations (3), (4), (5), (6), (9), (10) and\/or (11). The factorization can comprise a modulation stage, a pre-FFT rotation stage, a complex FFT stage and\/or a post-FFT rotation stage as set forth supra.","In order to provide additional context for various aspects of the present invention,  and the following discussion are intended to provide a brief, general description of a suitable operating environment  in which various aspects of the present invention may be implemented. While the invention is described in the general context of computer-executable instructions, such as program modules, executed by one or more computers or other devices, those skilled in the art will recognize that the invention can also be implemented in combination with other program modules and\/or as a combination of hardware and software. Generally, however, program modules include routines, programs, objects, components, data structures, etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular data types. The operating environment  is only one example of a suitable operating environment and is not intended to suggest any limitation as to the scope of use or functionality of the invention. Other well known computer systems, environments, and\/or configurations that may be suitable for use with the invention include but are not limited to, personal computers, hand-held or laptop devices, multiprocessor systems, microprocessor-based systems, programmable consumer electronics, network PCs, minicomputers, mainframe computers, distributed computing environments that include the above systems or devices, and the like.","With reference to , an exemplary environment  for implementing various aspects of the invention includes a computer . The computer  includes a processing unit , a system memory , and a system bus . The system bus  couples system components including, but not limited to, the system memory  to the processing unit . The processing unit  can be any of various available processors. Dual microprocessors and other multiprocessor architectures also can be employed as the processing unit .","The system bus  can be any of several types of bus structure(s) including the memory bus or memory controller, a peripheral bus or external bus, and\/or a local bus using any variety of available bus architectures including, but not limited to, 16-bit bus, Industrial Standard Architecture (ISA), Micro-Channel Architecture (MSA), Extended ISA (EISA), Intelligent Drive Electronics (IDE), VESA Local Bus (VLB), Peripheral Component Interconnect (PCI), Universal Serial Bus (USB), Advanced Graphics Port (AGP), Personal Computer Memory Card International Association bus (PCMCIA), and Small Computer Systems Interface (SCSI).","The system memory  includes volatile memory  and nonvolatile memory . The basic input\/output system (BIOS), containing the basic routines to transfer information between elements within the computer , such as during start-up, is stored in nonvolatile memory . By way of illustration, and not limitation, nonvolatile memory  can include read only memory (ROM), programmable ROM (PROM), electrically programmable ROM (EPROM), electrically erasable ROM (EEPROM), or flash memory. Volatile memory  includes random access memory (RAM), which acts as external cache memory. By way of illustration and not limitation, RAM is available in many forms such as synchronous RAM (SRAM), dynamic RAM (DRAM), synchronous DRAM (SDRAM), double data rate SDRAM (DDR SDRAM), enhanced SDRAM (ESDRAM), Synchlink DRAM (SLDRAM), and direct Rambus RAM (DRRAM).","Computer  also includes removable\/nonremovable, volatile\/nonvolatile computer storage media.  illustrates, for example a disk storage . Disk storage  includes, but is not limited to, devices like a magnetic disk drive, floppy disk drive, tape drive, Jaz drive, Zip drive, LS-100 drive, flash memory card, or memory stick. In addition, disk storage  can include storage media separately or in combination with other storage media including, but not limited to, an optical disk drive such as a compact disk ROM device (CD-ROM), CD recordable drive (CD-R Drive), CD rewritable drive (CD-RW Drive) or a digital versatile disk ROM drive (DVD-ROM). To facilitate connection of the disk storage devices  to the system bus , a removable or non-removable interface is typically used such as interface .","It is to be appreciated that  describes software that acts as an intermediary between users and the basic computer resources described in suitable operating environment . Such software includes an operating system . Operating system , which can be stored on disk storage , acts to control and allocate resources of the computer system . System applications  take advantage of the management of resources by operating system  through program modules  and program data  stored either in system memory  or on disk storage . It is to be appreciated that the present invention can be implemented with various operating systems or combinations of operating systems.","A user enters commands or information into the computer  through input device(s) . Input devices  include, but are not limited to, a pointing device such as a mouse, trackball, stylus, touch pad, keyboard, microphone, joystick, game pad, satellite dish, scanner, TV tuner card, digital camera, digital video camera, web camera, and the like. These and other input devices connect to the processing unit  through the system bus  via interface port(s) . Interface port(s)  include, for example, a serial port, a parallel port, a game port, and a universal serial bus (USB). Output device(s)  use some of the same type of ports as input device(s) . Thus, for example, a USB port may be used to provide input to computer , and to output information from computer  to an output device . Output adapter  is provided to illustrate that there are some output devices  like monitors, speakers, and printers among other output devices  that require special adapters. The output adapters  include, by way of illustration and not limitation, video and sound cards that provide a means of connection between the output device  and the system bus . It should be noted that other devices and\/or systems of devices provide both input and output capabilities such as remote computer(s) .","Computer  can operate in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers, such as remote computer(s) . The remote computer(s)  can be a personal computer, a server, a router, a network PC, a workstation, a microprocessor based appliance, a peer device or other common network node and the like, and typically includes many or all of the elements described relative to computer . For purposes of brevity, only a memory storage device  is illustrated with remote computer(s) . Remote computer(s)  is logically connected to computer  through a network interface  and then physically connected via communication connection . Network interface  encompasses communication networks such as local-area networks (LAN) and wide-area networks (WAN). LAN technologies include Fiber Distributed Data Interface (FDDI), Copper Distributed Data Interface (CDDI), Ethernet\/IEEE 802.3, Token Ring\/IEEE 802.5 and the like. WAN technologies include, but are not limited to, point-to-point links, circuit switching networks like Integrated Services Digital Networks (ISDN) and variations thereon, packet switching networks, and Digital Subscriber Lines (DSL).","Communication connection(s)  refers to the hardware\/software employed to connect the network interface  to the bus . While communication connection  is shown for illustrative clarity inside computer , it can also be external to computer . The hardware\/software necessary for connection to the network interface  includes, for exemplary purposes only, internal and external technologies such as, modems including regular telephone grade modems, cable modems and DSL modems, ISDN adapters, and Ethernet cards.","What has been described above includes examples of the present invention. It is, of course, not possible to describe every conceivable combination of components or methodologies for purposes of describing the present invention, but one of ordinary skill in the art may recognize that many further combinations and permutations of the present invention are possible. Accordingly, the present invention is intended to embrace all such alterations, modifications and variations that fall within the spirit and scope of the appended claims. Furthermore, to the extent that the term \u201cincludes\u201d is used in either the detailed description or the claims, such term is intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term \u201ccomprising\u201d as \u201ccomprising\u201d is interpreted when employed as a transitional word in a claim."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0034"},"figref":"FIG. 9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"figref":"FIG. 10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0037","num":"0036"},"figref":"FIG. 11"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0037"},"figref":"FIG. 12"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0039","num":"0038"},"figref":"FIG. 13"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0040","num":"0039"},"figref":"FIG. 14"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0041","num":"0040"},"figref":"FIG. 15"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
