---
title: On connect security scan and delivery by a network security authority
abstract: A network security authority system provides on-connect scan and delivery in a virtual lobby to enforce security requirements for a network.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07058970&OS=07058970&RS=07058970
owner: Intel Corporation
number: 07058970
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20020227
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["BACKGROUND","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["After Sep. 11, 2001, security is a greater concern for all of us. This includes cyber terrorism. The protection of information assets is a concern to private businesses, public organizations, and individual households. Nearly everyday we hear or read about hackers and computer viruses with weird names like the W.32 Donut virus, the Code Red virus, and the \u201cI love you\u201d virus. The tentacles of cyberspace reach into our homes and offices leaving us vulnerable to intruders and exposing weaknesses.","In today's interconnected world, an enterprise's private network is often not as private as it once was. Business-to-business relationships and employee connectivity often require connections to an enterprises' intranet through uncontrolled networks. How can a security administrator be confident that these communication lines are not used for unauthorized access to company resources? Often there are many points of access to an enterprise's private network. Employees work from home or on the road. Customers need access to data. Vendors access data or update systems. Each one of these points of access is a potential security hole that unauthorized users can exploit. There is a need to increase control over these access points and minimize the risks involved.","A major risk facing most enterprises is the lack of consistent configuration, deployment, and usage across the enterprise. This problem is compounded by the difficulty of determining the faults and non-compliance of specific users. Suppose an enterprise sends a memo to all its users telling them that they need to install a patch to avoid a known risk. The problem with this is that some people are not even going to get the memo or read it and others will try to install the patch but then not configure it properly. There is no way to ensure the patch is installed. There is a need for a way to uniformly enforce security requirements.","Method and system embodiments for on-connect security scan and delivery by a network security authority are described. In the following detailed description, reference is made to the accompanying drawings, which are part of this application. These drawings illustrate specific embodiments for practicing the present invention and reference numbers refer to substantially similar components throughout the drawings. The embodiments are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the present invention. Other embodiments may be used and structural, logical, electrical, and other changes may be made without departing from the scope of the present invention.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["100","102","102","104","102","104","102","104","104","102","104"]},"Like the guard in the physical lobby protects the building by keeping out suspicious visitors, the virtual lobby  protects the network  by preventing potentially insecure clients from connecting to the network . In the virtual lobby , clients that lack the security mechanisms they need to comply with security requirements are given access to resources to be configured correctly so they can move past the virtual lobby  and get into the network . The virtual lobby  ensures that all the clients that are using the network  are in compliance with the latest security requirements, i.e. they have the latest virus patches, operating system patches, software firewalls, network intrusion detection software (NIDS), etc. Thus, the virtual lobby  has the power to enforce security policies. As used in this application, security requirements comprise one or more requirements or policies.","In , the virtual lobby  has a firewall on each side. One firewall  protects the virtual lobby  from the outside world and another firewall  protects the network  from clients in the virtual lobby . A firewall  is a set of related programs, usually located at a network gateway server that protects the resources of an enterprise's network from users from other networks. For example, an enterprise with an intranet allows its users to access the Internet, but installs a firewall  to prevent outsiders from accessing the enterprise's private resources and to control what outside resources are available to its users. Basically, a firewall , working closely with a router program examines each network packet to determine whether to forward it towards its destination. A firewall  also includes or works with a proxy server that makes network requests on behalf of users. A firewall  is often installed in a specially designated computer separate from the rest of the network.","There are many possible applications of the virtual lobby . One application is protecting the network  from connections by dialup or modem connections via the public switched telephone network (PSTN) . Other applications are protecting the network  from connections via the Internet , dedicated connections such as digital subscriber line (DSL), virtual private networks (VPNs), remote access systems and the like.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1","FIG. 2"],"b":["102","104","200","202","204"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIGS. 1 and 2","FIG. 3","FIGS. 1"],"b":["102","104","302","304","2","3","102"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":["400","402","404","402","402","102","406","104","408","102","404","410","104","410","410"]},"In another embodiment, if scanning reveals non-compliance, the software component  provides at least one security mechanism to the client  so that the client  complies with the security requirements before permitting the client  to connect to the network .","In another embodiment, the network security authority system  further comprises a remote access infrastructure (not illustrated) to interface with the software component . In another embodiment, the remote access infrastructure processes at least dialup and virtual private network (VPN) connections.","Another embodiment of the present invention is a network security authority system  comprising a network , an inner firewall , a virtual lobby , an outer firewall , a computing system , and a software component . The inner firewall  prevents unauthorized access to the network . The virtual lobby  determines if a client  complies with security requirements. The outer firewall  prevents unauthorized access to the virtual lobby . The computing system  is in communication with the virtual lobby  and the software component  operable on the computing system  in the virtual lobby  determines if the client  complies with the security requirements. The computing system  also provides delivery of any security mechanisms required for the client  to comply with the security requirements, before allowing the client  access to the network  inside the inner firewall .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 4"],"b":["500","502","504","506","502","508","508","504","508","506","502","504","506"]},"In another embodiment, the repository component  also holds security policy information. In another embodiment, the repository component  comprises a policy management system.","In another embodiment, a virtual lobby in a demilitarized zone (DMZ) comprises a number of servers configured to perform a number of operations. A DMZ is a computer host or small network inserted as a \u201cneutral zone\u201d between an enterprise's private network and the outside public network. It prevents outside users from getting direct access to a server. (The term originates from the geographic buffer zone that was set up between North Korea and South Korea following the war in the early 1950s.) A DMZ is an optional and more secure approach to a firewall and effectively acts as a proxy server as well. One server operates to scan a client  to check compliance with security requirements. Another server operates to provide security mechanisms to clients  that need them to comply with the security requirements. The embodiment farther comprises facilities for remote access, such as VPN connections. The components of the embodiment are configured such that a client  connecting to the virtual lobby has access to security mechanisms it needs to comply with security requirements and other limited resources. In one embodiment, two firewalls are inside the DMZ and surround the virtual lobby. In another embodiment, two firewalls are outside the DMZ and surround the virtual lobby.","In another embodiment, an agent  is put on a client attempting to connect to the network . The agent  scans the client  to determine if the client  complies with the security requirements. In another embodiment, the agent  scans at a time when the client  is not attempting to connect to the network . The agent  maintains the client  in a coded way and when the client  attempts to connect, the latest scan is communicated to the virtual lobby. In one embodiment, the agent  maintains scan information in a footprint stored on the client . In another embodiment, the virtual lobby  determines if a client  complies with security requirements by interfacing with at least one Windows\u2122 Management Instrumentation (WMI) component or at least one application programming interface (API) component on the client . In another embodiment, a registry on a personal computer (PC) is scanned to determine whether or not certain security products are installed. In another embodiment, other configuration details are checked, such as whether a particular security mechanism is running or if it is configured in compliance with security requirements.","In another embodiment, a network security authority system  comprises a virtual lobby computing system, a scanning component , and a delivery component . The virtual lobby computing system is in communication with two firewalls to protect a network from insecure clients attempting to connect to the network. The scanning component  is operable on the computing system to determine if a client  complies with security requirements and to determine if lacking security mechanisms are available for delivery. The delivery component  is operable on the computing system to deliver available security mechanisms to the client .","In another embodiment, the network security authority system  further comprises a repository component . The repository component  is in communication with the virtual lobby computing system to store the security requirements. In another embodiment, the repository component  is a database management system. In another embodiment, the repository component  operates to manage the security requirements and associated delivery instructions for available security mechanisms.","In another embodiment, the network security authority system  further comprises a certification system . The certification system  is in communication with the virtual lobby computing system to certify third-party security mechanisms that meet the security requirements. In another embodiment, a user interface is driven by security policies or security requirements. Security policies and requirements are derived from a security risk assessment and analysis. For example, a system administrator enters a new policy into the repository or updates an existing policy and the user interface provides editing and version control functions. Also, the user interface associates scanning information with delivery information or provides delivery features as part of scanning information. In another embodiment, the network security authority  is in communication with a data store , which is any type of memory device. In another embodiment, vendors  supply security mechanisms and related information to the delivery component , the repository component  and the certification system .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0034"},"figref":"FIG. 6","b":["602","604","604","604","606","604","606"]},"In another embodiment, the method further comprises interfacing with at least one provider  of at least one security mechanism to bring the client  into compliance with the security requirements , if the client  is not in compliance. For example, delivery of one security mechanism is provided by a website of a vendor and patches are located on storage mediums on the network. Example embodiments redirect the client  to the website, verify installation status, and then install the patches. Then, a rescan reveals the client meets the security requirements and is provided access to the network. Other example embodiments, do not rescan. In another embodiment, client information is retrieved from a repository .","In another embodiment, a security risk assessment  is performed for the network and then security requirements  are created to address the risks identified in the security risk assessment . A security risk assessment  determines the security status of the network and its associated information technology infrastructure. The security risk assessment  helps security administrators determine what is at risk and what the acceptable levels of risk are. The security risk assessment helps to shape security policies, procedures, and requirements . A typical security risk assessment  addresses areas such as security policy, security organization, asset control and classification, personnel security, physical and environmental security, communications and operations management, access control, system development and maintenance, business continuity management, and compliance. For more information, see International Standards Organization (ISO) 17799, Information technology, Code of practice for information security management, 2001.","In another embodiment, the security requirements  are stored in a repository . In another embodiment, the security requirements  are updated with a new policy and there is an interface with at least one provider to provide delivery of at least one security mechanism to at least partly implement the new policy. For example, security requirements  are updated or adjusted from time to time, week to week, day to day, in real-time, or whenever new risks or threats emerge and tools to fight them become available. In another embodiment, the at least one provider is certified. In another embodiment, the new policy is stored in a repository . In another embodiment, a custom configuration tool  is provided to at least partly implement the new policy.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0039","num":"0038"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 6","FIG. 7","FIG. 7"],"b":["702","704","706","708","708","710","712","714","716","718","720","708"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0040","num":"0039"},"figref":["FIG. 8","FIG. 8"],"b":["800","802","804","806","808","810","808","808","808","806"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0041","num":"0040"},"figref":["FIG. 9","FIG. 8","FIG. 9"],"b":["802","902","804","904","906","908","804","906","906","906","906"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0042","num":"0041"},"figref":["FIG. 10","FIGS. 8 and 9","FIG. 9","FIG. 10"],"b":["1002","804","1004"]},"In one embodiment, the method for on-connect security scan and delivery comprises controlling configuration of a plurality of security mechanisms for a client based on security requirements for a network. The client is scanned  for an indication of whether the client complies with the security requirements. A delivery assistant  is a kind of delivery component and is provided to the client to install and configure at least one of the plurality of security mechanisms. Connection is provided to the client only if the client complies with the security requirements. In another embodiment, third-party security mechanisms that meet the security requirements are certified. The certified third-party security mechanisms are distributed to the client through the delivery assistant . In another embodiment, client information, delivery information, and security requirements are stored in a repository. In another embodiment, an optional delivery is provided to the client. In another embodiment, scanning  and delivery components  are provided by vendors and controlled at a meta-level. These components are integrated into a structure or framework and organized or managed.","In another embodiment, a security warning is presented to the client. For example, some security requirements are mandatory and others are suggestions for a higher level of security than a minimum level. Suppose security mechanism A must be installed to comply with the security requirements, but security mechanism B is not a security requirement until the end of next month, so that it is available for installation now or later. In this case, a warning about security mechanism B is presented to the user for the user to decide whether to install now or wait. Another example is security requirements that vary depending on a type of user. For example, a system administrator who needs to perform emergency maintenance on the system should not have to wait for delivery of some kinds of security mechanisms. However, some security requirements are not waived, even for the system administrator, who is capable of causing harm, such as spreading a virus. Another example is a repairman in the factory who needs to get in and fix a problem in a matter of minutes at a time when it costs $100,000 a minute for the factory to be down. In this case, the repairman is exempt from all or select security requirements. In another embodiment, a future delivery is scheduled for the client.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0045","num":"0044"},"figref":"FIG. 11","b":["1100","1100","1102","1104","1105","1105","1108","1110","1105"]},"In another embodiment, warnings are provided for select security requirements and the client is permitted to connect to the network. Rules are enforced for overriding the select security requirements. The rules for overriding are adaptably defined under the circumstances. In another embodiment, later operations are scheduled to bring the client into compliance for select security requirements. In another embodiment, a presentation is provided to notify the client of scanning. In another embodiment, a presentation of implementation resources information is provided to the client. In another embodiment, a presentation of a compliance status is provided to the client.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0047","num":"0046"},"figref":"FIG. 12","b":["1200","1202","1204","1206"]},"Controlling a number of other security products and aiding other companies in sales of their products gives the owner of the present invention a lot of business leverage. Embodiments of the present invention enforce compliance with security policies and automatically deliver security products to ensure compliance for each connecting client. As a result, the network is more secure and less susceptible to threats, such as denial of service attacks. This is a selling feature. Also, the operation of embodiments of the present invention reduces distribution costs for vendors and increase demand for their security products. Vendors will want their products integrated into embodiments of the present invention in order to reach potential buyers, capture market share, and exclude their competition. Also, embodiments of the present invention will increase competition as vendors will compete to meet the latest security requirements and to be certified to be included in the system.","In another embodiment, providing delivery of security mechanisms comprises providing webpages for downloading. In another embodiment, the delivery of security mechanisms is semi-automatically integrated into the software product. In another embodiment, a security mechanism is eliminated from the software product when it is no longer needed to comply with the security requirements. In another embodiment, the business method further comprises contracting with a vendor to provide delivery of at least one security mechanism. In another embodiment, an agreement with an anti-virus program provider structures a deal including a large block of licenses and client usage is audited. In another embodiment, the business method further comprises tracking revenue generated from deliveries to the client over time and delivering at least a percentage of the revenue to the enterprise. In another embodiment, the business method further comprises tracking revenue generated from deliveries by the vendor over time and delivering at least a percentage of the revenue to the enterprise. In another embodiment, the at least one security mechanism is an anti-virus software product.","It is to be understood that the above description it is intended to be illustrative, and not restrictive. Many other embodiments are possible and some will be apparent to those skilled in the art, upon reviewing the above description. For example, other embodiments include a plurality of virtual lobbies protecting a plurality of networks, a plurality of firewalls in communication with a plurality of virtual lobbies, virtual lobbies protecting sub-networks and multiple networks and more. Some other embodiments include any type of computing systems, operating systems, storage devices, networking facilities, and other accessories, and peripherals. Examples of computing systems include servers, workstations, personal computers (PCs), handheld devices, and all other kinds of computing systems. Various embodiments comprise all different kinds of networks, such as local area networks (LANs), wide area networks (WANs), home area networks (HANs), wired and wireless networks, and all other kinds of networks. Therefore, the spirit and scope of the appended claims should not be limited to the above description. The scope of the invention should be determined with reference to the appended claims, along with the full scope of equivalents to which such claims are entitled."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0005","num":"0004"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0006","num":"0005"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0007","num":"0006"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIGS. 1 and 2"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0008","num":"0007"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 4"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 6"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":["FIG. 9","FIG. 8"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":["FIG. 10","FIGS. 8 and 9"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 11"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 12"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
