---
title: Configuration and electro-osmotic pulse (EOP) treatment for degrading porous material
abstract: A configuration and treatment for degrading porous material, e.g., concrete, brick, or other masonry material, via rapid, efficient electro-osmosis. One application carries dehydration to an extent that it weakens a structure for demolition by significantly dehydrating its structural material. A durable, dimensionally stable anode is affixed to the structure and attached to a wire from a DC power supply. The anode is composed of a valve metal substrate with a semiconductive coating of a precious metal, cement or ceramic. Connection to a cathode through the power supply completes the circuit. A DC voltage is applied to the concrete structure by cycling a pro-specified pulse train from the power supply. One pulse train consists of an initial positive pulse followed by a shorter duration negative pulse and ends with a short off period before the pulse train is reinitiated. The cycle continues until the porous material has been determined to be sufficiently degraded.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=06919005&OS=06919005&RS=06919005
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 06919005
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20020509
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"GOVINT":[{},{}],"heading":["STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENT INTEREST","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["Under paragraph 1(a) of Executive Order 10096, the conditions under which this invention was made entitle the Government of the United States, as represented by the Secretary of the Army, to the entire right, title and interest therein of any patent granted thereon by the United States. This patent and related ones are available for licensing. Contact Bea Shahin at 217 373-7234 or Phillip Stewart at 601 634-4113.","Groundwater intrusion through a building's foundation can cause serious damage. In addition to increased concrete deterioration and accelerated rebar corrosion, basement dampness can ruin expensive electrical and mechanical equipment, which is often located in basement space, and can increase maintenance requirements through frequent repainting or cleaning to combat mold growth. Furthermore, the intruding water raise the interior relative humidity thereby accelerating the corrosion rate of mechanical equipment in the area and creating unacceptable air quality and concomitant health problems due to the rapid growth of bacteria and mold.","In selective problem areas, the usual approach to the treatment of water intrusion problems is to \u2018trench and drain\u2019. In other words, to excavate and expose the wall area and the base of the foundation, to replace waterproofing on the wall surface, and to install a drain tile system around the building or affected area. Other areas, such as floors, are untreatable using conventional methods.","Electro-osmosis has origins in 1809, when F. F. Reuss originally described an experiment that showed that water could be forced to flow through a clay-water system when an external electric field was applied to the soil. Research since then has shown that flow is initiated by the movement of cations present in the pore fluid of clay, or similar porous medium such as concrete, brick, and cementitious construction materials; and the water surrounding the cations moves with them. The basic physics and chemistry of electro-osmosis can be found in several textbooks and treatises. Glasstone, S., 2d ed., D. Van Nostrand Company, Inc., Princeton, N.J., 1946. Tikhomolova, K. P., -, Ellis Horwood Limited, Chichester, West Sussex, England, 1993.","Electro-osmosis is typically used to solve the problem of groundwater intrusion, which can cause serious damage to a building's foundation and interiors. As noted above, basement dampness, can ruin expensive electrical and mechanical equipment, which is often located in basement space; can increase maintenance requirements through frequent repainting or cleaning to combat mold growth; and can make affected areas uninhabitable or even unusable due to poor air quality. Electro-Osmotic Pulse (EOP) technology typically offers an alternative that can mitigate some water-related problems from the interior of affected areas without the cost of excavation. Examples of such systems are described below.","In one system, humidity is removed from a damp structure by positioning electrodes within the structure and applying a D.C. voltage across them. U.S. Pat. No. 3,856,646, , to Morarau, Dec. 24, 1974.","In another system, chloride ions are removed from concrete by embedding an anode in an electrolyte and establishing an electric current between the anode and the concrete structure in order to avoid corrosion of the concrete's reinforcing means, typically steel rebar. U.S. Pat. No. 5,296,120, , to Bennett et al., Mar. 22, 1994.","Another system discloses a process for changing the bond strength between concrete and its steel reinforcement by passing DC current through the concrete. U.S. Pat. No. 5,312,526, --, to Miller, May 17, 1994.","Still another method used to eliminate humidity from concrete uses electro-osmosis to pass current pulses in a predetermined pattern through the concrete. U.S. Pat. No. 5,368,709, , to Utklev, Nov. 29, 1994.","A method that claims improvement over existing methods by choice of a narrow range of relationships among the three pulse durations of the pulse train provides longer anode life while optimizing the process of dehydration. U.S. Pat. No. 5,755,945, , to Kristiansen, May 26, 1998.","An improvement over previous methods claims to increase anode life while optimizing dehydration and the time to effect it. It uses a specific pulse train in which the positive pulse width is much greater than the negative pulse width that is, in turn, greater than the off period. U.S. Pat. No. 6,117,295, , to Bjerke, Sep. 12, 2000.","A method that claims to be an improvement over the '709 patent provides a control unit to control the pulse width of individual pulses by monitoring characteristics of the energizing source. U.S. Pat. No. 6,126,802, , to Utklev, Oct. 3, 2000.","A more recent patent proposes a solution to overcome the disadvantage of the '709 patent when used to dehumidify steel-reinforced structures. It specifically prevents the deterioration of the reinforcing steel by providing a second voltage to the reinforcement steel in addition to the typical electro-osmosis configuration of the '709 patent and its predecessors. U.S. Pat. No. 6,370,643 B1, to Finnebriaten, Aug. 7, 2001.","An Electro-Osmotic Pulse (EOP) system is realized by installing anodes (positive electrodes) in the interior wall, floor or ceiling of the structure and cathodes (negative electrodes) in the soil exterior to the structure. Due to the extreme electrochemical environment surrounding the anode, special material and geometry requirements may be placed on an anode intended to be used for other than \u201ctrickle current\u201d loads or extended periods, or both.","Durable, dimensionally stable anodes are a recent development in anode technology. They have excellent characteristics to include: low resistivity, very low dissolution rates, long life, durability, and corrosion resistance. Durable, dimensionally stable anodes are also referred to as semiconductive anodes. Durable anodes that are classified as dimensionally stable generally consist of a valve metal substrate such as niobium, tantalum, titanium or alloys thereof, with a catalytic coating consisting of precious metal(s), most often from the platinum metal group, and often in oxide form in combination with valve metal oxides as a mixed metal oxide.","Although conventionally used for \u201chumidity control,\u201d a rather unconventional use for EOP systems in porous structures lies in taking water (moisture) removal to extremes, i.e., removing sufficient water to weaken the structure in that a minimum amount of moisture is needed to hold together the porous structure. For example, concrete deteriorates rapidly when significant moisture is removed.","Conventionally, several methods are used to demolish concrete or other masonry structures. Some require a mechanical device or explosives to remove the concrete or masonry material or to dismantle the structure. Most if not all of these processes are noisy, dusty and potentially dangerous to the workers involved.","In a preferred embodiment of the present invention, an objective heretofore undesired in prior patents is attained, i.e., concrete or masonry is treated by electro-osmosis until the concrete or masonry and the structure it is supporting is weakened.","Provided is a method for controlling the amount of water (moisture) in porous (capillary) materials via incorporation of a durable, dimensionally stable anode in an Electro-Osmotic Pulse (EOP) system. Employing such a system yields water transport that is both more efficient and more reliable than conventional methods. Additionally, flexibility of design is inherent in the use of the durable, dimensionally stable anodes that may be shaped easily to meet specific requirements, thus also facilitating their installation. These anodes may also handle higher current levels than similarly sized non-durable anodes which means that they are able to be used in a broader range of applications.","Alternative designs may be employed by using semiconductive coatings applied to valve metal substrates to produce a durable, dimensionally stable composite anode. Anode coatings may be one or more precious metals, precious metal oxides, valve metal oxides, or any combination of these. The resulting durable, dimensionally stable anode may include metallic, cement or ceramic coated anodes that are chemically and electrochemically stable. The use of durable, dimensionally stable anode composites has three advantages:\n\n","These three advantages allow durable, dimensionally stable anodes to be placed where conventional anodes fail. Conventional EOP systems use \u201cionic\u201d or \u201cmassive\u201d anodes that are consumed over time, thereby separating from the surrounding material while exhibiting decreasing current transfer, eventually reduced to zero. Since the dimensionally stable anode does not change shape, this allows a wider variety of placement options and a practically unlimited lifetime in this application. The wide range of available shapes greatly increases design flexibility. Since iridium and its metal oxide are two of the most chemically inert materials, they are the materials most often chosen for use in the manufacturing of dimensionally stable anodes. Unlike materials conventionally used for EOP anodes, it will not degrade if solvents and many other chemicals are spilled on the floor or wall in which the anodes have been installed. Specifically, iridium based anodes may be employed in both chlorine and oxygen rich environments.","Further, a durable, dimensionally stable anode increases the efficiency of an EOP system, enabling higher current densities for the same anode geometry or reduction in the size of the anode for a given current density.","Employing conductive grouts with a durable, dimensionally stable anode increases the anode's effective surface area, permitting more current to be transferred while reducing any impedance mismatch effects due to high current densities at the anode-media interface. In a conventional humidity control task, employing durable, dimensionally stable anodes and conductive grouts allows the interior surface moisture to be reduced and maintained for the long term below 55% relative humidity (RH). At this level of RH, growth of mold and bacteria is reduced substantially, leading to improved indoor air quality.","A preferred embodiment of the present invention provides a method of controlling the movement of water (moisture) through porous (capillary) materials by electro-osmosis. It specifically includes inserting a durable, dimensionally stable anode in porous material containing moisture. The durable, dimensionally stable anode comprises a valve metal substrate with a semiconductive coating of a precious metal, cement or ceramic material. Also provided is a cathode located in an area outside of the porous material. A voltage is applied across the durable, dimensionally stable anode and cathode thereby creating an electromagnetic field in the porous material that causes cations and associated water molecules to move from the durable, dimensionally stable anode to the cathode.","In a specific embodiment of the present invention, an electro-osmotic system employing durable, dimensionally stable anodes inserts an electric field in select parts of a structure composed of porous material in a pre-specified pattern and over a pre-specified cycle for the purpose of weakening it to facilitate its demolition. The electric field establishes an osmotic outward flow of moisture from within the structure to which it is applied.","The system operates with pre-specified parameters including, but not limited to, a pre-specified pulse train of energy at a pre-specified amplitude level in a pre-specified cycle for a pre-specified time. The pre-specified parameters are determined by relating measurements, e.g., resistivity, taken from the structure and its surrounding environs to known data. In its normal mode of operation, the system is operated at a level that eliminates the possibility of damaging electrical shock to workers installing and operating it.","The pre-specified pulse train comprises a first positive DC voltage pulse of a first pre-specified duration, a second negative DC voltage pulse of a second pre-specified duration, and a zero DC voltage period of a third pre-specified duration. To attain its goal of reducing the level of shock hazard to workers in its normal mode of operation, the system operates at a nominal voltage of 40 V DC or less with pulse widths in the 1-60 second range. In a preferred embodiment, the first pulse is a positive pulse with a greater pulse width than the second negative pulse. The off period, or zero-voltage pulse, normally is of a longer duration than the negative pulse. This pulse train is continued until the porous material is determined to be sufficiently dehydrated to weaken the structure for demolition.","The system, in its most basic configuration comprises durable, dimensionally stable anodes in electrical communication with the structure, cathodes that complete a circuit between the anode and the power supply and a pathway between each anode and its corresponding cathode to carry energy from an external source to create the electric field that establishes an electro-osmotic flow of moisture from the structure. To optimize the life of anodes selected for the process, it is advantageous to employ durable dimensionally stable anodes, e.g., any of those built using a process detailed in U.S. Pat. No. 5,055,169, , to Hock et al., Oct. 8, 1991, incorporated herein by reference. The system is operated within pre-specified parameters including but not limited to: a pre-specified pattern of disposition of the anodes and cathodes within the structure, energy in the form of a pulsed DC voltage at a pre-specified voltage level with a pre-specified cycle of pulses, i.e., a repeating pulse train having a pre-specified number of pulses of a pre-specified type and pre-specified pulse duration.","The most common type of porous material targeted for weakening is concrete, including concrete reinforced with steel, although other types of durable porous material, such as brick, concrete block, and composite masonry material, may also be targeted. In one embodiment, the cathode is a rod in electrical communication with the earth and the anode is an electrically conducting wire embedded in the structure. The anode may be electrically connected to the structure via an electrically conducting coating on the surface of the structure.","In an alternate mode, the system may be operated to provide a current of at least 400 mA\/ftof surface area of the anode to induce the formation of acid, or acids, in the porous material. Also provided is a method of implementing the system.","The method of an embodiment of the present invention for weakening a structure using an electro-osmotic system operated at a voltage level that insures worker safety, comprises:\n\n","An alternative method involves applying a significantly higher voltage to the porous material to enable formation of an acid or acids within the porous material. The acids, in turn, degrade the material from within, thereby degrading the structure.","Advantages of a specific embodiment of the present invention employed to facilitate demolition include:\n\n","Refer to FIG. . In a specific embodiment, the present invention facilitates electro-osmosis by inserting durable, dimensionally stable anode wires , such as the durable dimensionally stable anode wires that may be produced via the process detailed in the ' patent noted above, into the concrete  that may be part of a structure comprising porous material, for example, a concrete structure to be demolished, and places cathode rods  in the soil  directly outside of that structure. The durable, dimensionally stable anode wire  is embedded in the concrete , e.g., using mortar, and the cathode rod , typically a copper-clad steel ground rod, is embedded into the soil . As depicted, the cathode rod  may be placed a short distance, e.g., 2 meters, from the concrete . Hard wires ,  are used to form the circuit containing the durable, dimensionally stable anode wire , the cathode rod  and a DC power supply  in turn fed by an electrical power source . The number of durable, dimensionally stable anode wires  and cathode rods , and placement thereof, m is determined from an initial resistivity test of the concrete  and soil . The objective is to achieve a pre-specified current density to create an electric field strength in the concrete  sufficient to overcome the force exerted by the hydraulic gradient on the water molecules  enclosed therein. When the system is energized, the cations  (e.g., Ca++) and water molecules  in the concrete flow in the direction of the arrows  towards the cathode rod , thus \u201cde-watering\u201d the concrete in the structure.","Refer to Table 1 below for practical limits on operating current over time for the durable, dimensionally stable anode. It is expressed in current per area of contact, such as Amps (A) or milliamps (mA) current per square meter (m) or square feet (ft) of anode in contact with the porous material, i.e., electrode (anode) current density, A\/mor mA\/ft. Note that the anode current density may achieve a destructive objective on the porous material around the anode if maximum current density or time of application, or both, is exceeded. This is discussed below in relation to the formation of acids in the porous material.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0048","num":"0061"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00001","num":"00001"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"center"}},"thead":{"row":{"entry":"TABLE 1"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":"Anode Operating Parameters"}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"70pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"56pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"91pt","align":"center"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"Current Density","Current 1.6 mm dia."]},{"entry":["Operating","on Anode","wire mA\/m"]},{"entry":["Duration","A\/m(mA\/ft)","(mA\/lineal ft)"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["two weeks","4.4 (400)","21.3 (6.5)\u2002"]},{"entry":["six months","0.44 (40)","2.1 (0.65)\u2002"]},{"entry":["projected life","0.22 (20)","1.07 (0.33)"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}},"The required current density depends on the initial moisture content in the porous material. Assuming the application of anode current density as provided in Table 1, a practical maximum current density for a typical concrete structure is provided in Table 2. The values in Table 2 are derived by dividing the values of Table 1, i.e. current density capacity of the 1.6 mm ({fraction (1\/16)}\u2033) diameter wire current density limit per lineal meter (or lineal feet) by an assumed maximum area that one meter (or one foot) of the anode wire is able to treat. For treating high moisture content concrete (>30% water), empirical measurements indicate 0.92 m(3.0 ft) of concrete may be addressed by a lineal meter (3.3 ft) of anode wire and 1.8 m(6.0 ft) may be addressed by a lineal meter (3.3 ft) for low moisture concrete (<30% water). Moisture measurements may be taken with a PROTI-METER.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0050","num":"0063"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00002","num":"00002"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"center"}},"thead":{"row":{"entry":"TABLE 2"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":"Current Density to Achieve Effective Treatment of Concrete"}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"4"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"77pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"42pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"42pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"56pt","align":"center"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Initial Moisture Content","Two Weeks","Six Months","Expected life"]},{"entry":["of Concrete surveyed at","mA\/m","mA\/m","20 yrs+"]},{"entry":["2.5 cm & 7.6 cm depth","(mA\/ft)","(mA\/ft)","mA\/m(mA\/ft)"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":[">30%","23.7 (2.2)","2.4 (0.22)","1.2 (0.11)"]},{"entry":["<30%","11.9 (1.1)","1.2 (0.11)","0.6 (0.06)"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}},"Refer to FIG. . Because a good earth ground is not always readily accessible, a borehole  may be drilled through the wall  of the structure to be demolished. The cathode rod  which may be a copper clad steel rod, or rebar, typically of one-inch diameter is inserted in the borehole , together with a cathode wire  suitably attached to the free end of the cathode rod  and encapsulated with epoxy  as insulation from the concrete. The cathode rod  may extend from and through the surrounding existing soil  to the wall  that will be demolished. Not shown in , but understood, is the cathode wire  extending from the wall  to where it is joined to the external DC power supply . Encapsulating the wall  abutting the borehole, the inserted portion of the cathode rod  and the insulating compound  is epoxy  used to bond and seal the borehole  in the concrete wall .","Refer also to , providing a view similar to  but for a concrete floor poured above a suitable base of gravel and soil .","A durable, dimensionally stable anode wire  is shown in perspective detail in FIG. B. Refer to  in which the durable, dimensionally stable anode wire  of  is depicted in use. Non-shrink grout  extends around the durable, dimensionally stable anode wire  located within a previously formed groove  in the concrete floor . The durable, dimensionally stable anode wire  consists of a base material , typically titanium, and an electrically conducting oxide layer such as a conductive ceramic coating . The electrically conductive ceramic coating  may consist of a dual phase mixture of iridium, tantalum and titanium oxides. Although the exact composition for this ceramic coating  may vary, it may generally comprise a mixed metal oxide film incorporating a dual phase mixture of TiO(rutile) and RuOor IrO, or both. It is highly desirable that this current conducting ceramic coating  have a resistivity less than 0.002 ohm-centimeter (\u03a9-cm) and bond strength greater than 50 Megapascals (MPa). This ceramic-coated durable, dimensionally stable anode wire  is desired to be chemically inert and the electrically conductive ceramic coating  dimensionally stable. The durable, dimensionally stable ceramic anode wire  should be able to sustain a current density of 100 ampere\/meter (A\/m) in an oxygen-generating electrolyte at 65\u00b0 C. (150\u00b0 F.) for 20 years as described in the '169 patent, to maintain necessary current carrying capacity in use. Other types of durable, dimensionally stable anodes, including those having different conductive coatings, may be used. One such coating, described in the '169 patent, is an electrically conducting coating that is able to sustain a current density of approximately 150 A\/mof exposed coating surface in fresh water electrolyte for at least 75 hours without a significant increase in a voltage level required to maintain that current density.","Refer to FIG. . The operating cycle of the DC power supply  is represented by a positive pulse, a negative pulse, and an off period having time durations of T, T, and T, respectively. T is the total elapsed time for one operating cycle. As a result of the application of this energy in this manner, the pore fluid in the concrete moves in the direction of the cathode rod . Typically, the positive voltage pulse has the longest pulse width of Tand the negative voltage pulse's width of Tis even shorter than the off period, T. In some applications, the pulse width, T, of the positive pulse might equal T, representing the degenerative case of a constant direct-current voltage of amplitude V being applied. The amplitude, V, and pulse durations of the pulse train are application dependent. Generally, assuming significant moisture within the concrete, the rate of moisture removal is directly proportional to the voltage, the greater the voltage the greater the rate of moisture removal and drying.","Refer to  concrete wall  and concrete floor  each have the cathode rod  inserted as depicted in FIG.  and the durable, dimensionally stable anode wire  as depicted in FIG. A. The durable, dimensionally stable anode wire  is in a groove at the junction of the wall  and floor . As shown, the durable, dimensionally stable anode wire , surrounded by grout , is placed at a depth of about 38 mm (\u00bd\u2033) into the floor .","Preferably, grout  forms a channel of a width of about 13 mm (\u00bd\u2033).","In addition, a conventional concrete footing  is located below ground level under the wall . By installing the durable, dimensionally stable anode wire  in the juncture between the wall  and floor , both the wall  and floor  may be energized by one durable, dimensionally stable anode wire . The cathode , preferably having a length of about 60-120 cm, is inserted through the concrete floor , having suitable insulating epoxy encapsulating it for the length of its insertion in the floor , and is spaced about 60 cm from the durable, dimensionally stable anode wire .","Refer to  depicting an EOP system utilizing reinforcing steel as the cathode rod  in a concrete column  installed above a concrete footing . This footing  provides a base support for the column , as would be used in a structure, e.g., a building or bridge. The durable, dimensionally stable anode wire  is placed at the intersection of the column  and footing  as is also shown in FIG. .","Refer to  depicting what occurs when, using an alternative embodiment, a high-energy pulse that may be considerably longer in duration than typical is applied. This high-energy pulse generates the formation of acid  that attacks the concrete in the area  immediately around the durable, dimensionally stable anode wire . When the operation of the electro-osmotic system is at a high current density, i.e., greater than 4.4 A\/m(400 mA\/ft) of anode surface area, i.e., 0.2 mA\/cm (6.5 mA\/ft) for a 0.8 mm (0.032\u2033) diameter durable, dimensionally stable anode wire , oxidation of hydroxyl ions, OH, occurs, producing two molecules of water (i.e., four for each four hydroxyls produced), one oxygen molecule and four electrons that are transferred via the system's established conductive (metallic) path to the cathode rod . The reaction may be represented by:\n\n4OH\u21922HO+O+4e\u2003\u2003(1)\n\n\u20036HO+E\u21924(HO)+O\u2003\u2003(2)\n\nwhere E is the energy supplied from electrolysis at the durable, dimensionally stable anode wire .\n","With the process depicted in , hydroxyls and water molecules are employed in the vicinity of the durable, dimensionally stable anode wire , increasing concentration of hydrogen ions and reducing pH upon formation of acid  that eventually degrades the concrete structure. In principle, the configuration of the durable, dimensionally stable anode wires , cathode rods  and DC power supply  is similar to previously described embodiments. However, spacing and sizing of the respective elements, i.e., durable, dimensionally stable anode wires , cathode rods , and DC power supply , is adjusted to achieve the higher current densities required to achieve the oxidation of the hydroxyl ions and electrolysis of water molecules . Likewise, the voltage levels used and the pulse widths are appropriately adjusted, i.e., the voltage may be increased as well as the pulse width of the energizing pulses with the off-cycle duration approaching zero to quickly oxidize the generated hydroxyl ions.","Refer to  in which a DC power source  is connected to durable, dimensionally stable anode wires  and cathode rods  (not shown in boreholes accessing a soil ground, but implied) in a concrete slab . This configuration facilitates pre-specified sequential demolition of structural elements. Although not shown, the durable, dimensionally stable anode wires  and cathode rods  may be placed on opposite surface sides of selected areas of the slab  to allow for weakening in place without inducing weakening in adjacent structural elements. The area  represents an electrically conductive coating that may be applied to the slab  to facilitate conduction. Using this coating as a durable, dimensionally stable anode or cathode may be accomplished by placing a wire from the DC power source  to one side of the coating  and a wire to another terminal  on the surface of the concrete slab  opposite that with the coating .","Refer to FIG. . The three methods of connecting to a concrete structure described above are illustrated side by side. The first method, as illustrated in slab A, involves connecting durable, dimensionally stable hard anode wires  and rods  by embedding them in the concrete or providing an electrically conductive surface coating . Note that in any of the three examples, each side of the concrete slab may be configured differently, so that side  may be configured as shown in FIG. A and side  may be configured as shown in  where only durable, dimensionally stable hard anode wires  and rods  are used. Finally, all connections to the slab may be via a conductive coating  as shown in FIG. C.","Although specific types of electro-osmotic configurations are discussed, other similar configurations or methods, including those that may have only some of the constituents or steps used in the above examples, may be suitable for dehydrating a structure or weakening a structure for demolition and thus fall within the ambit of a preferred embodiment of the present invention as provided in the claims herein.","The abstract is provided to comply with the rules requiring an abstract, which will allow a searcher to quickly ascertain the subject matter of the technical disclosure of any patent issued from this disclosure. It is submitted with the understanding that it will not be used to interpret or limit the scope or meaning of the claims, 37 CFR \u00a7 1.72(b). Any advantages and benefits described may not apply to all embodiments of the invention."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0048"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0049"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0037","num":"0050"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0051"},"figref":"FIG. 4A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0039","num":"0052"},"figref":"FIG. 4B","b":"4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0040","num":"0053"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0041","num":"0054"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0042","num":"0055"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0043","num":"0056"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0044","num":"0057"},"figref":"FIG. 9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0045","num":"0058"},"figref":"FIG. 10"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
