---
title: Grenade dispense mechanism for non-spin dual purpose improved conventional munitions
abstract: A grenade dispensing mechanism for non-spin or low spin dual purpose improved conventional munition launched from inside a projectile. At a pre-determined point along the trajectory, the projectile time fuze which is set at the gun functions to provide initiation output to the payload expulsion charge assembly. The payload expulsion charge assembly contains a propellant which when ignited, produces a gas pressure acting on a pusher plate which acts as a piston. The gas pressure increases with time until the forces of the gas pressure acting on the pusher plate through the grenade payload to the base/tail assembly are sufficient to shear the thread attachment of the base assembly to the projectile body section. An obturator band serves to seal the expulsion gas pressures to prevent excessive gas blow-by as the payload canister assembly travels through the rifled projectile body section. Upon thread shear, the base separates from the projectile body permitting movement of the grenade payload toward the aft open end of the projectile body. The projectile payload section is in the warhead/payload canister assembly. A pre-engraved rotating band attached to the payload canister as it travels through the projectile section rifling creates a torque thus the grenades emerge from the projectile body with rotational and tangential velocity determined by their position in the payload section which cause the grenades to disperse, arm and stabilize to form a large approximately uniform, distribution of grenades in a pattern effects over a target area.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=06981450&OS=06981450&RS=06981450
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 06981450
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20020111
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["U.S. GOVERNMENT INTEREST","BACKGROUND OF INVENTION","SUMMARY OF INVENTION","BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS"],"p":["The invention described herein may be manufactured, used or licensed by or for the U.S. Government, for U.S. Government purposes.","I. Field of Invention","This invention applies to the field of artillery projectiles fired from gun platforms and launchers that are known as dual purpose conventional munitions.","II. Background of the Invention","Dual purpose conventional munitions (DPICM) have historically been developed for high spin gun fired artillery projectiles. The changing requirements of the military to achieve longer ranges have dictated the pursuit of fin stabilized guidance projectile warheads with non-spin\/low spin characteristics. Projectiles such as the XM 982 and EX-171 extended range DPICM pose unique problems, which require solutions. These are:\n\n","In the past, center core burster charges have been used in low spin rocket systems such as the ER-MLRS. This method dispenses grenades through the thin rocket skin without damage to the grenades. The current method used in both the XM892 and EX-171 projectiles makes use of an expulsion charge, pyrotechnic element, gas generator and expandable metal bladder. Additional hardware such as a spine with pusherplate, payload retaining rods, aft bulk head, retainer, melt plugs and pad, are required.","The above past and current techniques were found to be unsatisfactory for a number of reasons.","First, center core bursters do not work successfully in artillery projectiles since by necessity, projectile body walls are made sufficiently thick to survive high gun setback and spin forces. Grenades passing through projectile body walls, if this were possible to achieve, would result in severely damaged components.","Secondly, the current designs for such precision munitions (non-spin) as the Artillery XM982 and EX-171 actually exacerbate overall problems as stated in paragraph 1 above with the use of inefficient and complex expel and dispense hardware. Moreover, the design approaches do not address the task of projectile spin nor do they address grenade fuze arming and stabilization in the air stream.","Accordingly, it is an object of this invention to eliminate inefficient, complex payload hardware adding to projectile weight and cost.","Another object is to provide a projectile which maximizes projectile grenade capacity and provides, hence, for increased warhead lethality.","Yet, another object is to provide the enabling of grenade fuze arming and stabilization\/orientation for grenade impact function, providing for increased reliability.","Another object is to provide for improved ground pattern effects area and grenade distribution in the pattern with improved hit probability and reduced overkill.","Another object is to make use of the more effective M80 Dual Purpose Grenade against soft targets, such as personnel, radar, trucks, and launchers.","Another object is to make use of a wide range of dual purpose submunitions rather than just M80 grenades.","Yet, another object is to improve projectile efficiency in terms of cost effectiveness, i.e. lethality\/LB and lethality\/$ to defeat.","Another object is to reduce or eliminate the need for difficult load bearing joint designs aft and forward of the payload section with the generation of lower expulsion charge pressures required to expel and dispense the grenade payload.","Yet, another final object is to provide a simple design with the use of only six parts, a pre-engraved rotating band and obturator, a pusher plate, an expulsion charge, projectile payload section and payload canister.","Furthermore this invention, as described applies to both non-spin projectiles such as precision munitions and low spin projectiles such as mortars and rocket systems.","Finally, the last object is to replace the two-stage delay function system of the current XM982\/EX-171 designs with a one stage expel and dispense mechanism.","It has now been discovered that the above and other objects of the present invention may be accomplished in the following manner.","Specifically dual purpose conventional munitions (DPICM) depend on high rates of spin of stabilized artillery projectiles to expel and dispense their grenade payloads over a large target area. These projectiles obtain their high rates of spin during gun launch. As the projectile travels down the gun tube, the projectile rotating band engages the lands and grooves of the rifled gun tube imparting a twisting action or torque to the projectile. The projectile emerges from the gun tube with high spin and velocity. The projectile flies a ballistic trajectory toward the target zone many kilometers down range. At a pre-determined point along the trajectory, the projectile time fuze, which is set at the gun, functions to provide initiation output to the payload expulsion charge assembly. The assembly contains a propellant which when ignited, produces a gas pressure acting on a pusher plate or piston. The gas pressure increases with time (msec) until the forces of the gas pressure acting on the pusher plate through the grenade payload to the base\/tail assembly are sufficient to shear the thread attachment of the base assembly to the projectile body section. Upon thread shear, the base separates from the projectile body permitting the movement of the grenade payload toward the aft open end of the projectile body. The grenades emerge from the projectile body with rotational and tangential velocity determined by their position in the payload section. This rotational and translational velocity causes the grenades to disperse, arm and stabilize to form a large, approximately uniform, distribution of grenades in a pattern effects area over the target.","Grenade dispense mechanism for non-spin dual purpose improved conventional munitions according to the first embodiment of the present invention is depicted in . With particular reference to , the expulsion charge assembly  located toward the forward ogival end of the carrier, consists of a container with a quantity of ignitable propellant charge  such as M10, ball powder or other comparable propellants. The expulsion charge  is ignited by the action of the primary projectile fuze  at a predetermined point near or at the target area. The expulsion charge  at  produces a gas pressure whose build up in time (msecs) exerts a force on the pusher plate  at  located adjacent to the expulsion charge  to separate the base end  of the projectile  to cause the payload canister  at  to move rear-ward in the payload section  of .","More particularly,  and  show the pusher plate  which acts as a piston to transmit the expulsion gas forces through the payload canister  at  to separate the base tail fin assembly  by the shearing of threads joining the tail fin assembly  to the projectile payload section  at .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0043","num":"0049"},"figref":["FIG. 3A","FIG. 2A","FIGS. 3A","FIGS. 3A"],"b":["8","8","7","8","10","3","10","8","4","7","3","7","8"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0044","num":"0050"},"figref":["FIGS. 4","FIGS. 4B","FIGS. 5A","FIGS. 6A"],"b":["7","11","12","12","7","12","12","13","7","7","21","14","5","15","6","7","8"]},"Using , the pre-engraved rotating band  is copper material 9% to 12% Zinc, 0.1% to 1.25% Iron, and is attached to the payload canister section ,  by means of a weld or swage operation. The band  is constructed with lands and grooves which fit and pass through the rifled design  of the projectile payload section  shown at , B. The friction force created by the action of the pre-engraved band  as it travels through the projectile section  rifling  imparts a torque or rotational motion to the payload canister assembly . An adequate number of lands and grooves, which comprise the band  which fit and pass through the rifling design , are required.","Upon the ignition and action of the expulsion gas forces, the payload canister assembly  engages the rifled design  of the projectile payload section  with its pre-engraved rotating band , and after the tail assembly  is separated travels through the rifled  projectile section , making the necessary turns as a function of the allowable capacity of the projectile section .","The payload section  exits from the projectile  with sufficient velocity and spin to cause the canister  to separate and disperse the grenades . The number of lands and grooves designed for the band  may vary depending on the design of rifling selected for the projectile body section . The imparting of high spin rates to the grenades  overcomes the deficiency of current methods used in non-spin\/low-spin artillery systems such as the XM982 and EX-171 Extended Range Fin Stabilized Projectiles. Hence, this process provides for improved reliability of the expulsion event due to enhanced fuze arming and stabilization under spin. The invention also increases lethality delivered to the target by virtue of its capacity to provide much needed space for maximizing grenade  capacity and improving therefore the size and distribution of the grenades'  ground effects on the target. The scientific principles upon which the invention is based are Newton's laws of motion and the conservation of angular momentum.","An alternate embodiment of the invention would be to use a non-pre-engraved copper rotating band mounted on the payload canister . This design will engage the lands and grooves of the rifled projectile body section , when under the action of the expulsion gas forces, to provide by its engraving action a torque to the payload canister  as it travels along the projectile body section .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0049","num":"0055"},"figref":["FIG. 6A","FIGS. 6A","FIG. 5A"],"b":["15","15","6","14","7","15","7","10","8","15","15","16","15","8"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0050","num":"0056"},"figref":"FIGS. 7A","b":["7","7","4","19","13","4","7","8","9","4","20","4"]},"The spacer  is made of plastic material and is of solid cylindrical construction. The spacer  purpose is to take-up slack in the payload area so that the inner grenades  are made to touch the outer grenades to create a tight pact. The spacer  has a length of 1.80 inches and a diameter of 0.233 inches."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED DRAWINGS","p":["The features of the present invention and the manner of attaining them will become apparent, and the invention itself will be understood by reference to the following description and the accompanying drawings. In these drawings, like numerals refer to the same or similar elements. The sizes of the different components in the figures might not be in exact proportion and are shown for visual clarity and for the purpose of explanation.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0031"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0032"},"figref":"FIG. 2A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0033"},"figref":"FIG. 2B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0034"},"figref":"FIG. 3A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0035"},"figref":["FIG. 3B","FIG. 3A"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0036"},"figref":"FIG. 4A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0037"},"figref":["FIG. 4B","FIG. 4A"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0038"},"figref":"FIG. 5A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0039"},"figref":["FIG. 5B","FIG. 5A"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0040"},"figref":["FIG. 5C","FIG. 5A"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0041"},"figref":"FIG. 6A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0042"},"figref":"FIG. 6B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0037","num":"0043"},"figref":["FIG. 6C","FIG. 6A"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0044"},"figref":"FIG. 7A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0039","num":"0045"},"figref":"FIG. 7B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0040","num":"0046"},"figref":"FIG. 7C"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
