---
title: Electronic trading confirmation system
abstract: A system and method of confirming trades of financial instruments such as OTC derivatives is disclosed. The system includes a data interface which accepts data relating to a trade from both the trader and counter party. The data includes different data fields of differing importance. The system includes a matching engine which compares the submitted data and assigns the trade a status depending on which of the data fields match. The system allows a user to filter trades on their status and display the details relating to that trade. The system also allows a user to display the data fields and change the data fields in order to change the status of the trades. The system thus allows a user to electronically confirm a trade and also identify unmatched trades and the information necessary to reconcile such unmatched trades.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08005743&OS=08005743&RS=08005743
owner: IntercontinentalExchange, Inc.
number: 08005743
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20020917
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["RELATED APPLICATIONS","FIELD OF INVENTION","BACKGROUND OF INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENT"],"p":["This application claims priority from provisional application No. 60\/343,437 filed Dec. 21, 2001 and provisional application No. 60\/338,803 filed Nov. 13, 2001. The contents of both applications are hereby incorporated by reference.","This invention relates to a system and method of clearing trades on an electronic exchange and more specifically to a system and method which matches known information offered by a trader and a counter party to confirm a trade.","Traditional trading of commodities or financial instruments such as stocks and bonds has taken place in markets where traders offer various commodities at different prices. Such trades were performed using hand signals and paper was used to finalize the actual trading contract. With the advent of computers, more complex and faster trades may be made by integrating computing power. Additionally, the growth of the Internet and other electronic communications systems has moved the realm of trading beyond the trading floor. With the increasing complexity of the economy, a greater diversity of financial commodity products may be offered including derivatives. Derivatives are defined as a financial contract whose value depends on the values of one or more underlying assets or indices of asset values. Presently, derivatives are traded in traditional exchanges which can include futures or options in commodities ranging from pork bellies to currency prices. Recently, derivatives have also been traded in the over-the-counter (OTC) market defined by transactions by large financial institutions such as commercial banks or insurance companies. Such derivatives can include swaps, options, caps, floors, corridors, etc. derived from interest rates, foreign currencies, equities and other commodities or financial instruments.","Exchange derivatives are structured with standard terms such as contract size, maturity, expiration date, etc. set by an exchange such as the Chicago Board of Trade. Additionally, trades of exchange derivatives and their supporting data are sent to a third party clearing house for settlement. In contrast, OTC derivatives are more flexible because none of the business terms of an OTC derivative are standardized. In addition, the settlement of the trade occurs directly through the trading parties as no third party clearing house exists because of the diversity of different derivatives.","One emerging over-the-counter market of derivative products is in the field of energy. With deregulation of the power industry, there is a much greater diversity of power generators with different types of energy sources such as natural gas, oil, electricity and solar. With such diverse energy sources and suppliers, a market has arisen in trading the commodities of energy between such producers. Various financial and physical derivative instruments such as swaps, options or spreads have been formulated by various players in the energy market. Players in this market range from traditional trading firms to energy companies. Like many financial markets, technology makes accessibility to the over-the-counter energy derivative market far greater.","Traders in the OTC energy market typically agree to prices and terms with another trading counter party for a particular type of derivative in an energy product such as a natural gas swap. This type of trade involves certain common terms such as settlement and payment terms. The trade may be made directly with a counter party, or by phone, or more recently, via an electronic platform such as the Internet. Such trades are recorded by the traders on their trade notebooks and trade data is entered directly into their company's trade data capture computer systems. These systems generate confirmation documents and summary data relating to the trade.","Like other OTC derivatives, energy derivatives do not have a uniform confirmation system of terms once a trade is made between the parties. Thus, when a trade is made, the parties must confirm the terms of the trade. Both the traders record the details of the trade in a trade notebook and enter the data directly into their company's trade capture system. The company's trade capture system prints confirmation documents which are reviewed and sent to the other party. This typically takes place by faxing the confirmation documents to the other party. A clerk then checks the terms of the received confirmation documents against the recorded alleged trade in the trade notebook and the data output of the receiving party's own trade capture system. Information such as the buyer and seller, purchase or sale, product, instrument, delivery point, price, delivery terms, etc. must match. After a clerk reviews the trade, any discrepancies must be reported to the trading counter party and a reconciliation must be made based on the recorded information. When it is confirmed that the information is accurate, the contracts are then signed and exchanged. Thus, the amount of time necessary for confirming the trade takes much longer then the trade itself. Even a trade which is correctly executed by both parties can take days to be fully confirmed. Errors prolong the process.","However, other errors are possible since clerks must examine and confirm numerous trades with often different forms for each derivative product. The confirmation problems resulting in much greater costs and decreased efficiencies. In fact, 18% of derivatives trades contain errors at the time of entry into a trade capture system. Many OTC derivatives are governed by a model Master Agreement endorsed by the International Swaps and Derivatives Association (\u201cISDA\u201d). While the master agreement does make certain reconciliation more efficient, it must be modified for each specific OTC derivative product and the terms must still be manually examined in order to settle the trades.","Thus, there is a need for an automated confirmation system for OTC derivative products. There is yet another need for a system which can standardize confirmation of OTC derivatives. There is a need for a confirmation system which allows the rapid entry and processing of trade data. There is also a need for a system which allows a user to summarize trades for a certain period to determine which trades have irregularities. There is a further need for a trading confirmation system which will match data relating to fields and categorize the trades to determine which trades are confirmed.","These needs and others may be met by the present invention, which has an aspect that is a system of determining the status of trades between a trader and a counter party, based on an electronic submission of a data file representing details in data fields of a trade by the trader and a second data file representing details in data fields of the trade by the counter party. The system has a data interface engine which reads the data files and data fields. A matching engine is coupled to the data interface engine and matches selected data fields in the data files and assigns a status to the trade based on whether the data fields submitted matches. A database is coupled to the matching engine which stores the resulting trade data to confirm the trade if all of the key details in the two data files match.","Another aspect is a method of electronically confirming trading of financial products, which include data fields that are agreed upon between a trader and a counter party. Trader data is submitted, including different data fields relating to the trade via an electronic interface. Counter party data is submitted including different data fields relating to the trade via an electronic interface. The data fields submitted by the trader and the counter party are compared to determine which fields match. The trade is confirmed if certain data fields match.","Another aspect is a method of electronically confirming trades of financial products between a party and a counter party having a master agreement governing the trades of the financial products. The master agreement is amended to allow electronic confirmation. The trader and the counter party are both connected electronically to a matching engine. Trader data, including different data fields relating to a trade, is submitted to the matching engine. Counter party data, including different data fields relating to the trade, is submitted to the matching engine. The trade is confirmed by matching certain data fields.","It is to be understood that both the foregoing general description and the following detailed description are not limiting but are intended to provide further explanation of the invention claimed. The accompanying drawings, which are incorporated in and constitute part of this specification, are included to illustrate and provide a further understanding of the method and system of the invention. Together with the description, the drawings serve to explain the principles of the invention.","While the present invention is capable of embodiment in various forms, there is shown in the drawings and will hereinafter be described a presently preferred embodiment with the understanding that the present disclosure is to be considered as an exemplification of the invention, and is not intended to limit the invention to the specific embodiment illustrated.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0037"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["10","10","12","12","12","12"]},"The processing system  has a matching engine  having a central processor . A confirmation program  is stored on the matching engine  and is run by the central processor . The processing system  has an external data input  which is connected to trading computers such as computers , ,  and . The processing system  may be part of an intranet including the trading computers ,  and  and thus may reside with the same trading firm. Alternatively, the trading computers , ,  and  may be computers coupled to the processing system  via the Internet in the case of day traders or other trading firms who use the processing system  to confirm their trades. As will be explained, each of the computers , ,  and  have different software for the submission of trade data to the processing system . Of course, it is to be understood that computers - are merely shown as examples and there can be numerous computers which submit trade data to the processing system .","Over the counter trades involving derivatives such as a crude oil swap in the financial oil market are made between a trader and another trader termed a counter party. Such a trade involves two trading entities entering a contract for crude oil that is to be settled against an agreed upon price index such as Platt's. The trade between the trader and the counter party may be made via telephone or over a secure Internet connection via a trading program such as the trading platform offered by Intercontinental Exchange. Of course, other ways to conduct trades may be used. Once the trade is agreed upon between the trader and the counter party, the details of the trade such as the type of energy product, price, date, etc. are logged by the trader and the counter party. In a trading firm, back office systems may be run on a back office computer  which also interfaces with other internal systems such as accounting in order to track the trade. The back office computer  may be connected to trading computers such as trading computer . In order to confirm that the trade is a legitimate trade, the details of the trade understood by both the trader and the counter party must be the same. Once the details are matched together, the trade is settled and considered executed.","The data for the trade as understood by both the trader and the counter party is entered separately via the trading computers , ,  and , which each represent a different means of communication of data to the processing system . The data from the trading computers are sent to a data interface module  of the processing system  via a secure interface using SSL and 128 bit encryption. Of course, other alternative or additional security measures may be employed. The matching program  on the processing system  classifies the trade in one of five different categories based on the consistency of the data with that submitted by the counter party using a data processing module  coupled to the interface module . The data from the trades are stored in a database module  which is coupled to the data processing module .","The data fields relating to a trade of a specific type of product may be codified, for example, by International Swaps and Derivatives Association (\u201cISDA\u201d). Typically the data in a trade includes price, trade date, counter party, settlement terms, payment instructions and delivery terms. Some of the data fields are specific to the product type and market. For example, for crude oil swaps in the financial market, specific terms may include a provision for common pricing. The product identification is a number assigned by the processing system  assigned to the product type. Certain data fields are classified as key which represent data that are used for first level matching of the trade. The key fields include price, quantity, total quantity, counter party, trade date and product identification for all products. Certain data fields are classified as required which is a field for which a user must submit a data value. For example a required field is the price in a crude oil swap. The required data fields are used for second level matching of the trade. Certain data fields are classified as information only which represents data that is supplied for informational purposes only, such as the broker for a crude oil swap. The program  also allows a system administrator to manage the authorized users to access the data and view summaries of the trades. A user may view trades, submit data regarding trades, edit, cancel, confirm and dispute trades through the program  via the computers , ,  and  in .","The program  allows a user to submit data relating to a trade through one of the computers , ,  and  and that trade will be categorized and allow a user to add additional information or edit inconsistent information to finalize any trades which do not have the initial agreement of the parties. The five categories of submitted trades are matched, alleged, unmatched, pending and canceled. A matched trade is the desired end result of a submitted trade which indicates that all data fields are matched exactly and all counter parties agree with the trader. An unmatched trade is one in which the key data fields match, but secondary fields such as required and information fields do not match between the trader and the counter party. A pending trade is a trade where one or more of the key data fields does not match between the trader and the counter party. A cancelled trade are those trades initially submitted, but then withdrawn by the trader. An alleged trade is a trade that a counter party alleges to have made with the trader, but the trader does not have an exact match of the data fields for the trade.","Thus, the program  allows a user to quickly review matched trades and identify trades which have problems such as unmatched terms or disagreement by the counter party. By identifying such disputed trades with an indicator in the matched category, the counter party and user may reconcile the conflict and correct the data using the program . Greater efficiency in the reconciliation process is gained by both identifying problematic trades and also identifying the specific terms which are in conflict.","In this example, the processing system  may interface with a user via a user computer  which may be a personal computer with an Internet browser program with the capability of running HTML and JavaScript. The user is thus presented with a web interface displayed on the user computer  to perform the functions of the program . With proper authorization, the user computer  allows a user to control the above functions, as well as generate reports of data relating to trades confirmed by the program . Of course, it is to be understood that any of the other trading computers , ,  and  may also be capable of running the user interface via a web browser program.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0046","num":"0045"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":["12","40","52","54","52","54","12"]},"Data from users may be entered through four different input mechanisms: a webpage on an Internet connected computer such as trader computer ; a dedicated webpage with tab delimited file upload capability such as trader computer ; an automated tab delimited file via a HTTPS capable computer such as trader computer ; and an XML application programming interface (API) on a connected computer such as trader computer . The data interface module  also has an XML API module  and an e-mail notification interface . The XML API module  and e-mail notification interface  provides output mechanisms based on requests from a user. The XML API interface provides an XML response mechanism for requests received via the XML API interface . The e-mail notification interface  provides responses to requests based on specific events within the system. These responses notify the user of events within the system  that affect specific data objects associated with the addressee of the e-mail notification.","The Internet connected computer  may be connected directly to the interface module . The user logs in and a webpage is displayed with a data entry form. The user fills out the data on the webpage and transmits the data. The data is then received on the XML interface . This method allows users to submit the data fields of one trade at a time.","The second computer  allows access to a webpage which has the necessary XML script to allow uploading of a single tab delimited file. The tab delimited file may be in the user's proprietary data format and can contain records of data fields reflecting many trades. Thus, a separate tab delimited file may be written for all trades for the day, or all trades of a particular market or product. The data contents in tab delimited file are then read by the processing system  via the tab delimited interface , as will be described below.","The third computer  contains a file upload agent which includes an HTTPS compatible posting agent such as an Open Source tool, cURL. As explained above, the tab delimited file may contain data fields relating to any number of trades. The cURL program is used to periodically check a given directory on the computer , read any updated tab delimited files in the directory, and securely post it to the processing system  using SSL. This is a 128 bit encryption in this example, but other security protocols may be used. The sent tab delimited files are input into the file upload interface .","The fourth computer  has an XML API which accepts trade data and fields in the standard format which will be described below. This standard format allows the data to be input into the XML interface . The use of an XML API is preferred because it allows the user and the counter party to submit trade information in real time as the trades are entering into their back office systems, such as on computer . In this example, the XML API on the computer  is based on XML format messaging to allow users to use the platform and development language of their choice.","The API on the computer  may use XML over the HTTP or HTTPS to enable transmission of data over the Internet to the processing system . The data scheme becomes a binding contract between the user and the counter party if both parties match all required fields of the trade, as will be detailed below. In order to use the HTTPS protocol, the user registers a digital certificate with the owner of the processing system  and handles cookies sent from the processing system .","Alternatively, the API may use XML messaging over HTTPS to enable transmission of data over the Internet to the processing system . The XML format message uses stored libraries to facilitate protocol handling and to interface with XML. The body of the XML message contains mandatory information intended for the ultimate recipient of the message.","The data processing module  includes an Internet web server cluster , a weblogic application server cluster , a trade mapping engine , and an e-mail server . The application server cluster  may include a server to store the trade matching engine  that is based on Oracle i, but other kinds of software and hardware which have database functionality may be used. The processing module  is protected by a firewall  which is interposed between the Internet web server cluster  and the interface module . The firewall  protects the Internet web server cluster  from unauthorized data from unidentified computers. The firewall  in this example is a Checkpoint firewall, but other types of firewalls may be used.","A second firewall , which is preferably a Checkpoint firewall, connects the Internet Web Cluster  with the processing module  and the database module  to protect data stored in them. The database module  includes a primary database server  and a backup database server  that access the database using shared storage. The database servers  and  supporting the database include the data described below which relate to trade information and confirmation data. This data includes internal identification and submission company identification for each company and trader using the system . The primary and backup database servers  and  support the Oracle databases in the preferred embodiment with a Sun Cluster to manage the cluster of database server  with the primary database server  and the shared storage.","In this example, the Internet web server cluster  includes Microsoft Internet Information servers which act as a gateway into the core components of the processing module . The Internet web server cluster  is used to store and send HTML pages which are used to build the graphical user interfaces for the confirmation program . The weblogic server cluster  is responsible for hosting the XML web services from the XML interfaces  and . The cluster  also receives uploaded tab delimited files, parses XML and converts the inputs to Java objects. The server cluster  also interfaces with the database module  via an interface . The interface  in this example is a JDBC connection pool, but it is to be understood that other connections may be used.","As will be explained below, the program has a standard format for the needed data field for a trade of a particular set of markets and products. This standard may be, for example, set by Intercontinental Exchange through the XML interface . This standard format is the native language of the confirmation system . Users may use different field and data formats through the tab delimited file input interface . If data is input in a different field and data format than the system standard, the mapping engine  converts the submitted data to the standard format.","The foundation of the matching engine  consists of a database design supporting the definition of products and trades. The matching engine  employs a rules based model enabling the matching process for any defined product.  is a chart of a database design  having the tables which support the products and trades. These tables include a CODE_TYPE table , an ECONFIRM_PRODUCT_MASTER table , a TRADE_DETAIL table , a TRADE table , a CODE_TYPE_XREF table , a FIRM_PRODUCT table , a PRODUCT_DEFAULT table , a TRADE_TYPES table  and a MARKET_TYPE table . Each of the tables - have different data fields which support the products and trades.","These tables provide the primary functions supporting the rule based architecture of the matching engine . The CODE_TYPE table  maintains the values of all trade components identified by the business for all the products within the system . The PRODUCT_MASTER table  defines the detailed information for all associated products by identifying the product value with the components defined in the CODE_TYPE table . The TRADE_DETAIL table  defines the components of the trade which includes the association of the trade to the user's trade values defined using the CODE TYPE table . The TRADE table  provides the header information for the trade and identifies the TRADE primary key and the user's trade identification. The trade primary key is the association key used within all other tables. The CODE_TYPE_XREF table  identifies the available product components defined in the CODE_TYPE table  to the associated market type defined in the MARKET_TYPE table . The FIRM_PRODUCT table  provides the definition of the product which includes the common definition of the product used by the system . The PRODUCT_DEFAULT table  provide the user default values for each product component and identifies the association between the component (XML_TAG) identifier in the CODE_TYPE table  and the component value identified in the CODE_TYPE table . The TRADE_TYPES table  provides the definition of specific trade types and associated market types. The MARKET_TYPE table  provides the definition of each market type supported by the system .","The PRODUCT MASTER table  defines the primary product category. The matching process utilizes the customer defined rules stored in the PRODUCT_MASTER table  as matching criteria for trades between two companies. This matching process occurs within the database of the matching engine  after the trade validation process.","The basis of the matching engine  revolves around the identification of the XML tag. The XML tag provides the definition of each product characteristic and identifies the matching criteria used by the matching engine . Each product includes one or more characteristics that define the matching criteria. These characteristics, or XML tags, define the make up of the matching components of each product and support the matching criteria of each trade. The product definition and matching criteria reside within the PRODUCT_MASTER table . The table  includes a PRODUCT_MASTER_ID field which is the primary, unique identification of the product master component. A PRODUCT_ID field is the product associated with the product component. An XML_TAG_ID field identifies the component or components of the product master. A DETAIL_ID field identifies a default or standard value for the component. A PART_OF_PRODUCT_FG field defines the products which default to the product master value as defined in DETAIL_ID. A PART OF_KEY_FG field identifies the primary matching criteria that comprises the main components of the trade. A MATCH_REQUIRED_FG field defines the secondary components of the matching criteria that determines the final and more detail components of the trade. An IS_REQUIRED_FG field identifies components required within the product definition.","The complete definition of the components relies on the unique relationship between the product definition and the CODE_TYPE table . The CODE_TYPE table  provides a single physical object supporting a large number of logical objects with the same internal attributes, such as the component definitions. The CODE_TYPE table  provides a common definition and identification for these components. For the architecture of the system , the CODE_TYPE table  supports the definition of the XML tabs, as well as the components and the component values. The CODE_TYPE table  supports the component values as most component values consist of predefined values. Therefore, the values of the XML tag, components and component values consist of the same structure and correlation to the CODE_TYPE table .","The CODE_TYPE table  includes a correlation of the XML tags and components. The CODE_TYPE table  includes a CODE_TYPE_ID field which correlates with the XML_TAG_ID and DETAIL_ID defined below. A CODE_TYPE_ID field includes a XML_TAG_ID field which is the identifier corresponding with the component and identifying the component type and a DETAIL_ID field which is the identifier of the CODE_TYPE corresponding with the value of the component. A SHORT_NAME field is the short description or identification of the code type defining the component or component value A LONG_NAME field is the complete description or name of the component or component value.","The trade validation process reviews submitted trade details and determines the validity of the trade details utilizing predefined criteria. The CODE_TYPE and CODE_TYPE_XREF tables  and  provide the mechanism for the predefined criteria as it identifies the valid codes or component values for each associated market type. This association structure provides validation levels using the market type, as currently performed, or other potential criteria. Other potential criteria includes product or trade type. The supporting components within the validation criteria revolve around the XML_TAG_ID and CODE_TYPE_ID fields in the CODE_TYPE table .","The rules definition process consists of defining the product, product components, and product default values. The product definition includes the product name and entries within the FIRM_PRODUCT table . The product components correlate the defined product with the multiple components or multiple entries within the PRODUCT_MASTER table . Each entry defines the component and component attributes, including the matching criteria. The matching criteria identifies the key components, match components, and required components, as well as the components comprising the product master and the default values of the product master components. The rules definition details the matching criteria for the matching process.","The matching process associates two distinct trades from two separate companies identifying a successful transaction between two companies. The matching process includes a key match and a component match. The key match identifies a subset of potential matching trades using the product components identified with a value of \u2018Y\u2019 in the PART_OF_KEY_FG field of the PRODUCT_MASTER table . These trades with matching key components identify unmatched trades and define a subset of potential matching trades. The completed match between two distinct trades successfully match when all components of the product and trades match on the components with a \u2018Y\u2019 in the MATCH_REQUIRED_FG field of the PRODUCT_MASTER table . These components match the XML_TAG_ID and DETAIL_ID of the PRODUCT_MASTER and TRADE_DETAIL tables  and , based on the product and market type.","The matching process must match all components identified as MATCH_REQUIRED and PART_OF_KEY fields in the PRODUCT_MASTER table  and contain matching values for each of these components for two trades. For trades matching this criteria, the first two trades, identified by the date\/time component of TRADE_DATE, comprise a matched trade. The following sections are identified by the step by step process of the matching engine .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0068","num":"0067"},"figref":"FIGS. 4A-4D","b":["14","12","122","104","102","14"]},"The processing system  then identifies the transfer of the company trade from the XML format to the database structure in step . This transfer utilizes an object structure and uses Oracle's Advanced Queuing for performance to submit data to the Oracle database. The matching engine  reads the trade object from the queue and begins processing the queue using the TRADE_ACTION attribute of the trade object. The TRADE_ACTION values are either \u2018CANCEL\u2019 or \u2018SUBMIT\u2019 which identify the cancel action or insert action respectively.","The matching engine  determines if the trade action value is \u2018CANCEL\u2019, identifying the trade object as a cancel request from the customer in step . If the trade object is a cancel request, the processing continues to step , which starts the cancel process, defined in . If the trade status value is not \u2018CANCEL\u2019, processing continues to step .","The other valid trade action is \u2018SUBMIT\u2019, which indicates the trade is either an insert or update trade request. The matching engine  determines whether the trade exists, defined by the trade date and the customer's trade number in step . If the trade exists, the request is an update trade request and the processing continues to step , which is an update trade routine that is continued in . Otherwise, the trade does not exist and the matching engine  continues to step  which provides additional validation, defines the Trade ID field and sets the initial trade status to pending. While processing the trade action, the engine  inserts the appropriate trade values into the TRADE table  and the TRADE_DETAIL table  and continues to step .","The initial matching process in step  identifies a subset of trades which match on a primary subset of components, identified as key values within the PRODUCT_MASTER table . This process identifies all trades with matching key values, using the current trade object as the match source and all stored trades with a status of pending or unmatched. All target trades that match the source trade on these values are considered unmatched with the source trade. The process sets an internal flag distinguishing the subset of target trades from other trades only for this matching transaction and continues to step . The matching engine  uses the PRODUCT_MASTER table  and identifies all components identified as \u2018MATCH_REQUIRED\u2019 which match between the source and subset of the target trades in step . The process then continues with step  which loops to .","The matching engine  then determines if the matching process consists of key matches, unmatched or component matches, matched, in step . If any of the \u2018MATCH_REQUIRED\u2019 components do not match, as specified by the PRODUCT_MASTER table , then the source trade is unmatched with the subset target trades and processing continues to step . The matching engine  determines if the target trades are currently unmatched with other trades in step . If the target trades are currently unmatched, the source trade is unmatched with the unmatched group and the source trade receives a MatchID value of the target trades in step . If the target trade or trades do not have a MatchID setting, then the matching engine  generates a new MatchID in step . The matching engine  then proceeds to step , which sets the MatchID for the trades and sets the status to unmatched for the trades.","If all components match based on the settings in the PRODUCT_MASTER table , source trade and identified target trades in step , the matching engine  determines whether there is more than one match in step . There can only be one target trade and one source trade of a match; thus if there is more than one matching trade in step , the matching engine  identifies the earliest trade based on the trade date as the target trade in step  and then continues processing to step . If there is only one target trade, processing continues to step .","The matching process supports matches with both pending and unmatched target trades. The matching engine  determines the current status of the target trade and manages the disposition of the target trade based on the status. The matching engine  determines whether the trade is matched with an unmatched trade in step . If the status is pending i.e. no match with an unmatched trade is determined in step , the matching engine  branches to step  which identifies a new MatchID using an Oracle sequence. If the target trade is unmatched, i.e. a match with an unmatched trade is determined in step , then the matching engine  starts the disposition process for the unmatched target trade and the trades unmatched with the target trade in step .","The disposition process begins with step , which determines the depth of the unmatched trade. The matching engine  determines if there are other trades identified as unmatched trades between the submitting companies of the source and target trades in step . If there are not other unmatched trades between these two companies, the matching engine  performs the preliminary steps of the matching process between the trades and cleans up the remaining unmatched trade. The matching module identifies the partner to the target trade, resets the status to pending and resets the MatchID of the partner to zero (0) in step . The matching engine  then identifies the existing MatchID of the target trade as the new MatchID of the matched trade between the source trade and the target trade in step .","If there are other unmatched trades between these two companies in step , the matching engine  identifies a new MatchID by generating it using an Oracle sequence in step . Following steps ,  and , the matching engine  continues processing in step , which creates the match association. In step , the matching engine  performs the final match by setting the MatchID for both the source and target trade and sets the status of the source and target trade to matched. The transaction is committed and processing passes back to the trade process.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0078","num":"0077"},"figref":["FIG. 4C","FIG. 4A"],"b":["128","14","170","14","172","74","170"]},"The cancellation process consists of resetting the status of the source trade and potential unmatched trades. The matching engine  determines if the trade is unmatched in step . If the status of the trade is not unmatched, the status of the source trade is set to canceled in step  and the routine branches to process the next trade. If the trade is unmatched in step , the processing determines the fate of the partner(s) of the source trade by identifying the depth of the unmatched trades, determining if there are other trades identified as unmatched between the submitting companies of the source trade in step . If there are not other unmatched trades between the companies, the trades are canceled and cleaned up. The cancellation of the trade is performed in step  which sets the status of the source trade to canceled and resets the value of the MatchID to zero (0). The matching engine  then proceeds to step  which identifies the partner trade(s) of the source trade from the other company, resets the MatchID to zero (0) and resets the status of the trade to pending.","If there are other trades between the submitting companies in step , the status of the source trade is reset to canceled and the MatchID is reset to zero (0) of only the source trade in step . Upon completion of the cancellation process in steps  or , the processing terminates and begins processing the next trade.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0081","num":"0080"},"figref":["FIG. 4D","FIG. 4A"],"b":["132","186","186","188"]},"If the status is not matched, the matching engine  updates the trade process and the identification of the affected trades of the transaction. The matching engine  determines if the trade is unmatched in step . If the trade status is not unmatched the status is reset to pending in step  and the processing routine exits to process the next trade. If the source trade status is unmatched in step , the matching engine  determines if there are other trades identified as unmatched between the submitting companies of the source trade in step . If there are no other unmatched trades between the companies, the matching engine  performs the update and clean up of the identified trades. The update of the source trade is performed by setting the status of the source trade to pending and resetting the value of the MatchID to zero (0) in step . The matching engine  then identifies the partner trade(s) of the source trade from the other company, resets the MatchID to (0) and resets the status of the trades to pending in step .","If there are other trades between the submitting companies, the matching engine  resets the status of the source trade to pending and resets the MatchID to zero (0) of only the source trade in step . Upon completion of the update process in steps  or , the processing returns back to the main engine for the actual update Of the component values and re-entry to the matching process.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0084","num":"0083"},"figref":"FIG. 5","b":["200","200","202","202","204","206","208","210","212","214","216","218","220","204","220","204","220","218","220"]},"The summary screen  and subsequent screens also have a title bar  which displays the menu title of the screen. The title bar  has a company selection box  which allows a user to select different subsidiaries for which summaries of trades are to be displayed on the trade screen.","After the matching process takes place, the program allows additional functionality. Logging in or selecting the summary menu option  from any screen results in the display of the summary screen  which enables a user to display the results of the matching engine in accordance with all of the trades which have been compared using the above process. The summary screen  also has a filter bar , a status tab section  and a summary table . The filter bar  has a drop down market type box , a product box , a counter party box , a trade identification box , a delivery location box , a breaks box , a date type box , a date drop down box , a search button  and a reset button . By selecting the arrows in a box, a pull down menu with the stored options for a particular box such as the different types of markets or products in the market type box  and product type box  are displayed. A user may thus define search criteria for trades using the pull down menus with the boxes -. The user may specify a particular counter party or display trades of all counter parties using the counter party box . The user may find a single trade by entering the trade identification number in the trade ID box . The user may search by a particular delivery location or select all delivery locations in the delivery location box . The user may search by broken fields after a first query is made by selecting a list of unmatched fields from the breaks box . The user may select from a date type field as the date of the trade in the trade type box . The user may also select a range of dates for the date type selected in the trade type box  by entering date information in the trade date box .","Once the user has defined the search parameters and has clicked the search button , the details of the trades that satisfy these criteria are displayed in the summary table . A new search may be run by selecting the reset button  which clears the search fields in boxes -. The trades which meet the criteria the user selects from the filter bar  are further separated by their status. Trades of the same status that meet the selected criteria are displayed in the summary table  by selecting tabs - in the status tab section . Thus, the status tab section  has a matched tab , an unmatched tab , a pending tab , a canceled tab  and an alleged tab . Selecting any of these tabs - will display data relating to all trades that satisfy the search criteria and all trades of that status. As explained above, selecting the matched tab  will display all trades in the summary table  that have all matchable fields matched and both trader and counter party are in agreement with the confirmation details. The confirmation details agreed and match upon depend on the particular product.","Selecting the unmatched tab  will display all trades in the summary table  that have all key fields matched and one or more of the non-key fields unmatched. Selecting the pending tab  will display all trades in the summary table  that do not have all key fields matched. The counter party for the confirmed pending trades will see those trades under their alleged trades. Selecting the canceled tab  will display all trades in the summary table  that have been chosen by the user to be canceled. Selecting the alleged tab  will display all trades in the summary table  which have been alleged to the user by the counter party. These trades are displayed to the counter party as pending if the counter party accesses the program.","The summary table  has various information from data fields which may be displayed relating to the selected trades under the status of the selected tabs -. In this example, the summary table  has all matched trades (from selecting tab ) which are of the market type physical power (selected from box ), of all product types (selected from box ), with Palo Verde as a delivery location (selected from box ) and for the dates between Mar. 25, 2002 to Apr. 25, 2002 (selected from box ). The summary table  has a headings row  which displays different types of information. Different trade rows  under the headings row  represent different trades and the information from the data fields relating to those trades. The information in the headings row  depends on the market selected.","In the example in , the information displayed in each of the trade rows  is specific to the physical power market and includes a message column , an internal identification number column , a trade date column , a product traded column , a reference price column , a buy\/sell selection column , a counter party column , a start and end date column , a quantity column , a total quantity column , a price column , a date column , and a notes column . These data fields are selected to provide the best overview of the trade details. Of course, other data fields such as delivery location may be displayed in the summary table .","The user may view the message column  to determine whether any flags are indicated for a specific trade. These flags indicate whether a trade is disputed, click and confirmed, novated or cleared. A disputed trade is a transaction where all data fields are matched but one of the parties does not agree that the trade occurred. A click and confirmed trade is a trade that one user chooses to accept the trades alleged to them, and then clicks on the screen to confirm, rather than submitting the actual matching data through the matching engine . When user clicks to confirm the trade, a match to the alleged trade is generated by the system , and the trade moves in its pair to the matched status. A novated trade is a trade that has been processed through the matching engine , deemed matched, and passed on to a clearing house such as the LCH. A novated trade cannot be disputed or canceled. A cleared trade is a trade that is sent into the system  and noted as cleared. This trade, once matched, will be processed and sent on to a clearing house.","The notes column  contains various icons which indicate various comments that are electronically associated with the page. An icon with a pencil indicates that a no comments have been attached to the trade, an icon with a pad and pencil indicates that the comment has been read and an icon with a pencil inside a notebook indicates that the comments have not been read. The information in the summary table  may be imported to a spread sheet by selecting an export button . A split screen button  provides a user with the option of splitting the screen and displaying a second summary table  for purposes of comparisons.","All of the data fields relating to a trade may be displayed by selecting the trade identification of a trade in the rows  of the summary table  in .  shows a pending trade details screen  that is displayed on selecting a specific pending trade from the screen  in . The pending trade details screen  has the title bar  and an alleged trade details table . The alleged trade table  has a status column , a data field column  and a value column . The data field column  lists all of the data fields relating to the trade that is displayed if a pending trade is selected from the summary table  in . The values of the data fields from the user (trader) are displayed under the value column . The user may view the status column  to determine the matching significance of a particular data field. For example, a PM flag (PM) indicates that only one value is applicable for that product in that data field. Fields with the PM flag represent data that is derived from the product master values, for example, reference price or quantity unit. Such fields will automatically be designated by the data values from the product master. In addition, other fields which have default values will be assigned the default value initially.","A K flag indicates the data field is a Key field and required for first level matching. These fields include buyer, seller, price or quantity. An R flag indicates the field is Required for second level matching such as payment from or pricing frequency. An I flag indicates that the data field is for informational purposes only such as the broker or trader identity. Finally, an * indicator on any flag indicates the data field is required for submission.","Arrow buttons  and  allow a user to move to the previous or next trade in sequence and display the details of that trade in the trade table . An edit button  allows a user to edit the details of the trade by selecting a new value in the value column  for any data field under the data field column . A cancel button  allows a user to cancel pending trades which are submitted. Selecting the cancel button  will result in a pop-up screen asking the user to confirm the cancellation.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0096","num":"0095"},"figref":["FIG. 6B","FIG. 6A"],"b":["370","370","370","222","372","374","372","376","378","380","374","382","378","370","350","376","360","362"]},"The matched trade details screen  allows a user to dispute a trade via a dispute button . The dispute button  is not present if the trade is canceled. By selecting the dispute button , the user may elect to flag the matched trade as in dispute between the parties. An indicator of a disputed trade will then be displayed in the summary table  in .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0098","num":"0097"},"figref":["FIG. 6C","FIG. 6A"],"b":["390","390","390","222","392","394","392","396","398","400","394","392","402","404","406","398","370","350","396","360","362"]},"The data values that do not match between the two tables  and  will be highlighted as shown in a row  which is the pricing frequency data field. In the preferred embodiment, such values will be placed in a signifying color. Of course it is to be understood that other signifying symbols may be used such as bolding, underlining, flashing, etc. The details screen  also allows a user to edit the unmatched trades via the edit button  and the cancel button  as explained above.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0100","num":"0099"},"figref":["FIG. 6D","FIG. 6A"],"b":["410","410","410","222","412","412","414","416","418","350","414","360","362","410","420","422"]},"Returning to the menu selections of any screen such as the screen  in , selecting the logs menu option  allows a user to display a log screen  shown in . The log screen  has the menu bar , a title bar , a log tab section  and a filter bar . The log tab section  has a file upload log tab , a message log tab  and an audit tab . The logs may be filtered by adjusting a date range box  in the filter bar . The logs each provide various information relating to the trades processed by the program. In , the log tab  is selected and displays a file upload summary table .","The file upload summary table  has a heading row  and rows of files  that have been uploaded in the selected date range. The rows of files  are updated by the date parameters selected in the date range box  by selecting a search button . The heading row  has a date\/time column , a file name column , a status column , a total records column , a pass column  and a fail column . The date and time column  displays when the file was uploaded into the system. The file name column  displays the file name of the uploaded file. As explained above, a file may have the data fields for multiple numbers of trades. Such a file has different records with the data fields for each of the different trades. The status column  indicates whether the matching engine  has completed its processing of the trade or not. The total records column  displays the total number of trades stored in the file. The pass column  displays the number of records in the file that are compliant with the input data standards, while the fail column  displays the number of records in the file that are corrupted or not compliant. By selecting the fail column , the program will display a pop up window with the identification number of each record that failed and the reason for the failure.","A message log screen  which is shown in  is displayed by selecting the message log tab . The menu bar , title bar , log tab section  and filter bar  are the same as in . A message log summary table  is displayed. The message log summary table  has a heading row  and rows of messages  which have been received in the selected date range. The rows of messages  are updated by the date parameters selected in the date range box  by selecting the search button . The heading row  has an expansion column , a message column , a reference ID column , a date column , a type column  and a code column . The message column  displays messages related to errors generated by the system due to actions such as upload, cancel, etc. The reference ID column  displays the trade reference identification number of the message. The date column  displays the date and time when the message was received from the system. The type column  displays an internal system tracking number and the code column  displays an internal reference code for use in troubleshooting errors. The expansion column  allows a user to expand the details of the trade by displaying additional values in the columns when a plus is selected or simply the message text when a minus is selected.","An audit log screen  which is shown in  is displayed by selecting the audit log tab . The menu bar , title bar  and log tab section  are the same as in . A filter bar section  with a trade ID box  is displayed. By entering the trade identification number, a specific trade may be displayed by selecting a search button . An audit summary table  has a heading row  and rows of actions  which have been taken relating to the trade with the selected identification number. The audit data displayed allows a user to follow the life cycle of each trade that is in the program. The heading row  has date\/time column , a trade status column , a trade action column  and a detail column . The date time column  displays the date and time of the trade action. The trade status column  displays whether the trade is matched, unmatched, pending or canceled. The trade status column  describes the action taken to the trade. The details column  provides further information that is useful in following the cycle of the trade through the system.","Returning to the menu selections of any screen such as the screen  in , selecting the reports menu option  allows a user to display a report screen  shown in . The report screen  has a manager's view tab , a breaks tab  and a filter section .  shows the manager's view tab  selected which displays a summary of the number of trades in each market type and their status. The report screen  has a date type box  that allows selection of values of particular date fields in conjunction with a date range selection box . A search button  activates the program to screen trades satisfying the date and type parameters from the filter section  and display relevant data on a report table .","In this example, the table  has a header row  and rows  representing different market types. The table  has a matched column , an unmatched column , a pending column , an alleged column , a canceled column  and a totals column . The rows  show the numbers of each types of trades in columns - which are referenced to the particular market type during the selected time period. A bottom totals row  shows the total number of each column type. An export button  allows the user to export the data to a spreadsheet. By selecting a particular number entry in any of the rows , the program will display the confirmation summary screen  as shown in .","Selecting the breaks tab  causes a breaks report screen  to be displayed as shown in . The breaks report screen  displays the number of trades of each market type that have broken or unmatched data values. An additional counter party filter box  is in the filter section  that allows a user to filter by a specific counter party or to select all. The search button  activates the program to screen trades satisfying the date and counter party parameters from the filter section  and display relevant data on a report table .","In this example, the table  has a header row  and a data field column  with entries representing different data fields. The table  also has a series of columns  each of which represents a particular market type. A series of rows  show the numbers of each trade of a particular market type having a broken or unmatched data field in the data Field column . The bottom totals row  shows the total number of trades in each broken data type. By selecting the particular number, the program will display the confirmation summary screen  as shown in .","Returning to the menu selections of any screen such as the screen  in , selecting the data mapping menu option  allows a user to convert data values to the standard used by the system  via a data mapping screen  shown in . Once the data is converted using the data mapping screen , the matching process shown in  may be initiated. The data mapping screen  has a filter section  and a summary table . The summary table  displays the data field mapping which is established on the data mapping details screen as will be explained below. The filter section  has a market type box  and a field box . The market type box  allows a user to select a market type from the types stored in the database. The field box  allows a user to select fields such as delivery location, counter party, pricing frequency etc. A search button  when selected will filter the data selected in the filter section .","The summary table  has a heading row . The heading row  has a field name column , a system value column  and a user value column . The data fields entered in the columns ,  and  may be sorted ascending or descending by clicking on the column headings. In order to add a new mapped value, the user may select the market type and field via the boxes  and  and by selecting a map it button .","Once the map it button  is selected, a data mapping details screen  is displayed as shown in . The data mapping details screen  has a filter section  which has a market type selection box , a field selection box  and a search button . The screen  also has a summary table . The summary table  has a standard data value box , a user data value box , and various market type selections . The summary table  includes a map it button .","The user selects one field using the field selection box  and the market type box  and selects the search button . After the user selects the field, the standard data value box  is updated and provides a list of all of the standard data values for the chosen field. The user selects the desired standard value, and enters the user value in the user data value box . The entering of a user value activates various market type selections  and the user may select the market types for which the field applies by checking the boxes appearing next to each market type listed. These values are mapped to each other such that the user value is now the equivalent of the selected system value by selecting the map it button .","The summary table  has a mapped value table  which shows the result of the mapped value. The mapped value table  has a heading bar  which has a matching area  that displays a user type column , a standard value column , and a market type column . Each successive row  displays the user value that is mapped to the system value and the market type. Each row  has a check box  and the user value and the market type. The value may be deleted by checking the check box  and selecting a delete button . The user may return to the data mapping screen  in  by selecting the done button .","Returning to the menu selections of any screen such as the screen  in , selection of the new confirmation menu option  allows a user to submit confirmation information on a confirmation submission screen  shown in . The submission screen  represents the submission of trade data through a web enabled computer such as the computer  in . Once the trade data is submitted via the submission screen , the matching process described in  is performed to confirm the submitted trade.","A selection area  has a market type box , a product box , a counter party box  and an action box . The market type box  and product box  have pull down lists that allow a user to select the desired market and product. The counter party box has a pull down list which includes all known counter parties for the user to select. The action box  allows the user to define the trade action as either buying or selling.","After selecting a certain type of trade, a data table  is populated with various data values. The data table  has a fields column  and a user values column . The data table  has data rows  for each data field with the selected trade and a value for that data field. Each data field has a flag (PM, K, R, I or *) which signifies its importance to the matching process as explained above in . Of course other indicators such as type style or color may be used to designate the status of the fields.","Certain fields such as a data field  which is the payment terms of the trade have a pull down menu with listed potential options for payment terms. The user may select a value from the list or enter his or her own value for the field which accepts unique values. Once a user has insured that values have been entered in all required fields, he or she may submit the trade data for confirmation by the matching engine by selecting a submit button . The user may close the screen  by selecting a close button .","Returning to the menu selections of any screen such as the screen  in , selection of the file upload menu option  allows a user to upload files via a file upload screen  as shown in . The file upload screen  represents the submission of trade data via a tab delimited file uploaded through a web enabled computer such as the computer  in . As explained, above, such a file must be written in a format with different trades in separate records that may be converted by the system to the system format.","The file upload screen  has an upload area . The upload area  has file selection boxes  and browse buttons . The selection boxes  and browse buttons  may be used to access the files stored on the computer or another networked computer. As may be seen in this example, up to three different files may be uploaded simultaneously; but it is to be understood that different numbers of files may also be uploaded. Once the files are selected, an upload button  is selected to send the files to the system.","Returning to the menu selections of any screen such as the screen  in , selection of the administration menu option  allows an administrative user to manage the system via an administrative screen  as shown in FIG. I A. The administrative screen  includes a counter party filter tab , a default values tab , a users tab , a parents tab  a companies tab , a products tab  and a data values tab . By selecting the user tab , a screen is presented to allow the user to associate a company name with system users, enter user data, add new users, set parameters for use such as the permissible market types for trades submitted by a user. The user screen may also be used to activate and deactivate users authorized for access to the system  as well as set passwords for those users.","By selecting the parents tab , a screen is displayed to allow the administrative user to change data relating to parent companies. By selecting the companies tab , a screen is displayed to allow the administrative user to change data relating to the companies allowed to trade. By selecting the products tab , a screen is displayed to allow an administrative user to change data relating to the products associated with the system. By selecting the data values tab , the administrative user may change the data values associated with the system.","By selecting the counter party filter tab , the screen  is displayed with a filter bar  and a summary table . Before trade data is accepted from a counter party, a counter party filter must be set up via the screen  that allows confirmations between various counter parties and traders. The filter bar  has a market type box  that allows the selection of a particular market type to classify counter parties. The summary table  has a user settings column , a counter party settings column , a user set counter party to column , a company name column , a counter party has user set to column . Once the market type is selected via the market type box , a list of companies (counter parties) will be listed in the summary table . The user settings column  is used to hide fields containing economic values that are sent to the counter party for which the user does not have a match and which appear as alleged trades. This functionality is used to protect fields such as price, quantity, total quantity, start date, end date, etc. from being seen by a counter party a user may not be familiar with. Similarly, the setting column  is a read only column which displays whether the counter party has hidden these details. Both the user and the counter party must leave the respective settings columns  and  as not hidden in order for both to view price, volume and trade durations fields from the alleged screens.","The user set counter party to column  is used to enable or disable confirmation of trades with the counter party. The counter party has user set to column  is read only and shows the status that the counter party has designated the user to either enable or disable confirmation of trades via the system. In order to confirm trades both the user and the counter party must set the columns  and  to yes or enable.","A check all button  enables a user to check all the boxes at the same time. A clear all button  enables a user to clear the checks from all the boxes at the same time. A save button  allows a user to save the settings for the counter parties shown in the summary table .","The capability to change data information in the display shown in  depends on the user's status. If a user has an administrative level clearance, more values may be changed via the tabs -. If a user is a normal user, a screen such as the default values screen  shown in  is displayed. The default values screen  in  only has the counter party filter tab , the default values tab  and the users tab . Since the user in this example is only a normal user the parents tab , the companies tab , the products tab  and the data values tab  in  are not displayed. By selecting the counter party filter tab , a display similar to the one in  is displayed. By selecting the default values tab  in either  or B, a default values screen  is displayed as shown in . The default values screen  allows a user to enable default values for certain fields in trades of a certain market type or counter party. The default values screen  has a filter bar  with a market type box  and a product box . By selecting a market type box  and a product box , a user may display all counter party information and default values in a summary table .","The summary table  includes a counter party column  and various other columns of field values  that represent different data values for the selected market type and product. The summary table  has other rows  each of which represents different counter parties that trade in the market type and product. The rows  each have a selection box . By checking the selection box , a user may select a clear button  to clear out all of the values for the selected row for the counter party. A user may also select a check all button  to check all of the rows . A user may clear all the checks by selecting a clear all button .","Certain fields in the summary table  such as a settlement frequency field  have \u201cnone\u201d entered. In order to enter values, a user may select the field  which causes a pop up window  as shown in  to be displayed. The pop up window  has a filter bar  with a market type box  and a product box  which will initially have the selected market type and product from the default data screen  in . The pop up window  will have selection boxes  that correspond to the fields that were selected from . Each selection box  has a pull down list  which lists different default values. A user may select a default value or enter another value in the box . The default values will be initially selected to none until changed by the user.","A show all button  allows a user to display other fields that may have default values set up for the particular product and market. The entered default values may be saved via a save button  and the pop up window  may be closed via a close button .","It will be apparent to those skilled in the art that various modifications and variations can be made in the method and system of the present invention without departing from the spirit or scope of the invention. Thus, the present invention is not limited by the foregoing descriptions but is intended to cover all modifications and variations that come within the scope of the spirit of the invention and the claims that follow."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF DRAWINGS","p":["These and further aspects and advantages of the invention will be discussed more in detail hereinafter with reference to the disclosure of preferred embodiments, and in particular with reference to the appended Figures wherein:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":["FIG. 4A-4D","FIG. 2"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":["FIG. 6A","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":["FIG. 6B","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":["FIG. 6C","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":["FIG. 6D","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":["FIG. 7A","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":["FIG. 7B","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":["FIG. 7C","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":["FIG. 8A","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":["FIG. 8B","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":["FIG. 9","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":["FIG. 10","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":["FIG. 11","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":["FIG. 12","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"figref":["FIG. 13A","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0034"},"figref":["FIG. 13B","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"figref":["FIG. 13C","FIG. 1"]}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
