---
title: Rich multi-media format for use in a collaborative computing system
abstract: A system, method, and article of manufacture that allow a document containing custom objects to be shared in a distributed collaborative computer system. This is accomplished by allowing custom objects to be embedded in a document. When the document is to be shared, the document with custom objects is converted to a Rich Multi-Media (RMM) format. Furthermore, the converted document may be shared during a collaborative session among multiple computers. Alternatively, the converted document may be viewed by a user independent of a collaborative session.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07636754&OS=07636754&RS=07636754
owner: Cisco Technology, Inc.
number: 07636754
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20020321
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS-REFERENCE TO CD-ROM APPENDIX","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION"],"p":["An Appendix containing a computer program listing is submitted on a compact disk, which is herein incorporated by reference in its entirety. The total number of compact discs including duplicates is two. Appendix A, which is part of the present specification, contains a list of the files contained on the compact disk. These listings contain material that is subject to copyright protection. The copyright owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction by anyone of the patent document or the patent disclosure, as it appears in the patent and trademark office patent file or records, but otherwise reserves all copyright rights whatsoever.","1. Field of the Invention","The present invention relates generally to collaborative computing systems and, more particularly, to embedding different types of files into a document, converting the document to a Rich Multi-Media (RMM) format, and sharing the converted document in a collaborative computing system.","2. Related Art","Traditional collaborative computing tools allow computer users at different locations to communicate via a computer network and share documents or applications stored and\/or executed on one of the user's computers. While both peer-to-peer and client-server communication models have been used in the past, web-based collaborative tools generally employ a client-server model.","For example, client-server application sharing (also discussed in the context of \u201cdistributed computing\u201d) is described in U.S. Pat. No. 5,434,852 \u201cDistributed Processing Architecture for Control of Broadband and Narrowband Communication Networks;\u201d U.S. Pat. No. 5,887,170 \u201cSystem for Classifying and Sending Selective Requests;\u201d and U.S. Pat. No. 6,038,593 \u201cRemote Application Control for Low Bandwidth Application Sharing,\u201d all incorporated herein by reference in their entireties. Other group communication techniques are described by Ulrick Hall and Franz J. Hauck, \u201cPromondia: A Java-Based Framework for Real-time Group Communication in the Web,\u201d Proceedings of Sixth International World Wide Web Conference (Apr. 7-11, 1997); Lane Boyd, \u201cTaking Collaboration Into Orbit,\u201d Computer Graphics World, Vol. 21, No. 9, p. 36 (September 1998); and Eric Ly, \u201cDistributed Java Applets for Project Management on the Web,\u201d IEEE Internet Computing Online, Vol. 1, No. 3 (May\/June 1997), all incorporated herein by reference in their entireties.","International Telecommunications Union (ITU) Standard T.120 is a family of open standards that provides both communications and applications protocols to support real-time multipoint data communications for collaboration and conferencing, among other uses. This standard is outlined in \u201cA Primer on the T.120 Series Standard\u201d by DataBeam Corp. (available at http:\/\/mail.symuli.com\/t120primer\/t120primer.html), incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.","Traditional collaborative tools, however, are limited in the types of documents that they allow to be shared. For example, a Word\u00ae document may be shared, but the document typically only contains text. That is, traditional collaborative tools do not allow sharing of documents with embedded custom objects. Accordingly, there is a need for an improved collaborative computing system.","The system, method, and article of manufacture of the present invention provide a distributed collaborative computer system that allows a document containing custom objects to be shared. This is accomplished by providing software to allow custom objects to be embedded in a document. When the document is to be shared, provided software converts the document to a Rich Multi-Media (RMM) format. With use of the provided software, the converted document may then be shared during a collaborative session. As a result, the system, method, and article of manufacture of the present invention allow a presenter at one computer to create a document with different types of embedded custom objects. During a collaborative session, the presenter controls the viewing of the document, and users (e.g., attendees) at other computers view the document in synch with the presenter. The Rich Multi-Media format provided by the present invention enables the embedded custom objects to be viewed at the users' computers. Furthermore, the converted document may be viewed by a user independent of a collaborative session.","The use of the same reference symbols in different drawings indicates similar or identical items.","Embodiments of the present invention provide the ability to embed custom objects into a document and convert the document into a Rich Multi-Media (RMM) format so that it may be shared during an on-line meeting (i.e., a collaborative session). Various types of custom objects, such as multimedia objects, may be embedded in the document. The document is created with an application program, such as Microsoft's PowerPoint\u00ae). Embodiments of the invention provide the Rich Multi-Media format that is used for conversion of the document into a form that may be shared during a meeting. Additionally, the document with embedded custom objects may be viewed by a user independent of an on-line meeting.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0042","num":"0041"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["100","100","110","120","140","150","130"],"i":"n "},"In some embodiments of the invention, presenter client computer  (whose user will be a presenter at a meeting) establishes a connection to conferencing server computer  over computer network . Each attendee client computer (whose users will join the meeting presented by presenter client computer ) establishes a connection to conferencing server computer  over computer network . Additionally, each client computer  and establish connections to streaming server computer  to obtain data during the meeting. In some embodiments, a host schedules a meeting to be presented by a presenter. The host and presenter may be the same user or may be different users. In some embodiments, the host, the presenter at presenter client computer , and users at attendee client computers are referred to as attendees as all of them attend the meeting.","Details of distributed collaborative computing system  are further described in the following United States patent applications and patents, each of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety:\n\n",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0045","num":"0071"},"figref":"FIG. 2A","b":["110","100","200","202","204","206","208","210","212","212","130"]},"Insertion software  allows custom objects to be embedded into a document prepared with authoring software . Conversion software  performs conversion of the document to a Rich Multi-Media format provided by some embodiments of the invention. Viewer software  enables viewing of a document with embedded custom objects, either while participating in a meeting (i.e., while \u201con-line\u201d) or outside of a meeting (i.e., while \u201coff-line\u201d). In some embodiments, insertion software  is a plug-in that is added to authoring software  (e.g., Microsoft's PowerPoint\u00ae or Word\u00ae). In some embodiments, conversion software  and viewer software  are plug-ins that are added to a web browser (e.g., Microsoft's Internet Explorer\u00ae).","In some embodiments, insertion software , conversion software , and viewer software  may each be separate computer programs or may be combined with each other and\/or with other software. For example, in some embodiments, insertion software , conversion software , and viewer software  are separate computer programs. In some embodiments, insertion software , conversion software , and viewer software  are combined to form a single computer program. In some embodiments, insertion software , conversion software , and viewer software  may be combined in alternate ways (e.g., conversion software  and viewer software  may be combined into one computer program, while insertion software  is a separate computer program) or may be combined with other software (e.g., insertion software  may be combined with authoring software  to form a simple computer program).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0048","num":"0074"},"figref":"FIG. 2B","b":["120","100","202","204","224","226","228","228","130","202","204"],"i":"n"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0049","num":"0075"},"figref":"FIG. 2C","b":["140","150","100","230","232","234","234","130","230","232"]},"Conferencing server computer  and streaming server computer  maybe any special or general purpose computer suitable for maintaining a website and\/or streaming data, such as a Pentium\u2122-based computer, available from a variety of third parties, an UltraSparc\u2122 workstation, available from Sun Microsystems, Inc. of Mountain View, Calif., an RS6000 workstation, available from IBM of New York, etc.","Client computers  and may be any special or general purpose computer suitable for accessing a website over the Internet, such as any a Pentium\u2122-based computer, available from a variety of third parties, a Macintosh computer, available from Apple Computer, Inc. of Cupertino, Calif., a handheld device or appliance, available from a variety of third parties, etc.","Operating systems , , and  are any suitable operating system for client computers  and and server computers  and , such as Windows\u00ae 98, Windows\u00ae NT 4.0, Windows\u00ae 2000, or Windows\u00ae XT, available from Microsoft Corp. of Redmond, Wash., Mac\u00ae OS X, available from Apple Computer, Inc., any version of the Unix\u00ae operating system, including Linux.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0053","num":"0079"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":["300","100","310","200","206","110","320","330","100","202","340","110","120"],"i":"n "},"In some embodiments, the custom objects in the document are not viewable by attendee client computers if the document is not converted into the Rich Multi-Media format first. Then, viewer software  at presenter client computer  and attendee client computers enables viewing of the converted document under direction of a user (e.g., presenter) at presenter client computer . In particular, viewer software  is able to correctly render (e.g., play or display) the custom objects at each attendee client computer  and ",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0055","num":"0081"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":["400","410","200"]},"In particular, for some embodiments, insertion software  is designed to be incorporated into authoring software, such as PowerPoint\u00ae to support the authoring of the document. In some embodiments, insertion software  is a plug-in that is added to PowerPoint\u00ae to provide additional functionality.","A user can use insertion software  to import different media files and insert them into a PowerPoint\u00ae presentation as custom objects. PowerPoint\u00ae supports custom types, and insertion software  takes advantage of this to import one or more objects, such as a meeting recording object, an audio object, a video object, a Flash\u2122 movie object, or a 3D model object. When the user saves the presentation, the custom objects are embedded into the presentation by insertion software .","Then, embodiments of the invention allow a user to open or share the presentation with other users during an on-line meeting or to view the presentation independent of a meeting. In some embodiments, users at client computers  and access a web site hosted by conferencing server , register to participate in a meeting, and download the plug-in for conversion software  and viewer software . An installation program at client computer  and is used to install the plug-in. At the time of registration, in some embodiments, any documents to be shared during the meeting are downloaded to client computers  and ","Then, during an on-line meeting, the invention provides the ability to synchronize playback of media files across client computers  and . In embodiments in which the embedded custom objects are already loaded at each client computer , there is no need to send large amounts of data to attendee client computers during playback.","In stage , authoring software (e.g., PowerPoint\u00ae) is opened for creating a document with insertion software . After installation, when, for example, the PowerPoint\u00ae application is opened, the PowerPoint\u00ae window includes an Insertion menu  (labeled as \u201cWebEx\u00ae\u201d in some embodiments) in accordance with some embodiments of the invention. The sub-menus of Insertion menu  include:\n\n","In some embodiments, insertion software  provides users the ability to insert other custom objects and code for rendering the custom objects through, for example, an application programming interface (API). Each type of custom object has its own settings that can control the playback of the custom object. In some embodiments, the file formats listed in Table 1 are supported by the Rich Multi-Media format of the invention.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0062","num":"0094"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00001","num":"00001"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"63pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"84pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"70pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":"TABLE 1"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["Format","Extensions","Support"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Meeting Recording",".wrf","Built-in to Viewer"]},{"entry":[{},{},"Software"]},{"entry":["Audio Files",".aif, .au, .mp2, .mp3, .wav","Requires media player"]},{"entry":["Video Files",".asf, .avi, .mov, .mpg, .qt","Requires media player"]},{"entry":["Flash Movie",".swf","Requires flash player"]},{"entry":["3D Models",".igs","Built-in to Viewer"]},{"entry":[{},{},"Software"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}},"In some embodiments, a meeting recording is a recording of a meeting and is a type of meeting recording object. For meeting recordings and 3D models, there is built-in support for playback in viewer software . For audio files and video files, viewer software  relies on the playback functionalities provided by the corresponding component application (e.g., media player). For Flash\u2122 movies, viewer software  relies on the functionalities of a Flash\u2122 player. For all media types, the user interface of the playback control is provided by viewer software , even when component applications are called to render the objects. Other media types may be supported in other embodiments.","The tools available in the menu of  may also be placed on a toolbar that may be manipulated as any other PowerPoint\u00ae toolbar. A toolbar is a row of icon buttons that provides quick access to commonly used functions.","In stage , one or more custom objects are inserted into a document using insertion software . When creating a document, if the user selects \u201cInsert object\u201d (e.g., Insert Meeting Recording) from either Insertion menu  or a toolbar, an Insert Meeting Recording File Open dialog box  () appears on the screen. A meeting recording has a .wrf file extension . After the user selects a valid media file and closes the dialog box, the meeting recording object is inserted into the presentation.","If a user has inserted a meeting recording object, a Meeting Recording Properties dialog box  (), in accordance with some embodiments of the invention, is displayed to allow the user to change any settings or properties for the newly inserted object. Dialog box  includes information about object  and settings .","Object information  includes a title box . In some embodiments, a default title is given to each object on its creation, and the user may use the default title to identify the object or may choose to modify the default title. If the media object already has a title or name embedded in it, this title is used as the default title. Otherwise, the filename without the extension may be used as the default title (e.g., file name \u201csept.wrf\u201d will become default title \u201csept\u201d). The title field does not need to be unique among objects. A duration field  indicates the exact duration of the playback in the following format: h hours, mm minutes, ss seconds (where h is number of hours, mm is number of minutes, and ss is number of seconds). A size field  indicates the size of the object inside the presentation expressed in kilobytes (KB).","If a \u201cstart playback automatically on slide display\u201d option  is checked, the playback will start once a user enters the slide containing the object. If option  is not checked, the user has to manually select play. If a full-screen playback option  is checked, the display switches to full-screen mode once the playback starts (either automatically or manually). If option  is not checked, the user has to manually select the full-screen button. A full-screen typically has some menu bars and\/or toolbars hidden so that a larger portion of a document may be viewed on a computer screen.","Selecting an OK button  confirms the currently selected properties. Also, OK button  is selected by default, so it can also be selected by simply pressing the Enter key on a keyboard. Selecting a Cancel button  discards any changes made in properties dialog box  (i.e., restores the default settings) but does not delete the inserted object from the document.","When the user has completed editing object properties, the object appears in the PowerPoint\u00ae presentation.  illustrates a meeting recording object  in a document (e.g., a presentation)  within a PowerPoint\u00ae window, in accordance with some embodiments of the invention.","Insertion software  enables custom objects to be handled in accordance with the convention of manipulating objects in a PowerPoint\u00ae presentation. For example, there are 8 square handles around the custom object. Users can grab the handles to resize the custom object. Users can move the custom object around by placing a cursor on top of the custom object and dragging the object. Users can delete the custom object by hitting the Del key on a keyboard or by selecting delete from the PowerPoint\u00ae Edit menu. Also, selecting a custom object (e.g., by double-clicking on the custom object) switches the PowerPoint\u00ae document into object editing mode.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0072","num":"0104"},"figref":"FIG. 9","b":["820","820","910","920","820","910","920"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0073","num":"0105"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00002","num":"00002"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"70pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"147pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":"TABLE 2"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["Element","Description"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Meeting Recording","Identifies that this is a Meeting Recording object."]},{"entry":["object icon","Left aligned to 15 pixels from the left edge of the"]},{"entry":[{},"object."]},{"entry":["Information","Consists of Title, Format, and Instruction. Left"]},{"entry":[{},"aligned to 15 pixels from the right edge of the"]},{"entry":[{},"Meeting Recording icon."]},{"entry":["Title","The title of the recording object specified by the"]},{"entry":[{},"user in the Properties dialog box."]},{"entry":["Format","Format: Meeting Recording ([DURATION])"]},{"entry":[{},"Where DURATION is the total duration of the"]},{"entry":[{},"recording. The format is:"]},{"entry":[{},"hh:mm:ss"]},{"entry":[{},"where hh is number of hours, mm is number of"]},{"entry":[{},"minutes, ss is number of seconds."]},{"entry":["Instruction","Double-click to edit the object."]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}},"When the custom object is selected (e.g., by double-clicking on the custom object), the information panel changes to a control panel , allowing a user to playback the meeting recording object.  illustrates a meeting recording object  in object editing mode, in accordance with some embodiments of the invention. For example, the object outline changes to indicate that custom object  is in object editing mode. Users can drag the outline to move custom object , and users can resize custom object  by dragging the handles around custom object .","Table 3 describes control panel  of the meeting recording object in edit mode with reference to .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0076","num":"0108"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00003","num":"00003"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"70pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"147pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":"TABLE 3"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Properties 1002","Opens the corresponding object properties"]},{"entry":[{},"dialog box."]},{"entry":["Full-screen playback","Switches to full-screen mode."]},{"entry":"1004"},{"entry":["Play 1006","Plays the recording. If the user has selected"]},{"entry":[{},"Full-screen playback in the Properties dialog"]},{"entry":[{},"box, switches to full-screen mode and plays the"]},{"entry":[{},"media. Otherwise, plays the media in the"]},{"entry":[{},"current object space. While the media is"]},{"entry":[{},"playing, the play button is disabled."]},{"entry":["Pause 1008","Remains in an active state as long as playback"]},{"entry":[{},"is paused\u2014that is, until a user either clicks the"]},{"entry":[{},"button again or clicks the Play or Stop button."]},{"entry":["Stop 1010","Stops the playback and resets the current"]},{"entry":[{},"playing position. This button is enabled only"]},{"entry":[{},"when the recording is being played or paused."]},{"entry":[{},"Clicking this button enables the Play button and"]},{"entry":[{},"disables the Pause button."]},{"entry":["Mute 1012","When the user clicks this button, audio is muted"]},{"entry":[{},"and the button changes to a down state until the"]},{"entry":[{},"user clicks it again, which resumes the audio."]},{"entry":[{},"Disable this button if the object does not"]},{"entry":[{},"contain an audio component, or no audio devise"]},{"entry":[{},"is installed in the system to play the media."]},{"entry":["Volume slider 1014","Indicates the sound volume. This control may"]},{"entry":[{},"be disabled if there is no suitable audio device"]},{"entry":[{},"installed in the system to play back audio or the"]},{"entry":[{},"media contains no audio component."]},{"entry":["Elapsed time and","Shows the elapsed time during playback or"]},{"entry":["Duration Indicator","editing, and the total duration of a recording\u2014"]},{"entry":["1016","for example, 00:12:40 \/ 0043:43:21."]},{"entry":["Location slider 1018","Controls the location of the playback."]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}},"When the user selects \u201cSlide Show\u201d in PowerPoint\u00ae, the presentation is displayed. The appearance of the object is still the same as in . If the user clicks the Properties button on the control panel, Properties dialog box () is displayed in read-only mode.","When the user clicks the Full-screen button on the control panel of the object, the object occupies the entire screen. As a result, the control panel is not shown in this mode, to allow maximum space for viewing the content. Users can still enter control commands, however, via the keyboard. The following are the keyboard commands available in full-screen mode:\n\n","The meeting recording object can appear with viewer software  if the user opens or shares a presentation that contains a custom object. For the host, the custom object behaves the same way as in slide-show mode. For attendees, all controls are disabled except Properties, the volume slider, and mute. In the Properties dialog box, all options appear dimmed (e.g., grayed or shaded) and may not be modified by the attendees.","When the user selects \u201cInsert Audio Object . . . \u201d from either Insertion menu  or a toolbar, a standard File Open dialog box, similar to that illustrated , appears on the screen. An audio file may have a format of, for example, the following extensions: .au, .aif, .mp2, .mp3, .wav.","After the user selects a valid media file and closes the File Open dialog box, the object is inserted into the presentation. At this time, an Audio Object Properties dialog box  appears to allow the user to change any settings or properties for the newly inserted object.  illustrates an Audio Object Properties dialog box  in accordance with some embodiments of the invention. Audio Object Properties dialog box  includes audio object information  and settings . In addition to a title box , the dialog box includes a format field , which indicates the audio format of the object. Format field  includes:\n\n","After the user selects a valid file and closes dialog box , insertion software  checks the user's system for the appropriate resources (e.g., component applications) used for playback of the audio object. In some embodiments, a media player is used for the playback of audio files. If a media player is not found insertion software  displays a message box on the screen, warning the user that although the media object is inserted into the presentation, the user is not able to play it back at that point.","When the user has completed editing object properties, the object appears in the PowerPoint\u00ae presentation. Manipulating audio objects is similar to manipulating meeting recording objects, except that Audio objects are not resizable (i.e., users cannot resize the object by grabbing its handles).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0084","num":"0124"},"figref":"FIG. 12","b":["1200","1200"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0085","num":"0125"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00004","num":"00004"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"63pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"154pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":"TABLE 4"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["Element","Description"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Audio object icon","Identifies that this is an Audio object. Left aligned"]},{"entry":[{},"to 15 pixels from the left edge of the object."]},{"entry":["Information","Consists of Title, Format, and Instruction. Left"]},{"entry":[{},"aligned to 15 pixels from the right edge of the"]},{"entry":[{},"Audio object icon."]},{"entry":["Title","The title of the audio object specified by the user"]},{"entry":[{},"in the Properties dialog box."]},{"entry":["Format","Format: [TYPE] ([DURATION])"]},{"entry":[{},"Where TYPE is one of the following:"]},{"entry":[{},"AIFF audio"]},{"entry":[{},"AU audio"]},{"entry":[{},"MP2 audio"]},{"entry":[{},"MP3 audio"]},{"entry":[{},"WAV audio"]},{"entry":[{},"and DURATION is the total duration of the audio"]},{"entry":[{},"clip. The format is:"]},{"entry":[{},"hh:mm:ss"]},{"entry":[{},"where hh is number of hours, mm is number of"]},{"entry":[{},"minutes, ss is number of seconds."]},{"entry":["Instruction","Double-click to edit the object."]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}},"If the user selects (e.g., by double-clicking) the audio object, PowerPoint\u00ae switches to object editing mode, and  illustrates an audio object  in object editing mode, in accordance with some embodiments of the invention. The appearance of audio object  changes so that the definition of the user interface elements are the same as in the meeting recording object section, except that the audio object has no full-screen button.","In slide-show mode, if a user clicks the Properties button on the control panel, the Properties dialog box is illustrated, but the user may not edit properties.","An audio object may be viewed with viewer software  if the user opens or shares a presentation that contains that object. In some embodiments, for the host, the object behaves the same way as in slide-show mode, while for attendees, all controls are disabled except Properties, the volume slider, and mute. In the Properties dialog box, all options appear dimmed and may not be modified by the attendees.","When the user selects \u201cInsert Video Object . . . \u201d from either Insertion menu  or a toolbar, a standard File Open dialog box, similar to that illustrated in , appears on the screen. A video object may have one of the following extensions: .asf, .avi, .mov, .mpg, .gt.","After the user selects a valid file and closes the File Open dialog box, insertion software  checks the user's system for the appropriate resources (e.g., a component application) used for playback of the media. A media player is used for the playback of video files. If a media player is not found, insertion software  displays a message box on the screen, warning the user that although the media object is inserted into the presentation, the user is not able to play it back at that point.","After the user has selected a valid media file and closed the dialog box, the object is inserted into the presentation. At this point, a Video Object Properties dialog box  () appears to allow the user to change any settings or properties for the newly inserted object.","The Video Object Properties dialog box  includes object information  and settings . The object information  includes a title box , a format field  (which indicates the audio format of the object), a duration field , and a size field . In some embodiments, the names listed in Table 5 are used for each of the video object types:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0093","num":"0133"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00005","num":"00005"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"77pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"98pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":[{},"TABLE 5"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]},{"entry":[{},"Extensions","Name"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},".asf","ASF video"]},{"entry":[{},".avi","AVI video"]},{"entry":[{},".mov","QuickTime video"]},{"entry":[{},".mpg","MPEG video"]},{"entry":[{},".qt","QuickTime video"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}}}}},"When the user has completed editing object properties, the object appears in the PowerPoint\u00ae presentation. Manipulation of a video object is similar to the manipulation of a meeting recording object, except that video objects stretch their content, rather than clipping the content.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0095","num":"0135"},"figref":"FIG. 15","b":["1500","1510","1520","1510","1520","1520"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0096","num":"0136"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00006","num":"00006"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"161pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":"TABLE 6"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["Element","Description"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Video object icon","Identifies that this is a Video object. Left aligned to 15"]},{"entry":[{},"pixels from the left edge of the object."]},{"entry":["Information","Consists of Title, Format, and Instruction. Left aligned"]},{"entry":[{},"to 15 pixels from the right edge of the Video object"]},{"entry":[{},"icon."]},{"entry":["Title","The title of the video object specified by the user in the"]},{"entry":[{},"Properties dialog box."]},{"entry":["Format","Format: [TYPE] ([DURATION])"]},{"entry":[{},"Where TYPE is one of the following:"]},{"entry":[{},"ASF video"]},{"entry":[{},"AVI video"]},{"entry":[{},"QuickTime video"]},{"entry":[{},"MPEG Video"]},{"entry":[{},"and DURATION is the total duration of the video clip."]},{"entry":[{},"The format is:"]},{"entry":[{},"hh:mm:ss"]},{"entry":[{},"where hh is number of hours, mm is number of"]},{"entry":[{},"minutes, ss is number of seconds."]},{"entry":["Instruction","Double-click to edit the object."]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}},"In some embodiments, the resize operation is constrained so that only proportional resize is allowed, and the initial size of the object is the same as the size defined in the video file. However, if the size of the object is larger than the size that the presentation allows, the size of the object is set to the maximum size allowed by the presentation.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0098","num":"0138"},"figref":"FIG. 16","b":["1500","1600"]},"In slide-show mode, if a user clicks the Properties button on the control panel, the Properties dialog box is illustrated, but the user may not edit properties.","When the user clicks the Full-screen button on the control panel of the object, the object is displayed in full-screen mode. The control panel is not shown in this mode. In this mode, users can have maximum space for viewing the content. The following are the keyboard commands available in full-screen mode:\n\n","In some embodiments, if the user does not have a media player installed, or for any reason the system has no video capability to play the video file, then the object is not played.","A video object may be viewed with viewer software  if the user opens or shares a presentation that contains that object. For the host, the video object behaves the same way as in slide-show mode. For attendees, all controls are disabled except Properties, the volume slider, and mute, and in the Properties dialog box, all options appear dimmed and may not be modified by the attendees.","When the user selects \u201cInsert Flash Movie . . . \u201d from either Insertion menu  or a toolbar, a standard File Open dialog box, similar to that illustrated in , appears on the screen. In some embodiments, a Flash\u2122 movie may have a .swf extension. A Flash\u2122 player is used for the playback of Flash\u2122 movies. If a Flash\u2122 player is not found, then insertion software  () displays a message box on the screen, warning the user that although the media object is inserted into the presentation, the user is not able to play it back at that point.","After the user has selects a valid media file and closes the File Open dialog box, the Flash\u2122 movie object is inserted into the presentation. At this point, a Flash Movie Properties dialog box  appears to allow the user to change any settings or properties for the newly inserted object () in accordance with some embodiments of the invention. In particular, a user may edit a title box  or view a size field .","When the user has completed editing object properties, the Flash\u2122 movie object appears in the PowerPoint\u00ae presentation. Manipulation of a Flash\u2122 movie object is analogous to manipulation of a meeting recording object, except that the Flash\u2122 movie object stretches its content, rather than clipping the content.  illustrates a Flash\u2122 movie object  as it would appear in a document, in accordance with some embodiments of the invention.","The object consists of two parts: an upper part  displays the content of the movie, and a lower information panel  provides information about the movie. The upper part  displays a frame of the movie in object editing mode. The entire object has a 3D outline, and lower information panel  has a 3D outline. Lower information panel  consists of the elements listed in Table 7:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0107","num":"0151"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00007","num":"00007"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"63pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"154pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":"TABLE 7"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["Element","Description"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Flash movie icon","Identifies that this is a Flash movie. Left aligned to"]},{"entry":[{},"15 pixels from the left edge of the object."]},{"entry":["Information","Consists of Title, Format, and Instruction. Left"]},{"entry":[{},"aligned to 15 pixels from the right edge of the Flash"]},{"entry":[{},"movie icon."]},{"entry":["Title","The title of the flash movie specified by the user in"]},{"entry":[{},"the Properties dialog box."]},{"entry":["Format","Format: Flash Movie"]},{"entry":["Instruction","Double-click to edit the object."]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}},"As a Flash\u2122 movie object has its own set of controls, it may not have the lower control panel that appears in other types of custom objects. In some embodiments, Flash\u2122 movie objects are started automatically.  illustrates a Flash\u2122 movie object in object editing mode in accordance with some embodiments of the invention. To control the playback of a Flash\u2122 movie object, a user right clicks on the movie, and standard Flash\u2122 context menu  appears, in accordance with some embodiments of the invention.","A Flash\u2122 movie object in slide show mode is the same as in object editing mode, except that if the user does not have a Flash\u2122 player installed to play the movie, then the Flash\u2122 movie object does not appear in slide show mode.","A Flash\u2122 movie object may be rendered with viewer software  if the user opens or shares a presentation that contains that object. For a host, the object behaves the same way as in slide-show mode. For attendees, right clicking the Flash\u2122 movie object does not reveal a context menu. If a Flash\u2122 player is not installed on the user's computer to play the movie, then the object does not appear when the document containing the Flash\u2122 movie object is viewed with viewer software .","When the user selects \u201cInsert 3D Model\u201d from either Insertion menu  or a toolbar, a standard File Open dialog box, similar to that illustrated in , appears on the screen. In some embodiments, a 3D model object may have an .igs extension.","After the user selects a valid media file and closes the File Open dialog box, the object is inserted into the presentation. At this point, a 3D Model Properties dialog box  () appears to allow the user to change any settings or properties for the newly inserted object. Dialog box  includes a title box , a format field , and a size field . Format field  displays \u201cIGES,\u201d which is a supported file format.","When the user has completed editing object properties, the object appears in the PowerPoint\u00ae presentation. Manipulation of a 3D model object is similar to manipulation of a meeting recording object, except that a 3D model object stretches its content, rather than clipping the content.  illustrates a 3D model object  as it would appear in a document, in accordance with some embodiments of the invention. The object consists of two parts: an upper part  displays the content of the 3D model object, and a lower information panel  provides information about the video. Upper part  always displays the initial view of the model. The entire object has a 3D outline, and lower information  panel has a 3D outline. Information panel  consists of the elements listed in Table 8:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0114","num":"0158"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00008","num":"00008"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"161pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":"TABLE 8"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["Element","Description"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["3D Model icon","Identifies that this is a 3D model. Left aligned to 15"]},{"entry":[{},"pixels from the left edge of the object."]},{"entry":["Information","Consists of Title, Format, and Instruction. Left aligned"]},{"entry":[{},"to 15 pixels from the right edge of the Flash movie"]},{"entry":[{},"icon."]},{"entry":["Title","The title of the 3D model specified by the user in the"]},{"entry":[{},"Properties dialog box."]},{"entry":["Format","Format: IGES 3D Model"]},{"entry":["Instruction","Double-click to edit the object."]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}},"If the user selects (e.g., by double-clicking) the 3D model object, PowerPoint\u00ae switches to object editing mode. The appearance of the object in PowerPoint\u00ae changes in object editing mode, as is illustrated in , in accordance with some embodiments of the invention. The Properties and Full-screen buttons are displayed in control panel . Floating 3D Model Viewer toolbar  contains the tools used for manipulating the model itself.","In slide-show mode, if the user clicks the Properties button on the control panel, the Properties dialog box is displayed, but properties may not be edited.","When the user clicks the Full-screen button on the control panel of the object, the object is displayed in full-screen mode. The control panel is not present in this mode. In this mode, users can have maximum space for viewing the content. The following are the keyboard commands available in full-screen mode:\n\n","A 3D model object may be viewed with viewer software  if the user opens or shares a presentation that contains that object. For a host, the object behaves the same way as in slide-show mode. For attendees, all controls are disabled, except the Properties button. In the Properties dialog box, all options appear dimmed and may not be modified by the attendees.","Viewer software  has native support for some of the embedded objects such as WRF and IGS (3D) files. When such objects are shown, viewer software  renders the files and provides the appropriate controls to manipulate the objects. In other cases, such as audio and video files, viewer software  invokes the appropriate component application such as a media player on the attendee's computer to play the embedded object on the attendee's screen.","After authoring the presentation, a user can click the Slide Show button, or select Slide Show from the View menu in PowerPoint\u00ae to view the final presentation. The presentation will be displayed full screen in slide show mode.","After a document with embedded custom objects is created, the document is converted to a Rich Multi-Media format before it is shared during an online meeting or viewed by a user independent of the meeting. The Rich Multi-Media format is a document format in accordance to some embodiments of the present invention that allows a document with embedded custom (e.g., media) objects to be viewed by a user other than the author of the document. In some embodiments, the Rich Multi-Media is applied to a Microsoft\u00ae PowerPoint\u00ae document. In other embodiments, the Rich Multi-Media format may be applied to other documents, such as Microsoft\u00ae & Word documents or Corel\u00ae WordPerfect\u00ae documents.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0122","num":"0170"},"figref":"FIG. 23","b":"2300"},"A document that is converted to the Rich Multi-Media format may be sent to another user's computer (e.g., via e-mail or downloading) for viewing by that user.","After a document is opened by a presenter at presenter client computer  (stage ) conversion software  scans a portion of a document (e.g., a slide in a PowerPoint\u00ae presentation) for one or more custom objects. In stage , conversion software  obtains information for each custom object. The information may include, for example, an object identifier and\/or name for each custom object, the size of the custom object, the position of the custom object on the portion of the document, and the class type of the custom object. In some embodiments, each type of custom object has the same class structure (e.g., video objects have one class structure, while meeting recording objects have a different class structure).","In stage , conversion software  inserts the information for each custom object followed by the custom object into a Rich Multi-Media format document. The custom objects may be embedded in the document or linked (e.g., via uniform resource locators (URLs) that point to the custom objects).","In stage , conversion software  scans the same portion of the document (e.g., the same slide in a PowerPoint\u00ae presentation) for non-custom objects (e.g., text). In stage , conversion software  obtains information for each non-custom object. The information may include, for example, the size of the non-custom object and the position of the non-custom object on the portion of the document. In stage , conversion software  inserts the information for each non-custom object followed by the non-custom object into a Rich Multi-Media format document.","In some embodiments, when a document containing two custom objects and one non-custom objects is converted, the resulting Rich Multi-Media format document may have the following format:\n\n","When viewer software  renders the Rich Multi-Media format document, viewer software  uses the positional information about each object to place the object on a portion of a document. Viewer software  also renders the custom object itself or submits the custom object to a component application  for rendering. In some embodiments, the custom objects and non-custom objects are inserted into the Rich Multi-Media format document without modification.","The media playback in a Rich Multi-Media format document is an improvement over playing the media file on one computer and application-sharing it with attendees at other computers. With application-sharing, although one user may control playback of a media file with a media player application, attendees may see choppy video and may not hear the audio.","A Rich Multi-Media format document is also an improvement over streaming a media file from a server directly to an attendee by pushing a Uniform Resource Locator (URL). First, the media file may not be available on a server. Second, there is no control on the playback of the media file. Third, each attendee may have a different experience based on their network connection. Thus, the playback is not synchronized.","Viewer software  is able to render the document with embedded custom objects that is converted to Rich Multi-Media format during a meeting. Viewer software  synchronizes playback of the document with embedded custom objects across all client computers  and ",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0132","num":"0183"},"figref":"FIG. 24","b":["2400","110","120","100","2410","204","110","140","120","110","120","2420","140","120","2440","204","120","110"],"i":["n ","n","n","n","n "]},"Before an attendee client computer participates in a meeting, the attendee registers for the meeting by, for example, accessing a web site hosted by conferencing server  and submitting information on the meeting the attendee wishes to attend.  is a flow diagram of an operation  for rendering data at an attendee client computer at a meeting in a distributed collaborative computer system , in accordance with some embodiments of the invention. In stage , attendee client computer is registered for a particular meeting that is to occur at a particular date and time (e.g., a Business Development meeting to take place on Feb. 22, 2002 from 3:00 p.m. to 4:00 p.m.). Then, when presenter client computer  starts the meeting, commands from presenter client computer  are routed to attendee A client computer via conferencing server . After an attendee is registered, a document with embedded custom objects to be shared during the meeting is downloaded to the attendee A client computer (stage ). In some embodiments, multiple documents may be downloaded.","In stage , during the meeting, viewer software  opens the downloaded document. Viewer software  invokes conversion software  in stage . Next, conversion software  converts the document to a Rich Multi-Media format in stage . During the meeting, as presenter client computer  selects a portion (e.g., a page) of the document for rendering, viewer software  at attendee client computer renders each custom and non-custom object, and, in some cases, viewer software  invokes a component application to render an object (stage ).","In some embodiments, rather than downloading one or more documents when an attendee registers, the documents may be downloaded when the meeting is about to being or at a time scheduled by the attendee. In some embodiments, the downloaded documents include embedded objects, and, in other embodiments, the downloaded documents include links (e.g., uniform resource locators (URLs)) to objects. If a URL is downloaded, viewer software  at an attendee client computer retrieves the file associated with the URL from, for example, streaming server .","When the object is downloaded to the attendee as a page of the document before it is to be played, then, when that page of the document is to be played, the media player on the attendee's computer is invoked by viewer software  to play the embedded object in the document. This leads to a smooth playback without any network latency, and the attendees hear the audio portion and\/or view images in synch with each other and the presenter.","In some embodiments, the component application (e.g., media player) appears to be embedded in viewer software  (e.g., using ActiveX controls or application programming interfaces (APIs)). Presenter client computer  has player controls, such as pause, fast-forward, and rewind (e.g., the controls in control panel  in ). The component application available on the attendee's computer will appear on the attendee's screen and may be different than the one used by the presenter. Although the media is being played on each attendee's computer, the presenter controls the playback. For example, when the presenter pauses or rewinds a video, each attendee's component application will perform the same operation, even if attendee client computer is using a different component application to play the video. In other words, all the attendees will have a near synchronized experience irrespective of their network connection.","Viewer software  allows users to view multiple documents or other types of information. Viewer software  renders all static documents, PowerPoint\u00ae transitions, 3D files (e.g., in IGS format), and Meeting Recording files (i.e., WRF files). Viewer software  contains controls to manipulate 3D objects when an IGS file is being viewed. Viewer software  contains WRF player controls when a WRF file is encountered.","In some embodiments, the following media players are supported by viewer software :\n\n","Insertion software  allows a presenter to prepare shared content (e.g. a document, presentation, or other type of content) for viewing in advance of a meeting. Viewer software  allows a host or a presenter to start a meeting. Viewer software  provides features that let users easily navigate the pages of a document and provides a thumbnail view of shared content items. Viewer software  allows users to easily control the layout of Meeting Center window , which is a user interface provided by the invention during an on-line meeting and which is illustrated in . Viewer software  improves the usability and usefulness of the toolbar and palettes, thumbnail view, full-screen view, and attendee privileges. Viewer software  allows a presenter to open or share multiple documents, either before or during a meeting. In some embodiments, a palette is a small window that floats on top of a Meeting Center window  and the Attendees & Chat panel, and contains assorted drawing tools or annotation colors.","In some embodiments, a user interface is provided in which different information are illustrated as if they were on separate tabs.  illustrates a user interface for a Meeting Center window , in accordance with some embodiments of the invention. For example, an Info tab  displays information about a meeting. An Agenda tab  appears if a host provides an agenda when scheduling a meeting, and the Agenda tab contains the agenda for the meeting. One or more Shared Content tabs , , , and  (sometimes referred to as Viewer tabs) appear for each document, presentation, or other type of content that a presenter shares. A Whiteboard tab  appears if a presenter shares a whiteboard. A Fax tab appears if a host or presenter receives or opens a fax. One or more of these tabs may be optional (e.g., the agenda, whiteboard, and fax tabs).","A Next Tab button may be provided that appears to the right of the Shared Content tabs (e.g., if there are more tabs than can appear in the window at one time), and selecting this button causes the next tab to scroll into view. A Previous Tab button contains a left-pointing arrow and appears to the left of the Shared Content tabs (e.g., if there are more tabs than can appear on the screen at one time). If a user has previously clicked the Next Tab button, clicking the Previous Tab button causes the previous tab to scroll into view. In full-screen view, Meeting Center window  and task bar disappear, and the shared content is visible.","In some embodiments, a host schedules a meeting to be presented by a presenter. When scheduling a meeting, the host can designate the primary presenter for the meeting. The host may also start and end a meeting, control attendee privileges and access to a meeting and teleconference, and designate a primary and\/or current presenter (i.e., there may be multiple hosts and\/or presenters during a single meeting).","A presenter provides information to other meeting attendees; can share documents, presentations, applications, Web browsers, the computer's desktop, or information on a whiteboard with other attendees; and can take a poll. Initially, the meeting host is also the presenter. The host can designate any user attending the meeting (e.g., the host, the presenter at presenter client computer , or a user at an attendee client computer ) as the current presenter. A presenter may or may not be an authorized user, and a primary presenter may or may not be an authorized user. An authorized user is one who has an account on conferencing server  and uses his or her user name and password to log in to a Meeting Center on conferencing server .","In advance of the meeting, the primary presenter may prepare content for viewing in Meeting Center window  by creating a new document or by editing an existing one. The presenter may share the document by opening existing content that has already been converted to Rich Multi-Media format or by sharing new content. The content appears on the Shared Content tabs in the content viewer. When a presenter shares a document, presentation, or whiteboard, it appears in content viewer  (e.g., a content area on the left side of Meeting Center window ).","The primary presenter for a meeting can click a Prepare button to view and work in Meeting Center window  without starting the meeting. Thus, in advance of a meeting, a presenter can open or share all of the documents or other content to be presented during the meeting.","An attendee is a user who views the information that a presenter shares, including documents, presentations, applications, Web browsers, the presenter's desktop, and information on a whiteboard. An attendee can annotate shared information, and participate in a chat or poll. An attendee may or may not be an authorized user.","The panels are groups of controls that reside in the area of Meeting Center window . A Panel drop-down list box  is used to select a panel. Selecting a panel in Panel drop-down list box  displays the panel in the area on the right of Meeting Center window . The panels include, for example: an Attendees & Chat panel  (which is selected in ), a Polling panel, and a Video panel. Meeting Center window  provides a floating Attendees and Chat panel . In some embodiments, Attendees and Chat panel  and the Video panel are separate panels. For example, the Video panel may be part of Meeting Center window  itself, while Attendees and Chat panel  may not be integrated into Meeting Center window .","In some embodiments, Meeting Center window  is in conformance with Microsoft\u00ae user interface standards. For example, the window is in the standard gray, the toolbar appears at the standard location, below the menu bar, the behaviors of the toolbar buttons and palettes are consistent and conform to standards, and the appearance of the tabs is consistent with standards. Additionally, to achieve greater visual consistency, wherever possible, the layout of user interface elements conforms to a grid.","In Meeting Center window , shown in , a control bar with a handle separates the panels and the content viewer. Dragging the panel size control lets a user resize these areas of the window, and control the relative proportions of the panels and the content viewer. Also, the window may be resized using, for example, a standard size grip that is displayed when a user places a mouse at a corner of Meeting Center window .","Viewer software  includes several commands, including a Close command, a Save All Content command, a Start Meeting command, Reorder Viewer Tabs command, a Thumbnails command, a Panels command, and a Synchronize My Display command. These commands may appear as menu items in Meeting Center window's  menu bar.","In some embodiments, the Close command is available for hosts and presenters only. Choosing this command closes the document on the tab that is currently visible in the content viewer. The Save All Content command allows the host or primary presenter for a meeting to prepare the information that is to be presented in advance of the meeting and save the content on conferencing server . In some embodiments, this command is available for hosts and the primary presenter for a meeting. Choosing this command saves all of the content that a presenter has opened or shared when preparing for a meeting. When the meeting starts, all of the saved content automatically appears in the content viewer.","The Start Meeting command toggles with the End Meeting command. This command is available for hosts in some embodiments of the invention. The Start Meeting command allows a host to start a meeting, for example: (1) If the primary presenter is currently preparing content for viewing in the meeting; or (2) If one or more attendees join a meeting before the presenter has started the meeting. In some embodiments, the meeting starts automatically when the first attendee joins the meeting.","In either circumstance, when Meeting Center window  for a meeting is already open, the host needs a mechanism for easily assuming control of the meeting, without disrupting the activities of the primary presenter or those attendees who are already in the meeting. The host can assume control of the meeting by choosing the Start Meeting command.","The \u201cReorder Viewer Tabs . . . \u201d command is available for hosts and presenters in some embodiments. Choosing this command displays the Reorder Viewer Tabs dialog box, in which a host or presenter may modify the order in which documents or other content appear on the Shared Content tabs.","The Thumbnails command is a toggle command that is available to the host and presenter in some embodiments, and the attendee privilege settings determine whether this command is available to attendees. Choosing this command displays the thumbnail viewer to the left of the content viewer, which allows a user to navigate the slides of a presentation or the pages of a document. A thumbnail viewer is an area that a user can display on the left side of Meeting Center window  and that contains miniature images (\u201cthumbnails\u201d) of each page in a shared document.  illustrates a content viewer  and thumbnails , in accordance with some embodiments of the invention.","The Panels toggle command is available to all users. By default the Panels command is selected, and the panels appear in Meeting Center window . Choosing the Panels command closes the panels, and choosing this command again displays the panels to the right of content viewer .","The Synchronize My Display command is available to hosts and presenters, and the attendee privilege settings determine whether this command is available to attendees in some embodiments. If a user (e.g., host or attendee) is viewing a slide or page in the content viewer  other than that which the presenter is currently displaying, choosing this command synchronizes the user's display with that of the presenter.","In some embodiments, any user (e.g., host, presenter, or attendee) can annotate, save, open, or print an entire document. Other users may include, for example, system administrators.","Table 9 provides detailed information about the buttons and other controls on the toolbar. In Table 9, toggle buttons are noted as such, and all other buttons are action buttons.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0161","num":"0216"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00009","num":"00009"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"70pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"147pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":"TABLE 9"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["Button ToolTip","Function"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Open","Opens a presentation or document."]},{"entry":["Save","Saves a presentation or document."]},{"entry":["Share Presentation","Allows a host or presenter to share a presentation"]},{"entry":["or Document","or document with other attendees."]},{"entry":["Previous Slide","Displays the previous slide of a presentation or"]},{"entry":[{},"page of a document in the content viewer."]},{"entry":["Go To dropdown","Allows a user to select a slide or page for"]},{"entry":["combo box","viewing in the content viewer."]},{"entry":["Next Slide","Displays the next slide of a presentation or page"]},{"entry":[{},"of a document in the content viewer."]},{"entry":["Full-Screen","This toggle button has the same function as the"]},{"entry":["View\/Content","Full Screen command."]},{"entry":"Viewer"},{"entry":["Zoom In\/Zoom Out","Allows a user to click this toggle button to enter"]},{"entry":[{},"and exit zoom mode. In zoom mode, when the"]},{"entry":[{},"button is in its down state, the pointer changes to"]},{"entry":[{},"a magnifying glass, and a user can repeatedly"]},{"entry":[{},"click the content viewer to zoom in or out by the"]},{"entry":[{},"percentages listed in the Zoom In\/Zoom Out"]},{"entry":[{},"drop-down menu."]},{"entry":["Zoom In\/Zoom Out","Allows a user to choose a command on this"]},{"entry":["drop-down menu","menu to control the magnification of the"]},{"entry":[{},"document in the content viewer."]},{"entry":["View Thumbnails","This toggle button has the same function as the"]},{"entry":[{},"Thumbnails command."]},{"entry":["View Panels","This toggle button has the same function and the"]},{"entry":[{},"Panels command."]},{"entry":["For hosts and","For a host or presenter, this button allows the"]},{"entry":["presenters:","host or presenter to synchronize all displays of"]},{"entry":["Synchronize","all attendees. For attendees, this function"]},{"entry":["Displays","synchronizes the attendee with the presenter's"]},{"entry":[{},"display."]},{"entry":"For Attendees:"},{"entry":"Synchronize My"},{"entry":"Display"},{"entry":["Laser Pointer","A presenter can click this toggle button to enter"]},{"entry":[{},"and exit a laser pointer mode that lets the"]},{"entry":[{},"presenter dynamically point to elements on a"]},{"entry":[{},"page or slide in the content viewer or full-screen"]},{"entry":[{},"view. In this laser pointer mode, when the"]},{"entry":[{},"button is in its down state, the pointer changes to"]},{"entry":[{},"a laser beam, with which the presenter can point"]},{"entry":[{},"to elements on a page."]},{"entry":[{},"If the presenter points to an element on a page"]},{"entry":[{},"that is not currently visible in a participant's"]},{"entry":[{},"content viewer of full-screen view, the page"]},{"entry":[{},"automatically pans to bring the content in that"]},{"entry":[{},"sector fully into view. For example:"]},{"entry":[{},"If the presenter points to an element in a"]},{"entry":[{},"corner sector of a page that is currently off-"]},{"entry":[{},"screen, the page pans to bring the entire"]},{"entry":[{},"corner into view."]},{"entry":[{},"If the presenter points to an element in the"]},{"entry":[{},"top or bottom middle sector of a page, the"]},{"entry":[{},"page pans to bring the entire sector into"]},{"entry":[{},"view."]},{"entry":["Pointer Tool","A user can click this toggle button to enter and"]},{"entry":[{},"exit an annotation mode that lets the user insert a"]},{"entry":[{},"point annotation\u2014that is, an arrow with the"]},{"entry":[{},"user's name on it\u2014on a document in the content"]},{"entry":[{},"viewer. In this pointer annotation mode, when"]},{"entry":[{},"the button is in its down state, the pointer"]},{"entry":[{},"changes to an arrow, and a user can click the"]},{"entry":[{},"content viewer to insert one or more pointer"]},{"entry":[{},"annotations."]},{"entry":["Text Tool","A user can click this toggle button to enter and"]},{"entry":[{},"exit an annotation mode that lets the user type"]},{"entry":[{},"text annotations on a document in the content"]},{"entry":[{},"viewer. In this text annotation mode, when the"]},{"entry":[{},"button is in its down state, the pointer changes to"]},{"entry":[{},"an I-beam, and a user can click the content"]},{"entry":[{},"viewer to select an insertion point, and type one"]},{"entry":[{},"or more annotations."]},{"entry":["Highlighter Tool or","The drawing tool is a toggle button that depends"]},{"entry":["other drawing tool","on the drawing tool that is currently selected on"]},{"entry":[{},"the Drawing Tools palette. The Highlighter Tool"]},{"entry":[{},"is the default button. A user can click this toggle"]},{"entry":[{},"button to enter and exit an annotation mode that"]},{"entry":[{},"lets the user draw annotations, using various"]},{"entry":[{},"tools, on a document in the content viewer. In"]},{"entry":[{},"this drawing annotation mode, when the button"]},{"entry":[{},"is in its down state, the pointer changes"]},{"entry":[{},"according to the tool that is currently selected,"]},{"entry":[{},"and a user can draw one or more annotations."]},{"entry":["Drawing Tools","A user can select a drawing tool on this palette."]},{"entry":"palette"},{"entry":["Eraser Tool","A user can click this toggle button to enter and"]},{"entry":[{},"exit eraser mode. In eraser mode, when the"]},{"entry":[{},"button is in its down state, the pointer changes to"]},{"entry":[{},"an eraser, and a user can click an annotation in"]},{"entry":[{},"the content viewer to erase it."]},{"entry":["Eraser Tool drop-","A user can choose a command on this menu to"]},{"entry":["down menu","erase one or more pointers, or all pointers or"]},{"entry":[{},"annotations."]},{"entry":["Annotation Color","A user can click this toggle button to display the"]},{"entry":[{},"Annotation Color palette at the location where"]},{"entry":[{},"the user last left it."]},{"entry":["Annotation Color","A user can choose a color on this palette. All"]},{"entry":["drop-down palette","types of annotations that the user makes appear"]},{"entry":[{},"in this color."]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}},"The pointer annotation may be represented with an arrow that may include the annotator's identifier (e.g., name). A pointer annotation that has no name on it is for use by a presenter. If attendees do not have the annotation privilege, there is no need to display a presenter's name on a pointer annotation to distinguish it from an attendee's pointer. The length of a pointer annotation is variable and depends on the length of, for example, a user's name.","In some embodiments, the drawing tool palette includes the elements listed in Table 10.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0164","num":"0219"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00010","num":"00010"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"63pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"154pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":"TABLE 10"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["Button Tool Tip","Function"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Highlighter Tool","The highlighter tool is selected by default. A"]},{"entry":[{},"user can click this toggle button to enter and exit"]},{"entry":[{},"an annotation mode that lets the user draw"]},{"entry":[{},"annotations, using the highlighter tool, on a"]},{"entry":[{},"document in the content viewer. In this drawing"]},{"entry":[{},"annotation mode, when the button is in its down"]},{"entry":[{},"state, the standard arrow pointer changes to the"]},{"entry":[{},"pointer for the highlighter tool, and a user can"]},{"entry":[{},"draw one or more annotations."]},{"entry":["Pencil Tool","A user can click this toggle button to enter and"]},{"entry":[{},"exit an annotation mode that lets the user draw"]},{"entry":[{},"annotations, using the pencil tool, on a document"]},{"entry":[{},"in the content viewer. In this drawing annotation"]},{"entry":[{},"mode, when the button is in its down state, the"]},{"entry":[{},"standard arrow pointer changes to the pointer for"]},{"entry":[{},"the pencil tool, and a user can draw one or more"]},{"entry":[{},"annotations."]},{"entry":["Line Tool","A user can click this toggle button to enter and"]},{"entry":[{},"exit an annotation mode that lets the user draw"]},{"entry":[{},"lines, using the line tool, on a document in the"]},{"entry":[{},"content viewer. In this drawing annotation"]},{"entry":[{},"mode, when the button is in its down state, the"]},{"entry":[{},"standard arrow pointer changes to the pointer for"]},{"entry":[{},"the line tool, and a user can draw one or more"]},{"entry":[{},"lines."]},{"entry":["Ellipse Tool","A user can click this toggle button to enter and"]},{"entry":[{},"exit an annotation mode that lets the user draw"]},{"entry":[{},"ellipses, using the ellipse tool, on a document in"]},{"entry":[{},"the content viewer. In this drawing annotation"]},{"entry":[{},"mode, when the button is in its down state, the"]},{"entry":[{},"standard arrow pointer changes to the pointer for"]},{"entry":[{},"the ellipse tool, and a user can draw one or more"]},{"entry":[{},"ellipses."]},{"entry":["Rectangle Tool","A user can click this toggle button to enter and"]},{"entry":[{},"exit an annotation mode that lets the user draw"]},{"entry":[{},"rectangles, using the rectangle tool, on a"]},{"entry":[{},"document in the content viewer. In this drawing"]},{"entry":[{},"annotation mode, when the button is in its down"]},{"entry":[{},"state, the standard arrow pointer changes to the"]},{"entry":[{},"pointer for the rectangle tool, and a user can"]},{"entry":[{},"draw one or more rectangles."]},{"entry":["Arrow Tool","A user can click this toggle button to enter and"]},{"entry":[{},"exit an annotation mode that lets the user draw"]},{"entry":[{},"arrows, using the arrow tool, on a document in"]},{"entry":[{},"the content viewer. In this drawing annotation"]},{"entry":[{},"mode, when the button is in its down state, the"]},{"entry":[{},"standard arrow pointer changes to the pointer for"]},{"entry":[{},"the arrow tool, and a user can draw one or more"]},{"entry":[{},"arrows."]},{"entry":["Double-Headed","A user can click this toggle button to enter and"]},{"entry":["Arrow Tool","exit an annotation mode that lets the user draw"]},{"entry":[{},"double-headed arrows, using the double-headed"]},{"entry":[{},"arrow tool on a document in the content viewer."]},{"entry":[{},"In this drawing annotation mode, when the"]},{"entry":[{},"button is in its down state, the standard arrow"]},{"entry":[{},"pointer changes to the pointer for the double-"]},{"entry":[{},"headed arrow tool, and a user can draw one or"]},{"entry":[{},"more double-headed arrows."]},{"entry":["Check Mark Tool","A user can click this toggle button to enter and"]},{"entry":[{},"exit an annotation mode that lets the user draw"]},{"entry":[{},"check marks, using the check-mark tool, on a"]},{"entry":[{},"document in the content viewer. In this drawing"]},{"entry":[{},"annotation mode, when the button is in its down"]},{"entry":[{},"state, the standard arrow pointer changes to the"]},{"entry":[{},"pointer for the check mark tool, and a user can"]},{"entry":[{},"draw one or more check marks."]},{"entry":["X-Mark Tool","A user can click this toggle button to enter and"]},{"entry":[{},"exit an annotation mode that lets the user draw"]},{"entry":[{},"X-marks, using the X-mark tool, on a document"]},{"entry":[{},"in the content viewer. In this drawing annotation"]},{"entry":[{},"mode, when the button is in its down state, the"]},{"entry":[{},"standard arrow pointer changes to the pointer for"]},{"entry":[{},"the X-mark tool, and a user can draw one or"]},{"entry":[{},"more X-marks."]},{"entry":["Annotation Color","A user can click this toggle button to display the"]},{"entry":[{},"Annotation Color palette at the location where"]},{"entry":[{},"the user last left it. As long as the Annotation"]},{"entry":[{},"Color palette remains open, this button is in its"]},{"entry":[{},"down state. Clicking the button again closes the"]},{"entry":[{},"Annotation Color palette."]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}},"\u201cChoosing the Privileges . . . \u201d command on the Attendee menu displays the Attendee Privileges dialog box.  illustrates an Attendee Privileges dialog box  in accordance with some embodiments of the invention. When a host or presenter chooses Privileges on the Attendee menu, without selecting an attendee in the attendee list, the Attendee Privileges dialog box appears, allowing the host or presenter to modify the privileges of all attendees. When a host or presenter selects an attendee in the attendee list, then chooses Privileges on the Attendee menu, the Attendee Privileges dialog box appears, allowing modification of the privileges of the selected attendee. Table 11 describes the elements in the Attendee Privileges dialog box.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0166","num":"0221"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00011","num":"00011"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"63pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"35pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"119pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":"TABLE 11"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["Label or Name","Element","Function"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Close (This button","Title bar","The Close Button closes the Attendee"]},{"entry":["has no label.)","button","Privileges dialog box."]},{"entry":["All attendees","Option","This option assigns the selected"]},{"entry":[{},"button","privileges to all attendees. If the host r"]},{"entry":[{},{},"presenter chooses Preferences on the"]},{"entry":[{},{},"Attendee menu without selecting an"]},{"entry":[{},{},"attendee list, this option is selected by"]},{"entry":[{},{},"default."]},{"entry":["Selected attendee","Option","This option assigns the selected"]},{"entry":[{},"button","privileges to only the selected"]},{"entry":[{},{},"attendee."]},{"entry":[{},{},"If the host or presenter selects an"]},{"entry":[{},{},"attendee in the attendee list, then"]},{"entry":[{},{},"chooses Preferences on the Attendee"]},{"entry":[{},{},"menu, this option is selected by"]},{"entry":[{},{},"default."]},{"entry":["Save","Check box","Allows attendees to save a shared"]},{"entry":[{},{},"document or presentation. This check"]},{"entry":[{},{},"box is deselected by default, and for"]},{"entry":[{},{},"all attendees, the Save and Save As"]},{"entry":[{},{},"submenus, and Save All Content"]},{"entry":[{},{},"command on the File menu, and the"]},{"entry":[{},{},"Save button on the toolbar appear"]},{"entry":[{},{},"dimmed."]},{"entry":["Print","Check box","Allows attendees to print a shared"]},{"entry":[{},{},"document or presentation. This check"]},{"entry":[{},{},"box is deselected by default, and the"]},{"entry":[{},{},"attendees' Print submenu on the File"]},{"entry":[{},{},"menu appears dimmed."]},{"entry":["Copy pages","Check box","Allows attendees to copy pages of a"]},{"entry":[{},{},"shared document or presentation. This"]},{"entry":[{},{},"check box is deselected by default,"]},{"entry":[{},{},"and the Copy Page command on the"]},{"entry":[{},{},"attendees' Edit menu appears dimmed."]},{"entry":["Annotate","Check box","Allows attendees to annotate a shared"]},{"entry":[{},{},"document, presentation, application,"]},{"entry":[{},{},"Web browser, desktop, or whiteboard."]},{"entry":[{},{},"This check box is deselected by"]},{"entry":[{},{},"default, and for all attendees, the Clear"]},{"entry":[{},{},"submenu on the Edit menu and the"]},{"entry":[{},{},"following elements on the toolbar"]},{"entry":[{},{},"appear dimmed: the Pointer Tool and"]},{"entry":[{},{},"Text Tool buttons; Highlighter Tool or"]},{"entry":[{},{},"other drawing tool button, and drop-"]},{"entry":[{},{},"down menu; Eraser Tool button and"]},{"entry":[{},{},"drop-down menu, and Annotation"]},{"entry":[{},{},"Color button and drop-down palette."]},{"entry":[{},{},"This option now encompasses the"]},{"entry":[{},{},"ability to insert arrow annotations,"]},{"entry":[{},{},"called pointers."]},{"entry":["Transfer","Check box","Allows attendees to transfer files."]},{"entry":[{},{},"This check box is deselected by"]},{"entry":[{},{},"default, and the Transfer command on"]},{"entry":[{},{},"the attendees' File menu appears"]},{"entry":[{},{},"dimmed."]},{"entry":["Attendee list","Check box","Allows attendees to view the content"]},{"entry":[{},{},"in the attendee list. This check box is"]},{"entry":[{},{},"selected by default. Attendees can"]},{"entry":[{},{},"always view the host and presenter in"]},{"entry":[{},{},"the attendee list, regardless of whether"]},{"entry":[{},{},"this check box is selected."]},{"entry":["Video","Check box","Allows attendees to view video. This"]},{"entry":[{},{},"check box is deselected by default,"]},{"entry":[{},{},"and the Video option in the attendees'"]},{"entry":[{},{},"Panel drop-down list box appears"]},{"entry":[{},{},"dimmed."]},{"entry":["Thumbnails","Check box","Allows attendees to view the"]},{"entry":[{},{},"thumbnail viewer, and use it to"]},{"entry":[{},{},"navigate to and view any page of a"]},{"entry":[{},{},"shared document, presentation or"]},{"entry":[{},{},"whiteboard. This check box is"]},{"entry":[{},{},"deselected by default, and for all"]},{"entry":[{},{},"attendees, the Thumbnails command"]},{"entry":[{},{},"on the View menu and the View"]},{"entry":[{},{},"Thumbnails button on the toolbar"]},{"entry":[{},{},"appear dimmed."]},{"entry":[{},{},"When the attendee displays the"]},{"entry":[{},{},"thumbnail viewer, it appears in only"]},{"entry":[{},{},"that attendee's Meeting Center"]},{"entry":[{},{},"window. Navigating to another page"]},{"entry":[{},{},"using the controls in the thumbnail"]},{"entry":[{},{},"viewer affects only that attendee's"]},{"entry":[{},{},"view of the shared document,"]},{"entry":[{},{},"presentation, or whiteboard."]},{"entry":["Any page","Check box","Allows attendees to navigate to and"]},{"entry":[{},{},"view any page of a shared document,"]},{"entry":[{},{},"presentation, or white board, by"]},{"entry":[{},{},"clicking either the Go To drop-down"]},{"entry":[{},{},"combo box, or the Previous Slide or"]},{"entry":[{},{},"Next Slide button on the toolbar. This"]},{"entry":[{},{},"check box is deselected by default,"]},{"entry":[{},{},"and for all attendees, the Synchronize"]},{"entry":[{},{},"My Display command on the View"]},{"entry":[{},{},"menu, and Go To drop-down combo"]},{"entry":[{},{},"box, and Previous Slide, Next Slide,"]},{"entry":[{},{},"and Synchronize My Display buttons"]},{"entry":[{},{},"on the toolbar appear dimmed."]},{"entry":[{},{},"When an attendee navigates to another"]},{"entry":[{},{},"page, it affects only that attendee's"]},{"entry":[{},{},"view of the shared document,"]},{"entry":[{},{},"presentation, or whiteboard."]},{"entry":["Record the Meeting","Check box","Allows attendees to record the"]},{"entry":[{},{},"meeting, and save the recording on"]},{"entry":[{},{},"their own hard disks or servers. This"]},{"entry":[{},{},"check box is deselected by default,"]},{"entry":[{},{},"and the start Recording and Recording"]},{"entry":[{},{},"Options commands on the Tools menu"]},{"entry":[{},{},"appear dimmed."]},{"entry":["Share documents","Check box","Allows attendees to share documents,"]},{"entry":[{},{},"presentations, and whiteboards, and"]},{"entry":[{},{},"paste pages of a shared document or"]},{"entry":[{},{},"presentation. This check box is"]},{"entry":[{},{},"deselected by default, and for all"]},{"entry":[{},{},"attendees, the New Page command,"]},{"entry":[{},{},"Open submenu, and Close command"]},{"entry":[{},{},"on the File menu; Presentation or"]},{"entry":[{},{},"Document, Application, Web"]},{"entry":[{},{},"Browser, Desktop, and Whiteboard"]},{"entry":[{},{},"commands on the Share menu; and"]},{"entry":[{},{},"Open, Share Presentation or"]},{"entry":[{},{},"Document, and Laser Pointer buttons"]},{"entry":[{},{},"on the toolbar appear dimmed."]},{"entry":["Public chat","Check box","Allows attendees to participate in"]},{"entry":[{},{},"public chat. The check box is"]},{"entry":[{},{},"deselected by default."]},{"entry":["Private chat","Check box","Allows attendees to participate in"]},{"entry":[{},{},"private chat. This check box is"]},{"entry":[{},{},"selected by default."]},{"entry":["Host","Check box","Allows attendees to chat privately"]},{"entry":[{},{},"with the meeting host. This option is"]},{"entry":[{},{},"selected by default. If the host or"]},{"entry":[{},{},"presenter deselects this check box, the"]},{"entry":[{},{},"options Host and Host and presenter"]},{"entry":[{},{},"appear dimmed in the attendees' Send"]},{"entry":[{},{},"to drop-down list box on the Chat tab."]},{"entry":["Presenter","Check box","Allows attendees to chat privately"]},{"entry":[{},{},"with the current presenter. This option"]},{"entry":[{},{},"is selected by default. If the host or"]},{"entry":[{},{},"presenter deselects this check box, the"]},{"entry":[{},{},"Host and presenter option appears"]},{"entry":[{},{},"dimmed in the attendees' Send to"]},{"entry":[{},{},"drop-down list box on the Chat tab."]},{"entry":["All attendees","Check box","Allows attendees to chat with all other"]},{"entry":[{},{},"attendees. This option is deselected"]},{"entry":[{},{},"by default. If the host or presenter"]},{"entry":[{},{},"selects this check box, all attendees'"]},{"entry":[{},{},"names appear in the Send drop-down"]},{"entry":[{},{},"list box on the Chat tab and are"]},{"entry":[{},{},"available."]},{"entry":["All attendee","Check box","Selects all other check boxes in the"]},{"entry":["privileges",{},"Attendee Privilege dialog box."]},{"entry":["Assign","Button","Clicking this button closes the"]},{"entry":[{},{},"Attendee Privileges dialog box and"]},{"entry":[{},{},"applies changes to the attendee-"]},{"entry":[{},{},"privilege settings on all tabs. The"]},{"entry":[{},{},"Meeting Center window again"]},{"entry":[{},{},"becomes the active window. This"]},{"entry":[{},{},"button is the default button"]},{"entry":["Cancel","Button","Clicking Cancel closes the Attendee"]},{"entry":[{},{},"Privileges dialog box without"]},{"entry":[{},{},"changing any settings, and the"]},{"entry":[{},{},"Meeting Center window again"]},{"entry":[{},{},"becomes the active window."]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}},"Microsoft, Word, PowerPoint, Internet Explorer, and Windows are trademarks of Microsoft, Inc. Shockwave and Flash are trademarks of Macromedia, Inc. QuickTime is a trademark of Apple Computer, Inc. Real is a trademark of RealNetworks, Inc. DB2 is a trademark of International Business Machines, Inc. Oracle is a trademark of Oracle, Corp. Pentium is a trademark of Intel, Corp. UltraSparc is a trademark of Sun Microsystems, Inc. Corel and WordPerfect are trademarks of Corel Corporation.","Although the invention has been described with reference to particular embodiments, the description is only an example of the invention's application and should not be taken as a limitation.","The order in which the steps of the present technique are performed is purely illustrative in nature. In fact, the stages in the flow diagrams described herein may be performed in any order or in parallel, unless otherwise indicated by the present disclosure.","The technique of the present invention may be performed in either hardware, software, or any combination thereof. In particular, the invention may be carried out by software, firmware, microcode operating on a computer or computers of any type.","Additionally, software embodying the invention comprise computer instructions in any form (e.g., source code, object code, interpreted code) stored in any computer-readable medium (e.g., ROM, RAM, magnetic media, punched tape or card, CD, DVD). Thus, the invention may be tangibly embodied as software in a computer-readable device or media, such as memory, data storage devices, and\/or data communication devices, thereby making a product or article of manufacture according to the invention. As such, the terms \u201carticle of manufacture\u201d and \u201ccomputer program product\u201d and \u201ccomputer-readable storage medium\u201d as used herein are intended to encompass software accessible from any computer readable device or media.","Furthermore, such software may also be in the form of a computer data signal embodied in a carrier wave, such as that found within the well-known Web pages transferred among computers connected to the Internet. Accordingly the present invention is not limited to any particular platform unless specifically stated otherwise in the present disclosure. Using the present specification, the invention may be implemented as a machine, process, or article of manufacture by using programming and\/or engineering techniques to produce software, firmware, hardware, or any combination thereof.","While particular embodiments of the present invention have been shown and described, it will be apparent to those skilled in the art that changes and modifications may be made without departing from this invention in its broader aspect, and, therefore, the appended claims are to encompass within their scope all such changes and modifications as fall within the true spirit of this invention."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The present disclosure may be better understood and its numerous features and advantages made apparent to those skilled in the art by referencing the accompanying drawings.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIGS. 2A","b":["2","2"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 11"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 12"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 13"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 14"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":"FIG. 15"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":"FIG. 16"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIG. 17"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":"FIG. 18"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":"FIG. 19"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":"FIG. 20"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":"FIG. 21"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":"FIG. 22"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"figref":"FIG. 23"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0034"},"figref":"FIG. 24"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"figref":"FIG. 25"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0037","num":"0036"},"figref":"FIG. 26"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0037"},"figref":"FIG. 27"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0039","num":"0038"},"figref":"FIG. 28"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
