---
title: Power converter and planar transformer therefor
abstract: A planar transformer includes a primary winding surrounding a portion of a magnetic core. The primary winding is made up of a bundle of individually insulated conductors (wires) in a bundle, and the bundle is itself separately insulated as a whole. A secondary winding of insulated conductor makes at least one turn around the portion of the core. In one embodiment, the secondary winding is a planar concentric spiral structure with an out-of-plane bridging conductor. Electrical connection tabs may be located adjacent the “ends” of the secondary winding for connection of rectifiers. Series inductors may be connected to each of the tabs and to the direct-current output port of the transformer/rectifier combination, and the conductors of the series inductors may be monolithic with the secondary winding.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=06972657&OS=06972657&RS=06972657
owner: Lockheed Martin Corporation
number: 06972657
owner_city: Bethesda
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20020614
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"GOVINT":[{},{}],"heading":["GOVERNMENTAL INTEREST","FIELD OF THE INVENTION","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION"],"p":["This invention was prepared under government contract N00024-99-9-5386. The United States Government has a non-exclusive, non-transferable, paid-up license in this invention.","This invention relates to switching power converters or supplies, and more particularly to planar transformers suited for use therewith.","High-frequency power converters are widely used for consumer products and for industrial purposes. Such converters are often used to convert mains power to direct voltage for powering electronic equipment, or are dc-to-dc converters for converting a source of direct voltage to another direct voltage for use.","Power converters, especially for consumer uses, and for critical industrial and military uses, must be highly efficient, small in size, and very reliable. In addition, they must be inexpensive. It is generally recognized that the efficiency and size constraints of switching power converters are associated with the size, configuration and material of the magnetic components, as for example the core of a transformer or of an inductor.","In addition to the abovementioned requirements placed on the performance of a power converter by competitive pressures, it is additionally necessary, for safety reasons, to comply with the requirements of standards-setting bodies, such as Underwriters Laboratories (UL). UL standards for power converters include a shock hazard requirement, which may be interpreted to mean that the primary and secondary windings of a transformer which provide electrical isolation between the \u201cinside\u201d of an electrical apparatus and the \u201coutside\u201d must have three layers of electrical insulation. The magnetic winding is deemed to be electrically conductive.","There are many ways to achieve the triple insulation goal. In some cases, this electrical insulation or isolation requirement is met in conventional transformers by placing an insulating sheet over a magnetic core, winding a primary or secondary winding of insulated wire on the insulating sheet surrounding the magnetic core, placing an additional insulating sheet around the winding so placed, and then winding a separate turn or turns of independently insulated wire over the second sheet of insulation. Thus, each of the conductive windings is separated from the magnetic core by its own wire insulation and a sheet of insulation. The sheet of insulating material has traditionally been a stable, inexpensive and rugged material known as \u201cfish paper,\u201d although other materials are used.","Another way to achieve the triple isolation goal is to place the individual insulated wire windings on separate bobbins of insulating material. Each bobbin is then placed on a separate portion or leg of the magnetic core, so that each winding is isolated from the magnetic core by a bobbin and the wire insulation, and the conductors are isolated from each other by at least an air space and the wire insulation of each winding.","Improved power converters are desired.","In general, a planar transformer according to an aspect of the invention includes a primary winding surrounding a portion of a magnetic core. The primary winding is made up of a bundle of individually insulated conductors (wires) in a bundle, and the bundle is itself separately insulated as a whole. A secondary winding of insulated conductor makes at least one turn around the portion of the core. In one embodiment, the secondary winding is a planar concentric spiral structure with an out-of-plane bridging conductor. Electrical connection tabs may be located adjacent the \u201cends\u201d of the secondary winding for connection of rectifiers. Series inductors may be connected to each of the tabs and to the direct-current output port of the transformer\/rectifier combination. In a preferred embodiment, the conductor(s) of the series inductors are monolithic with the conductor(s) of the secondary winding. In a preferred version, the primary winding is split into two portions, which straddle the secondary winding.","More particularly, a transformer according to an aspect of the invention comprises a magnetic core and an elongated primary winding defining turns around at least a portion of the magnetic core. The primary winding includes a bundle of individually insulated conductors with a layer of insulation surrounding the bundle of individually insulated conductors. A secondary winding defines at least one turn around the portion of the magnetic core, and the secondary winding includes at least one individually insulated conductor. In one version, the individually insulated conductors of the primary winding have generally circular cross-sections, and the bundle also has a generally circular cross-section. In a preferred version, the individually insulated conductor of the secondary winding has a planar spiral configuration. When the secondary winding is a planar spiral, an out-of-plane bridge conductor may be connected to that portion of the individually insulated conductor of the secondary winding which lies adjacent the center of the planar spiral, for providing access to the end of the secondary winding adjacent the interior of the spiral. In a version particularly suited for use with a power converter, connection tabs monolithic with the secondary winding are provided at locations adjacent the magnetic core. In a most preferred version, the transformer secondary winding is monolithic with at least one additional conductor which extends through magnetic core means for defining an inductor adjacent the secondary winding. The magnetic core means of the series inductor may be monolithic with the transformer core if desired. The primary winding may be split into two portions, one of which lies on a first side of the planar spiral, and the other of which lies on the other side of the planar spiral.","Yet more particularly, a transformer, according to an aspect of the invention, comprises a first generally planar magnetic core defining first and second mutually parallel broad sides and first and second apertures or windows extending parallel to the first and second broad sides. A multiturn primary winding is in the form of a plurality of individually insulated, electrically conductive wires extending generally parallel to each other to thereby form a set of wires, and the set of wires, taken as a whole, is provided with a layer or coating of electrical insulation separate from that of the individually insulated, electrically conductive wires. The individual insulation of each wire may be in the form of enamel, and the additional layer is preferably in the form of polytetrafluoroethane or polytetrafluoroethylene. The primary winding extends through the first and second apertures for, when energized, inducing magnetic flux in a portion of the magnetic core. A secondary winding of electrically insulated planar electrical conductor includes at least one planar turn defining an open center. The secondary winding includes first and second terminations exterior to the planar turn. The electrical conductor of the planar turn of the secondary winding extends through the first and second apertures and has its open center encircling the portion of the magnetic core. The secondary winding further includes first and second electrical connection portions external to the magnetic core. If the secondary winding includes a plurality of planar turns, it further comprises an out-of-plane electrically insulated, electrically conductive bridge associated with at least one turn of the plurality of planar turns, for, in response to the magnetic flux in the portion of the magnetic core, producing a secondary voltage across the first and second terminations.","In one avatar of the invention, the plurality of individually insulated, electrically conductive wires extend generally parallel to each other to thereby form a set of wires comprises a plurality of the wires twisted together. In another avatar, the plurality of individually insulated, electrically conductive wires extend generally parallel to each other to thereby form or define a set of wires braided together. The individually insulated, electrically conductive wires comprise wires individually insulated with enamel. In a preferred embodiment, the plurality of individually insulated, electrically conductive wires, as a set, is provided with a separate layer of insulation, which in a most preferred version comprises at least one of polytetraethylene and polytetraethane. The insulation on the secondary winding comprises a layer of either polytetrafluoroethylene or polytetrafluoroethane.","In one hypostasis of the invention, the secondary winding contains copper, and the secondary winding is coated with silver, which is in turn coated with one of polytetrafluoroethylene and polytetrafluoroethane.","A particularly advantageous association of the transformer is with first and second electrically conductive planar extensions of the first and second terminations. The first planar extension defines a body portion and an end portion, and the second planar extension defines a body portion and an end portion. Second and third magnetic cores surround the body portions of the first and second electrically conductive planar extensions of the first and second terminations, respectively, thereby increasing the inductance of the first and second electrically conductive planar extensions of the first and second terminations. It is desirable to include a further electrical connection connected to the first and second end portions of the first and second planar extensions of the first and second terminations, for shorting together the first and second terminations, to thereby provide a convenient connection point.","A particular implementation of the transformer is one in which (a) the secondary winding of electrically insulated planar electrical conductor, (b) the out-of-plane electrically insulated, electrically conductive bridge, if any, and (c) at least the body portions of the first and second electrically conductive planar extensions of the first and second terminations are continuous integrated conductors with continuous insulation, except at the first and second terminations exterior to the planar turn.","According to another aspect of the invention, a converter comprises a source of alternating voltage and a transformer. The transformer includes a first generally planar magnetic core defining first and second mutually parallel broad sides and first and second apertures extending parallel to the first and second broad sides. The transformer also includes a multiturn primary winding in the form of a plurality of individually insulated, electrically conductive wires extending generally parallel to each other to thereby form a set of wires. The set of wires is provided with a layer of electrical insulation separate from that of the individually insulated, electrically conductive wires. The primary winding extends through the first and second apertures for, when energized, inducing magnetic flux in a portion of the magnetic core. The transformer also includes a secondary winding of electrically insulated planar electrical conductor. The secondary winding includes at least one planar turn defining an open center. The secondary winding including first and second terminations exterior to the planar turn. The electrical conductor of the planar turn of the secondary winding extends through the first and second apertures and has its open center encircling the portion of the magnetic core. The secondary winding further includes first and second electrical connection portions external to the magnetic core, and if the secondary winding includes a plurality of planar turns, further comprises an out-of-plane electrically insulated, electrically conductive bridge associated with at least one turn of the plurality of planar turns, for, in response to the magnetic flux in the portion of the magnetic core, producing a secondary voltage across the first and second terminations.","The converter further comprises first and second unidirectional current conducting devices, each including a cathode and an anode. The first and second unidirectional current conducting devices have corresponding electrodes electrically connected together to define a reference conductor. An arrangement couples that electrode of the first unidirectional current conducting device remote from the reference conductor to the first termination exterior to the planar turn, and that electrode of the second unidirectional current conducting device to the second termination exterior to the planar turn. A first inductor is connected to the first termination exterior to the planar turn and to a common point. A second inductor is connected to the second termination exterior to the planar turn and to the common point. A storage capacitor is connected to the reference conductor and to the common point. A load may be coupled to the reference conductor and to the common point.","One of the ways in which the size of the power transformer portion of a power converter can be reduced is to increase the operating frequency at which the transformer operates. In general, a transformer is an inductive or magnetic device, which provides increased coupling as the frequency increases. However, the advantages of increasing frequency are offset by increases in losses in the magnetic core material as frequency increases, and also by the \u201cskin effect.\u201d The skin effect is an increase in effective heating losses in a conductor with increasing frequency, resulting from the self-inductance of the conductor, which tends to force the current to flow only near the outer surface of the conductor, thereby tending to increase the effective resistance of the conductor, and therefore increase the IR losses. Thus, frequency can be increased only to a certain point, which depends upon the configuration and characteristics of the transformer and its magnetic core.","Another way to decrease the size and weight of a power converter is to use a \u201ccurrent doubler\u201d configuration, in which the overall size of the filter inductance is reduced by splitting the current flow through the inductance into two portions, each handled by a separate inductor. The separate inductors, each handling half-current, can be smaller than the size of a single inductor capable of handling the full current.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":["FIGS. 1","FIG. 1"],"i":["a ","b ","a","p","p","p ","p ","mc","s ","mc","s ","s","c ","s ","s","c ","c ","c "],"b":["1","10","8","12","1","12","2","12","12","12","12","12","12","12","12","1","14","14","12","12","2","16","16","14","16","18","20","14","21","22","16","21","24","18","21","26","24"]},"In operation of the arrangement of with the applied power poled such as to make end  of power transformer secondary winding positive (+) relative to terminal , the conventional current flow (as contrasted with electron current flow) is as suggested by arrows , , , , and . More particularly, diode  tends to be reverse-biased and therefore nonconductive when end  of secondary winding is positive, but the energy stored in inductors  and  may hold it ON or conductive for a short period. With diode  nonconductive, the applied + voltage causes current to flow through inductor , as suggested by current component arrow . The current then branches to flow through capacitor  and through load , as suggested by current component arrows and , respectively. The currents then combine to flow through reference conductor , as suggested by arrow , and finally the current returns to the negative (\u2212) end  of transformer secondary  by way of forward-biased diode , as suggested by current component arrow .","With the opposite polarization of the applied voltage, the secondary winding is poled negative (\u2212) at its first end  and positive (+) at its second end , as indicated in . With the indicated polarization of the secondary winding , diode  is rendered nonconductive and diode  conductive. Conventional current may be viewed as flowing from secondary terminal  past back-biased diode , and through inductor , as suggested by current component arrow . The current continues to common point , as indicated by arrow . At point , the current splits into two portions and , as described above, and flows through capacitor  and load . The currents exiting capacitor  and load  combine to form a combined current represented by current component arrow , which flows through reference conductor  and forward-biased diode  back to terminal , as suggested by current component arrow . Thus, current flows continuously through at least one or the other of inductors  and , and each inductor must be only \u201clarge\u201d enough to handle half the total current flowing through the load .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIGS. 1","FIG. 2"],"i":["a ","a ","b","a","mcl","mcls","mcu","mcus","mcl ","mcu ","mcc"],"b":["12","20","22","1","12","12","12","12","12","12","12","12"]},"In , a primary winding is illustrated as being divided into two separate, but connected, portions  and . The two separate portions  and  are serially connected by way of a continuation of the windings designated . Each portion  and  is similar, and each defines a central aperture or window dimensioned to fit over central magnetic core portion . The primary windings are in the form of twisted or braided, individually insulated small wires forming a set of wires, with the set of wires separately insulated. Primary winding  has its window placed over central magnetic core portion . A secondary winding arrangement illustrated as in , also defining a window or open center dimensioned to accommodate magnetic core center , is placed over primary winding portion . The other portion  of primary winding is then placed over the secondary winding , and the magnetic cover or lid is then placed over the lower magnetic core portion  to form a closed magnetic structure illustrated in , which defines first and second through apertures or windows  and , extending parallel with planar upper surface and lower surface . With the described structure of transformer  of , the primary and secondary windings extend through the apertures  and , with the free ends  and  of the primary winding externally available, and the ends or \u2032, or \u2032 of the secondary windings also externally available.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 1","FIG. 2","FIG. 3","FIG. 3","FIG. 3","FIG. 3"],"i":["a ","p ","a ","pw","a","a","ec","a ","a","b","c","d","e","f","g","ai","bi","ci","di","ei","fi","gi","b ","a","a","ai","ai "],"b":["12","12","1","12","310","310","310","310","310","310","310","310","310","310","310","310","310","310","310","310","310"]},"In addition to the individual insulation of each wire strand as described in conjunction with and , the entire set of wires \u2032 is provided with at least an exterior layer of additional insulation, illustrated as  in , to thereby make or define primary winding . is a cross-section of the set of wires of , showing each wire, its individual insulation, and the surrounding additional layer of insulation. In a particularly advantageous embodiment of the invention, the additional layer of insulation is polytetrafluoroethylene or polytetrafluoroethane (TEFLON) because of (a) its ability to be formed in thin sheets, (b) its high temperature capability without degradation, and (c) its low losses at high frequencies.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 2","FIG. 4","FIGS. 1","FIG. 4","FIG. 4","FIG. 4","FIG. 4","FIG. 4","FIG. 4","FIG. 4"],"i":["a ","s ","a","a","soc","c ","c","a ","b","a ","ste","ste","c ","c","a ","c ","c","ste","ste","a ","b ","a ","b","b","b","st","sttc","st ","b ","stsp "],"sup":"1) ","b":["12","12","12","14","16","1","12","1","12","2","16","14","20","22","12","1","12","2","4","4","12","12","12","12"]},"The secondary transformer winding of is not a single-turn winding such as described in conjunction with , but is instead a multiturn winding, in this particular case having two turns, namely an inner turn and an outer turn . The two-turn winding of defines a window or open center dimensioned to fit over central portion of the magnetic core . It will be clear that a planar magnetic winding including a plurality of turns (a spiral) can have one end of the winding lying in the plane of the spiral and external to the winding, but the other end of the winding must be within the spiral. The only way to get access to the inner end of the winding while maintaining the desired inductance is by way of an out-of-plane conductor. The out-of-plane conductor may simply connect to the inner end of the spiral, and couple it to the exterior of the winding. As an alternative, some portion of the winding must be provided with an out-of-plane conductive portion.","The two-turn winding of can be made as illustrated in the plan views of , , and . In , the exterior or outer winding is in the form of a portion of a spiral, and includes one connection tab . Adjacent tab , the structure of the outer turn of includes an end . While this is the \u201cend\u201d of the transformer secondary winding, it is not the end of the conductor, because conductor is monolithically connected thereto at \u201cend\u201d  to form a continuous conductor, which in turn defines a further \u201cend\u201d . The other or second \u201cend\u201d of the outer turn of may be viewed as being at the corner designated . An additional \u201cbridge\u201d conductor is monolithically connected to \u201cend\u201d .","The two-turn winding of also includes an inner winding , illustrated in . As illustrated, inner turn defines central opening . The inner turn of also includes or is associated with an end or connection tab . The end of the inner winding or turn of secondary winding may be viewed as being at the location designated  of . However, just as in the case of the outer turn discussed in conjunction with , an additional conductor portion is monolithically or at least integrally connected to end , and extends therefrom to a further \u201cend\u201d point ","The outer or exterior dimensions of inner turn  of are, for the most part, no greater than the interior dimensions of the window or open center of outer winding of , so that the inner winding may lie coplanar with and nested within outer winding . illustrates the result of the nesting of the two windings of and . As illustrated in , the inner turn is nested within the window of the outer turn . In the nested position, end portion  of the inner turn is overlain by the bridge portion of the outer turn . This overlying results in an out-of-plane condition which allows both ends of the spiral secondary winding of to be available or accessible. More particularly, the planar structure with the out-of-plane conductor is illustrated in the side elevation view of . In , elements corresponding to those of , , and are designated with the same reference numerals. As can be seen, the bridge rises above the plane of the exterior or outer turn , so that the bridge portion can lie above that portion of inner turn which it traverses to make contact with the inside-the-spiral end  of the inner turn . The rise of the bridge portion of outer turn exposes a bit of the inner turn . In addition, the very fact that the bridge overlies the end  results in an out-of-plane condition.","Since an out-of-plane condition must exist in any case, another way to fabricate the two-turn structure, or by extension a structure having any number of concentric or spiral turns, is to use a separate bridge element to make connection from the inside of the spiral to the outside. illustrates the use of a separate bridge element overlying both the inside-the-spiral end  of the inner turn and the \u201cend\u201d  of the outer turn . The connection can be completed by soldering or welding at two locations.","In one embodiment of the invention, the secondary windings were coated or insulated with \u201cEdathon\u201d fluoropolymer coating, available from PCM Plastics Consulting and Marketing Co. of 1431 Ferry Avenue, Camden, N.J. 08104.","Thus, a transformer () according to an aspect of the invention comprises a magnetic core () and an elongated primary winding () defining turns around at least a portion () of the magnetic core (). The primary winding () includes a bundle of individually insulated conductors (, ) with a layer of insulation () surrounding the bundle of individually insulated conductors. A secondary winding () defines at least one turn around the portion () of the magnetic core (), and the secondary winding () includes at least one individually insulated conductor. In one version, the individually insulated conductors of the primary winding () have generally circular cross-sections, and the bundle also has a generally circular cross-section. In a preferred version, the individually insulated conductor of the secondary winding () has a planar spiral configuration. When the secondary winding () is a planar spiral, an out-of-plane bridge conductor () may be connected to that portion of the individually insulated conductor of the secondary winding () which lies adjacent the center of the planar spiral, for providing access to the end of the secondary winding () adjacent the interior of the spiral. In a version particularly suited for use with a power converter, connection tabs (, ) monolithic with the secondary winding () are provided at locations adjacent the magnetic core (). In a most preferred version, the transformer () secondary winding () is monolithic with at least one additional conductor (, ) which extends through magnetic core (, ) means for defining an inductor adjacent the secondary winding (). The magnetic core means (, ) of the series inductor may be monolithic with the transformer () core () if desired. The primary winding () may be split into two portions, one of which lies on a first side of the planar spiral, and the other of which lies on the other side of the planar spiral.","Further, a transformer () according to an aspect of the invention comprises a first generally planar magnetic core () defining first () and second () mutually parallel broad sides and first () and second () apertures or windows extending parallel to the first () and second () broad sides. A multiturn primary winding (, ) is in the form of a plurality of individually insulated, electrically conductive wires (, ; , ; . . . ) extending generally parallel to each other to thereby form a set (\u2032) of wires, and the set (\u2032) of wires, taken as a whole, is provided with a layer or coating () of electrical insulation separate from that of the individually insulated, electrically conductive wires (, ; , ; . . . ). The individual insulation of each wire may be in the form of enamel, and the additional layer is preferably in the form of polytetrafluoroethane or polytetrafluoroethylene. The primary winding () extends through the first () and second () apertures for, when energized, inducing magnetic flux in a portion () of the magnetic core (). A secondary winding () of electrically insulated () planar electrical conductor (), includes at least one planar turn (T) defining an open center (). The secondary winding () includes first (, , ) and second (, \u2032, ) terminations exterior to the planar turn (T). The electrical conductor () of the planar turn (T) of the secondary winding () extends through the first () and second () apertures and has its open center () encircling the portion () of the magnetic core (). The secondary winding () further includes first (, \u2033) and second (, \u2032) electrical connection portions external to the magnetic core (). If the secondary winding () includes a plurality of planar turns, it further comprises an out-of-plane electrically insulated, electrically conductive bridge associated with at least one turn of the plurality of planar turns, for, in response to the magnetic flux in the portion () of the magnetic core (), producing a secondary voltage across the first (, , ) and second (, \u2032, ) terminations.","In one avatar of the invention, the plurality of individually insulated, electrically conductive wires extending generally parallel to each other to thereby form a set of wires comprises a plurality of the wires twisted together. In another avatar, the plurality of individually insulated, electrically conductive wires extending generally parallel to each other to thereby form a set of wires comprises a plurality of the wires braided together. The individually insulated, electrically conductive wires (, ; , ; . . . ) comprise wires individually insulated with enamel. In a preferred embodiment, the plurality of individually insulated, electrically conductive wires, as a set, is provided with a separate layer of insulation, which in a most preferred version comprises at least one of polytetraethylene and polytetraethane. The insulation on the secondary winding comprises a layer of either polytetrafluoroethylene or polytetrafluoroethane.","In one hypostasis of the invention, the secondary winding contains copper, and the secondary winding is coated with silver, which is in turn coated with one of polytetrafluoroethylene and polytetrafluoroethane.","A particularly advantageous association of the transformer is with first () and second () electrically conductive planar extensions of the first (, , ) and second (, \u2032, ) terminations. The first planar extension () defines a body portion () and an end portion (), and the second planar extension () defines a body portion () and an end portion (). Second () and third () magnetic cores surround the body portions (; ) of the first and second electrically conductive planar extensions (; ) of the first (, \u2032, ) and second (, \u2032, ) terminations, respectively, thereby increasing the inductance of the first () and second () electrically conductive planar extensions of the first (, , ) and second (, \u2032, ) terminations. It is desirable to include a further electrical connection () connected to the first () and second () end portions of the first () and second () planar extensions of the first (, , ) and second (, \u2032, ) terminations, for shorting together the first (, , ) and second (, \u2032, ) terminations, to thereby provide a convenient connection point.","A particular implementation of the transformer is one in which (a) the secondary winding () of electrically insulated () planar electrical conductor (), (b) the out-of-plane electrically insulated, electrically conductive bridge, if any, and (c) at least the body portions of the first () and second () electrically conductive planar extensions of the first (, , ) and second (, \u2032, ) terminations are continuous integrated conductors with continuous insulation, except at the first (, \u2032, ) and second (, \u2032, ) terminations exterior to the planar turn (T).","According to another aspect of the invention, a converter () comprises a source () of alternating voltage and a transformer (). The transformer includes a first generally planar magnetic core () defining first () and second () mutually parallel broad sides and first () and second () apertures extending parallel to the first () and second () broad sides. The transformer () also includes a multiturn primary winding (, ) in the form of a plurality of individually insulated, electrically conductive wires (, ; , ; . . . ) extending generally parallel to each other to thereby form a set (\u2032) of wires. The set (\u2032) of wires is provided with a layer () of electrical insulation separate from that of the individually insulated, electrically conductive wires (, ; , ; . . . ). The primary winding () extends through the first () and second () apertures for, when energized, inducing magnetic flux in a portion () of the magnetic core (). The transformer () also includes a secondary winding () of electrically insulated () planar electrical conductor (). The secondary winding () includes at least one planar turn (T) defining an open center (). The secondary winding () including first (, , ) and second (, \u2032, ) terminations exterior to the planar turn (T). The electrical conductor () of the planar turn (T) of the secondary winding () extends through the first () and second () apertures and has its open center () encircling the portion () of the magnetic core (). The secondary winding () further includes first (, ) and second (, \u2032) electrical connection portions external to the magnetic core (), and if the secondary winding () includes a plurality of planar turns, further comprises an out-of-plane electrically insulated, electrically conductive bridge associated with at least one turn of the plurality of planar turns, for, in response to the magnetic flux in the portion () of the magnetic core (), producing a secondary voltage across the first (, \u2032, ) and second (, \u2032, ) terminations.","The converter () further comprises first () and second () unidirectional current conducting devices (diodes or rectifiers), each including a cathode and an anode. The first () and second () unidirectional current conducting devices have corresponding electrodes (anodes in and ) electrically connected together to define a reference conductor (). An arrangement (conductors) couples that electrode of the first () unidirectional current conducting device (cathode in and ) remote from the reference conductor () to the first (, , ) termination exterior to the planar turn, and that electrode of the second () unidirectional current conducting device to the second (, \u2032, ) termination exterior to the planar turn (T). A first inductor () is connected to the first (, , ) termination exterior to the planar turn and to a common point (). A second inductor () is connected to the second (, \u2032, ) termination exterior to the planar turn (T) and to the common point (). A storage capacitor () is connected to the reference conductor () and to the common point (). A load may be coupled to the reference conductor () and to the common point ()."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWING","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIGS. 1","i":["a ","b "],"b":["1","10"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIGS. 1","FIG. 2","FIG. 2"],"i":["a ","a ","b","b ","a "],"b":"1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 1","FIG. 2","FIG. 3","FIG. 3","FIG. 3","FIG. 3","FIG. 3","FIG. 3"],"i":["a ","a ","a","b ","a ","c ","a ","d ","c; "]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 2","FIG. 4"],"i":["a ","a","b "]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 2","FIG. 5","FIG. 5","FIG. 5","FIGS. 5","FIG. 5","FIG. 5","FIG. 5","FIG. 5"],"i":["a ","a","b ","a","c ","a ","b ","d ","c","e ","d"],"b":"5"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
