---
title: Method of using a protective test strip platform for optical meter apparatus
abstract: A test strip platform for a testing apparatus of the type using test strips, wherein the platform has a shroud defining a strip track for positioning an inserted strip over an optical aperture for making analytical determinations. The platform has a hood permanently mounted to the shroud for overlying the optical window and protecting the testing apparatus optics. The strip track has stabilizing members for holding the strip in testing position. The hood provides camming members for guiding the leading edge of an inserted strip into cooperative engagement with the stabilizing members for ensuring proper insertion of the strip.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=06979571&OS=06979571&RS=06979571
owner: Home Diagnostics, Inc.
number: 06979571
owner_city: Ft. Lauderdale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20020801
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"p":["This is a division of application Ser. No. 9\/448,711, filed Nov. 24, 1999 now U.S. Pat. No. 6,458,326, which is incorporated herein by reference.","The invention relates generally to analyte determinations, more specifically to reflectance based optical monitoring systems, such as that employed in enzyme-based blood analyte chemistry analysis on disposable strips (e.g., blood glucose testing systems), and still more specifically to an apparatus for protecting the optics of such systems from contamination and ensuring proper strip insertion into a monitoring system.","Portable analyte monitoring systems, including blood glucometers, are well known in the art. In the case of blood glucometers, these monitors are typically portable meter apparatus that are employed for personal monitoring of blood glucose levels, typically by diabetic patients. Since the 1970's, these devices have gained increasing popularity and acceptance for personal home use in managing when insulin injections are needed by diabetics. These meters have recently become increasingly portable, accurate and convenient due to advances in electronic, optical and test strip chemistry technologies.","The most common type of glucometer used today is based on reflectance optics in conjunction with a disposable, one-use test strip. In use, a small strip carrying reagent chemistry which reacts with blood is employed, such as that described in U.S. Pat. No. 5,296,192, the contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference herein. When fresh whole blood, typically from the lanced finger of a patient, is applied to the test strip, an enzyme-based reaction takes place producing a color change which typically progresses chromatically in proportion to the concentration of glucose present in the blood sample. After blood is applied and the reaction is underway, the strip is then inserted into the monitoring apparatus, and optical reflectance is used to measure the chromatic change. Once the apparatus has determined that the reaction is sufficiently complete, which optimally occurs when the reaction is stabilized, a reflectance measurement is converted through software in the monitoring apparatus into a glucose measurement, typically in mg\/DI, and reported on a display to the user.","Such optical monitoring apparatus rely on proper insertion of the strip to ensure alignment of a portion of the strip containing the blood sample and reagent chemistry with the meter optics for accuracy. Further, if the optics become contaminated by blood or other foreign matter, accuracy is also compromised. Because these monitoring apparatus are used by diabetic patients, who frequently suffer sight and motor coordination impairment, it is important that the monitoring apparatus facilitates proper introduction and guided alignment of the strip, as well as protects the optics from contamination. Because of their portability, these apparatus will be subjected to various harsh environments and handling, which could contaminate the optics.","Prior art apparatus are inadequate for addressing these needs. One popular meter, sold under the name ONE TOUCH is described in U.S. Pat. No. 5,843,692. This device requires that the strip be first inserted into the meter and then blood is applied to the strip. This method is inconvenient for the user, as he or she must align a punctured finger with the test site on the strip while it resides in the meter. Consequently, this can result in the inadvertent spillage of blood onto the meter, and subsequently contaminate its optics. Frequently, this will occur when a large blood drop is deposited directly onto the strip. This device also utilizes a door to shield the optics from ambient light during use, which protects the optics when the meter is not in use. Unfortunately, this adds to the testing process the steps of opening and closing the door. Further, because the optical systems of this apparatus requires a door to block ambient light, breakage of the door renders the apparatus unusable.","There is a need in the art for a portable monitoring apparatus which will ensure proper strip alignment with its optics, and which will protect the optics from contamination.","The present invention relates to a method and apparatus for ensuring proper strip insertion into and alignment with an optical reflectance meter, while simultaneously protecting the optics of the meter.","According to one aspect of an illustrative embodiment of the invention, a test strip receiving member, or shroud, has an optical window which is disposed above the optics of the monitoring apparatus. A protective optics cover, or hood, is provided on the shroud to protect the optics underlying the optical window from contamination by foreign matter.","According to a further aspect of an illustrative embodiment of the invention, the shroud is provided with a track for guiding the strip to the testing position. The shroud provides fingers for engaging cooperative indents on the strip for tactile indication of proper testing position of the strip.","According to a further aspect of an illustrative embodiment of the invention, the protective hood is permanently mounted to the shroud and is provided with camming members for guiding the leading edge of an inserted strip such that it will be properly received by the fingers and directed into proper testing position.","These and other features and advantages of the present invention will be easily understood with reference to the Figures depicting an illustrative embodiment of the invention.","For the purposes of promoting an understanding of the principles of the invention, reference will now be made to an illustrative embodiment illustrated of the invention as depicted in the drawings.","Referring to , there is depicted a portable test apparatus , such as the type used to measure blood glucose in whole blood, available under the trade name PRESTIGE LX manufactured by Home Diagnostics, Inc. of Ft. Lauderdale, Fla. The housing of the apparatus contains microprocessor based electronics for computing blood glucose concentrations from a sample applied to a test strip . The apparatus  has a display , which may be an LCD display, for reporting calculations and other information to the user. The strip  is inserted into a strip-receiving platform , which will be discussed in greater detail hereinbelow.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":["6","1","2","6","2","6","10","100"]},"The shroud  receives the strip and guides it into position for the meter to operate properly. The shroud  has a cavity  which is lower than the top surface of the shroud and is dimensioned laterally to cooperatively receive a strip in snugly sliding, clearance fashion to ensure lateral stability while allowing advancement of the strip. On either side of the cavity  is a stabilizing member, or finger , which extends into the cavity diametrically opposed to an opposite finger. These fingers  bias a strip inserted into the cavity  into the proper position for the apparatus optics to make a good reading. When inserted, a strip will be snugly held against the bottom surface of the cavity  such that a color spot, described below, is held above an optical aperture . The optical aperture  is positioned above the optics of the apparatus when the platform  is secured in the meter apparatus . The shroud  also has means  for permanently attaching the hood thereto, and also means  for removably attaching the platform  to the meter apparatus housing.","The second major platform component is the hood , as further depicted in FIG. . The hood  serves to both protect the optics of the meter which underlie the optical aperture , and also to help guide a strip into proper testing position, as will be discussed hereinbelow. The hood has means  for permanently attaching it to the shroud . As depicted, means  on the hood mate with cooperating means  on the shroud for permanent mounting. These features as depicted are intended to be illustrative, and may take the form of any of a number of mechanical expedients and processes known in the art for rendering a permanent attachment between components, for example gluing, bonding, ultrasonic or RF welding, or very rigid mechanical locks or detents.","Turning to , the underside of the hood  is shown. A viewing notch  can be provided in order to allow the user to witness the advance of the leading edge of an inserted strip when the hood  is permanently attached to the shroud . Further provided are camming members , which provide a downward ramping surface for urging the leading edge of an inserted strip under the fingers  of the shroud when the hood  is permanently attached to the shroud . This feature will be further addressed with respect to , which is discussed after a brief description of a prior art strip shown in .","Referring to , the upper surface of a prior art test strip, such as that described in U.S. Pat. No. 5,296,192, is depicted. The strip  has a sample port or test spot , onto which blood is applied before introducing the strip into the apparatus . The strip  also has indents  or other surface feature which cooperate with the fingers . Of course, other cooperating structure can be provided in the platform to engage similar indents, which can be located anywhere on the strip. The indents provide a tactile guide for indicating when the strip has been inserted into the correct testing position (i.e., with the color spot as described below oriented over the optical aperture  of the shroud), and also provides a resistance for holding the strip in this position. The resistance is easily overcome by manually pulling on the strip, but is sufficient to retain the strip in the testing position if the meter is physically reoriented or jarred during testing. The strip  can also have a band  which can be used by the meter apparatus  to optically detect when the strip has been fully inserted. Full insertion usually indicates the testing position, and will correspond to the position where the indents  are engaged by cooperating structure such as those on fingers . The band  is also viewable through viewing notch  as seen in  to allow the user to confirm that the strip has been inserted properly. As there is no band on the bottom side of the strip , the user can witness through the notch  whether the leading edge contains shows band  and thus whether the strip has been inserted properly.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":["FIG. 4B","FIG. 4A. A"],"b":["208","204","202","208","200","2","208","20","208"]},"Turning now to , there is shown a cross sectional view of the platform , showing the shroud  and hood  permanently joined to each other. The cross sections of the shroud  and the hood  are taken along section lines A\u2014A and A\u2032\u2014A\u2032 respectively. As can be seen, the cavity  of  corresponds to a strip track , wherein a strip may be inserted along the direction of arrow B. As can be appreciated, the leading edge of an inserted strip will encounter the camming members  and be deflected downwardly so that the leading edge passes beneath the fingers . As shown, protuberances provide structures for cooperating with indents  in the prior art strip depicted in . As further shown, optical aperture  overlies meter optics , which are depicted in schematic form. As can be appreciated, the hood portion  of the platform protects the optics  from contamination.","While the invention has been illustrated and described in detail in the drawings and foregoing description, the same is to be considered as illustrative and not restrictive in character, it being understood that only an illustrative embodiment has been shown and described and that all changes and modifications that come within the spirit and scope of the invention are intended to be protected. For example, application of the present invention is not limited to optical reflectance meters or to meters which measure blood glucose levels, but will find application in any meter type which requires insertion of a test strip."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["TECHNICAL FIELD OF THE INVENTION","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF AN ILLUSTRATIVE EMBODIMENT"],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 4A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 4B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 2"]}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
