---
title: Frameless load restraining vehicular barrier device
abstract: A barrier device or cargo net positionable between a rear seat of a vehicle passenger compartment and a cargo area of the vehicle. The barrier device can include a window portion and a solid portion. The window portion can be positioned across an open space above the seat and below the headliner of the vehicle. The solid portion can be positionable behind the seat. The body of the barrier device can be formed with a first portion and a second portion, the first portion being thicker or formed of more layers of material than the second portion. The thicker portion of the body of the barrier device can be positioned across the open space or behind the seat back. The barrier device is releasably attachable to the top of the interior of the vehicle and the bottom of the interior of the vehicle. The barrier body can also include means to render the top, bottom, first side or second side taut.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=06983970&OS=06983970&RS=06983970
owner: Exco Automotive Solutions, L.P.
number: 06983970
owner_city: Troy
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20021112
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS","FIELD OF THE INVENTION","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS"],"p":["This application claims the benefit of the provisional patent application No. 60\/337,588 for a FRAMELESS LOAD RESTRAINING VEHICULAR BARRIER DEVICE, filed on Nov. 12, 2001. This claim is made under 35 U.S.C. \u00a7119(e); 37 C.F.R. \u00a71.78; and 65 FR 50093.","The present invention relates generally to vehicular barrier devices, and, more particularly, to such a barrier device which is relatively lightweight, while advantageously aiding in preventing the inadvertent passage of cargo from the trunk to the passenger compartment.","Manufacturers of passenger and cargo vehicles, such as automobiles (including SUVs and the like), trucks, trains, aircraft, marine craft, and the like, continuously strive to make the vehicles more fuel efficient while at the same time improving the safety for passengers and\/or operators of the vehicles. One way in which fuel may be conserved is to make the vehicle weigh less. As such, particularly in automobiles, alternative materials such as polymeric materials have replaced metal in many areas of the vehicle.","Many years ago, manufacturers generally eliminated the heavy, metal bulkhead between the trunk and passenger compartments which had often been found in conventional sedan-type automobiles. Further, due to the desirability of having a means for transporting oversized cargo, manufacturers began to design and sell fold-down seats to accommodate pass-through cargo from the trunk to the passenger compartments. However, safety requirements relating to the restraint of cargo within the trunk under certain conditions sometimes necessitated finding a replacement for the metal bulkhead. Further, it was unfortunately discovered that in certain instances some latching mechanisms for fold-down seats at times were not strong enough to withstand forces experienced under some frontal crash conditions. Due to passengers being restrained from bending over due to the 3 point passenger passive restraint systems, such latching mechanism failures could possibly in some cases contribute to injury of passengers.","Although many lighter materials exist, these materials generally do not pass safety requirements since they often fail in restraining cargo in the trunk from inadvertently entering the passenger compartment. The suitable replacement materials which do exist are either cost prohibitive, or for strength they must be much wider than standard sheet metal used\u2014as such, they therefore cannot fit within the space constraints of the automobile.","One such replacement is disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 5,026,231 issued in 1991. The automotive barrier net disclosed therein was a suitable metal bulkhead replacement; and in certain situations, may yet be a suitable replacement therefor. However, since the invention of that barrier net, more stringent safety standards have been proposed relating to the restraint of cargo within the trunk area.","An example of such a requirement is found in the United Nations \u201cAgreement Concerning the Adoption of Uniform Technical Prescriptions for Wheeled Vehicles, Equipment and Parts which can be Fitted and\/or be Used on Wheeled Vehicles and the Conditions for Reciprocal Recognition of Approvals Granted on the Basis of these Prescriptions,\u201d Addendum 16: Regulation No. 17, Revision 3, Amendment 4, Feb. 11, 2000, which publication is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. Regulation No. 17 is entitled \u201cUniform Provisions Concerning the Approval of Vehicles with regard to the Seats, their Anchorages and any Head Restraints.\u201d","Annex 9 of Regulation No. 17 defines the test procedure for devices intended to protect the occupants against displacement of luggage. Paragraph 2 of Annex 9 of Reg. No. 17 specifies that two blocks each having a mass of 18 kg are to be placed in the trunk area. In a vehicle having an open area between the cargo and passenger space (e.g. in a stationwagon), a 10 kg block is placed in the cargo area, but upwardly so as to be directly adjacent an installed barrier device. Paragraph 2 of Annex 7 of Reg. No. 17 defines the conditions for the standardized vehicular crash test; and specifies that the speed on impact shall be between 48.3 km\/h and 53.1 km\/h. Paragraph 6.3.1 of Reg. No. 17 states that a longitudinal horizontal deceleration of not less than 20 g (1 g being approximately equal to 9.8 m\/s) shall be applied for 30 milliseconds in the forward direction to the whole shell of the vehicle in accordance with the requirements of Annex 7. Upon completion of such testing, the 18 kg blocks (and 10 kg block, if applicable) should not enter the passenger area.","This rather stringent requirement generally may not be met with many current automobiles. One alternative for meeting this requirement would be to reinforce the rearmost passenger seats with sheet metal. However, major drawbacks exist with this alternative, a few of which are that the sheet metal would add at least about 25 pounds to the weight of the automobile; it would be difficult and time consuming to design and test seat latch mechanisms which could withstand high enough loads under certain crash conditions; and retooling expenses would be very high.","Thus, it would be desirable to provide a load restraining barrier device which would advantageously pass applicable safety requirements. Further, it would be desirable to provide such a device which is aesthetically pleasing without a bulky frame(s), thereby advantageously being more lightweight. It would further be desirable to provide such a device which may be incorporated into current automotive designs with minimal changes thereto as an OEM part. Yet further, it would be desirable to provide such a device which is lightweight and relatively inexpensive to manufacture. Still further, it would be desirable to provide such a device which may be detached to advantageously provide pass-through cargo storage if desired. It is yet further desirable to provide such a device which, when detached, may fold easily and neatly into a small package for easy storage.","The present invention addresses and solves the above-mentioned problems by providing a frameless load restraining barrier device for use in a motor vehicle, the vehicle having a body with a passenger compartment\/area and a cargo compartment\/area rearward of the rear passenger seat(s), and an open space extending transversely between the cargo area and the passenger compartment above the seat back, the cargo compartment having a forward end, a bottom wall, and two opposed side walls extending substantially upwardly from the bottom wall. The barrier device comprises a barrier body having a predetermined geometric shape and disposed at the cargo forward end and suspended between the passenger compartment and the cargo compartment and across the open space, the barrier body having a front, a back, a top, a bottom, and two opposed sides, the front adapted to face the passenger compartment, the back adapted to face the cargo compartment, the top adapted to be adjacent the vehicle headliner, the bottom adapted to be adjacent the bottom wall, and the two opposed sides adapted to be adjacent the two opposed side walls and (adjacent the open space) the adjacent roof support pillar (such as, for example, the B pillar, the C pillar, etc.). Means are provided for attaching the top to the headliner, and means are also provided for releasably attaching the bottom to at least one of the bottom wall and the opposed side walls.","The barrier device of the present invention is intuitively engaged in the vehicle by the consumer. The device is installed at the cargo forward end and suspended between the passenger compartment and the cargo compartment and over the open space. Cargo of a predetermined mass in the cargo compartment may in some instances be substantially restrained from entering the passenger compartment under certain predetermined frontal crash conditions.","The present invention provides an apparatus and method for limiting movement of cargo between a passenger compartment and a cargo area of a vehicle wherein a seat back of the passenger compartment and an open space define a transition between the passenger compartment and the cargo area. The invention can include a flexible barrier body having a front, a back, a top, a bottom, a first side and a second side. The top, the bottom, the first side or the second side is defined by at least one flexible, substantially inelastic web strap. The barrier body is positionable at the transition between a seat back of a passenger compartment of a vehicle and a cargo area of the vehicle. The flexible barrier body can be positioned across an open space above the seat back. The invention also provides means for releasably attaching the top of the barrier body to the motor vehicle as well as means for releasably attaching the bottom of the barrier body to the motor vehicle. One of the attaching means engages the at least one web strap.","The barrier body can include two portions, a first portion having a number of layers and a second portion having a different number of layers. The portion having more layers can be adjacent the seat back or the open space. the barrier body can also include a window portion and a solid portion. The window portion can be adjacent the open space so a driver of the vehicle can see through the barrier body. The solid portion can be adjacent the seat back. The barrier body can also include a sleeve disposed on the top, bottom, first side or second side. The strap can pass through the sleeve.","The attaching means for the top of the barrier body or the bottom of the barrier body can include a member having at least one aperture that is vacant when the member is engaged with the vehicle. The aperture can reduce the weight of the invention. The member can include a pin and a key and be engageable with the barrier body. The pin can be inserted in an aperture defined in a pillar of the motor vehicle or a headliner of the motor vehicle, or both. The attaching means can also include a hook portion extending parallel or perpendicular to the web strap.","The invention can also include means for rendering the web strap taut. The rendering means can include a handle portion and first and second elastic portions. The first and second elastic portions can be individually disposed at opposite ends of the handle portion. At least one of the elastic portions can engage the web strap.","Other applications of the present invention will become apparent to those skilled in the art when the following description of the best mode contemplated for practicing the invention is read in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.","Referring now to , the barrier device of the present invention is designated generally as . Load restraining barrier device  is for use in a motor vehicle, including but not limited to automobiles (including SUVs and the like), trucks, trains, aircraft, marine craft, and the like. Motor vehicle M as shown in the drawings represents an automobile, specifically a station wagon, minivan, or a sport utility vehicle, having a cargo area  located behind a seat back  and a passenger compartment  located forwardly of the seat back. An open space  extends transversely between the cargo area  and the passenger compartment  above the seat back , and the inventive barrier net  extends across the open space  and behind the seat back  to substantially restrain, in certain instances, stowage or cargo C within the cargo area  from entering the passenger compartment .","The barrier device  is positionable in the motor vehicle M having a passenger compartment  in communication with a cargo area , wherein a seat back  of the passenger compartment  and an open space  define a transition between the passenger compartment  and the cargo area . The open space  extends transversely between the cargo area  and the passenger compartment  above the seat back . The barrier device  extends across the open space  and behind the seat back  to substantially restrain stowage or cargo C (shown in phantom) within the cargo area  from entering the passenger compartment  and\/or from striking the seat back .","\u201cFrameless\u201d within the context of the present invention is described as meaning that the barrier device is not surrounded by a rigid or substantially rigid frame composed of, for example, metals (eg. aluminum extrusions), plastic rods, wood, any other substantially rigid material, and the like.","The cargo compartment  has a forward end , a bottom wall , and two opposed side walls ,  extending substantially upwardly from the bottom wall .","The barrier device  comprises a barrier body  having a predetermined shape and adapted to be disposed at the cargo forward end  and suspended between the passenger compartment  and the cargo compartment  and across the open space . Barrier body  may be of any size and\/or shape, including but not limited to square, rectangular, trapezoidal, and\/or any geometric shape as desired and\/or necessitated by the particular vehicle into which barrier device  will be installed.","The barrier body  has a front , a back , a top , a bottom , and two opposed sides , . As best seen in , the front  is adapted to face the passenger compartment , and the back  is adapted to face the cargo compartment . The top  is adapted to be adjacent the headliner , the bottom  is adapted to be adjacent the bottom wall , and the two opposed sides ,  are adapted to be adjacent the two opposed side walls ,  and (adjacent the open space ) the adjacent roof support pillar P (such as, for example, the B-pillar, the C-pillar, etc.)","The barrier body  further comprises an upper , lower  and two opposed side sleeves , . Within sleeves , ,  and  is fixed and\/or slidably received flexible, substantially inelastic web strap . It is to be understood that this web strap  may be formed from any suitable material, such as for example from polyesters, polypropylenes, nylons, and mixtures thereof; however, in the preferred embodiment, the material of choice is a reinforced multi-filament polypropylene.","The barrier body  is positionable at the transition between the seat back  of the passenger compartment  and the cargo area , at the forward end  of the cargo area , and across the open space . The two opposed sides ,  can also be adapted to be adjacent a roof support pillar P, such as, for example, the B-pillar or the C-pillar. In , an opposed side  is shown substantially adjacent a pillar P. The barrier body  is flexible and can be folded for storage when not engaged with a motor vehicle.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0037","num":"0036"},"figref":["FIG. 1","FIG. 1","FIGS. 8A and 8B","FIG. 8A","FIG. 8B","FIGS. 8A and 8B"],"b":["28","39","41","35","37","38","40","34","36","34","36","38","40","54","10","10","10","54","54","54","54","38","34","40","36","54","54","54","54","39","35","41","37","54","54","28","54","34","38","28","54","36","40","28","54","54"],"i":["a","b ","c ","a","b ","c ","g ","h ","g ","a ","a ","a","h ","a ","a ","b","g ","h "]},"Referring now to , the web strap within any or all of sleeves (shown in phantom) may include a tensioning means. The tensioning means may be at any area along the web strap, however, in the preferred embodiment, it is in an area near the middle of the respective edge (upper, lower, sides). The tensioning means acts to allow for a predetermined amount of stretch\/tension to the adjacent edge area, thereby providing a taut fit to the device  when installed in the vehicle M. This may aid in preventing undesirable disengagement of the device, and may further provide an aesthetically pleasing appearance of the device.","In a preferred embodiment, the tensioning means may comprise an elastic member  attached to the web strap(s) and a handle portion . Elastic member  may comprise any suitable material and be any suitable size, shape and\/or configuration. Elastic member  may keep barrier body taut when attached and during normal driving conditions; yet yields enough that a consumer may easily attach\/detach device  in vehicle M. Elastic member  provides a predetermined amount of transverse and\/or longitudinal elasticity, depending upon within which sleeve it is.  shows elastic member  as it may appear when device  is partially detached from vehicle M, and\/or not attached at all (however, if the vehicle dimensions are smaller, elastic member  may appear as in  when device  is fully installed). As can be seen in , elastic member  is not essentially parallel to web strap (as it would be when fully tensioned), but rather spaced a predetermined distance from web strap ","It is to be understood that the web strap  may be optional in that it is contemplated as being within the purview of the present invention to effectively attach the barrier body (without web strap) directly to the vehicle M.","The barrier device  further comprises means adapted to releasably attach the top  to the headliner ; and means adapted to releasably attach the bottom  to the bottom wall  and\/or the opposed side walls ,  (for example, the shock tower walls).","When the barrier device  is installed at the cargo forward end  and suspended between the passenger compartment  and the cargo compartment  and across the open space , cargo C of a predetermined mass in the cargo compartment  may in certain circumstances be substantially restrained from entering the passenger compartment  under predetermined frontal crash conditions. The barrier device  of the present invention may advantageously meet the requirements of the U.N. Regulation No. 17 as described hereinabove, ie. device  may restrain cargo C comprising two blocks, each having a mass of 18 kg, and a third block having a mass of 10 kg, wherein the frontal crash conditions include the speed on impact being between about 48.3 km\/h and about 53.1 km\/h, and a longitudinal horizontal deceleration of not less than about 20 g being applied for 30 milliseconds in the forward direction to motor vehicle.","It is to be understood that barrier body may be made of one or multiple layers of a desired material. For example, as can best be seen in , the front and back of the barrier body are double ply in the area behind the rear seat back . However, in the area traversing open space , the front and back of the barrier body are single ply.","The barrier body can also include a first portion  having a first predetermined number of layers of material and a second portion  having a second predetermined number of layers of material, wherein the first predetermined number is greater than the second predetermined number. For example, the portion  of the barrier body can include more layers of material than a portion  of the barrier body . The portion  is shown as generally double-ply and the portion  is shown as generally single-ply. However, the first and second predetermined numbers can be selected in response to the strength of the material selected for forming each layer and the desired strength of the barrier body . For example, the barrier body can be formed wherein the first portion  includes three or more layers and the second portion  includes two or more layers. The portion  of the barrier body having more layers of material can be disposed adjacent a seat back . The portion  of the barrier body having relatively fewer layers of material can extend across, or be adjacent to, the open space . Alternatively, the portion  of the barrier body having more layers of material can be disposed across, or be adjacent to, the open space and the portion  of the barrier body having relatively fewer layers of material can be disposed adjacent the seat back . Disposing the portion  adjacent the seat back can be desirable where it is expected that cargo of greatest mass will be positioned adjacent the seat back . Disposing the portion  across the open space can be desirable where it is expected that cargo of significant mass will be positioned adjacent the open space and the seat back will cooperate with the portion to limit shifting of cargo toward the passenger compartment.","The barrier body  may be formed from a natural or synthetic cloth material, as shown in , B. It is to be understood that this cloth material may be formed from any suitable material. However, in the preferred embodiment, the cloth material is selected from the group consisting of polyesters, polypropylenes, nylons, and mixtures thereof. It is more preferred that the cloth material be formed from a polypropylene material. Such cloth material may be die cut, woven, and\/or formed by any other suitable process.","In a more preferred embodiment, each of the web straps  is formed from a reinforced multi-filament polypropylene material, and the barrier body  is formed from a polypropylene cloth material. This embodiment additionally is advantageous in that, due to the various polypropylene materials used, it is more environmentally friendly.","Referring now to  and , barrier body , comprises a window , formed from a mesh netting material. The netting material mesh is similar to that of a screen door; however, the netting material window  may be much stronger than conventional screen door material. It is to be understood that the netting material may be formed by at least one of woven, knitted, rochelle, and weft insertion processes, provided that the resultant netting material is sufficiently strong to withstand predetermined loads. If a woven material, it is preferred that such material be of a relatively small mesh, eg. having small (1\u20132 mm) openings.","The barrier body  can include the window  defined by a mesh. The mesh can be a screen so that a driver of the motor vehicle can see through the window . The window  of the barrier body  can be positionable across the open space . The window  is operable to withstand predetermined loads to prevent cargo from moving to the passenger compartment .","Barrier body  can include a substantially solid portion  adjacent the window portion . The substantially solid portion  can be positionable adjacent the seat back . The substantially solid portion  can be formed by at least one of woven, knitted, rochelle, and weft insertion processes. The substantially solid portion  can be operable to withstand predetermined loads to prevent cargo from striking the seat back .","It is to be understood that the top attaching means may comprise any suitable means. Referring now to , in the preferred embodiment, this top attaching means comprises at least two key members , each having web strap receiving slots , turned substantially 90\u00b0 from each other (as seen in ). Slot  receives an end of web strap  within sleeve , and slot receives an end of web strap within sleeve . Key members  further comprise a rod  terminating in a key . Key members  may further optionally have bores  for reducing the weight of key member .","It is to be understood that rod  and key  may be of any suitable size, shape and\/or configuration. However, rod  should be long enough to extend through the interior trim and insulation (if any) within vehicle M to reach the roof support pillar P. In a preferred embodiment, rod  is cylindrical, has a diameter of about 8 mm and a length of about 70 mm; and key  is a round, disk shape having a diameter of 18 mm. Key member  is formed from a suitable grade of steel, or any other suitably strong material.","It is to be understood that these dimensions are for illustrative purposes\u2014predetermined dimensions, shapes, and\/or angles may be any as desired and\/or necessitated by the particular configuration of the motor vehicle into which the device  is to be installed.","As seen in  and as best seen in , the top attaching means is adapted to be releasably engaged within the sheet metal of the roof support pillar P via coupling between key  and key slot .","The headliner  can define a slot  adjacent to the slot  of the pillar P. The key  can be inserted with respect to the slots  and  to engage the pillar P.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0055","num":"0054"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 3"],"b":["78","78","80","80","72","54","80","72","78"],"i":"a "},"Lower hook  is releasably attachable to at least one of the bottom wall  and the opposed side walls ,  via any suitable means, such as loop member . If loop members  are on the side walls ,  (as shown in ), members  should preferably be adjacent bottom wall . Similarly, if loop members  are on the bottom wall , they should preferably be adjacent the respective side wall , . Loop member  is preferably formed from a suitably strong material, such as steel, for example.","Any or all of hooks , and key members , (including any of the alternate embodiments described herein) may optionally be plated or the like; and\/or molded plastic or rubber jackets  (shown in phantom) may be placed over the metal (see ). Jacket  may be for aesthetic purposes, to help prevent rattle, and the like. Further, utilitarian and\/or ergonomic characteristics may be incorporated into jacket , such as for example, \u201cgrip\u201d indicators.","An alternate embodiment of the lower hook  is designated in . Hook functions similarly to that of hook  in , however the hook portion of hook extends outwardly away from the main body of hook , whereas the hook portion of hook  is incorporated within the main body of hook .","The hook includes slots , for receiving straps , . Each web straps , can pass through slots , and can be fastened as desired, for example by stitching to itself (as shown). As with hook , hook is formed from a suitable grade of steel, or from any other suitably strong material.","An alternate embodiment of the key member  is designated in  as . Key member includes key , pin has only one slot  through which one continuous web strap extends. Similarly, a further alternate embodiment of lower hook, , in  has only one slot through which the continuous web strap extends. This embodiment may be advantageous in that manufacture of the device  may be simpler.","It is to be understood that one or multiple layers of web strap may be secured through slots , , , , , , ","It is to be further understood that the upper and\/or lower attachment means may be fixed, semi-fixed, or detachable (as shown), and that any other suitable upper and lower attachments means are contemplated as being within the purview of the present invention.","Yet further, it is to be understood that the embodiments shown, though preferred, are illustrative only. As such, it is to be understood that various features (including, but not limited to the absence or presence of various web straps, various attachment means, both upper and lower attachment, materials used, etc.) of all the embodiments shown may be mixed and\/or matched to render yet other embodiments, which embodiments are contemplated as being within the scope of the present invention.","The entire disclosure of the prior provisional application, Ser. No. 60\/337,588, filed Nov. 12, 2001, is considered part of the disclosure of this non-provisional application and is hereby incorporated by reference.","While preferred embodiments, forms and arrangements of parts of the invention have been described in detail, it will be apparent to those skilled in the art that the disclosed embodiments may be modified. Therefore, the foregoing description is to be considered exemplary rather than limiting, and the true scope of the invention is that defined in the following claims."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["Objects, features and advantages of the present invention will become apparent by reference to the following detailed description and drawings, in which:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 1"],"b":["5","5"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":"FIG. 8A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIG. 8B"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
