---
title: Common service platform and software
abstract: The invention advantageously provides a mobile common service platform and software in telecommunications systems. A common service platform (CSP) according to the invention is an integrated platform that supports both wireless and landline mobile services and business transactions. A CSP system according to the invention includes a common service platform or CSP for integrating a plurality of applications into a single platform for multiple uses in a plurality of communications systems. The CSP is connected with the plurality of applications and a plurality of users. Multiple users in different communications systems having varied communications protocols can utilize generally the same application (as selected by the users) through the CSP. Requests for uses in different communications system are transferred to the CSP for conversion into generally the same format that is acceptable by a selected application. Outputs from the selected application are transferred into formats that are acceptable by the requesting user. The CSP system advantageously enables a communications system to be quickly offered to market in conjunction with value-added services through applications rendered by third party service providers.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07088995&OS=07088995&RS=07088995
owner: Far EasTone Telecommunications Co., Ltd.
number: 07088995
owner_city: Taipei
owner_country: TW
publication_date: 20021211
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["RELATED APPLICATIONS","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS"],"p":["The present patent application relates to, and claims priority of, U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60\/341,171 filed on Dec. 13, 2001, which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.","1. Field of the Invention","The invention claimed in the present patent application generally relates to telecommunications and, more particularly, an optimal architecture for mobile common service platform and software in telecommunications systems.","2. Description of the Related Art","Mobile Internet access, that is, communications through mobile phones, pagers, desktop and palmtop computers, personal digital assistants (PDAs), and other hand-held electronic devices to the Internet, is increasingly important to society and commerce. The applications content available for private mobile Internet users currently include short message service (SMS), e-mail, news, weather, financial information, e-commerce (such as book ordering or investing services), and other services and information sources. Furthermore, mobile phones with built-in Global Positioning System (GPS) receivers can pinpoint the mobile device user's position so that proximate restaurant and navigation information services can be accessed. For commercial users, corporate intranets operating in conjunction with the Internet provide corporate information to employees in the field who can relay information back to headquarters. Wireless mobile Internet access is widespread in Japan and Scandinavia and demand is steadily increasing elsewhere. Efficient mobile Internet access and new applications can utilize the new high-transmission rate systems such as the General Packet Radio Service (GPRS), Enhanced Data Rates for GSM Evolution (EDGE), and the Third Generation Universal Mobile Telecommunications System (3G-UMTS) in conjunction with the presently available landline, fixed line networking, Global System for Mobile communications (GSM), code-division multiple access (CDMA), wireless application protocol (WAP) and other telecommunications systems.","As mobile Internet bandwidth increases, the number and variety of applications can also increase. A fundamental problem in communications networks is the so-called m*n complexity. That is, if there are m terminal devices and n applications service provider (ASP) servers, then the number of routes required for each terminal device to access an ASP server is m multiplied by n, which clearly results in an extremely complex system. ASP refers to a server side scripting language running under an Internet information server (IIS) for generating hypertext markup language or HTML. Conventional telecommunications operators currently can add applications and services only on an ad hoc basis requiring specific, distinct connectivity, interfaces, billing, authentication and data protocols for each new application. In other words, the conventional carrier is a dumb pipe, which merely transmits the signals and cannot assist the operator, application provider, or user.","A general need therefore exists in the art for an optimal architecture for mobile common service platform and software in telecommunications systems that advantageously overcomes at least the aforementioned and other shortcomings in the art. In particular, a need in the art exists for a telecommunications system that advantageously promotes standardized, open connectivity for service and applications providers in attracting and facilitating providers so that services will attract users.","Another need generally exists in the art for a relatively seamless integration of access methods using multiple types of devices and content hosts, i.e., convergence of mobile Internet applications, in providing a comprehensive information and service environment for users.","The invention advantageously provides a mobile common service platform and software in telecommunications systems. A common service platform (CSP) according to the invention is an integrated platform that supports both wireless and landline mobile services and business transactions. A CSP system according to the invention includes a common service platform or CSP for integrating a plurality of applications into a single platform for multiple uses in a plurality of communications systems. The CSP is connected with the plurality of applications and a plurality of users. Multiple users in different communications systems having varied communications protocols can utilize generally the same application (as selected by the users) through the CSP. Requests for uses in different communications system are transferred to the CSP for conversion into generally the same format that is acceptable by a selected application. Outputs from the selected application are transferred into formats that are acceptable by the requesting user. The CSP system advantageously enables a communications system to be quickly offered to market in conjunction with value-added services through applications rendered by third party service providers.","The invention further provides a software structure of a CSP system for integrating a plurality of applications into a single platform for multiple uses in a plurality of communications systems. A preferred embodiment of the software structure of a CSP system according to the invention primarily comprises a client layer having a plurality of client devices, a presentation and channel layer for providing presentation functions and communications channel management, a business logic layer providing applications (such as e-commerce applications), an infrastructure layer, a peripheral layer including a plurality of peripheral devices for the CSP system, and a universal layer for providing authentication, data security service and system management.","The invention, including at least the preferred and other embodiments described herein, accordingly provides an optimal architecture for mobile common service platform and software in telecommunications systems that advantageously overcomes at least the aforementioned and other shortcomings in the art, and more particularly, a telecommunications system that advantageously promotes standardized, open connectivity for service and applications providers in attracting and facilitating providers so that services will attract users. The invention advantageously provides seamless integration of access methods using multiple types of devices and content hosts, i.e., convergence of mobile Internet applications, in providing a comprehensive information and service environment for users. According to the invention, terminal devices, and particularly mobile phones, are advantageously provided with efficient and ready access to services and applications through the Internet and other networks, where mobile commerce (\u201cm-commerce\u201d) is optimally achieved and realized. The virtuous cycle of a large installed base of users attracting applications providers with the number of users increasing because of the new applications is advantageously realized as well, where the convenience and efficiency of providing those applications to users are optimally implemented in accordance with the invention.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["12","14","12","11","10","13","12","10","11","13","12","14","15","12","14","14","11","20","21","14","30","31","14","12"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":["200","210","210","220","211","230","200","221","222","223","224"]},"ASPs , , , . . . are communicable with the service network  via landline or wireless communications. Immediately below the services network  is an operator's core network  comprising exemplary home location registers (HLRs)  and visitor location registers (VLRs, as used in wireless GSM) . The Home Location Registers (HLRs) contain a database comprising subscriber information, such as user profiles, current location and other administrative information. The Visitor Location Registers (VLRs) comprise a database containing location information of all of the mobile stations. Communicating with the core network  is an access network  that is communicable with GSM , UMTS , other telecommunications systems such as the Internet  or exemplary public switched telephone network (PSTN) or integrated services digital network (ISDN) .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 2"],"b":["310","220","320","330","210","210","310","220"]},"Through a variety of communications protocols, the services or applications layer  is communicable with an exemplary core network  (such as network  of ), which comprises a control layer  that provides call control, session management, mobility management for terminal devices. The core network  further comprises a connectivity layer  that provides user data handling such as transport, switching, and routing user data.","The unified connectivity mechanism according to the invention (structurally illustrated as the connectivity layer  in ) provides abstract channel access to, e.g., wireless application protocol (WAP) protocols in conjunctions such as WAP\/GPRS, WAP\/CSD (circuit switched data), unstructured supplementary service data (USSD), and through the Internet. Various gateways are also integrated with the common service platform (CSP) according to the invention through the connectivity layer , such as WAP GW, CGSN, and SMSC, where a variety of messaging services are advantageously provided. By separating the connectivity layer  from the applications logic, applications and service providers are shielded from the complexities of network interconnections. User profiles and single log-in capability allow customized access to all services and applications with a single log-in, where convenience and ease of use are advantageously provided to end users. The connectivity layer  according to the invention can also provide means for session management by the telecommunications carriers as needed and centralized control for the carriers, end users and service providers.","Further facilitating the convenience and ease of use for services and applications providers, a connectivity layer  according to a specific embodiment of the invention provides multiple service hosting located on a trusted domain (e.g., the proprietary systems of telecommunications carriers) or on an application domain (e.g., through an un-trusted access to the Internet). Further embodiments of the common service platform (CSP) according to the invention further include up-call, time-out, application write transaction log, acknowledgement (ACK to ensure service delivery), and error handling. In given embodiments of the invention, the unified access application programming interfaces for the connectivity layer  utilize universal resource locator (URL), extensible markup language (XML) or hypertext transport protocol (HTTP). An URL is a platform independent manner for specifying a file or resource over the Internet. XML is an international standard for handling random access ram (RAM) and data communications bandwidth for creating markup languages. HTTP is a protocol used by web browsers for transporting text and graphics over the Internet, where web pages are retrieved one at a time as opposed to set up a session connecting to the Internet.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":["410","410","411","412","420","430","410","411","401","402","403","404","405","406","407","408","409","410","412","410","420","430","410","412","411"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 4"],"b":["510","520","525","530","540","510","520","525","530","540","510","510","530","540","420","430"]},"The exemplary common service platform (CSP ) according to the invention, advantageously separates the business logic from the applications logic and content sources in providing an efficient, standardized and convenient means for implementing new services and applications through telecommunications service providers to the end users. The invention as embodied in a common service platform (e.g., CSP ) transforms the conventional dump pipe of telecommunications carriers into a so-called smart pipe in meeting the needs of new services and applications. The CSP  is advantageously data oriented, as opposed to the voice orientation of telephony systems in the art. Moreover, the invention advantageously provides an open system architecture, blue print and standardized applications programming interface for efficient and easy use by application service providers. With the common service platform according to the invention, content service providers and other third party service providers (such as business, equity markets, weather, sports, entertainment, retailing services) can advantageously focus on their applications and services rather on the intricacies of the interfaces with the telecommunications system, where time and resources are advantageously conserved for optimal services and applications design and delivery to end users. In operation, the common service platform (e.g., CSP ) according to the invention acts as a unified connectivity mechanism for accessing and providing services using a built-in portal provided between the telecommunications network and the Internet. The CSP according to the invention further provides publicity display for services and applications providers with priority placement for menu display of terminal devices (which is described in further detail below). For business logic, the CSP according to the invention further includes revenue sharing for application service providers, telecommunications carriers, or other participating providers (e.g., advertisers and media). The CSP further provides interface and middleware for backend systems of billing and data warehouses (such as efficient user billing, and reverse billing to service providers). Accordingly, the business logic according to the invention advantageously provides a cohesive and synergistic basis for partnership encompassing service providers and telecommunications carriers.","A preferred embodiment of the revenue-sharing mechanism according to the invention (schematically illustrated as the billing system  of ) utilizes micro-payments for applications and services use on a data-charging basis (as opposed to voice telephony duration charging). The common service platform (CSP ) according to the invention generates charging information between third party service providers and telecommunications carriers. A billing record is generated, filtered by a mediation device to add any desired adjustments, and then transmitted for an accounting in payment settlement. A dynamically configurable matrix provides different pricing or revenue-sharing arrangements as desired.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"figref":"FIG. 6","b":["610","610","640","650","620","630","602","601","660","625","615","610","620","630","640","650","610","601","610","640","650","602","610","650","615","610","660","625","660"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0034"},"figref":"FIG. 7","b":["710","710","720","730","701","702","703","704","740","711","712","713","714","715","716","717","718","719","721","722","723","724","725","726","727","728","729","730","732","733","734","735","736","737","738","741","742","743","744","745"]},"The common service platform (CSP ) according to the invention advantageously provides the common platform for end user or consumer value-added services  through the Internet or another network  (such as a local area network or LAN, wide area network or WAN, and metropolitan area network or MAN) that is communicable with end users having terminal devices exemplified by personal digital assistant or PDA , mobile phone , personal computer or PC , and other handheld devices . Business value-added services , such as those with locators, standardized forms (e.g., insurance damage or inventory reports), selected business information, are also communicable with the common service platform (CSP ) and network  to provide .business services to corporate end users. Exemplary applications and services according to the invention include, but not limited to, shopping  (e.g., retailing, ticket purchases, auctions, hotel and restaurant reservations), personal information management or PIM  (e.g., calendar, contact list, to do list, records or personalized data), entertainment  (e.g., games, video, music or gambling), information  (e.g., news, stocks, sports or search engines), financial services  (e.g., banking, brokering, bills or electronic payment), marketing  (e.g., advertising, promotions, coupons or customized items), location services  (e.g., navigation, sightseeing, road assistance or individual tracking), customer care  (e.g., frequently asked questions or FAQs, instructions, help desk or issue tracking), and communications  (e.g., short message service or SMS, unified message service or UMS, instant messaging or e-mails).","Further according to this particular embodiment of the invention, the common service platform (CSP ) further comprises, among others, functional services and environmental capabilities. The functional services for CSP  exemplarily comprise services such as user services , location services , registration , system administration , back end services , access services , event services , charging services , content services , and payment services . The functional capabilities for CSP  exemplarily comprise capabilities such as security capabilities , performance capabilities , usability capabilities , operational capabilities , maintenance capabilities , legal capabilities , and support tools . Communicable at the other side of common service platform or CSP  are third party integrations , front office systems , back office systems , infrastructure , and data warehouses .","The invention advantageously combines known objects (integration of legacy systems) through a communications structure (such as a connectivity layer) by coupling them to a telecommunications network, where the known objects are efficiently distributed to end users of the network. Using a layered architecture, the complexity of myriad services and applications delivered to and received by a multitude of users by a plethora of service providers is overcome in an efficient and optimal manner, which further provides capability for management and billing efficiency and convenience. Simplicity, efficiency, and facility of use are advantageously achieved by a defined, standardized architecture using a plurality of readily available modules and interfaces. The modules and interfaces are re-useable for different services and applications, but also can be reformulated for specific applications as the need arises. For example, if a revenue-sharing billing percentage is changed to reflect new contractual agreements or changed market conditions, a simplistic change in the module utilizing a dynamically configurable matrix advantageously allows different percentages to be entered, where the changed module thereafter will provide the desired result.","The unified connectivity mechanism according to the invention (structurally illustrated as the connectivity layer  in ) provides abstract channel access to, e.g., wireless application protocol (WAP) protocols in conjunctions such as WAP\/GPRS, WAP\/CSD (circuit switched data), unstructured supplementary service data (USSD), and through the Internet. Various gateways are also integrated with the common service platform (CSP) according to the invention through the connectivity layer , such as WAP GW, CGSN, and SMSC, where a variety of messaging services are advantageously provided. By separating the unified connectivity mechanism according to the invention from the applications logic, applications and service providers are shielded from the complexities of network interconnections. User profiles and single log-in capability allow customized access to all services and applications with a single log-in, where convenience and ease of use are advantageously provided to end users. The unified connectivity mechanism according to the invention can also provide means for session management by the telecommunications carriers as needed and centralized control for the carriers, end users and service providers. Further facilitating the convenience and ease of use for services and applications providers, a unified connectivity mechanism according to a specific embodiment of the invention provides multiple service hosting located on a trusted domain (e.g., the proprietary systems of telecommunications carriers) or on an application domain (e.g., through an un-trusted access to the Internet). Further embodiments of the common service platform (CSP) according to the invention further include up-call, time-out, application write transaction log, acknowledgement (ACK to ensure service delivery), and error handling. In given embodiments of the invention, the unified access application programming interfaces for the connectivity layer  utilize universal resource locator (URL), extensible markup language (XML) or hypertext transport protocol (HTTP).","A preferred embodiment of the revenue-sharing mechanism according to the invention (structurally illustrated schematically in the billing component  of ) utilizes micro-payments for applications and services use on a data-charging basis (as opposed to voice telephony duration charging). The common service platform (CSP) according to the invention generates charging information between third party service providers and telecommunications carriers. A billing record is generated, filtered by a mediation device to add any desired adjustments, and then transmitted for an accounting in payment settlement. A dynamically configurable matrix provides different pricing or revenue-sharing arrangements as desired. The popularity of certain applications and services can be measured by its service access history (the hit rate). A critical marketing factor for services and applications is their position on the display menu of a terminal device (e.g., mobile phone). The invention advantageously provides dynamic menu generation based on the hit rate. That is, the more times an end user accesses a given service, the higher up on the display menu the item will appear, where convenience and ease of use are advantageously achieved for the end user as well as marketing advantages are afforded to the service providers. If a service provider desires to pay for higher menu visibility, the invention can provide such menu visibility using a dynamically configurable matrix for display menu entry, where catalogues of services can also be provided.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0041","num":"0040"},"figref":"FIG. 8","b":["100","160","130","120","180","150","140","170","191","192"]},"The user service  according to this preferred embodiment of the invention, through the CSP API, provides applications with information about the end users. This user service  advantageously enables applications to obtain a unique user identifier and associated information needed for end-user personalization. A user profile enables identification and authentication of end users. Administration of the user profiles will be performed through the system management and administration service , which is described hereinafter in further detail.","The location service  according to this preferred embodiment of the invention, through the CSP API, provides applications with location information about the end user device. The location information will include network and geographic position, while supporting location-dependent applications. For fixed networks in general, no or little geographic information is available other than from the subscriber database. The location service  is applicable to scenarios where end users freely roam between different mobile networks as well as Internet protocol or IP-based telephony services (e.g., voice over IP or VoIP).","The content service  according to this preferred embodiment of the invention, through the CSP API, provides applications the ability to request content in different formats from a plurality of content providers. Information about content providers will be stored in a profile, including properties about the content provider such as session key information.","The access service  according to this preferred embodiment of the invention provides application developers independent operability from the particularized end user access methodology, which depends on the type of user access device such as GSM, PC or PDA. The physical access devices and associated access technology are abstracted through the CSP API and device driver. The content presented in the user devices is modified depending on user preferences using relevant style sheet. A device profile is maintained, including information about the device types. The device information will be updated by the system management and administration service , which is described hereinafter in further detail. The access service will further provide setup, maintenance and release functionalities between end users and applications.","The application registration service  according to this preferred embodiment of the invention application developers and third party service providers the ability to register an application and make it available for user subscription. An application profile is maintained, acting as an information nexus for applications. The application profile will include, e.g., application identifiers, security registers and categories. The system management and administration service  can be used in updating the application profile. The application registration service  is readily available for end users subscribing to internal applications, third party applications, or third party application providers subscribing to application components or library functions supplied by the common service platform (CSP). The application registration service  will likewise support transmission of information to the applications, and charging services (such as charging service , hereinafter described in further detail) by providing corresponding charging rates for applications.","Supported by the common service platform or CSP, the charging service  according to this preferred embodiment of the invention charges end users for using applications. The CSP will support application creation based on existing applications. The CSP also supports charging application developers for using existing applications or components in creating new applications.","For charging developers for existing applications, the application developers pay for the right to use their applications. One-time charge is available as part of an intellectual property or know how or technology transfer between application developers. The CSP can likewise support the charging of application developers for using existing applications in creating new applications.","Another charging option for the charging service  is revenue sharing among application developers. For instance, an end user is charged for using an application, which in turn is built by using other applications. The charging records produced by the CSP will include, in detail, all applications that are invoked in a session. A post processing system accordingly produces the bills for the end users, and calculates revenue distribution among application developers.","In addition, the applications can request the CSP to generate and log charging detail records or CDRs. The CDRs will include application and end user identification, date and time, item identification, quantity and associated information needed for billing and accounting. An event service , hereinafter described in further detail, will enable the applications to define the corresponding requirements in capturing and providing application inquiries. The charging service  can also utilize the backend system API in sending CDRs to either billing or mediator devices that collect GSM CDRs. Moreover, the charging service  can support charging for prepaid and postpaid usage for end users. An end user is not necessarily a user subscriber to the GSM network, as the CSP according to the invention supports separation of GSM subscription from subscriptions to applications supported by the CSP.","The CSP services according to this preferred embodiment of the invention further comprise an event service . An event is an occurrence, something that happens. A simple event can be, e.g., an end-user accessing an application to buy movie tickets. A more complex event can be defined as combination of a number of simple events. Triggers are events that cause specified response(s) from the system either immediately or at a predetermined time. Such a response can be as simple as creating an event log, or as complex as invoking one or more applications. Triggers can be of two types, namely time critical and non-time critical triggers. While time-critical triggers are handled as part of an application process, non-time critical triggers are generally processed off-line. Given that the limited processing power available to the CSP, off-line processing of non-time critical triggers optimally yields much better application performance (e.g., in terms of response time) than online processing of the triggers.","An event such as a system failure report is treated as a time critical trigger that immediately activates the associated specified response(s), such as invoking diagnostic programs, or alerting the system administrators. The event service  advantageously allows the applications to define simple events to be monitored, and specify what information will be logged when the defined events happen. Through the utilization of the events, the CSP event service allows applications to define triggers and associate specified actions with the triggers. The CSP according to the invention will also provide the ability to publish an event, where a publisher is an entity that generates an event notification message. The CSP will also provide the ability for an entity to subscribe to an event, where a subscriber is an entity that registers interest for a particular event with an event distributor who can accordingly notify the end users or subscribers.","The network resource service  according to this preferred embodiment of the invention provides call processing capabilities of the network as viewed from a CSP-based application. The network resource service  is capable of establishing, maintaining, modifying and releasing calls between specified parties. A party in a call can be an end user or a network device such as announcement devices. Additional features can also be included in the network resource service  for acting in an agent role on behalf of a party. Applications acting as an agent for a party are capable of modifying the processing of calls initiated by call parties, initiating calls between call parties or representing the interests of another party not directly involved in the call. The network resource service  will allow the CSP to interrogate network entities such as home location registers (HLRs), visitor location registers (VLRs) or message service center (MSC) in retrieving information needed for operating the same.","Through the backend system service  according to this preferred embodiment of the invention, the common service platform or CSP interacts with existing and future business systems (e.g., customer care or billing systems) as well as external systems. Through the backend system service , charging information as produced by the CSP will be output to the billing system for further processing. For prepaid end users, the billing system will use an interface to inform the CSP the remaining credits for the respective end users. The CSP can accordingly determine whether to grant an end user's request to use an application, suspend or release an ongoing session. Charging information can also be directly output to external systems for billing settlement. Through interaction with customer care systems, provisioning of CSP-based applications (including those for creating, modifying and deleting end user subscriptions to applications) can advantageously be performed through a single interface.","The system management and administration service  according to this preferred embodiment of the invention provides operation and maintenance support to the CSP itself and applications run by the CSP, such as performance management, fault management, configuration management and security management. Moreover, the system management and administration service  advantageously provides an interface allowing operation and management information to be forwarded to a central management system in the form of an alert or notification.","The payment service  according to this preferred embodiment of the invention allows end users to pay for using application services by credit card or debit card. The common service platform or CSP according to the invention may or may not serve as a financial clearing house, where an acquiring bank or financial institution acts as the payment partner therefor. The payment partner will be responsible for payment transactions between collaborating banks, financial institutions and credit card clearing houses. A CSP payment interface will enable an end user to enter card details through the running application. For instance, for an Internet user who purchases products or agrees to pay for services on a website, the participating e-commerce merchant can redirect the end user's browser to the CSP payment interface for entering credit card details. The end-to-end security will need to be jointly implemented with the payment partner (i.e., an acquiring bank or financial institution). At the minimum, payment data from applications to payment services will be protected by encryption with shared decrypting keys. All payment requests and results will accordingly be logged in the CSP. The payment service  will also provide management functions for managing merchant records, reporting of payment transactions, data mining and call center operation.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0057","num":"0056"},"figref":"FIG. 9","b":["1100","1200","1300","1400","1500","1600"]},"The client layer  according to this preferred embodiment of the invention comprises a plurality of client devices, which end users use in accessing CSP services. Exemplary client devices include landline telephones, GSM mobile phones, GPRS telephones, WAP telephones, Java phone, personal computers (PCs) with web browsers, Internet servers, or personal digital assistant (PDAs) with wireless connections.","The presentation and channel layer  according to this preferred embodiment of the invention primarily comprises presentation services and channel services. Presentation services for the presentation and channel layer  will require a hypertext transfer protocol (HTTP) web server for web service provision. An exemplary HTTP web server for the presentation and channel layer  will support HTTP requests from clients, manage, collate and service hypertext markup language (HTML) web pages (including static or dynamic content) for the requesting clients, and support mechanisms for locating and invoking server processing and business logic processing through common gateway interface (CGI) scripts or Java servlets. A servlet is an application designed to run on a server in the womb of a permanently resident CGI mother program written in Java that provides services for it. The exemplary HTTP web server for the presentation and channel layer  can further support secure sockets layer or SSL security, provide web server extensions to enable support for application servers, manage and serve different content for a plurality of client requests. SSL is a protocol used for communicating over an encrypted connection, and for authenticating none, one or both of the participants in that connection. SSL allows session keys to be exchanged in encrypting traffic following the transmission of public keys from a website to an end user's browser, where no a priori secret password or private key is needed (even though a login process is optionally available).","Heterogeneous support of mobile devices is further included in a web environment capable of delivering content to a variety of platforms. For such a web environment, web services will include capabilities allowing multiple servers to asynchronously work on a single request in a generally simultaneous manner. Wed standards supported by such web services will include wireless markup language (WML), hypertext transfer protocol (HTTP), hypertext markup language (HTML) or secure sockets layer (SSL).","Personalization services will maintain and provide information for different users. Profile services can also be extended to provide services for holding permissible client preferences. Web page presentation for different end users or client devices can accordingly be generated based on the personalization information.","For data composition and decomposition, business logic is utilized, such as business logic layer . Data generated by business logic components, as the core requirement and component for services, are composed or decomposed by the common service platform or CSP according to the invention. For web application services, an application server is a key enabler of services provided by e-business applications. Even though an application server is generally integrated into the web environment, it is web protocol independent, which can be integrated into other technologies and channel protocols. The application server provides an environment for the applications to execute and enhance the application programming environment, particularly for web-based e-business applications.","For the business logic layer , there will be business processes that incorporate actual business logic. The business processes according to the invention primarily comprise service management, customer management and device management. The business logic layer  further comprises access control services, which account for user authentication, resource access authorization and control, process authorization and control, whose access control rules and policies are dependent on business needs. The business logic layer  further comprises activity dispatch and control services that determine which activity to conduct and which process to invoke when accepting client requests.","The infrastructure layer  according to this preferred embodiment of the invention primarily comprises administration services, network services, transaction services, messaging services, directory services, synchronization services, database services, state management and log services (hereinafter described in further detail).","Administration services for the infrastructure layer  regularly maintain and administer components, which define the required functionalities, in the common service platform or CSP according to the invention. The administration services for the infrastructure layer  entail services including third party application administration, platform configuration and fine tuning, log file maintenance and archiving, and general monitoring and housekeeping functionalities.","Network services for the infrastructure layer  are established for deployment of e-business infrastructures based on exemplary network protocols such as transmission control protocol\/Internet protocol or TCP\/IP. TCP\/IP is a protocol piggybacked on top of IP that the Internet uses to transfer data packets. TCP\/IP, on which other special-purpose Internet protocols can be further piggybacked, allows transmission of bi-directional, generally error-free, continuous binary data streams, as well as interleaving of a plurality of data streams in the same connection.","Transaction services for the infrastructure layer  provide the common service platform (CSP) according to the invention with the capability to handle transaction processes. In particular, the transaction services can log, propagate and verify results for each transaction in the CSP.","Messaging services for the infrastructure layer  allow an application to send messages to other applications, or receive messages from other applications. The messaging services for the infrastructure layer  further provide a queuing mechanism that can reliably hold messages should partnering applications be unavailable. Applications can select a specific level of service quality for message delivery that the messaging services will deliver. The messaging services will deliver each message once and only once, even in the event of system or network failures, should an application requires. A plurality of message types is available, including, e.g., application-defined requests or events, text messages, Java objects, or extensible markup language (XML) documents.","Directory services for the infrastructure layer  manage a system-wide directory and naming service that maintains information about characteristics of potential resources or entities in the system including, e.g., services, end users, data stores or applications. The directory services maintain characteristics about each resource, which generally includes information such as names, location and attributes. The directory services also serve as a critical component in managing the information regarding customer databases, storing information such as user profiles, authentication data and personalization information.","Synchronization services for the infrastructure layer  are used to synchronize data among multiple repositories. For instance, user profile information are kept in various places including personalization databases, authentication or authorization databases. The synchronization services ensure consistency among the different repositories.","Database services for the infrastructure layer  are responsible for processing and managing data within a number of database systems. Should the common service platform or CSP according to the invention include a relational database management system\/or RDBMS, the database services for the infrastructure layer  provide the facilities for managing operational data in supporting business transactions and accessing business systems data for intelligent decision-making.","State management services for the infrastructure layer , or connection and session management, support a seamless and persistent connection across a plurality of disconnected events and transactions. State management services recognize the source over multiple independent connections on a wide timescale.","Log services for the infrastructure layer  are used in producing various kinds of logs including system logs, application logs, billing logs, and auditing logs. These logs are further processed or analyzed by data warehouse systems, system administration tools and billing systems in providing more valuable information to enterprises. Network devices, operating systems, applications and middleware produce their own logs. Post processing is also available in managing the logs. Data aggregation includes text-to-database conversion, format translation, and tracking index setup.","The peripheral layer  according to this preferred embodiment of the invention primarily comprises third party systems and backend systems.","Third party systems are partnering systems that are part of the overall, integrated common service platform or CSP. Third party applications deliver enhanced services, content and products to end users. The third party applications access the CSP according to the invention through a software development kit or SDK. Services of the third party applications are also available through other standard access formats in addition to SDK access.","Backend systems (or legacy systems) in the peripheral layer  are commonly linked to frontend web applications. The backend systems may currently be running on a variety of existing architectures and systems. The backend systems are integrated with the CSP according to the invention in a various manners according to the requirements. For integrating third party applications, the CSP is the primary means of integration for the backend systems.","The universal layer  according to this preferred embodiment of the invention primarily comprises security services including three primary parts, namely, network and system security, application security, and operational security. The network and system security of the security services in the universal layer  serves as the base security for the system and networking components. The application security of the security services in the universal layer  ensures security of the base application packages, their configuration and development of application code. The operational security of the security services in the universal layer  ensures security of the ongoing operation.","The system management component for the common service platform or CSP according to the invention further defines the structure and services in integrating the management functions across the layers of the application stack. The system management component for the CSP according to the invention primarily comprises management agents, management framework, management applications, and management console, which are hereinafter described in further detail.","The management agents for system management of the CSP according to the invention monitor and control resources used by an e-business application, which generally run on the same machine for the resources they manage. The management agents respond to specific requests from management applications and collect management information about the resources. Managed resources and their agents exist at each layer of the application stack.","The management framework for system management of the CSP according to the invention supports communications between management agents and management applications. The management framework for system management in the CSP further provides a storage mechanism for collecting management information, and supports a mechanism in applying policies and procedures to the management environment.","The management applications for system management of the CSP according to the invention analyze data collected from the management agents and initiate commands to agents for problem resolution. Management applications focus on a particular function (such as a software distribution application), as well as management aspects of a particular resource (such as a database management application).","The management console for system management in the CSP provides a consolidated, central view of resources and managed applications. The system management component for the CSP infrastructure according to the invention is built on and integrated with existing and third party system management structures. Connection networks linking the CSP components and related parties include, but not limited to, GSM, GPRS\/GSM, PSTN, intranet and the Internet.","The common service platform or CSP according to the invention further comprises components in their respective hierarchies in terms of their respective responsibilities, static relationships, and the manner by which they collaborate with each other in delivering the required functionalities. A component is a relatively independent part of a system, which is characterized by its responsibilities and by the interfaces it offers. Each component has corresponding responsibilities, required service levels, design rationale and implementation approach. Repository components are responsible for ensuring persistence of data and providing data management functions such as create, delete, modify, or retrieve (including retrieve based on a key, and retrieve based on selection criteria).","Availability of the CSP system according to the invention is dependent on the needs of end users. The availability expectations of the CSP system relate to how many hours per day, days per week, and weeks per year the CSP application will be available to end users and how quickly it is able to recover from failures. Some of the system functionalities may be used intermittently during certain parts of the day, week, month, or year. CSP functions will be readily available should the needs of the end users become mission critical. The usage pattern and expectations of the CSP functionalities as a whole yield the corresponding availability requirements for the CSP system. For reliability, the CSP applications according to the invention, with corresponding architecture and infrastructure in predictably and reliably delivering functionalities therefor, generally produce the same results consistently under different operating conditions.","Security requirements are needed to ensure the CSP system's ability to safeguard data against loss, negative exposure or external disruption. For data sensitivity in the CSP, a plurality of sensitivity levels is applied with respect to the CSP system, end users and third party providers. Data sensitivity can be categorized into at least two levels, namely, sensitive and not sensitive. For data that are not sensitive, e.g., public content such as customer menu, service catalog, news and weather, no data encryption is required. For data that are sensitive, e.g., organizational information, sales data, billing data, invoice data, authentication and credit card information, data are encrypted for transmission over public networks. Regardless of data sensitivity, all data access will be controlled by existing authentication and authorization procedures for end users.","For authentication, a user ID or password (such as one having a minimum length) will be required for authenticating Internet end users for accessing the common service platform or CSP according to the invention. Subscriber identity module or SIM cards are used for authenticating mobile CSP users. A session expiration or timeout after a certain time period is also available. For access control, the CSP system according to the invention allows administration of access rules within a plurality of applications, and supports multiple user classes or groups, each having access to different functionalities and data. The CSP system can further include the capability to customize access for each user, e.g., by overriding the group access protocols. For network administration, the CSP according to the invention utilizes the concept of data zones for its systems. Exemplary data zones includes a red zones where systems are completely untrusted, such as any system on external networks, a yellow zone having somewhat trusted systems generally including systems that communicate externally, and a green zone having trusted systems generally including internal core-business systems. Firewalls stand on zone boundaries. No persistent application data (as identified in terms of data sensitivity) will be stored on yellow or red zone systems, except session data. There are generally no connections between red and green zone systems. Firewall rules ensure that only authorized yellow zone hosts can contact green zone hosts.","Non-repudiation is the capability to capture irrefutable evidence that an end user performed a transaction as the system received the transaction. The common service platform or CSP according to the invention utilizes user ID, password, and SIM cards in identifying the end users. The CSP further maintains usage event log as the user transaction is being performed, where full audit logging is allowed for security events such as failed login, password reset, user ID creation and registration.","The CSP architecture according to the invention facilitates the establishment of a systematic and thorough maintenance and administration program therefor. The CSP architecture includes components that allow for the proactive management of both the systems infrastructure and the applications that execute on that infrastructure. Systems management components are defined in allowing for the effective, centralized management of hardware, systems software and middleware, as well as applications. For system management, requirements are needed for maintaining and administrating the CSP software and hardware systems. System management generally involves activities such as adding and removing end users and privileges, monitoring the CSP system, tuning infrastructure and application components, updating application components in meeting changing business requirements (e.g., adding new functions and changing data formats), fixing bugs and adapting the software to new hardware devices, distributing and updating of application and data files, providing hardware and software diagnostics or repairs.","Event management optimizes customer service by generating, gathering, and analyzing events throughout the common service platform or CSP according to the invention to proactively identify and resolve conditions leading to potential problems. CSP applications produce a time stamp log with different levels of severity in reporting such events as, e.g., connectivity failures, message flow problems, application failures, or operations exceeding maximum response time. Integrated applications monitoring will be required in reporting to the management system for the CSP. There are at least four levels in monitoring CSP system resources, as follows:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0090","num":"0089"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00001","num":"00001"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"49pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"77pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"91pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["Level","Resources","Remarks"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Operating","System (e.g., AIX) error","This monitoring level"]},{"entry":["system level","log, central processing","focuses at the operating"]},{"entry":[{},"unit or CPU, memory,","system or OS level,"]},{"entry":[{},"input\/output or I\/O,","primarily on hardware and"]},{"entry":[{},"auditing events, file","system resources."]},{"entry":[{},"system free space,"]},{"entry":[{},"paging space, network"]},{"entry":[{},"traffic."]},{"entry":["Subsystem","Processes and error","This monitoring level"]},{"entry":["level","events (e.g., error log)","focuses on CSP software"]},{"entry":[{},"for CSP component","component subsystems."]},{"entry":[{},"subsystems."]},{"entry":["Application","System-related events","The CSP applications are"]},{"entry":["level","from CSP applications.","able to write system-"]},{"entry":[{},{},"related events to flat files"]},{"entry":[{},{},"for readily available event"]},{"entry":[{},{},"collection and monitoring."]},{"entry":[{},{},"This monitoring level"]},{"entry":[{},{},"primarily focuses on"]},{"entry":[{},{},"system events occurring in"]},{"entry":[{},{},"user transactions."]},{"entry":["Network level","Network topology and","This monitoring level"]},{"entry":[{},"events, or network","focuses on the network for"]},{"entry":[{},"availability status.","network management."]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}},"For every resource being monitored, there is a corresponding threshold and severity, including severity levels corresponding to real-time alert mechanisms to alert operators or system administrators, as follows:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0092","num":"0091"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00002","num":"00002"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"49pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"28pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"140pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["Severity level","Severity","Conditions"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Fatal","1","Resource is operationally malfunctional"]},{"entry":[{},{},"or on its way to full-scale malfunction,"]},{"entry":[{},{},"which is considered to be unrecoverable."]},{"entry":[{},{},"Large numbers of end users are affected"]},{"entry":[{},{},"and cannot perform their tasks."]},{"entry":["Critical","2","Resource has achieved the threshold level"]},{"entry":[{},{},"for criticality as defined by the resource"]},{"entry":[{},{},"owner. The situation is recoverable if"]},{"entry":[{},{},"there is an immediate response. Failure"]},{"entry":[{},{},"of a device will be avoided if a redundant"]},{"entry":[{},{},"function is available. User work is"]},{"entry":[{},{},"impacted but not stopped."]},{"entry":["Warning","3","Resource value deviates from normal"]},{"entry":[{},{},"operation, but no imminent failure is"]},{"entry":[{},{},"expected. Customer work is not affected."]},{"entry":["Harmless","4","Conditions include informational events"]},{"entry":[{},{},"such as confirmation of a successful"]},{"entry":[{},{},"event completion, or resolution of"]},{"entry":[{},{},"previous event or device status (i.e.,"]},{"entry":[{},{},"device up)."]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}},"Subsystems status monitoring for the CSP involves the monitoring of the working status of CSP-related subsystems. A mechanism in the CSP is available for operators and system administrators to check subsystem status using a network ping or service ping in real time.","For change management, changes are introduced into the CSP environment in minimizing disruption to that environment, including, e.g., staging and accepting content changes. CSP content changes are allowed generally without downtime., where application changes are coordinated among applications and rollback of application changes are supported.","For configuration management, configuration information are identified in maintaining and establishing the information management system, collecting the configuration information, populating the database, and making the information available to other processes in the CSP environment. The CSP application code utilizes a configuration management tool in handling version control.","For availability, backup and recovery management, appropriate procedures and necessary data are in place and ensured to be readily available for reestablishing CSP systems and data in the event of a failure. The persistent data in the CSP are backed up on a periodic basis (e.g., daily), without requiring downtime for backing up CSP applications. Redundant backup (e.g., weekly) can also be performed for a more comprehensive backup. CSP systems support backup methods such as backup using local tape drives in each server or system image backup or low volume data backup using existing backup solutions.","For performance and capacity management, the measurement, analysis, monitoring, modeling, and periodic fine-tuning of components are performed in meeting performance and capacity requirements in the CSP, where web statistics, peaks and trends are analyzed in anticipating issues.","For balance configuration, the design of the CSP architecture takes into consideration factors such as optimal availability and load balance. The load balancing component is a server that is able to dynamically monitor and balance transmission control protocol or TCP servers and applications in real time. The load balancing component, which is utilized in all CSP component subsystems having web interfaces, allows heavily accessed web sites to increase capacity, since multiple TCP servers can be dynamically linked in a single entity that appears in the network as a single logical server. One side effect of this load balancing is that it not only can increase network scalability but also improve availability and reliability of the web servers. In the event of a failure of one web server, all requests are directed to and distributed over the remaining servers. The network dispatcher itself provides a cluster mechanism where a standby network dispatcher takes over dispatching functions when the primary network dispatcher fails.","The invention, including at least the preferred and other embodiments described herein, accordingly provides an optimal architecture for mobile common service platform and software in telecommunications systems that advantageously overcomes at least the aforementioned and other shortcomings in the art, and more particularly, a telecommunications system that advantageously promotes standardized, open connectivity for service and applications providers in attracting and facilitating providers so that services will attract users. The invention advantageously provides seamless integration of access methods using multiple types of devices and content hosts, i.e., convergence of mobile Internet applications, in providing a comprehensive information and service environment for users. According to the invention, terminal devices, and particularly mobile phones, are advantageously provided with efficient and ready access to services and applications through the Internet and other networks, where mobile commerce (\u201cm-commerce\u201d) is optimally achieved and realized. The virtuous cycle of a large installed base of users attracting applications providers with the number of users increasing because of the new applications is advantageously realized as well, where the convenience and efficiency of providing those applications to users are optimally implemented in accordance with the invention.","With at least the embodied common service platform and software described herein, service provider can quickly and easily create and host applications for users, where terminal device abstraction is advantageously achieved so that applications only need to be created once advantageously without redundant and inefficient duplication of creative effort. The invention advantageously and optimally provides standardized access to users to common services and resources. Moreover, a plurality of access technologies are readily available to users, who are transparent to the underlying network infrastructure, equipment and devices and other capabilities in optimally acquiring efficient application development. The invention further provides a service platform that advantageously enables efficient addition of new services, access methods and terminal devices, where a reliable, high-performance and scalable architecture is advantageously provided as well.","It would be apparent to one skilled in the art that the invention can be embodied in various ways and implemented in many variations. For instance, a network of computers is described herein in illustrating various embodiments of the invention. The invention is accordingly applicable in this and other types of networks, such as a metropolitan area network (MAN), a wide area network (WAN), a local area network (LAN) or even wireless communications networks for mobile phones and personal digital assistant (PDA) devices. Such variations are not to be regarded as a departure from the spirit and scope of the invention. In particular, the process steps of the method according to the invention will include methods having substantially the same process steps as the method of the invention to achieve substantially the same results. Substitutions and modifications have been suggested in the foregoing Detailed Description, and others will occur to one of ordinary skill in the art. All such modifications as would be obvious to one skilled in the art are intended to be included within the scope of the following claims and their equivalents."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The foregoing features and advantages of the invention will become more apparent in the following Detailed Description when read in conjunction with the accompanying drawings (not necessarily drawn to scale), in which:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 9"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
