---
title: Mapping patterns of movement based on the aggregation of spatial information contained in wireless transmissions
abstract: Time-tagged coordinates from session-unique transmissions of wireless devices are collected routinely and stored for later analysis. From this data, one may derive a sequence of wireless device operation from which attributes may be ascertained. Sequences are accumulated until a dense aggregate pattern () is formed over a geographic area. Aggregate data is sorted into ranges representing speed of movement and then converted to pixels representing cells () in an aggregate matrix (). Heavily weighted values () are assigned to cells () that represent a location within a pre-specified spatial error () about a data point (). Lower values are assigned to cells () representing paths (), or corridors, connecting these better-identified locations. As more transmission sessions () are added to the matrix (), the largest weight values () cluster as individual cells () representing a most likely path (). Thus precise topographic attributes may be derived based on these spatial clusters (FIG. A), overlapping paths connecting them (), or combinations (FIG. A) thereof.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=06975939&OS=06975939&RS=06975939
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 06975939
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20020729
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENT INTEREST","FIELD OF THE INVENTION","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.","The field concerns manipulation of data to reduce error estimates, in particular it involves processing data routinely collected on wireless device operation to precisely map patterns.","Wireless technology enables portable communications, computing, and positioning, often within a single device. The value of information derived from an active connection to the World Wide Web while a user is both mobile and spatially positioned accurately is immense. Uses for this information include: asking for directions without stopping, identifying services along your route, accessing commercial invitations based mostly on proximity of a business to the mobile invitee, and requesting emergency services, among others.","Spatial coordinates of longitude, latitude, and elevation may be represented in a three-dimensional (3-D) coordinate system as x, y, and z, respectively. These coordinates, as well as a time associated with them and a unique identifier assigned to a transmission session of a subscriber using the service at that time, are collected routinely by providers of cellular telephone service. The session identifier enables one to establish a string of distinct spatial positions that may yield a pattern of the subscriber's movement, or lack thereof. These data are collected routinely and stored for various uses by the wireless service provider. In general these uses relate to billing, system performance evaluation, or planning for new capacity and the like. Other uses may be made of this data. For example, these \u201cstrings of data\u201d may be aggregated over time, for a number of subscribers, and a dense aggregate pattern observed. From this pattern, precise spatial information about specific locations or areas may be derived, including 3-D coordinates suitable for accurate mapping.","Several patents and one patent application address mapping problems as associated with wireless device operation. None approach a method that the present inventors propose herein.","U.S. Pat. No. 5,299,132, Vehicle Locating and Communicating Method and Apparatus Using Cellular Telephone Network, to Wortham, Mar. 29, 1994, provides a means for locating and communicating with vehicles. A cell phone and microprocessor are carried in the vehicle. The microprocessor interrogates the cell phone to obtain location information from a message stream transmitted from various cell phone transmitter sites. This may be displayed within the vehicle and used to update vehicle location at a central monitoring site.","U.S. Pat. No. 6,150,961, Automated Traffic Mapping, to Alewine et al., Nov. 21, 2000, proposes a system that uses a system of mobile wireless units installed in multiple vehicles for purposes of mapping traffic. The wireless units provide both communications and location. The location of each vehicle is provided to both other such vehicles and a central monitoring station for purposes of monitoring traffic flow.","U.S. Pat. No. 6,400,690 B1, Dual Map System for Navigation and Wireless Communication, to Liu et al., Jun. 4, 2002, details a system that produces an empirical map of coverage of a wireless communication system by combining information from individual users of the system. The users must be equipped with a GPS receiver or located by other means such as triangulation from ground-based transmitters. The quality of the wireless transmission is also used as a parameter to develop the empirical maps.","U.S. Patent Application No. 2001\/0007088 A1, Method and Navigation System for Display of Sections of a Digital Map Data Base as well as an Improved Operating Unit and Interface for Same, to Winter et al., Jul. 5, 2001 provides a method and system for displaying a predetermined portion of a digital map database together with a limited number of attributes, thus making the map easier to read where many attributes may otherwise be available.","To communicate an adequate spatial awareness, maps are needed to guide one from a known or starting position to a destination. Road locations, street names, landmarks, directions, etc., originate from an existing database of spatial information. A problem often encountered by those depending on commercial hardcopy maps or maps now available on the Internet is that sufficiently detailed digital spatial information is not available worldwide. Further, it is not available at the spatial accuracy that could be used optimally by existing and future wireless communication and positioning devices. For example, the U.S. Geological Survey (USGS) produces digital maps at a scale of 1:24,000 with a National Map Accuracy Standard of 40 feet horizontal (for \u201cwell-defined points\u201d only such as survey bench marks and major road intersections). In contrast, the stated positional error for one manufacturer of wireless remote locator devices is \u201cseveral meters under certain circumstances.\u201d Furthermore, the coverage of USGS 1:24,000 data is not complete even over some areas of the United States.","The problem is further compounded in that sufficiently detailed information is not available for most of the world and the vast majority of data that are available are not accurate enough to enable precise display of wireless positioning data relative to a displayed map's features. This reduces consumer confidence in precise destination route planning or spatial problem solving, for example. Optimized wireless mobile computing, communication, and positioning technology needs a quality of spatial information that is not available from standard mapping products. Thus, there is a need for a process that generates detailed, spatially accurate features by fully utilizing the capabilities of existing and future mobile wireless devices.","A preferred embodiment of the present invention envisions an automated method of producing precise pattern mapping based on processing position data routinely collected from the operation of wireless communication and positioning devices. Since, in the main, operation is by humans co-located with these mobile devices, maps resultant therefrom represent aggregated spatial information of human patterns of movement from which positioning may be derived and further refined to yield accurate pattern mapping.","Spatial coordinates may be designated in a three-dimensional (3-D) coordinate system as longitude (x), latitude (y), and elevation (z). In commercial operations, the 3-D coordinates, time, and unique identification codes from mobile wireless devices are gathered routinely and stored on a server. The wireless service provider assigns an identification code for each transmission session of a subscriber. These data are collected continually.","The code allows the unique connection of a string of distinct spatial positions from a single \u201ctransmission session\u201d into a spatial pattern of an individual's movement. The data may be sorted by speed, and may be stored without processing until sufficient data are available to recreate a dense aggregate pattern for a specific area. This aggregate position data may be converted to a raster representation that is constrained to be no more than one-half the resolution of the positional accuracy of the spatial coordinates thus collected. If the data are based on very accurate coordinates, such as obtained from differential GPS or digital TV video signals, then the resolution of the raster cell may be determined by the size of the spatial feature to be collected. Rabinowitz, M, and J. Spilker, , Rosum White Paper, Rosum Corporation, Redwood City, Calif., undated. Burgess, D. A., , Rosum Corporation, Redwood City, Calif., Mar. 19, 2002.","Points in a transmission session are sorted by time of transmission. Successive points in a transmission session are surrounded by a transmission corridor that is an approximation to the subscriber's location. The raster cells in a transmission corridor are assigned weights that approximate the subscriber's probability of being in the cell. When weights are assigned to all transmission corridors within a transmission session, these transmission corridors are added to a matrix of all cells in the geographic area of interest to build an aggregation matrix. A connected network of spatial features is derived, based on observed clusters representative of the distribution of weighted cells in the aggregation matrix. This may be used to represent a refined accurate pattern, or map, from the aggregated spatial positions since spatial features are vectors mathematically derived from patterns in the aggregation matrix. A digital map is but a collection of vectors and their assigned attributes such as road, building, stream, parking lot, etc.","A preferred embodiment of the present invention provides a method of attaining spatial precision using data routinely collected from wireless transmission sessions that are assigned unique identifiers. It includes:\n\n","Results may be used to precisely pattern map through the aggregation of spatial patterns of movement (or lack thereof) by classes of subscribers. Further, the results may be stored prior to composing a precise map of patterns or even used to compose a precise topographic map.","Pattern maps may be composed by manipulating data representing wireless transmissions from sources located on: land-based vehicles, airborne vehicles, waterborne vehicles, space borne vehicles, humans, and animals, and combinations thereof, such as a human on horseback or a human riding in a bus while moving about therein. The term vehicles includes those contrivances that may be operated remotely and not carry a human operator, such as a robot.","Spatial precision may be attained in each of three dimensions: latitude, longitude, and elevation or in any two of the three, such as latitude and longitude in cases where elevation data may be suspect or missing.","Wireless transmissions may originate from devices such as: cellular telephones, laptop computers, personal digital assistants (PDAs), portable communications devices, geopositioning systems such as may be provided using LORAN\u00ae, Global Positioning Systems (GPS), beacons, alarms, security systems, robots, unmanned ground vehicles, and combinations thereof.","Further, spatial precision may be attained with respect to pre-specified time periods of operation of wireless devices or at pre-specified locations. Advantages of a preferred embodiment of the present invention include:\n\n","A preferred embodiment of the present invention provides a method for mapping precise patterns. It may be useful for composing precise topographic maps of an area about which fine detail is desired. These patterns are derived from processing routinely collected data that yield information on the position of wireless devices at precise times. This information may be provided as static (taken at long intervals or at specific times only) or dynamic (taken at short durations continually).","Refer to FIG. B. The method uses input of the following data: time-tagged spatial coordinates x, y, and z (if the latter is available)  as provided from a wireless transmission, i.e., the time of transmission is associated with specific coordinates, and an identification code that serves to uniquely identify a coordinate or a series of coordinates with a unique transmission session. This data may be accessed from an \u201conline\u201d database or may be retrieved from storage.","Refer to  for the steps of the process and  at A and B for matrices used in the process. One or more sources of the data are identified  and a geographic locale, or area of interest, is selected . A uniform grid (not separately shown) is superimposed on a spatial area of interest. A matrix  is defined  to capture elements of the grid. A smallest element of the grid is defined  and is termed a cell  or raster cell. Thus this area of interest may be represented by a matrix  of these cells , termed the aggregation matrix , whose entries correspond one-to-one to the raster cells. A cell  may be either two or three dimensional as shown in  at A and B, respectively.","To insure statistical validity, the cell size is chosen to be no larger than one-half the resolution of the positional accuracy of the spatial coordinates provided in association with a transmission session of the wireless device in the area of interest. If the data are based on very accurate coordinates, such as obtained from differential GPS or digital TV video signals, then the resolution of the cell  may be determined by the size of the spatial feature to be collected.","Data are acquired  from one or more sources and a spatial error is assigned . The data are sorted  spatially, temporally and by unique ID code associated to a transmission session. For example, data may be sorted over and within a specific smaller rectangular area of interest in the larger geographic area that may be represented by the entire data set. Steps that build ,  transmission corridors and transmission sessions therefrom are optional as indicated by the dotted lines in FIG. .","Approximate velocities may be calculated  for individual transmission session ID codes by dividing the distance between successive coordinates by the appropriate time interval, \u0394T. Next, speed ranges may be established .","These sorted data may be used to build  2-D  or 3-D  transmission corridors. A transmission corridor ,  represents a \u201cpath\u201d that is associated with two successive times a wireless device is operating, i.e., distance over a time interval. It is possible to construct these because each discrete collected time of transmission is associated with geographic coordinates representing the location of the subscriber at that discrete time. Inherently this information also provides an approximation to the direction of travel of the subscriber. Data associated with these discrete times are collected during a uniquely coded transmission session that transmits two or more of these discrete time-tagged geographic locations to at least one control center operated by a wireless service. Thus, a number of corridors ,  may be built during the uniquely coded transmission session given a sufficient time of operation of the wireless device that may facilitate building  a transmission session. These sessions may be sorted  by speed to enable specific locales to be represented optimally, e.g., for precision mapping purposes. Each such sorted session is then represented  as cells  to be added  to the aggregation matrix .","Each available coordinate  is associated with a spatial error estimate, represented as a transmission circle . Initially, those cells  falling entirely within a transmission circle  are assigned  a high weight indicative of the fact that the actual location of a specific transmission at a specific time falls within that circle  to a relatively high degree of certainty, e.g., 67% certainty. As the optionally built transmission corridors ,  are added to the aggregation matrix , some cells  in the matrix  are coincident. The coincident cells  now have multiple weights assigned. These weights are added within each coincident cell. This aggregation matrix is converted to a vector representation that, with sufficient overlapping transmission sessions, maps a much more accurate pattern of wireless device operation than available from one or a few transmission sessions.","From the appropriately sorted data comprising the aggregate matrix , features may be extracted , such as terrain features or man-made features. To these features an attribute may be assigned , e.g., a small rectangle having change in the z direction only may be \u201cattributed\u201d to an elevator. Finally, this process may be repeated  for each category of sorted data, locale of interest, or even time of day or season, to yield desired spatial and temporal information.","Again refer to FIG. B. If 3D data are used, the 2-D circle  of  becomes the 3-D cylinder  of FIG. B. Refer to FIG. A and FIG. B. In a preferred embodiment of the present invention, by connecting successive independent data points , each of which may be related to a specific transmission circle , and that originate from the same identification code (subscriber), it is possible to form transmission corridors , . Coordinates for which height is not available are 2-D corridors  as represented in FIG. A.","Refer to FIG. B. If height information is available, a 3-D corridor  may be obtained. Transmission corridors ,  are assembled  into transmission sessions that represent the sequential transmissions associated with the same unique transmission session ID from the time that transmission is initiated until transmission is terminated, for example. Collections of transmission sessions are sorted  into speed ranges to yield categories of wireless mobile users, e.g., drivers, walkers, bikers, stationary, etc.","Refer to . Weighted transmission sessions, either 2-D or 3-D, are determined as follows. The transmission corridors of a transmission session are represented  as cells  that reflect their relative position in the aggregation matrix  to which they are added . Pre-specified weights are assigned  to only those cells  along each corridor ,  of a transmission session. These weights decrease in value to a pre-specified minimum weight as distance increases from the selected transmission circles  associated with data points  resident in the database. The sorted and weighted transmission corridors ,  of a transmission session are added  to the appropriate aggregation matrix . Overlapped cells  will have multiple weights that are added to yield a cell  of \u201chigher probability\u201d of being traversed while wireless transmissions occurred. At any time after building a specific aggregate matrix , this step may be repeated  for all data in each sorted category, e.g., walking, stationary, boating, etc., even before extracting  features and assigning  attributes for each resultant aggregation matrix .","Refer to FIG. . Data from a single transmission session  along a road  is used to build three transmission corridors  from four data points  associated with a circular area  indicating an acceptably high probability of occurrence therein. This is a first step in getting sufficiently accurate data from which accurate position information may be derived for use in precision mapping, for example.","Refer to FIG. . Data from two transmission sessions  is used to build six transmission corridors  from eight data points  associated with a circular area  indicating an acceptably high probability of occurrence therein. Note that not all circles  are the same size, larger circles  indicating that certain data points may be \u201csuspect\u201d relative to other data points. Decisions on data quality may be made beforehand based on the source, the geographic locale being \u201cmapped,\u201d time of day or season, or any of a number of other factors which may affect, or provide a measure of, data quality.","Refer to FIG. . Here three data transmission sessions  are depicted with a first sign of overlap among the transmission corridors , where 11 data points  and eight corridors  are associated with the three data transmission sessions. As can be surmised from this buildup of transmission sessions, there will be more overlap as more sessions are added. Areas of commonality, or overlap, as the transmission sessions are added indicate a \u201cmost likely\u201d route of wireless users over time. That is, the more data added, the more likely the route indicated by the densest overlap areas is the actual route progressed by the wireless users. This is very useful for composing maps having fine detail.","Refer to  representing areas of overlap of  in relative shades, with the darkest shades indicating the most overlap (highest value of added weights in the cells  of the aggregate matrix ) among the three transmission sessions. Although a definite route is difficult to discern because of the small amount of data, it can be seen that just a few more data points will significantly improve any estimate of the location of the road .","Refer to FIG. . Here four transmission corridors  are shown with shading of overlapping portions as in FIG. . With but a single added transmission session of four data points  and three transmission corridors , a definite route is evident by following the darkest regions on the figure. Note that even though a circle  may be relatively large as at , indicating some suspicion about the validity of location data provided with that data point, a number of overlapping transmission corridors  serve to reinforce common patterns and isolate the outlying information. The very dark area  including in a small circle indicates how quickly one may be able to get a satisfactory result if the circular area  of uncertainty about data points  is relatively small.","Refer to  \u201cmost probable\u201d route  is traced using the information of FIG.  through the darkest shaded areas of  to yield a first approximation  after \u201coverlapping\u201d only four transmission sessions along the road . Note that the route  passes through the areas  and  although these shaded areas appear in the largest and smallest circles , respectively. Although for descriptive purposes, this composition of a route is depicted graphically, in a preferred embodiment it is intended to be accomplished digitally by use of vectors represented by the individually aggregated weighted cells.","Note that in a preferred embodiment of the present invention, each aggregation matrix  represents a category of wireless mobile users sorted by speed. The data do not have to be sorted in this manner to be useful in other applications, however. For example, one may not be concerned with the speed range of users, only wishing to know about all users within a particular time window or even during a season. Generally, to yield useful information, within each aggregation matrix, spatial features are extracted  and attributes assigned . For example, speed, and possibly acceleration, may categorize users as any of the categories: stationary, walking, bicycling, boating, driving, and flying. Attributes such as roads, walking and biking paths, airline routes and airports, channels, and structures may be inferred. For example, repetitive patterns from a stationary location may indicate a building.  at A represents stationary transmissions, which are characterized by little movement in location of transmission. The only \u201cmotion\u201d in transmission coordinates is represented by the circles  and is due to the error (CEP) inherent in determining the coordinates of the transmission. Thus, no transmission corridors ,  are represented, nor are they required. The overlap of the transmission circles  is shown in  at B. By tracing a path through the darkest regions therein, an outline of an L-shaped structure is yielded at C, most likely an office or commercial building.","Similarly,  represents transmissions providing only 2D coordinates. As shown at A, these have little movement in the x and y directions, indicating possible \u201cfixed\u201d subscribers, e.g., ones who may be using a CRICKET\u00ae phone from an office as a replacement for a hard-wired phone. At B of , is represented the transmissions of A added to an aggregation matrix . Although the shaded areas are not connected, they appear to be spatially related since the distance between the connected areas is small relative to the error in transmission. At C is represented an areal pattern formed by clustering the unconnected, but closely spaced, transmissions of B. Thus, the outline yielded at C may be an outline of a small building with a possible reception area. To a police fraud unit, this may indicate operation of a \u201cboiler room\u201d associated with a scam. Thus, there are applications of the present invention other than precision mapping.","Of course, the procedure is repeated  for other areas, speeds, times, etc. of interest, thus possibly providing an accurate mapping of a large urban area surrounded by many suburbs or data for planning new roads or business ventures.","Similarly, sorting this data by time of day, day of week, or even time of year may provide information on trends or seasonal variations in positioning, patterns, and movement. All the while this routinely collected data add to the certainty of geospatial position information of fixed structure (that, of course, remains constant) by providing more data from which error may be reduced, thus permitting a precise estimation with high probability. By taking sufficient samples from data routinely collected, precise estimates may be made of rush hour commuting patterns that yield precise coordinates of surface roads and intersections, business locations, plats of residential neighborhoods, weekend, leisure and holiday travel patterns, etc.","In the case of users traveling at high speed, the transmission corridor ,  is a very crude approximation to the actual path of the subscriber. We know that the wireless device was near the coordinates of transmission at the time of transmission. The middle of the transmission corridor ,  might be poorly correlated with the location of the subscriber between successive transmissions. But, as transmission sessions are added to the aggregation matrix , patterns emerge. Adding many transmission sessions reinforces the common patterns and isolates the outlying information.","For the aggregation matrix  that represents rapid movement, such as vehicular or air traffic, clusters are detected in the matrix by any of a number of commonly available methods of clustering, for example, to detect road boundaries in 2D data, a local maximum may be employed. These clusters are converted into vectors using any of a number of conventional techniques for converting raster data to vectors. By reexamining the transmissions that are used to assemble a feature, one can derive attributes of a feature, based on the patterns of human activity while transmitting. Derived attributes are assigned, such as speed, vehicle load, directionality, number of lanes, etc., based on the individual and summed matrix data.","Spatial coordinates and attributes are stored as digital vector feature maps. For example, by averaging the speeds of the transmission corridors ,  of a section of a road, one can infer the average speed of vehicles over that section of road. This can be further broken down into speed for time of day, for day of week, and for season to derive historical patterns. One can detect changes in behavior patterns by comparing historical patterns to current information. Comparing current information with historical patterns can be used to monitor evacuation routes in times of emergency. A section of road that regularly has great changes in vehicle speed or speed near zero might be a bottleneck.","The number of vehicles on a road cannot be directly inferred, unless a relationship between vehicle density and cell phone usage is available from another source. However, changes in traffic density can be inferred from changes in the number of uniquely coded cellular transmissions.","For an aggregation matrix  that represents slower movement such as walking, clusters may be detected also. The features and attribution of this class are different from those of the rapid movement class. Here patterns of motion may be detected in linearly shaped clusters, in the case of a walkway, or in areal clusters, in the case of a pedestrian zone. One can also compute areas where slower wireless traffic is seldom recorded. One can compute the proximity between pedestrian activity and roads or buildings. Height (elevation) values may be examined to determine if they fall into distinct groups. Changes in height can be significant in this class of motion. For example, a staircase or an elevator can be characterized by little movement in the x-y direction and greater movement in the z direction. Elevators can be distinguished from staircases since transmissions in elevators have a higher component of velocity in the z direction.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0068","num":"0086"},"figref":"FIG. 13","b":"400"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0069","num":"0087"},"figref":"FIG. 15","b":"400"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0070","num":"0088"},"figref":"FIG. 15"},"Simple software routines may have difficulty extracting both linear and areal patterns from a single aggregation matrix . Thus, this scenario may require two passes with the software or even human intervention to adjust parameters between passes. Should a priori information be known about the area of interest, this could be merged with the data to assist in assigning attributes.","As in the case of patterns of rapid motion, cellular transmissions from sources of slower movement and their density may be broken down with respect to time of day, day of week, and season, to derive historical patterns. One may compare current information to historical information to detect changes in behavior patterns. The coordinates are stored together with attributes as digital vector feature maps.","For the sorted matrix category that represents relatively static or stationary movement, clusters may be detected also. Spatially significant unconnected areas are aggregated. Height values are examined to determine if they fall into distinct groups. For example, an aggregation of unconnected transmission circles might represent a building. Groups of transmission circles  (or cylinders ) with similar z values might represent floors in a building.  at A is a 2D representation of transmissions that are stationary in x and y but differ in z. In this 2D representation all z values have been set to zero. At B is represented the 2D transmission sessions of A after adding to an aggregation matrix . Note that the transmission sessions are confined to a location whose size is similar to the error in transmission of a coordinate. At C is represented an areal pattern of the transmissions of A. If the z component of the transmission sessions is too great to indicate pedestrian activity, this shape may represent human movement in an elevator.","Historical patterns of temporal use may distinguish between a residential and a commercial building. Comparing temporal cellular use with other types of data, such as weather or climate, may reveal sheltered areas or even hours of operation of a business. In these cases, derived spatial and temporal attributes may be assigned. Coordinates may be stored along with attributes as digital vector feature maps.","Although specific types of data processing are discussed, other similar configurations or methods, including those that may have only some of the constituents or steps used in the above examples, may be suitable for identifying locations of structure and thus fall within the ambit of a preferred embodiment of the present invention as provided in the claims herein."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0041"},"figref":"FIG. 1A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0042"},"figref":["FIG. 1B","FIG. 1A"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0043"},"figref":"FIG. 2A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0044"},"figref":"FIG. 2B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0045"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0046"},"figref":"FIG. 4A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0047"},"figref":"FIG. 4B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0048"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0049"},"figref":"FIG. 6","b":"5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0050"},"figref":"FIG. 7","b":"5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0051"},"figref":["FIG. 8","FIG. 7"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0052"},"figref":["FIG. 9","FIG. 8"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0053"},"figref":"FIG. 10","b":"9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0054"},"figref":"FIG. 11"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0037","num":"0055"},"figref":["FIG. 12","FIG. 11"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0056"},"figref":"FIG. 13"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0039","num":"0057"},"figref":"FIG. 14"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0040","num":"0058"},"figref":"FIG. 15"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
