---
title: Method of and apparatus for setting apparent length of optical fiber
abstract: A method of setting an apparent optical length of an optical fiber for a given optical wavelength includes heating the trimmed optical fiber to selectively vary a refractive index thereof in response to comparison of a determined arrival phase angle with a reference value representing a desired arrival phase angle to change the determined arrival phase angle so that a difference between the desired and determined arrival phase angles does not exceed an acceptable tolerance of a phase error.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=06970635&OS=06970635&RS=06970635
owner: The Johns Hopkins University
number: 06970635
owner_city: Baltimore
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20020618
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATION","STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENTAL INTEREST","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS"],"p":["This application claims priority to Provisional Application No. 60\/299,796 filed on Jun. 21, 2001 entitled \u201cOptical Beamformer\u201d, the contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference.","This invention was made with Government support under DARPA Contract No. MDA 972-96-D-0002. The Government has certain rights in the invention.","1. Field of the Invention","The invention relates to a method and system for controlling transmission and reception of signals traveling through multiple optical fibers. Particularly, this invention relates a method and apparatus for setting an apparent optical length of multiple fibers transmitting an optical signal of a given wavelength, wherein the apparent optical length being a function of a refractive index of each individual fiber and its actual length.","2. Description of the Related Art","Communication via beams of light traveling over thin glass fibers forms a major part of numerous infrastructures for national communication networks. Fibers find their greatest use in telephone networks, local-area networks, and cable television networks. They are also useful for short data links, closed circuit video and audio links, and elsewhere. Typically, the fiber-optic networks are digital and often transmit hundreds of thousands of channels along a single cable which may contain up to hundreds of individual fibers. Fibers are practical for a range of path lengths from under a meter to as long as required on the earth's surface and beneath its oceans.","Optical fibers are thin, long cylindrical structures which support light propagation through total internal reflection. An individual optical fiber consists of an inner core and an outer cladding typically made of silica glass, although other materials like plastics are sometimes used. Optical fiber, being a physical medium, is subjected to perturbation of one kind or the other at all times. It therefore experiences geometrical (size, shape) and optical (refractive index, mode conversion) changes to a larger or lesser extent depending upon the nature and the magnitude of the perturbation. In communication applications, such effects can negatively affect signal transmission and reception, and therefore it is desirable to minimize these effects.","Since light is characterized by amplitude (intensity), phase, frequency and polarization, any one or more of these parameters may undergo a change. The usefulness of a fiber optic sensor therefore depends upon the magnitude of this change and the ability to measure and quantify the same reliably and accurately.","A typical point-to-point fiber optical communication system operates to deliver light signals generated by a transmitter, which includes, for example, a modulator and a light source, to a receiver via multiple optical fibers. An input signal, such as a light wave of a given length, traveling through a long fiber arrives at the end of the fiber with a phase angle related to the apparent length of fiber, which is a function of an actual length of the fiber and its refractive index. Accordingly, if the phase angle varies from fiber to fiber, the output signals at downstream ends of individual fibers will optically interfere with one another even if a fixed, uniform input signal or in-phase input optical signals is\/are launched into upstream ends of the fibers.","In many applications, it is important to control the phase relationships between the individual fiber lengths that are distributed over large distances and are subject to a variety of environmental conditions affecting the length of any given fiber. A non-uniform length of the fibers results in variation of the phase shift at downstream ends of the fibers, which can be significant enough to impair the quality of a transmitted signal(s). It is desirable that input signals transmitted through multiple fibers will emerge out of downstream ends of these fibers substantially simultaneously, e.g., the input signals will arrive at the downstream ends with a substantially uniform phase angle and, thus, optically coincide with another. Alternatively, if desired, the phase angle of the transmitted signals emerging out of the downstream ends can be varied, so that the transmitted signals will controllably interfere with one another.","It is well known that the arrival phase angle \u03b9 with which a transmitted signal emerges out of a downstream end of a fiber can be adjusted by changing an actual length of the fiber and\/or a refractive index of this fiber. The refractive index is defined as n=Vvac\/V, where Vvac is the speed of light in vacuum (essentially equal to that in air) and V is the speed of light.","Referring to , optical fibers  and  have length Land length L, respectively. Lis not equal to L. If optical carrier wave signals are each injected into individual fibers ,  in phase, then they will arrive at downstream ends , , respectively, as output signals  and  with relative phase relationships based on the fiber lengths Land Land the initial signal phase relationships of the optical signals  and . For simplicity of description, assume that the signals  and  originate in-phase at point A, and then the signals will arrive at receiving ends ,  of the fibers , , respectively, as output signals  and  with relative phase relationships based exclusively on the fiber lengths. The arrival phase angle of the signal at the end of the optical fiber can be determined in accordance with the following formula:\n\n\u03b9=2\u2003\u2003(1)\n\nwhere n is the index of refraction and \u25a1is the wavelength of light in the vacuum and L is fiber length. Based on equation (1), the fiber length can be determined in accordance with the following equation:\n\n\/2\u2003\u2003(2)\n","After differentiating and simplifying, a phase difference \u03b9 between \u03b9, and \u03b9, as shown in , is defined by the following equation:\n\n=2\u2003\u2003(3)\n\nwherein L is the length difference L\u2212L.\n","The time of arrival of the light signals  and  at receiving ends ,  of the optical fibers , , respectively, varies, e.g., the signals will emerge out of the downstream end  later than out of the downstream end  because the optical fiber  is the longest. The arrival phase angles \u03b9, \u03b9are different too.","In current practice, controlling phase relationships between signals traveling through multiple fibers, that is a phase relationship between arrival phase angles i, i, requires trimming each fiber to a substantially uniform actual length. In the simplest implementation of this practice, initially each fiber is made the same length within a tolerance of an acceptable phase error. Even if only one of a multiplicity of fibers is cut so that its length differs from a relatively uniform length of all other fibers, then either its length will have to be modified by the addition of an extra length of fiber to be spliced to the last fiber and re-trimmed, or all of the previously cut fibers will require re-trimming. Trimming fibers, particularly relatively long fibers, is difficult due to limitations of making the total fiber length measurement. Furthermore, the precision available in instruments used to measure fiber length also negatively affects the effort needed to provide relatively uniform lengths of multiple optical fibers.","It is, therefore, desirable to provide a method of setting an apparent optical length of multiple fibers by controllably affecting a refractive index of individual optical fibers. Also, an apparatus for setting an apparent optical length of multiple fibers utilizing the inventive method is desirable as well.","The foregoing difficulties encountered by the prior art are addressed and overcome by the inventive method in accordance with which the refractive indexes of multiple fibers, which transmit a fixed light signal or in-phase light signals, are adjusted by controlling the temperature over a portion of the length of each fiber. The refractive indexes are so adjusted that an apparent optical lengths of each fiber, which is a function of a refractive index of fiber and its actual length, is substantially the same. Accordingly, the length of time it takes the signal(s) to travel through the apparent lengths of the fibers is also substantially the same. As a consequence, the interference between the signals emerging from these fibers is substantially minimized.","The inventive method provides for cutting multiple fibers to an actual length approximating a desired actual length, and then trimming the cut fibers. Each individually cut fiber is thermally treated so as to affect a respective refractive index and thus, the apparent optical length of each fiber. As a result, a transmitted signal(s) will travel through multiple fibers in approximately the same amount of time and emerge therefrom within a desired tolerance of an acceptable phase error. The tighter the desired tolerance the better the phase relationship between signals emerging out of multiple fibers.","The inventive method requires selecting a reference value corresponding to a desired arrival phase angle, that is the angle with which an optical signal emerges from each fiber. The desired arrival phase angle is selected so that a difference between the desired phase angle and a determined arrival phase angle, which is measured by a phase shift sensor, will be within a desired tolerance of a phase error. Based on the selected reference value, a multiplicity of fibers is cut approximately to a desired actual length. Ideally, the desired actual length would be equal to the optical apparent length of fiber, which is a function of a refractive index of fiber and its actual length. However, even after cut fibers have been trimmed, to obtain a uniform actual length is very difficult because of the limitations inherent in fiber length measuring and cutting equipment. Accordingly, the lengths of the trimmed fibers have to be further adjusted such that a fixed optical signal or in-phase signals emerging from multiple fibers differ from one another within an acceptable tolerance of a phase error. To accomplish it, each trimmed fiber is thermally treated in a thermal controller to affect a respective refractive index. The thermal treatment of each fiber continues until a difference between a measured arrival phase angle of the fixed optical signal(s) launched into upstream ends of the individual fibers and a desired arrival phase angle will be within the acceptable tolerance of the phase error.","According to the invention, a practical implementation of this method entails assembling small ovens each receiving a length of fiber which is coupled to a central processing unit common to all fibers. The central processing unit can have a source of light generating a monochromatic light beam with a given wavelength. The source of light is coupled to input or upstream ends of individual fiber lengths transmitting the light beam toward downstream ends. To provide measurement of the arrival phase angle, with which the transmitted signal emerges from a downstream end of each individual fiber, the control unit has a phase-shift sensor. In response to determining an arrival phase angle of the transmitted signal, the phase shift sensor generates an output signal sent to a comparator in which the determined arrival phase angle is compared with a stored reference value representing a desired arrival phase angle. Finally, if a difference between the stored reference value and the detected phase angle exceeds a desired tolerance of a phase error, a control signal is generated and fed in a closed loop temperature-control unit. As a result, the temperature in each individual oven can be adjusted so that the difference between the measured and desired arrival phase angles will eventually be within the desired tolerance of the phase error.","Accordingly, once the refractive indices and therefore apparent lengths of multiple fibers are set in accordance with the method of the invention, these fibers have a sufficiently uniform apparent optical length and can be used in a variety of sensors, such as acoustic (e.g. hydrophones), rotation (e.g., gyroscope), strain, temperature, chemical, biological, optical sensors and a host of other types of sensors to provide reliable transmission and reception of signals.","Referring to , the invention is directed to setting optical lengths of multiple optical fibers , ,  and  by adjusting the refractive indexes of these fibers, which transmit a fixed optical signal or a plurality of in-phase optical signals, as indicated by an arrow  (FIG. ). Adjustment of the refractive indexes continues until a difference between an arrival phase angle, with which this optical signal(s)  arrives at downstream ends  of the fibers, and a reference value representing a desired arrival phase angle, will be within an acceptable tolerance of a phase shift error. Accordingly, the apparent length of optical fibers can be set, the apparent length of each optical fiber being a function of a respective refractive index and its actual length.","Initially, a reference value representing a desired arrival phase angle is selected in step  of FIG.  and then the reference value is stored in step . Based on the desired arrival phase angle, the optical fibers , ,  and  () are substantially trimmed to a certain, desired actual length, as indicated by step  of FIG. .","Although the fibers are trimmed, their actual trimmed length typically is still not sufficiently uniform due to the limitations of the modem cutting and measuring equipment used for handling long optical fibers. Accordingly, if the fixed signal or in-phase input signals  () are injected into the optical fibers , , , and  trimmed approximately to the desired actual length, the optical signal(s)  will emerge from downstream ends  of the fibers , , ,  with different arrival phase angles. Of course, this difference in fiber length can be less than an inch, but even such a small difference can and will negatively affect the phase relationships between multiple long fibers transmitting the optical signal(s) .","In accordance with the inventive method, after the optical fibers have been cut and trimmed, each of the trimmed fibers is placed in a respective oven  () and if necessary is thermally treated, as indicated by step  of , to vary a respective refractive index so that a difference between the desired arrival phase angle and the measured one will be within the selected, acceptable tolerance of the phase error.","Preferably, each oven  is constructed so that the effect of external environmental factors, such as humidity and the like, capable of affecting heated fibers is practically eliminated. Furthermore, a structure of the oven  is advantageously able to stabilize the upstream and downstream ends , , respectively, of the optical fibers , ,  and  for coupling at least the upstream ends  to signal fibers  leading to a central processing unit (CPU) , as at step . To accomplish this, each of the ovens  can be provided with a pair of optical couplers  (FIG. ), which are coupled to the upstream  and downstream  ends of each of each fiber.","Each of the ovens has a heating element  conveniently positioned to maintain a desired temperature inside the ovens . Various heating elements, such as a resistor and the like, can be utilized within the scope of this invention. For greater fiber lengths, it has been found that a thermo pair working on the principle of the Peltier effect, which refers to the reversible heating, or cooling occurring at a contact when current flows from one connector to another, is particularly effective.","The heating elements  are coupled to an adjustable closed loop temperature control unit . Numerous types of such a closed-loop temperature control unit are known and can be utilized within the scope of the invention. It is essential that the temperature control unit maintain temperature to a few millidegrees.","The central processing unit , as shown in , is employed to monitor the arrival phase angles at the downstream ends  of the fibers , ,  and  and to measure each of the arrival phase angles in step  seen in FIG. . The measured arrival phase angle is further compared in step  to the desired arrival phase angle, which is stored in step . At step  it is determined that the difference between the measured and desired arrival phase angles exceeds the desired tolerance of the acceptable phase error, a control signal is generated and fed to the temperature control unit . At step , the oven temperature is adjusted to vary the refraction index of the fiber. The process returns to step , where the phase angles are measured again, and then compared again. If the difference is within the acceptable tolerance of the phase error in step , the process ends.","Referring to , the CPU  includes a source  of light, which emits a monochromatic beam of light indicated by an arrow , which beam is fed into upstream ends  of fibers , ,  and  through the signal fibers  (FIG. ). There are a variety of light sources, such as light emitting diodes (LEDs) and laser diodes (LDs), that can be advantageously used within the scope of this invention.","To measure the arrival phase angle with which the beam of light emerges from downstream ends  of fibers , , , and , each of these fibers is coupled to the central processing unit  on a two-end basis. The two end basis, as shown in , requires that both the input end  and the outputs end  of each fiber be coupled to a phase shift sensor . Accordingly, the input beam  generated by the monochromatic light beam source  is split into two equal-amplitude signals by a semi-transparent mirror . One of the equal-amplitude signals is reflected to the phase shift sensor  and the other continues to propagate toward the downstream end . The downstream ends  of the optical fibers are also coupled to the phase shift sensor , which thus measures the arrival phase angle, which is then compared to the desired phase shift angle stored in a memory  by a comparator .","Alternatively, as shown in , each of the fibers , ,  and  can be coupled to the central processing unit  on a one-end basis. To implement such a connection, two semi-transparent mirrors  and  can be installed along a path of the monochromatic beam . The second semi-transparent mirror  reflects a reflected beam , which propagates back from the downstream end  toward the upstream end  due to the reflective properties of optical fiber, to the phase shift sensor . Similarly to the embodiment shown in , after the phase-shift sensor  has measured the arriving phase shift angle, it is compared by the comparator  to the desired phase shift angle stored in the memory . Since the downstream ends  of the fibers are fixed to the respective couplers  and not utilized during the entire duration of the inventive method, the fibers are mounted in ovens in a more stable manner than when both upstream and downstream ends are coupled to the signal fibers .","The method and apparatus as disclosed above can be utilized for setting the refractive indexes, and therefore the apparent optical lengths, even if a wavelength of a monochromatic beam of light was not known. In this case, a phase shift sensor measures an input phase angle with which the beam is injected into an upstream end of fiber. An arrival phase angle is also measured and further compared to the measured input phase angle, so that a difference between input and arrival phase angles is determined. The determined difference is in turn compared to a desired phase angle and, if a resulting difference is not within an acceptable tolerance, a control signal is generated and fed to the temperature control unit , which will generate an output signal controlling a temperature in a respective oven .","Thus, the temperature control unit  provides a closed loop thermal control in the ovens so that as conditions change in the fibers system, the control unit will be able to maintain phase relationships by automatically controlling oven temperatures. Limitations on oven full scale temperature range, thermal tolerances of the fiber, and temperature control stability will require initial trimming of the signal fibers , so that the overall actual length of the coupled signal and trimmed fibers is substantially uniform. Furthermore, having the actual lengths of signal fibers substantially uniform can facilitate setting of the apparent optical length of a new bundle of optical fibers by a kit or assembly that can include the central processing unit , the trimmed signal fibers , and the ovens  with any suitable temperature control unit .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0045","num":"0044"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 7","FIG. 7"],"b":["10","12","3","4","701","702","5","6","3","4","701","702","5","6"],"img":{"@attributes":{"id":"CUSTOM-CHARACTER-00005","he":"3.13mm","wi":"2.46mm","file":"US06970635-20051129-P00900.TIF","alt":"custom character","img-content":"character","img-format":"tif"}},"sub":["1 ","2"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0046","num":"0045"},"figref":"FIG. 8","b":["1","2","701","702","70"],"sub":["1","2 ","n","1","2 ","n ","1","2 ","n"],"i":"n "},"The following example illustrates the inventive method. The refractive index change can be calculated as\n\n2\u03c0\u2003\u2003(4),\n\nwherein \u0394i is phase change.\n","In this example, consider SMF-28 single mode fiber. The index of refraction at a 1310 nm wavelength is equal to 1.4777 and at a 1550 nm wavelength is about 1.4682 at approximately room temperatures. A practical length of fiber to place in a small oven is 100meters. Amplitude modulated fiber signals may require phase relations held with 1\u00d7E4 radians. This requires that the oven temperature be held within 2\u00b0 C. to keep the reference index within 2.5\u00d7E-5. Oven temperatures controllers can maintain temperature to a few millidegrees. This provides a means to control arrival phase angle to within +\/\u22125 to 6 radians for the above two examples wavelengths; thus leaving significant margin for application requiring fairly precise phase angle control.","The inventive thermal control method reduces the difficulty in trimming long signal fibers to precise length in order to match or control the arrival phase angles. This method does not completely eliminate fiber trimming. For example, cutting fibers to length in order to match arrival phase angles to within 1\u00d7E4 radians, at a wavelength of 1310 nm, requires cutting the fibers to within 0.2 centimeter. This tolerance exceeds typical optical time domain reflectometer (OTDR) fiber length measurement technology. With the inventive method, requirements to the desired tolerance are significantly reduced. The oven can heat the control fibers , ,  and  to a temperature about which the arrival phase angle adjustments are made. The gross temperature adjustment would accommodate gross variations in the initial signal fiber lengths. Given that the control fiber may operate in a temperature band from about \u221260C to about +80C, a practical range of oven temperatures would run from ambient temperature to about +80C. An 80C gross adjustment relaxes the signal fiber  relative length measurement to approximately +\/\u22123.8 centimeter. The OTDR has this capability.","As mentioned above, a greater length accommodation is possible by using a Peltier effect thermal controller that can provide both heating and cooling about the nominal ambient temperature. The full thermal band would open overall relative length tolerance to about +\/\u22126 sm. A measurement tolerance is more in line with the capabilities of high sensitivity OTDRs. Fine temperature control would then adjust relative phase angles once the gross adjustment is made. The overall thermal control could then act to beam form the optical signals by adjusting arrival phase angles.","While the invention has been described with reference to its presently preferred embodiment, it has not limited thereto. Rather, this invention is limited only insofar as defined by the following set of patent claims and includes within its scope all equivalents thereof."],"GOVINT":[{},{}],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The above and other objects, features and advantages will become more readily apparent from the specific description of the present invention accompanied by the following drawings, in which:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 2"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":"FIG. 8"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
