---
title: XML storage solution and data interchange file format structure
abstract: A relational database management system having an XML storage implementation to reduce overhead associated with consuming data from multiple data providers, where each having proprietary database schemas. The XML storage solution allows data from any arbitrary relational database schema to be loaded, rearranged and retrieved. The system is adapted to receive and managing data from external content providers by exposing a predetermined provider content file formats. These formats use XPath as a schema reference, as a definition of legal combinations, and as a pattern to match other XPaths.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=06996571&OS=06996571&RS=06996571
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 06996571
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20020628
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["COPYRIGHT NOTICE\/PERMISSION","FIELD OF THE INVENTION","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS"],"p":["A portion of the disclosure of this patent document contains material, which is subject to copyright protection. The copyright owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction by anyone of the patent document or the patent disclosure, as it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office patent files or records, but otherwise reserves all copyright rights whatsoever. The following notice applies to the software and data as described below and in the drawings hereto: Copyright\u00a9 2002, Microsoft Corporation, All Rights Reserved.","This invention relates in general to the field of information storage. More particularly, this invention relates to an XML storage solution for receiving and managing data received from multiple data providers.","Internet portals and search engines, such as MSN\u00ae, serve as information gateways to Internet users by accumulating and categorizing information, and providing a wide array of services. Two methods are generally utilized to accumulate information and content to populate a portal's site. The first method is crawling the Web for information by utilizing so-called \u201cspider\u201d programs that examine Web pages looking for a variety of components. The spider scores each page for relevancy using the portal's search engine's proprietary algorithm. A limitation of this technique is that relevant information is often missed or ignored by the spider. Further, information that is contained within databases accessed via websites, i.e., information that must be queried to be retrieved, is not retrieved by spiders. Thus, searches conducted by visitors of portals that acquire information in this manner often do not yield satisfactory results and information. These dissatisfied visitors often leave the portal for another source of information.","The second method of acquiring data involves receiving content directly from affiliated data providers and importing the data into the portal's database management system. In the second method, the portals may regularly receive data from hundreds of sources. A limitation of this method is that data providers must conform to the portal's particular data format. Another limitation is that the data must be checked for accuracy, as errors in the importation are common. Yet another limitation is that if the data provider changes its own format, the data aggregator must conform to these changes. This is burdensome on the data providers and the portal operator, and makes it difficult for the portal to add new providers of data and content.","Related to the technical field of data exchange and interoperability, and the second method above, XML is quickly becoming a universal format for structured documents and data on the Web and in software programs. Structured data includes spreadsheets, address books, configuration parameters, financial transactions, and technical drawings. As is known in the art, the Extensible Markup Language (XML) is a set of rules for designing text formats that allows computers to generate and read data, and ensure that the data structure is unambiguous The XML Specification is defined in \u201cExtensible Markup Language (XML) 1.0 (Second Edition),\u201d W3C Recommendation, 6 Oct. 2000, which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.","In XML, tags are used to delimit the data within an XML data file (\u201cinstance document\u201d) and XML Schemas allow developers to precisely define the structures of their own XML-based formats. The data in the files may be manipulated via several modules and services. Such services include Xpointer, which is a syntax for pointing to parts of an XML document in a similar fashion as a Uniform Resource Locator (URL). Another service is XSL, which is the advanced language for expressing style sheets in XML. XSL is based on XSLT, which is the transformation language used for rearranging, adding and deleting tags and attributes.","Another service is XPath which provides a common syntax and semantics for functionality shared between XSLT and XPointer. XPath gets its name from its use of a path notation (as in URLs) for navigating through the hierarchical structure of an XML document. The primary purpose of XPath is to address parts of an XML document and it also provides basic facilities for manipulation of strings, numbers and booleans. XPath uses a compact, non-XML syntax to facilitate use of XPath within Uniform Resource Identifiers (URI) and XML attribute values. URIs are strings that identify resources in the web such as documents, images, downloadable files, services, electronic mailboxes, and other resources. XPath operates on the abstract, logical structure of an XML document, rather than its surface syntax.","In addition to its use for addressing, XPath can be used for matching, i.e., testing whether a node matches a pattern. XPath models an XML document as a tree of different types of nodes, e.g., element nodes, attribute nodes and text nodes. XPath fully supports XML Namespaces, where developers can qualify element names and relationships to make names recognizable and to avoid name collisions.","With all of these advantages, it is desirable to apply XML to the problem of receiving and processing data from external data providers. Thus, in view of the foregoing, there is a need for systems and methods that overcome the limitations and drawbacks of the prior art. In particular, there is a need for system by which portals and other data aggregators may utilize XML as a means of simplifying the transferring and validating data and content.","The present invention is directed to a platform having reduced overhead associated with consuming data from multiple data providers, each having proprietary database schemas, by creating a database system having an XML storage implementation. The XML storage solution allows data from any arbitrary relational database schema to be loaded, rearranged and retrieved. This is particularly useful for bringing in and managing partner data providers. Novel file formats are exposed as part of the platform. These formats use XPath as a schema reference, as a definition of legal combinations, and as a pattern to match other XPaths.","In accordance with the present invention, there is provided in a database management system having an XML storage solution defined by an XML schema, a method of receiving data from external content providers. The method includes: defining an XML provider content file format in accordance with the XML schema; providing the XML provider content file format to the external content providers; receiving a provider file from the external content providers that includes locations of a plurality of XML instance documents, each having a structure in accordance with the XML provider content file format; and importing content from the plurality of XML instance documents into the database management system. The plurality of XML instance documents may include an extension file, an instance file, and a phrase file that define the external content provider's schema and determines legal combinations of values.","According to another aspect of the invention, there is provided an XML data exchange system that includes a relational database system defined by an XML schema, a predetermined XML provider file structure, an exchange mechanism that references at least one provider file, and an import module that retrieves the at least one provider file and imports content contained therein into the relational database system.","According to yet another aspect of the invention, there is provided in a relational database management system for providing content and services to users via a network infrastructure, a method of populating the system in accordance with an XML schema defining a structure of XML documents used to receive content from sources of the content and services. The method includes receiving a provider file having references to a location of the content; retrieving at least one content file from the location; importing the content files into the relational database management system; and providing the content to users via a queryable interface.","Additional features and advantages of the invention will be made apparent from the following detailed description of illustrative embodiments that proceeds with reference to the accompanying drawings.","The present invention is directed to systems and methods that provide for reducing the overhead to consume data provided by multiple data providers. The present invention is preferably implemented using XML file formats such that the data can be easily loaded, rearrange and retrieved.","Exemplary Computing Environment",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["100","100","100","100"]},"The invention is operational with numerous other general purpose or special purpose computing system environments or configurations. Examples of well known computing systems, environments, and\/or configurations that may be suitable for use with the invention include, but are not limited to, personal computers, server computers, hand-held or laptop devices, multiprocessor systems, microprocessor-based systems, set top boxes, programmable consumer electronics, network PCs, minicomputers, mainframe computers, distributed computing environments that include any of the above systems or devices, and the like.","The invention may be described in the general context of computer-executable instructions, such as program modules, being executed by a computer. Generally, program modules include routines, programs, objects, components, data structures, etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. The invention may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network or other data transmission medium. In a distributed computing environment, program modules and other data may be located in both local and remote computer storage media including memory storage devices.","With reference to , an exemplary system for implementing the invention includes a general purpose computing device in the form of a computer . Components of computer  may include, but are not limited to, a processing unit , a system memory , and a system bus  that couples various system components including the system memory to the processing unit . The system bus  may be any of several types of bus structures including a memory bus or memory controller, a peripheral bus, and a local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. By way of example, and not limitation, such architectures include Industry Standard Architecture (ISA) bus, Micro Channel Architecture (MCA) bus, Enhanced ISA (EISA) bus, Video Electronics Standards Association (VESA) local bus, and Peripheral Component Interconnect (PCI) bus (also known as Mezzanine bus).","Computer  typically includes a variety of computer readable media. Computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by computer  and includes both volatile and non-volatile media, removable and non-removable media. By way of example, and not limitation, computer readable media may comprise computer storage media and communication media. Computer storage media includes both volatile and non-volatile, removable and non-removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions, data structures, program modules or other data. Computer storage media includes, but is not limited to, RAM, ROM, EEPROM, flash memory or other memory technology, CD-ROM, digital versatile disks (DVD) or other optical disk storage, magnetic cassettes, magnetic tape, magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices, or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can accessed by computer . Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions, data structures, program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term \u201cmodulated data signal\u201d means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example, and not limitation, communication media includes wired media such as a wired network or direct-wired connection, and wireless media such as acoustic, RF, infrared and other wireless media. Combinations of any of the above should also be included within he scope of computer readable media.","The system memory  includes computer storage media in the form of volatile and\/or non-volatile memory such as ROM  and RAM . A basic input\/output system  (BIOS), containing the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within computer , such as during start-up, is typically stored in ROM . RAM  typically contains data and\/or program modules that are immediately accessible to and\/or presently being operated on by processing unit . By way of example, and not limitation,  illustrates operating system , application programs , other program modules , and program data .","The computer  may also include other removable\/non-removable, volatile\/non-volatile computer storage media. By way of example only,  illustrates a hard disk drive  that reads from or writes to non-removable, non-volatile magnetic media, a magnetic disk drive  that reads from or writes to a removable, non-volatile magnetic disk , and an optical disk drive  that reads from or writes to a removable, non-volatile optical disk , such as a CD-ROM or other optical media. Other removable\/non-removable, volatile\/non-volatile computer storage media that can be used in the exemplary operating environment include, but are not limited to, magnetic tape cassettes, flash memory cards, digital versatile disks, digital video tape, solid state RAM, solid state ROM, and the like. The hard disk drive  is typically connected to the system bus  through a non-removable memory interface such as interface , and magnetic disk drive  and optical disk drive  are typically connected to the system bus  by a removable memory interface, such as interface .","The drives and their associated computer storage media, discussed above and illustrated in , provide storage of computer readable instructions, data structures, program modules and other data for the computer . In , for example, hard disk drive  is illustrated as storing operating system , application programs , other program modules , and program data . Note that these components can either be the same as or different from operating system , application programs , other program modules , and program data . Operating system , application programs , other program modules , and program data  are given different numbers here to illustrate that, at a minimum, they are different copies. A user may enter commands and information into the computer  through input devices such as a keyboard  and pointing device , commonly referred to as a mouse, trackball or touch pad. Other input devices (not shown) may include a microphone, joystick, game pad, satellite dish, scanner, or the like. These and other input devices are often connected to the processing unit  through a user input interface  that is coupled to the system bus, but may be connected by other interface and bus structures, such as a parallel port, game port or a universal serial bus (USB). A monitor  or other type of display device is also connected to the system bus  via an interface, such as a video interface . In addition to the monitor, computers may also include other peripheral output devices such as speakers  and printer , which may be connected through an output peripheral interface .","The computer  may operate in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers, such as a remote computer . The remote computer  may be a personal computer, a server, a router, a network PC, a peer device or other common network node, and typically includes many or all of the elements described above relative to the computer , although only a memory storage device  has been illustrated in . The logical connections depicted include a local area network (LAN)  and a wide area network (WAN) , but may also include other networks. Such networking environments are commonplace in offices, enterprise-wide computer networks, intranets and the Internet.","When used in a LAN networking environment, the computer  is connected to the LAN  through a network interface or adapter . When used in a WAN networking environment, the computer  typically includes a modem  or other means for establishing communications over the WAN , such as the Internet. The modem , which may be internal or external, may be connected to the system bus  via the user input interface , or other appropriate mechanism. In a networked environment, program modules depicted relative to the computer , or portions thereof, may be stored in the remote memory storage device. By way of example, and not limitation,  illustrates remote application programs  as residing on memory device . It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are exemplary and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers may be used.","Exemplary Distributed Computing Frameworks or Architectures","Various distributed computing frameworks have been and are being developed in light of the convergence of personal computing and the Internet. Individuals and business users alike are provided with a seamlessly interoperable and Web enabled interface for applications and computing devices, making computing activities increasingly Web browser or network-oriented.","For example, MICROSOFT\u00ae's .NET platform includes servers, building-block services, such as Web-based data storage and downloadable device software. Generally speaking, the .NET platform provides (1) the ability to make the entire range of computing devices work together and to have user information automatically updated and synchronized on all of them, (2) increased interactive capability for Web sites, enabled by greater use of XML rather than HTML, (3) online services that feature customized access and delivery of products and services to the user from a central starting point for the management of various applications, such as e-mail, for example, or software, such as Office .NET, (4) centralized data storage, which will increase efficiency and ease of access to information, as well as synchronization of information among users and devices, (5) the ability to integrate various communications media, such as e-mail, faxes, and telephones, (6) for developers, the ability to create reusable modules, thereby increasing productivity and reducing the number of programming errors, and (7) many other cross-platform integration features as well.","While exemplary embodiments herein are described in connection with software residing on a computing device, one or more portions of the invention may also be implemented via an operating system, application programming interface (API) or a \u201cmiddle man\u201d object between a coprocessor and requesting object, such that the debugging of the present invention may be performed by, supported in, or accessed via all of .NET's languages and services, and in other distributed computing frameworks as well.","Overview","The present invention is directed toward reducing the overhead associated with consuming data from multiple data providers, each having proprietary database schemas, by creating a database system having an XML storage solution. The XML storage solution allows data from any arbitrary relational database schema to be loaded, rearranged and retrieved by a data aggregator by utilizing novel file formats. The use of XML is preferable because there are standard tools for parsing, validating (XSD), querying (Xpath) and transforming (XSLT) data. Thus, an XML solution is particularly useful for receiving and managing data provided by affiliated providers.","The present invention utilizes specific interpretations of XPath constraints, and uses XPath to allow the natural expression of relations in a file format. In accordance with the present invention, the XML data transfer instance documents have a unique file format defined by a schema (described in further detail below with reference to ), and is provided to sources of data (\u201cdata providers\u201d) to specify what can and cannot be communicated to the data aggregator. Advantageously, the file format is independent of the actual implementation of the XML storage solution. The data transfer instance document uses XPath as a schema reference, to define the legal combinations and as a pattern to match other XPaths.","As used herein, an \u201cinstance\u201d refers to a single partner entity or source of content. For example, content sources may include partners such as, Looksmart, Amazon, Expedia, etc. A \u201cschema\u201d is a description of the structure of instances. \u201cContent\u201d are legal values within a schema. A \u201cfragment\u201d is an XPath corresponding to a phrase in a query. A \u201cresult\u201d is an instance or XPath for a whole query. \u201cTaxonomy\u201d is a classification hierarchy described in a provider's data. A \u201crelation\u201d is a relationship described in a provider's data, e.g., in MSN\u00ae music, artist relates to cd and cd relates to artists.","The present invention overcomes the problem of data providers who often have instances in their own schema for purposes specific to the data provider's implementation. The provider file format of the present invention requires data providers to include information such that the data aggregator will understand how to map to schema and instances, while minimizing the content provider's knowledge of the data aggregator's actual implementation.","In accordance with the schema described in , the present invention, utilizes XPath to refer to nodes defined in an XML Schema document to connect phrases to elements in the schema. For example, invention interprets \/carpoint\/car as referring to the XPath expression having a form such as \/element[name=\u201ccarpoint\u201d]\/complexType\/element[name=\u201ccar\u201d], rather than the expression \/carpoint\/car referring to a node in a documented formatted according to this schema. In addition, the present invention also allows the application of XPath to types, which serves as a short-hand to refer to a set of elements or attributes in the schema.","As will be described below, the present invention also allows for the use of XPath to define a template to define legal combinations of values. For example, a pattern would be \/hotel[city=$1 and state=$2] and then a list of valid city, state pairs. Also, the present invention allows the use of XPath as a pattern to match other XPaths. As such, two XPaths can each be treated as patterns and tested to see if one pattern subsumes the other or the two patterns describe the same set. For example the pattern \/expedia\/hotel subsumes the pattern \/expedia\/hotel[name=$1] which itself subsumes the pattern \/expedia\/hotel[name=\u201cWestin\u201d]. Thus, subsumption may be advantageously applied to XPaths.","Exemplary Schema and Related Instance Documents",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0041","num":"0040"},"figref":["FIGS. 2\u201315","FIG. 2"],"b":["100","100","110","200","202","204","202","202","204"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0042","num":"0041"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 2"],"b":["204","204","206","208","210","206","208","210"]},"In accordance with the exemplary schema of , a provider file may have the following format:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0044","num":"0043"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00001","num":"00001"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"63pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"154pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"<provider name=QName>"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003<contact url\/>"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003<snapshot* update=duration"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003expiration=duration>"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003<extension* url\/>"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003<instance* url\/>"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003<phrase* url\/>"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003<\/snapshot>"]},{"entry":[{},"<\/provider>"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}}}}},"where Qname is a unique namespace qualified name. In accordance with the present invention, each provider may have more than one provider file having overlapping lifetimes for use by the data aggregator: The extension, instance and phrase files are imported into the data aggregator's database management system via the XML modules and services noted above to update and make the content provider's information available to users of the data aggregator's web site or other query mechanism.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0046","num":"0045"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":["210","204","210","214","216","218","220","214","216","1","218","216","220"]},"The Instance element  definition provides for annotating an element within an instance. Key values separated are by the delimiting character, e.g., \u201c|\u201d. Thus, exemplary instance content within the instance file may be as follows:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0048","num":"0047"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00002","num":"00002"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"21pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"196pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"<book @id=\u201c123\u201d> ...<title>Harry Potter"]},{"entry":[{},"and the Sorcerers Stone<\/title> ... <\/book>"]},{"entry":[{},"<instance key=\u201cAmazonBook\u201d path=\u201c.\/title\u201d>"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003<namedBy value=\u201c123\u201d>Sorcerers Stone<\/namedBy>"]},{"entry":[{},"<\/instance>"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}}}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0049","num":"0048"},"figref":"FIG. 5","b":["214","214","222","224","214","224"]},"An exemplary phrase file containing node content is as follows:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0051","num":"0050"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00003","num":"00003"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"161pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"<node path=\u201c\/\/car\u201d>"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003<namedBy>car<\/namedBy>"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003<namedBy>auto<\/namedBy>"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003<associated>brake<\/associated>"]},{"entry":[{},"<\/node>"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}}}}},"Referring to , the collection element  defines a collection of instances. The collection element  includes one subelement, an instance element . The instance element  points to an instance via a keyname and the values that make up the key. For example, a phrase file may contain the following collection content to define collections:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0053","num":"0052"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00004","num":"00004"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"175pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"<collection name=\u201cDigitalCameras\u201d>"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003<instance key=\u201cAZ:Book\u201d value=\u201c123\u201d\/>"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003<instance key=\u201cLS:Cat\u201d value=\u201c456\u201d\/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<\/collection>"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}}}}},"The template element  is further described in  and includes four subelements. The namedBy  and associated  elements have the same attributes as described above with reference to . The content element  is used to define nested namedBy where the value and the phrase are the same. The legal element  defines a legal combination of values. This allows for restricting the legal combinations of content pieces. It can also be used as a container in cases where it is not desirable to match on the value as in content.","For example, the template content with the provider file may be used for the following restrictions and combinations:\n\n","Template content may also include a query. Values are preferably separated by a delimiter such as \u201c|\u201d. An example of such template content is:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0057","num":"0058"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00005","num":"00005"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"189pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"<template query=\u201c\/\/hotel[city=$1 and state=$2]\u201d>"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003<namedBy value=\u201cSeattle|WA\u201d>Seattle<\/namedBy>"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003<content value=\u201cSeattle|WA\u201d\/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<\/template>"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}}}}},"Referring now to , the schema for the extension element  is illustrated. The associated instance file (Extension file) builds on a schema and adds further definitions. The extension element  includes a key element , a keyref element , an instance element , a node element , a taxonomy element , a relation element , a mapping element , and a function element . The key element  defines an XSD key outside of the XSD schema file itself. The keyref element  defines a keyref outside of the XSD schema file itself. The instance element  defines an instance in a partner's schema by identifying the key that identifies the instance. The node element  defines the properties of a specific node, i.e. any named element, attribute or function. This may be specified more than once. The taxonomy element  defines taxonomy relationships that are encoded in provider instances. There are three possible ways to encode this relationship: instance\/parent, instance\/child, or child and parent. The relation element  defines relationships other than taxonomies that are encoded in provider instances. There are three possible ways to encode this relationship: instance\/source, instance\/destination, or source and destination. The mapping element  defines a mapping from an Xpath pattern to a string. The function element  connects together arguments and can be used for connecting multiple schemas.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0059","num":"0060"},"figref":"FIG. 9","b":["234","234","250","252","250","252"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0060","num":"0061"},"figref":"FIG. 10","b":["236","236","254","256"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0061","num":"0062"},"figref":"FIG. 11","b":["240","240","258"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0062","num":"0063"},"figref":"FIGS. 12\u201313","b":["242","260","260","262","264","262","264"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0063","num":"0064"},"figref":["FIG. 14","FIG. 13"],"b":["244","260"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0064","num":"0065"},"figref":"FIG. 15","b":["248","266","268","270","266","268","270"]},"While the present invention has been described in connection with the preferred embodiments of the various Figs., it is to be understood that other similar embodiments may be used or modifications and additions may be made to the described embodiment for performing the same function of the present invention without deviating therefrom. For example, one skilled in the art will recognize that the present invention as described in the present application may apply to any computing device or environment, whether wired or wireless, and may be applied to any number of such computing devices connected via a communications network, and interacting across the network. Furthermore, it should be emphasized that a variety of computer platforms, including handheld device operating systems and other application specific operating systems are contemplated, especially as the number of wireless networked devices continues to proliferate. Still further, the present invention may be implemented in or across a plurality of processing chips or devices, and storage may similarly be effected across a plurality of devices. Therefore, the present invention should not be limited to any single embodiment, but rather should be construed in breadth and scope in accordance with the appended claims."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The foregoing summary, as well as the following detailed description of preferred embodiments, is better understood when read in conjunction with the appended drawings. For the purpose of illustrating the invention, there is shown in the drawings exemplary constructions of the invention; however, the invention is not limited to the specific methods and instrumentalities disclosed. In the drawings:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIGS. 2\u20133"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIGS. 4\u20137"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIGS. 8\u201315"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
