---
title: System for notifying an online client of a mobile vendor
abstract: Systems and techniques for notifying a potential customer of a vendor that is in geographic proximity to the potential customer. The vendor is associated with a vendor and may include available good and/or services. The potential customer may be notified of several vendors associated with different vendors. Each vendor may be assigned at least one primary service and at least one secondary service.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07305350&OS=07305350&RS=07305350
owner: AOL LLC
number: 07305350
owner_city: Dulles
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20020430
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"p":["This application claims the priority benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60\/301,454, filed Jun. 29 , 2001, which is incorporated by reference in its entirety.","The present invention relates generally to transferring electronic data, and more particularly to notifying an online customer of a mobile vendor.","Online service providers constantly are offering new services and upgrading existing services to enhance their subscribers' online experience. Subscribers have on-demand access to news, weather, financial, sports, and entertainment services as well as the ability to transmit electronic messages and to participate in online discussion groups. For example, subscribers of online service providers such as American Online or CompuServe may view and retrieve information on a wide variety of topics from servers located throughout the world. A server may be maintained by the service provider or by a third party provider who makes information and services available through the worldwide network of computers that make up the online service.","America Online has provided subscribers with the ability to send and receive instant messages. Instant messages are private online conversations between two or more people who have subscribed to the instant messaging service and have installed the necessary software. Because such online conversations take place in real time, instant messaging can provide immediate access to desired information. Instant messaging is becoming a preferred means of communicating among online subscribers.","In one general aspect, a potential customer is notified about available goods and services by detecting an online presence of the potential customer, determining the location of a vendor having available goods and services, determining the geographic proximity of the vendor to a location associated with the potential customer, and notifying the potential customer about the vendor. The potential customer may be notified of different vendors. Each vendor may be assigned one or more primary goods or services, and one or more secondary goods or services. Detecting an online presence may be done transparently.","Implementations may include determining the location of the potential customer. The potential customer's location may be determined using an Internet Protocol address, a telephone number, and\/or a Global Positioning System. The preferences of the potential customer may be determined. The potential customer preferences may be determined by tracking addresses requested by the client, and\/or contacting the potential customer.","Determining the location of the vendor may the include determining that the vendor has inventory to provide the potential customer. The location of the vendor may be determined by referencing the vendor to an established route. Determining the proximity may include calculating the distance between the current location of the potential customer and an estimated location of the vendor with an established route. The proximity may be determined based on a default location of the potential customer.","Implementations may include receiving a request for service from the potential customer, determining at least one of available goods and services offered by the vendor, determining a distance between the vendor and the potential customer, transmitting a graphical user interface to the client, and\/or retrieving a profile associated with the potential customer. The potential customer profile may include a schedule for receiving notifications and\/or other preferences.","The graphical user interface may include a map depicting the location of the potential customer. The map may show updated positions of the vendor. The vendor may be notified of the order and\/or provided directions to the potential customer.","These and other general aspects may be implemented by an apparatus and\/or a computer program stored on a computer readable medium. The computer readable medium may be a disk, a client device, a host device, and\/or a propagated signal.","The potential customer may be at a non-default location. The non-default location information may be provided by a carrier providing mobile services. Determining that the potential customer is at a non-default location may include determining that the potential customer is using a mobile device instead of a desktop computer.","Like elements are identified by like reference numerals.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIGS. 1-3"},"Referring to , a communications system  is configured to transfer electronic data. The communications system  includes a client system  in communication with a host system  through a network . The client system  and host system  also are in communication with a vendor system  through the network . The host system  is configured to coordinate and\/or otherwise facilitate interaction between the client system  and the vendor system .","In general, the client system  includes a computer system having hardware and\/or software components for communicating with the host system , the network , and the vendor system . The client system , the host system , and the vendor system  each may include one or more general-purpose computers (e.g., personal computers), one or more special-purpose computers (e.g., devices specifically programmed to communicate with each other), or a combination of one or more general-purpose computers and one or more special-purpose computers. The client system , the host system , and the vendor system  may be structured and arranged to communicate using various communication protocols (e.g., http), encapsulation protocols (e.g., UDP), and\/or proprietary protocols; to establish peer-to-peer (e.g., socket) connections between network elements; and\/or to operate within or in concert with one or more other systems (e.g., the Internet and\/or the World Wide Web).","In one implementation, the client system  includes a client device  operating under the command of a client controller , the host system includes a host device  operating under the command of a host controller , and the vendor system  includes a vendor device  operating under the command of a vendor controller . An example of a device (e.g., client device , host device , vendor device ) is a general-purpose computer capable of responding to and executing instructions in a defined manner. Other examples include a special-purpose computer, a personal computer (\u201cPC\u201d), a workstation, a server, a component, a machine, a tool, other physical or virtual equipment, or some combination thereof capable of responding to and executing instructions.","An example of a controller (e.g., client controller , host controller , vendor controller ) is a software application loaded on a device (e.g., client device , host device , vendor device ) for commanding and directing communications enabled by the device. Other examples include a computer program, a piece of code, an instruction, another device, or some combination thereof, for independently or collectively instructing the device in interact and operate as desired. The controller (e.g., client controller , host controller , vendor controller ) may be embodied permanently or temporarily in any type of machine, component, physical or virtual equipment, storage medium, or propagated signal capable of providing instructions to a device (e.g., client device , host device , vendor device ). As indicated by the broken lines, the controller may be separate from or integral with the associated device.","The network  may include one or more delivery networks for directly or indirectly connecting the client system , the host system , and the vendor  irrespective of physical separation. Examples of a delivery networks include, but are not limited to, a local area network (\u201cLAN\u201d), a wide area network (\u201cWAN\u201d), the Internet, the Web, a telephony network (e.g., analog, digital, wired, wireless, PSTN, ISDN, or xDSL), a radio network, a television network, a cable network, a satellite network, and\/or any other network configured to carry data. Each network may include one or more elements, such as, for example, intermediate nodes, proxy servers, routers, switches, adapters, and wired or wireless data pathways, configured to direct and\/or deliver data.","In one implementation, the communications system  is structured and arranged to operate in an online shopping\/buying environment and to enable real-time messages (e.g., instant messages) to be exchanged among the client system , the host system , and the vendor system . In such an implementation, a potential customer (not shown) affiliated with at least one of the client system , the host system , and\/or the vendor system  is notified of an opportunity to purchase an available good or service offered by the vendor system .","The vendor system  includes a vendor device  ( e.g., computer, computer system, wireless telephone, radio, paper, appliance, PDA, communicator) for communicating with the client system  and\/or the host system  through the network . The vendor system  also includes a vehicle  for traveling to the location of a client system  as well as goods, personnel, and\/or equipment  necessary to provide goods and\/or to perform services at the client location . In one implementation, the vehicle  in the vendor system  is loaded with available goods, personnel, and\/or equipment. The vehicle  may be loaded according to requests received from client systems  and\/or loaded with a predetermined inventory. The goods, personnel, and\/or services may be loaded at one more loading locations along a route traveled by the vehicle . The vehicle  may acquire available goods, personnel and\/or equipment from a resource supplier, such as, for example, a business, a store, a warehouse, a partner, a base of operations, and\/or a hub. As indicated by the broken lines, the vendor device , the vendor controller , and the vehicle , as well as the goods, equipment, and\/or personnel may be separate from or integral with each other.","The vendor system  typically offers on-site services at a buyer's location. For example, the vendor system  may offer a product selling service (e.g., door-to-door product or subscription selling), a product delivery service (e.g., restaurant food, groceries, medical products, newspapers, mail, periodicals), a product pick-up service (e.g., laundry pick-up, dry-cleaning, pick-up, recycling retrieval, trash removal), a transportation service (e.g., passenger shuttle, taxi, bus), an installation service (e.g., telephone installation, cable installation, satellite installation, product installation), a maintenance service (e.g., lawn care, house cleaning, utility metering, product testing), and\/or a repair service (e.g., house repair, automobile repair, product repair). The vendor system  may offer one or any combination of goods and\/or services. The goods and\/or services offered may be related to one or more brands, suppliers, providers, and\/or manufacturers. For example, certain foods may be offered with certain medical products (e.g., antacids). The goods\/services also may have a common theme. For example, a morning theme may involve delivering a newspaper, picking up laundry, and selling breakfast food.","The vendor system  may employ one or more vehicles (e.g., vehicle ) that are dedicated to offering the on-site services to buyers. A vehicle  may be deployed to a buyer's location in response to a request from the buyer and\/or may be deployed along an established route at a certain time (e.g., daily delivery\/service route). When deployed, a vehicle  may be assigned one or more primary services and one or more secondary services. For example, a vehicle  may be assigned to deliver newspapers (primary service) to subscribers along an established route, but also may be assigned to sell and\/or deliver bottles of orange juice (secondary service) in certain situations. In one implementation, the vendor system  instructs the vehicle to offer the secondary service in tandem with the primary service. In another implementation, a secondary service is offered only after a primary service is completed. For example, a vendor system  may instruct a repair vehicle  to offer certain products when returning from a repair service location. In other implementations, the vendor system  instructs the vehicle  to offer goods and\/or services according to a set hierarchy and\/or \u201con-the-fly.\u201d",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 2","FIG. 1","FIG. 1"],"b":["200","10","20","40","30","10","20","30","40"]},"As shown in the client system  of , the client device  includes a general-purpose computer  having an internal or external storage  for storing data and programs such as an operating system  (e.g., DOS, Windows\u2122, Windows 95\u2122, Windows 98\u2122, Windows 2000\u2122, Windows Me\u2122, Windows XP\u2122, Windows NT\u2122, OS\/2, or Linux) and one or more application programs. Examples of application programs include authoring applications  (e.g., word processing, database programs, spreadsheet programs, or graphics programs) capable of generating documents or other electronic content; client applications  (e.g., AOL client, CompuServe client, AIM client, AOL TV client, or ISP client) capable of communicating with other computer users, accessing various computer resources, and viewing, creating, or otherwise manipulating electronic content; and browser applications  (e.g., Netscape's Navigator, Microsoft's Internet Explorer, Java's Microbrowser) capable of rendering standard and\/or clipped Internet content.","The general-purpose computer  also includes a central processing unit (\u201cCPU\u201d)  for executing instructions in response to commands from the client controller . In one implementation, the client controller  includes one or more of the application programs installed on the internal or external storage  of the general-purpose computer . In another implementation, the client controller  includes application programs externally stored in and performed by one or more device(s) external to the general-purpose computer .","The general-purpose computer  further includes a communication device  for sending and receiving data. One example of the communication device  is a modem. Other examples include a transceiver, a set-top box, a communication card, a satellite dish, an antenna, or another network adapter capable of transmitting and receiving data over the network  through wired or wireless data pathways (not shown). The general-purpose computer  also may include a television (\u201cTV\u201d) tuner  for receiving television programming in the form of broadcast, satellite, and\/or cable TV signals. As a result, the client service  can selectively and\/or simultaneously display network content received by communications device  and television programming content received by the TV tuner .","The general-purpose computer  includes an input\/output (\u201cI\/O\u201d) interface  for wired or wireless connection to various peripheral devices . Examples of peripheral devices  include, but are not limited to, a mouse , a mobile telephone , a personal digital assistant (\u201cPDA\u201d) , an MP3 player (not shown), a keyboard , a display monitor  with or without a touch screen input, a TV remote control  for receiving information from and rendering information to subscribers, and an audiovisual input device .","Although  illustrates examples of devices such as a mobile telephone , a PDA , an MP3 player (not shown), and a TV remote control  as being peripheral with respect to the general-purpose computer , other implementations may include the functionality of the general-purpose computer  in such devices so that they operate as the client device . For example, the mobile telephone  or the PDA  may include computing and networking capabilities and function as a client device  by accessing the delivery network  and communicating with the host system . Furthermore, the client system  may include one, some or all of the components and devices described above. Moreover, the above description of the client device  and the client controller  may pertain to like aspects of the vendor device  and the vendor controller .","Referring to , a communications system  is capable of delivering and exchanging information between a client system , a host system , and a vendor system  through a network . Examples of each element within the communications system  are broadly described above with respect to . In particular, the client system , the host system , the network , and the vendor system  have attributes comparable to those described with respect to .","As shown in , the host system  includes a host device  and a host controller . The host controller  is generally capable of transmitting instructions to any or all of the elements of the host device . For example, the host controller  may include one or more software applications loaded on the host device  or may include any of several other programs, machines, and devices operating independently or collectively to control the host device .","In one implementation, the host device  includes or is part of an OSP (\u201cOnline Service Provider\u201d) host complex that provides instant messaging (\u201cIM\u201d) capability to subscribers. In general, an OSP supports several different services, such as email, instant messaging, discussion groups, chat, news services, and Internet access. The OSP is generally designed with an architecture that enables the machines within the OSP to communicate with each other according to certain protocols. For example, the OSP may employ one or more OSP protocols and custom dialing engines to enable access by selected client applications. The OSP may define one or more specific protocols for each service based on a common, underlying proprietary protocol.","The OSP may support IM services irrespective of a subscriber's network or Internet access. That is, the OSP may allow a subscriber to send and receive instant messages regardless of whether the subscriber has access to any particular ISP. The OSP may support associated services, such as administrative matters, advertising, directory services, chat, and interest groups specifically related to the instant messaging. The OSP may support IM services locally or at a separate IM host complex. In an environment employing multiple host complexes, the host device  may include one or more gateways that connect and link the host complexes. Such gateways typically are privy to information regarding the protocol type anticipated by a destination complex, which enables any necessary protocol conversion to be performed incident to the transfer of data from one complex to another.","To enable access to the OSP host device , the client system  and the vendor system  may include proprietary communications software, such as, for example, an OSP client application and\/or an IM client application. The communications software is designed to facilitate a subcriber's interaction with various online services and may provide access to all available services within the OSP host device .","The host system  includes a login server  for authorizing access by one or more client systems  and vendor systems  to various elements (e.g., OSP servers) of the host device . The login server  may implement one or more authorization procedures to enable simultaneous access to the OSP features and\/or IM features. For example, to access the OSP host device  and being an instant messaging session, the client system  (or vendor system ) establishes a connection to the login server . The login server  determines whether the user associated with the system is authorized to access other areas of the OSP device  by verifying a subscriber identification and password.","If the user is authorized to access other areas of the OSP host device , the login server  employs a hashing technique on the subscriber's screen name to identify a particular IM server  for use during the subscriber's session. The login server  provides the client system  with the IP address of the particular IM server , gives the client system  an encrypted (e.g., a cookie), and breaks the connection. The client system  then uses the IP address to establish a connection to the particular IM server  through the network , and obtains access to the identified IM server  using the encrypted key. Typically, the client system  will include a Winsock API (\u201cApplication Programming Interface\u201d) that enables the client system  to establish an open TCP connection to the IM server .","Once a connection to the IM server  has been established, the client system  may directly or indirectly transmit data to and access content from the IM server  and one or more associated domain servers . The IM server  supports the fundamental instant messaging services and the domain servers  may support associated services, such as, for example, administrative matters, directory services, chat and interest groups. In general, the purpose of the domain servers  is to lighten the load placed on the IM server  by assuming responsibility for some of the services offered by the OSP host device . By accessing the IM server  and\/or the domain server , a subscriber can use an IM client application to view whether particular subscribers (\u201cbuddies\u201d) are online, exchange instant messages with particular subscribers, participate in group chat rooms, trade files such as pictures, invitations or documents, find other subscribers with similar interests, get customized news and stock quotes, and search the World Wide Web.","In the implementation of , the IM server  and the domain server  are directly or indirectly connected to a routing gateway . The routing gateway  facilitates the connection between the IM server  or the domain server  and one or more alert multiplexors (\u201cMUXs\u201d) , for example, by serving as a link minimization tool or hub to connect several IM servers  or several domain servers  to several alert MUXs . In general, an alert MUX  maintains a record of alerts and subscribers registered to receive the alerts.","Once the client system  is connected to the alert MUX , a subscriber can register for and\/or receive one or more types of alerts. The connection pathway between the client system  and the alert MUX  is determined by employing another hashing technique at the IM server  to identify the particular alert MUX  to be used for the subcriber's session. Once the particular MUX  has been identified, the IM server  provides the client system  with the IP address of the particular alert MUX  and gives the client system  an encrypted key (i.e., a cookie). The client system  then uses the IP address to connect to the identified alert MUX  through the network  and obtains access using the encrypted key.","the key MUX  is connected to a vendor server , where state changes are continuously updated for one or more vendor systems . In general, information regarding state changes of vendor systems  is gathered and used by the OSP host device . The vendor server  is capable of detecting a feed corresponding to a particular vendor system . The vendor server  may include a piece of code (alert receive code) capable of interacting with another piece of code (alert broadcast code) on the vendor system  when a state change occurs. In general, the alert receive code installed on the vendor server  instructs the alert broadcast code installed on the vendor system  to send a feed to the vendor server  upon the occurrence of a particular state change. Upon detecting a feed, the vendor server  may notify the alert MUX  and\/or the client system  of the detected feed.","In the implementation of , the OSP host device  includes a subscriber profile server  connected to a database  for storing large amounts of subscriber profile data. The subscriber profile server  may be used to enter, retrieve, edit, manipulate, or otherwise process subscriber profile data. In one implementation, a subscriber's profile data include, for example, the subscriber's buddy list, alert preferences, designated stocks, identified interests, and geographic location. The subscriber may enter, edit and\/or delete profile data using an installed OSP and\/or IM client application on the client system  to interact with the subscriber profile server .","Because the subscriber's data are stored in the OSP hots device , the subscriber does not have to reenter or update the data in the event that the subscriber accesses the OSP host device  using a new or a different client system . Accordingly, when a subscriber accesses the OSP host device , the IM server  can instruct the subscriber profile server  to retrieve the subscriber's profile data from the database  and to provide, for example, the subscriber's buddy list to the IM server  and the subscriber's alert preference to the alert MUX . The subscriber profile server  also may communicate with other servers (not shown) in the OSP host device  to share subscriber profile data with other services. Alternatively, user profile data may be saved locally on the client device .","Referring to , a client , a hot  and a vendor  interact according to a procedure  to transfer electronic data. Examples of each element of  are broadly described above with respect to . In particular, the client  may have attributes comparable to the client system , client device , and\/or the client controller  of . The host  may have attributes comparable to the host system , the host device , and\/or the host controller  of . The vendor  may have attributes comparable to the vendor system , the vendor device , the vendor controller , and\/or the vehicle  of . The client , the host , and the vendor  may be directly or indirectly connected to each other by a network.","The procedure  of  generally pertains to an online shopping\/buying environment in which a potential customer affiliated with at least one of the client , the host , and\/or the vendor  is notified of an opportunity to purchase an available good or service offered by the vendor .","Initially, the client  accesses the host  (step ). In one implementation, the client  is associated with a potential customer (e.g., individual person or business entity) and the host  is an online service provider (\u201cOSP\u201d) enabling and\/or providing instant messaging capability and correlating information relating to the online customer and the vendor . The client  may access the host  using any available device (e.g., computer, appliance, pager, PDA, interactive television, telephone) and\/or controller (e.g., software program, client application, browser application).","The client  generates an online presence for the potential customer (step ). In general, an online presence is a state in which the client  is capable of receiving for the potential customer a communication over a network (e.g., WAN, LAN, Internet, Web, OSP network, telephone network). In one implementation, the client  includes a controller (e.g., software program, client application, browser application) for connecting to the host  and managing the exchange of data transferred across a network between the client  and the host  (i.e. generating an online presence).","The host  detects the online presence of the client  (step ). In one implementation, the client  generates an online presence and the host  detects the online presence when the client  establishes a connection to a particular server (e.g., IM server , e-mail message server, web server, chat room server). A server (e.g., login server ) on the host  may require authorization of the client  prior to establishing a connection to the server. The host  may detect the online presence of the client  transparently so that the client  is unaware of the host . Alternatively, the client  may notoriously inform the host  of its online presence.","The host  may maintain a list of clients  and\/or associated customers that are currently online (i.e. connected to the host ). In one implementation, a network of servers (e.g., IM servers ) maintains the list of online customers. Upon detection of the online presence of the client  or at some time or event thereafter, the host  transmits data capable of being rendered by the client  as a user interface (\u201cUI\u201d) indicating the online status of the potential customer.","The host  may monitor data transmissions from the client . For example, the host  may track referring and destination addresses (e.g., URLs) requested by the client  and then associate a list of products and\/or services related to the requested URLs with the client  or an associated customer. In one implementation, host servers (e.g., IM servers ) are capable of tracking addresses.","The host determines the location of the client  or a location associated with the potential customer (step ). In one implementation, this step is performed after the host  detects the online presence of the client  (stet ). In other implementations, this step is performed prior to or concurrently with detection of the online presence of the client  (step ). Determining the location of the client  or the associated customer may include detecting an address (e.g., IP address), port, or at least a portion of a dial-in telephone number used by the client  to connect to a server (e.g., login server ) within the host . The host also may access a customer database (e.g., database ) to obtain residence information of a particular customer. Determining the location of the client  may include using a global positioning system (\u201cGPS\u201d) and\/or other type of system capable of identifying the geographic location of the client .","The host  also determines preferences of the potential customer associated with the client  (step ). In one implementation, the host  accesses stored preferences from the client  and\/or a database (e.g., database ) within the host . In other implementations, the host  prompts a potential customer associated with the client  to enter online preferences. The online preferences may include vendor notification preferences such as which particular vendors are permitted to contact the potential customer as well as the timing and manner of receiving notification from a vendor . Preferences also may include a profile specifying particular interests and\/or favorites of the potential customer such as food, clothing, music, television program, sports, and hobbies. For example, a potential customer may indicate a preference to receive notification during a certain time of day from a vendor that offers a certain type of food. The potential customer also may set preferences actively to indicate a desire to purchase a particular good and\/or service or to be contacted at a particular time by a particular vendor .","Next, the host  determines a location of a vendor  capable of providing goods and\/or services to the location associated with the client  (step ). In one implementation, the host  determines the location of each vendor  participating in a particular marketing program sponsored by the host . Host elements such as, for example, IM servers  and\/or alert MUX  may be configured to determine the location of the vendor . The host  may eliminate some vendors  from consideration based on the preferences of the client . The host  also may eliminate a vendor  based on reports from the vendor  that indicate insufficient inventory or other incapability to deliver goods and\/or perform services.","Determining the location of the vendor  may include using a GPS to determine the geographic location of a vehicle or a base of operations (e.g., store, warehouse, supply center, call center) associated with the vendor . If the vendor  is connected to a server (e.g., IM server ) on the host , an IP address, port, and\/or dial-in telephone number may be used to locate the vendor . The host  may request a location update from the vendor  and\/or the vendor  may send periodic location updates to the host . For example, the vendor  may send periodic location updates, inventory updates, and offered services updates to a dedicated server (e.g., vendor server ) on the host . The geographic location of a vendor  also may be determined by referencing an established route traveled by a vehicle of the vendor . For example, the host  may determine that a vendor vehicle is 20 minutes into a 40-minute route and then estimate the probable geographic location of the vehicle.","Next, the host  determines the current or anticipated proximity of the vendor  to the client  or the client's associated location (step ). In one implementation, a dedicated server (e.g., vendor server ) on the host  determines the proximity of the vendor  to the client . Determining the proximity of the vendor  to the client  may include calculating the distance between the geographic location associated with the client  and the geographic location of the vendor . Determining the proximity of the vendor  to the client  also may include calculating the distance between the current location of the client  and an estimated location of a vendor  along an established route or current travel plan.","The host  then notifies the client  about the vendor  (step ). In one implementation, the host  transmits a communication associated with the vendor  to the client . For example, a communications server (e.g., IM server  or alert MUX ) on the host  may transmit a message to the client . The message may be any type of textual, graphic, audio, video, or multimedia communications, such as, for example, an instant message, an e-mail message, an advertisement, a web page, a banner ad, a \u201cpop-up\u201d window, a page, a telephone call, an alarm, or another communication intended to get a subscriber's attention. For example, the message may be an advertisement that includes an identification of the vendor , a description of the goods and\/or services available from the vendor , a price for the available goods and\/or services, the current location of the vendor , the distance between the vendor  and the client , and the expected travel time to the client . The advertisement also may include a map depicting the location of the client , the location of the vendor , and the surrounding area. The map may be dynamic representation showing updated positions of the vendor  in real time.","Notifying the client  of the vendor  may include determining that the proximity of the vendor  to the location associated with the client  is within a certain range (e.g., time and\/or distance) before contacting the client . The range may vary based on the vendor , the available goods and\/or services, the time of day, the weather, and\/or subscriber preferences. Notifying the client  of the vendor  also may include accessing a database containing stored communications (e.g., advertisements) associated with various vendors and confirming with the vendor  that the offer conveyed by the communication can be fulfilled prior to sending the communication to the client .","Notifying the client  of the vendor  also may include displaying a UI to the vendor . The UI may include an instant messaging window identifying a list of potential customers that are online, i.e., currently accessing the host. In one implementation, a group of customers is automatically created in a user profile associated with the vendor . The host  may select members of the group that may be based on customer preferences and\/or geographic location. For example, a potential customer may set preferences indicating that the potential customer would like to be notified of a mobile vendor . When the mobile vendor  enters a particular area, the host  creates a group of customers who are local to the area and have indicated a desire to be contacted. The vendor  displays a UI identifying the online members of the group. The vendor  is able to interact with the UI and send instant messages or alerts notifying the online group members that the vendor  is in the area.","The host  also may notify the client  of only the goods and\/or services that are offered by the vendor and conform to the potential customer's preferences. The host  may select the most appropriate communication based on the preferences of the potential customer associated with the client . Alternatively, the host  may tailor the content of the communication to reflect the preferences of the potential customer associated with the client .","The client  receives the notification of the vendor  from the host  (step ). In one implementation, the client  displays a UI containing the communication from the host . The UI may include, for example, an instant message, an e-mail message, a web page, a banner ad, a \u201cpop-up\u201d window, and\/or a map. The UI may be interactive and may allow the potential customer to automatically communicate and\/or respond to the host  and\/or the vendor . The UI may include multimedia content and embedded hyperlinks, tags, and applets rendered by the client .","After receiving the notification from the host  (step ), the client  responds (step ). A potential customer viewing the notification from the host  has the option to ignore the notification or to respond. In one implementation, the potential customer responds by transmitting a request to the host . The request may be transmitted in a manner the same as or different from the manner in which the notification was received. For example, if the notification was received in an e-mail message, the potential customer may respond by transmitting an e-mail message, transmitting an instant message, or placing a telephone call.","The request from the potential customer may include, for example, a request to purchase the goods and\/or services, a request for additional information, a request to be contacted at a later time, a request to purchase goods and\/or services at a later time, and\/or a request to purchase goods and\/or services for a different prices. For example, if a particular good is advertised on behalf of a vendor  at a price of $10, the potential customer may request a price of $9.","The host  receives the potential customer's request from the client  (step ) and then notifies the vendor  of the request (step ). In one implementation, the host  receives the request at a communications server (e.g., IM server ) and then forwards the request to the vendor . In other implementations, the host  may combine the request with other requests to negotiate a better prices for the potential customers and\/or may transmit an electronic coupon on behalf of the potential customer. The host  also may send driving directions to the location associated with the potential customer and\/or the most efficient route for servicing several customers to the vendor .","The vendor  receives the potential customer request (step ) and then confirms the order of the goods and\/or services (step ). In one implementation, upon receiving the potential customer request, the vendor  instructs the host  to confirm the order with the potential customer. In other implementations, the vendor  may receive contact information (e.g., IP address, IM screen name, e-mail address, telephone number) associated with the potential customer and confirm the order directly with the potential customer.","The vendor  then completes an electronic transaction with the potential customer to arrange payment for the goods and\/or services (step ). Completing the electronic transaction may include using the client  to display a payment form to the potential customer and requesting billing\/payment information (e.g., credit card account information). Alternatively, completing the electronic transaction may include accessing a database of customer information and retrieving stored electronic payment information. The stored payment information may reside on the host  or at the location of a third party (e.g., bank, credit card company). In one implementation, a server (e.g., vendor server ) on the host  processes the electronic transaction. In other implementations, the vendor  and\/or a third party processes the electronic transaction.","Finally, the vendor  provides the goods and\/or services to the potential customer associated with the client  (step ). Providing the goods and\/or services may include delivering the goods and\/or performing the services as soon as possible or at a time designed by the potential customer.","Referring to , the client , the host , and the vendor  may interact according to a procedure  to transfer electronic data. In general, the systems described with respect to  are related to the systems described with respect to . However, the systems are described in a context where a potential customer may be at a non-default location.","The procedure  of  generally pertains to an online shopping\/buying environment in which a potential customer who is not located at a predetermined or non-default location is nevertheless notified of an opportunity to purchase an available good or service offered by the vendor . Situations of the potential customer being away from a predetermined location may include a potential customer using a mobile communications device as the client (e.g., a wireless phone, PDA, AOL's Mobile Communicator\u2122). For example, the potential customer may be attending a sporting event and wish to use their mobile communications device to be notified of opportunities to interface with food vendors. In another example, during travel, a potential customer may be separated from the device or connection normally used to access online services.","Initially, the client  accesses a hot (step ) and generates an online presence (step ).","The host  detects the online presence of the client (step ) and determines client location (step ). Generally, determining the location of the client may include determining that the client is located somewhere other than their default or common location. For example, the host may recognize that an account is being accessed from a mobile device instead of from a personal computer. In another example, the host  may recognize that a different number or identifier was used at or supplied by the device used to originate online presence, e.g., a modem used to establish a dial-in connection. This may trigger the host  to determine the location of the client  to account for the nature of the mobile access. For example, when the host  recognizes that a wireless device is used as the client  to access the host , the host  may interface with a wireless carrier to receive the location of the wireless device. In another example, the host  may receive the location information from the client device itself. For example, the client  may send GPS information to the host .","The host  determines the preferences of the client (step ). Determining the preferences of the client  may include interfacing with the client to receive more timely and\/or accurate information. For example, the host  may use the location information determined in step  to determine that the client  is located at a sporting event. The host  may interface with the vendor  to determine the kinds of concessions available at such an event. The host  then may send a polling request to the client  with a list of the concessions available, prompting the potential customer for an order the available choices.","Determining preferences  also may include determining which customer associated with the client is generating the online presence. For example, a family may share a mobile device. However, the preferences of one spouse may differ significantly from the other spouse. The host  may determine which profile, person, or account is using the mobile device. Furthermore, when certain classes of communications (e.g., checking particular stock quotes) are conducted, the host  may determine that a first family member is using the device, while when other classes of communications are conducted (e.g., dialing a set of numbers), a second family member is using the device.","The host  determines the location of a vendor capable of providing goods and\/or services to the location of the client (step ). Typically, determining the location of the vendor includes determining that a vendor can provide the goods\/services based on the non-standard location of the client . The host  determines the proximity of the vendor  to the client  (step ).","The host  determines whether the vendor and potential customer are sufficiently proximate to justify notifying the potential customer of potential goods and services. For example, the host  may determine that, based on present traffic conditions, potential customers and vendors are proximate when the vendor can be responsive to an order within five minutes. In another example, vendor may be responsive if the vendor has a vehicle located within a predetermined geographic area (e.g., a zip code or a precinct).","When the host determines that a vendor likely fits a potential customer, the host  notifies client  of the vendor (step ). Typically, notifying the client  of the vendor  includes notifying in a manner appropriate to the non-default location of the client. For example, when the client  is a wireless phone, the client  may send notification that compensates for the limited display capabilities on the mobile device. Accordingly, images that might appear in an advertisement sent to a personal computer might be removed or they might be replaced with a smaller or more appropriate image. Notification also may include using selection criteria to send the notification to the correct device. For example, when a mobile device and a personal computer both are using the same account to access the host , notifications may be sent to the mobile device, but not to the personal computer.","The client  receives notification (step ). The potential customer responds to the notification (step ). Responding to the notification may include selecting an \u2018accept\u2019 response indicating that the potential customer wishes to purchase the goods\/services. Responding the notification may include a more detailed exchange. For example, the potential customer may specify quantities of desired goods and\/or browse a catalog to see if additional goods\/services are being offered.","The host  receives the request from the client  (step ). The host  notifies the vendor  of the order (step ). In the sporting event example, notifying the vendor  of the order includes letting the vendor  know that a potential customer generally situated in section  would like to order items X, Y, and Z on the menu. There may be a transaction code sent to the vendor  so that the vendor  may verify the transaction before providing goods and services. In another example, notifying the vendor  may include notifying the vendor  that the potential customer in seat  of section  has purchased items X, Y, and Z. However, there need not be a high degree of specificity in the notification. For example, notification may include a transmission that section  would like  of item X while not indicating which client  specifically responded to the notification. Notifying the vendor also may include transmitting a UI to the vendor, including a map depicting the location (both default and non-default locations) of the potential customer. The UI notifying the vendor also may show the updated location of the potential customer.","The vendor  receives the client generated request (step ) and confirms the order (step ). Confirming the order may include verifying that the vendor  is still able to provide the goods\/services. For example, during the time elapsed between when the client  determines the location of a vendor  capable of providing the goods\/services (step ) and receiving the client generated request (step ), the inventory of the vendor  may have been depleted and the vendor  may not be able to provide the selected goods\/services. Confirming the order may include further determining or updating the location of the client . For example, when the vendor  receives the client generated request (step ), the client  request may not include detailed location information. The vendor  may prompt the client  for precise section\/seat location information, as well as to confirm price and quantities in the client request.","The vendor  completes the electronic transaction (step ). Completing the electronic transaction  may include receiving payment information. In one example, the vendor  prompts the potential customer for payment. Payment information may be provided in an automated manner. For example, a potential customer using a wireless phone may be prompted to enter credit card information. In another example, a potential customer may use an electronic wallet to pay or reimburse the vendor . In this manner, payment information may be provided directly to a vendor , or it may be coordinated through a host . Although payment information is described as being performed at the end of procedure , payment information may be provided earlier. For example, the host  may automatically deduct payment information upon receiving the request from the client  (step ). Finally, the vendor  provides the goods and\/or services (step ).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0083","num":"0082"},"figref":"FIG. 6","b":"600"},"GUI  shows one such customer at customer location  in map . GUI  allows the customer to change their profile. For example, a customer may alter responsiveness tab  to increase a radius of proximity defining a region for which a vendor may respond. Similarly, a customer may alter extra fee tab  to pay extra for the extra radius and\/or configure size of order tab  to indicate the size of the order.","In a more specific example, in GUI , the original route  may show the five-minute radius. However, when the customer changes responsiveness (tab ), offers an extra fee for delivery (tab ), or indicates the size of the order (tab ), the adjusted route  may be changed to accommodate the inferred interest of the subscriber.","Thus, as shown in map , a vendor  dynamically changes from following route  to a larger route  to better server customer location .","Although GUI  shows a vendor altering their route, other implementations allow for additional routes to be added. Furthermore, although GUI  shows a display with parameters that may appear on a customer device, calculating the data and generating the display may be performed at the client, at the host, and\/or at the vendor. Similarly, calculating the data and\/or generating the display (e.g., GUI , or map ) may be distributed across one or more systems.","Other implementations are within the scope of the following claims. In particular, the potential customer does not have to be in the same geographic proximity as the vendor. That is, a potential customer can designate a default location for delivery and receive alerts when a vendor is in proximity to the default location. In this way, a potential customer can receive an alert even if remote from the default location and\/or the vendor. For example, a potential customer using a client at the potential customer's office may designate the potential customer's home as the default location so that the potential customer receives messages at the potential customer's office for use in delivering goods and\/or services to the potential customer's home.","Furthermore, the notification described above and provided by or for the vendor may be provided independent of other communications, or they may be delivered or presented with other communications, for instance, within or along the borders of instant messages otherwise being received\/viewed at the client.","Still further, applying the technology described above, notifications could be initiated based on both the online presence of potential customers and the movement of those customers relative to vendors, such that advertisements are presented and charged as a mobile device user navigates relative to different vendors.","In some implementations, the vendor  and\/or the client  may perform one or more functions described above as being performed by the host . The client, host, network, and vendor also may be distributed across different entities in the communications system and may make use of one or more agents and\/or proxies to perform certain functions."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["TECHNICAL FIELD","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"p":["Other features and advantages will be apparent from the following description, including the drawings, and the claims.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIGS. 1-3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":["FIGS. 4 and 5","FIGS. 1-3"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 6"}],"heading":"DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS"},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
