---
title: Electronic apparatus and method and program of controlling the same
abstract: An electronic apparatus includes a keyboard unit fixed to the vicinity of the bottom of a display unit. The electronic apparatus also includes a detecting unit for detecting whether a portion of a display area of the display unit is covered by the keyboard unit and a display control unit for controlling a display mode for an uncovered portion, which is not covered by the keyboard unit, of the display area of the display unit while the detecting unit detects that a portion of the display area of the display unit is covered by the keyboard unit.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07071917&OS=07071917&RS=07071917
owner: Sony Corporatiom
number: 07071917
owner_city: Tokyo
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20021226
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS"],"p":["1. Field of the Invention","The present invention relates to electronic apparatuses. More particularly, the present invention relates to an electronic apparatus including a display device and a keyboard (or an input device similar to a keyboard).","2. Description of the Related Art","A typical example of an electronic apparatus provided with a keyboard or a similar input device (hereinafter, represented by a keyboard) is a personal computer. Users operate keyboards and input required commands or characters to personal computers while interacting with information displayed on display devices. Display devices function as output means for giving information to users, and keyboards function as input means for inputting information into personal computers.","Recently the display performance of personal computers has developed. For example, there are even types which have functions for playing television broadcasts and digital versatile disks (DVDs), as well as data-processing functions. Since keyboards are used less frequently as a result of these developments, the personal computers should be designed so that the keyboard can be attractively stored.","Notebook-size personal computers have integrated keyboards and display devices and can be folded. Therefore, there is no need to consider a place for storing the keyboard. Desktop personal computers of this folding type are also coming into use, and initial steps for improving keyboard storage have been taken.","According to these improvements, however, the whole display screen of the display device is covered by the keyboard. Thus, the keyboard must be removed from storage every time the user needs to look at the display on the display device. This causes inconvenience and problems because the display device cannot be used while the keyboard is folded away.","Accordingly, it is an object of the present invention to provide an electronic apparatus that can use a portion of a display screen of a display device even while the keyboard is collapsed (folded away) and that thereby simultaneously achieves both the ability to store the keyboard and availability of the display device.","An electronic apparatus includes an input device; a display unit; a fixing device for fixing the input device to the vicinity of the bottom of the display unit; a detecting unit for detecting whether a portion of a display area of the display unit is covered by the input device; and a display control unit for controlling a display mode for an uncovered portion, which is not covered by the input device, of the display area of the display unit while the detecting unit detects that a portion of the display area of the display unit is covered by the input device.","A method for controlling an electronic apparatus having an input device fixed to the vicinity of the bottom of a display unit includes a detecting step for detecting whether a portion of a display area of the display unit is covered by the input device; and a display control step for controlling a display mode for an uncovered portion, which is not covered by the input device, of the display area of the display unit while processing in the detecting step detects that a portion of the display area of the display unit is covered by the input device.","In a program for causing a computer to execute a predetermined processing function, the processing function includes a detecting step for detecting whether a portion of a display area of a display unit is covered by an input device fixed to the vicinity of the bottom of the display unit; and a display control step for controlling a display mode for an uncovered portion, which is not covered by the input device, of the display area of the display unit while processing in the detecting step detects that a portion of the display area of the display unit is covered by the input device.","When \u201ca portion\u201d of the display area of the display unit is covered by the input device (when the input device is in an \u201cunused mode\u201d), the display area of the display unit is divided into a portion covered (hidden) by the input device and another portion (a portion uncovered by the input device). Hereinafter, the former is referred to as a \u201ccovered portion\u201d, and the latter is referred to as an \u201cuncovered portion\u201d, for convenience of explanation.","With this arrangement, when a portion of the display area of the display unit is covered by the input device, the detecting unit detects this state, and the display mode for the uncovered portion of the display unit is controlled by the display control unit.","Consequently, a portion of the display screen of the display unit (uncovered portion) can be used even while the input device is collapsed. Therefore, both the ability to store the keyboard unit and availability of the display unit can be simultaneously achieved.","According to an embodiment of the present invention, the input device may be a keyboard unit. In the display mode, a display may appear on the uncovered portion, which is not covered by the keyboard unit.","In this embodiment, by displaying something on the uncovered portion of the display unit, that portion of the display screen of the display unit (uncovered portion) can be effectively used while the keyboard unit is not used.","According to another embodiment of the present invention, the display may include at least one of the current date and the current time.","In this embodiment, a portion of the display screen of the display unit (uncovered portion) can be used for either date display or time display, or both the date and time display while the keyboard unit is not used.","According to still another embodiment of the present invention, while a predetermined application program is being executed in the electronic apparatus, the display may have a format corresponding to the application program.","In this embodiment, when it is detected that the keyboard unit is in an unused mode, if a predetermined application program is being executed, a display having a format corresponding to the application program can be displayed on the uncovered portion of the display unit. Various application programs may be used. For example, an application program in which the operation of the keyboard is not actively needed (for example, an application program for playing back content, such as animation or music) may be used. The user can grasp the operating state of the application software for playing back content and can operate the application software through the display appearing on the uncovered portion of the display unit. The application program described above may be a screen saver.","According to still another embodiment of the present invention, the input device may be a keyboard unit. In the display control step, a cursor may be located on the uncovered portion, which is not covered by the keyboard unit, while the processing in the detecting step detects that a portion of the display area of the display unit is covered by the keyboard unit.","In this embodiment, while the keyboard unit is closed, the cursor is always located on the uncovered portion of the display unit.","The embodiments of the present invention, which are applied to a personal computer, will now be described with reference to the drawings. Various specified details and examples, and exemplary values, character strings, and other signs in the descriptions below are used merely for reference purposes in order to clarify the spirit and scope of the present invention. It is obvious that the spirit and scope of the present invention is not limited to the whole or part of these specified descriptions. Also, detailed descriptions of known methods, known procedures, known architectures, known circuit configurations, and the like (hereinafter, referred to as \u201cknown art\u201d) will be omitted. This omission is made for simple explanations and does not intentionally exclude all or part of this known art. Those of ordinary skill in the art should understand this known art when this application is filed. It is therefore obvious that the known art is included in the descriptions below.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"figref":["FIGS. 1A","FIG. 1A","FIG. 1B","FIG. 1C"],"b":["1","1","10","10","11","12","13","13","11","14","10","13","13","13","10","11","13","13"]},"In these drawings, the personal computer  includes a liquid crystal display panel (a display area) , and speakers R and L. The liquid crystal display panel  is arranged in the center front of the display unit . The speakers R and L are disposed on both sides of the liquid crystal display panel . The keyboard unit  includes full key tops  having a predetermined key arrangement, such as an arrangement conforming to Japanese Industrial Standards (JIS). The present invention is, however, not limited to the arrangement mentioned above.","The electronic apparatus according to the present invention may be of any type that has a display device and a keyboard. The electronic apparatus according to the present invention may be, for example, any type of data processing device, such as a word processor, a network terminal, and a workstation, a portable information terminal such as a personal digital assistant (PDA), a portable telephone including an automobile telephone and a personal handyphone system (PHS) telephone, and any type of specified device used in fields such as measurement and broadcasting, such as a spectrum analyzer and a linear editing device. The above-mentioned devices, like the personal computer  according to this embodiment, also include a display device and a keyboard. Although some devices include other types of input device such as a numeric keypad, instead of the keyboard, such types of input device are also similar to the keyboard. Although the liquid crystal display panel  is used as the display device in the drawings, it is obvious that the display device in the present invention is not limited to this. The display device in the present invention may be of any other type, such as a cold-cathode tube type or an electro luminescent (EL) type.","One unique point of the electronic apparatus (personal computer ) according to this embodiment is that approximately the lower half of the liquid crystal display panel  is covered when the keyboard unit  is in the closed state, as described above.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0040","num":"0039"},"figref":["FIG. 2A","FIG. 1A","FIG. 2B","FIG. 1C"],"b":["15","13","15","13","15","15"]},"The liquid crystal display panel  shown in the drawings is of a landscape type which is adapted for widescreen TV broadcasts and has an extend graphics array (XGA) resolution, that is, 1024\u00d7768 dots. The covered, invisible portion (hereinafter, referred to as a \u201ccovered portion \u201d), which is the lower half of the liquid crystal display panel , has a resolution of 1024\u00d7384 dots when the keyboard unit  is in the closed state. The visible portion, which is the upper half of the liquid crystal display panel  (hereinafter, referred to as an \u201cuncovered portion \u201d), has a resolution of 1024\u00d7384 dots in the closed state. It is obvious that these figures are, however, given for convenience of explanation and are not intended to limit the present invention.","Another unique point of the electronic apparatus (personal computer ) according to this embodiment is that the personal computer  includes a mechanism for detecting the open\/closed state of the keyboard unit .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0043","num":"0042"},"figref":"FIGS. 3A and 3B","b":["20","11","21","13","20","20","20","21","20","13"],"i":["a","a "]},"Referring to , when the keyboard unit  is in the open state (or in the transition state), the permanent magnet  and the switching element  are separated from each other and the switch contact point is thus in the \u201coff\u201d state. Referring to , when the keyboard unit  is in the closed state, the permanent magnet  approaches the switching element  and the switch contact point thus enters the \u201con\u201d state.","For example, a ground potential (a potential corresponding to logical \u201c0\u201d) is provided at one end of the switching element  and a detection signal Sa is supplied from the other end. When the keyboard unit  is closed, the detection signal Sa thus becomes grounded (logical \u201c0\u201d) (refer to ). Accordingly, the closed state of the keyboard unit  can be electrically detected by the signal state becoming active (Sa=logical \u201c0\u201d).","The structure of the inside of the electronic apparatus (personal computer ) according to this embodiment will now be described.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0047","num":"0046"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 4"],"b":["10","30","30","30","31","32","33","30","34","35","36","37","38","39","40","41","42","43","30","42","44","45","43","46","47"],"i":["a ","b ","b"]},"The Super I\/O  controls the input and output of a serial port  and a parallel port . The H8 microcomputer  controls the input and output of a P\/S2 (registered trademark) port  for a mouse or the like, a keyboard port , and a JOG port  for a game controller or the like.","The CPU  accesses the HDD  via the chip set  and loads a basic program (operating system), installed in the HDD  beforehand, into the memory  to execute the program.","Any application program which is executable together with the above-mentioned basic program is also installed in the HDD . Accordingly, the CPU  loads a desired application program into the memory  automatically or in response to a user operation, so that the application program can be executed while the above-mentioned basic program is being executed.","When using Windows (registered trademark), which is a typical example of a known general purpose operating system, as the basic program, a shortcut icon for the desired application program is saved in a particular folder called startup, so that the application program can be automatically executed. In the case of using an application program of a type executable as a background service, \u201cstartup type\u201d in the application program is set to \u201cautomatic\u201d.","After starting up the personal computer , the application program designed for automatic execution, as described above, becomes resident in the memory  and keeps performing its functions until the personal computer  is shut down. Thus, such an automatic-execution application program will be, hereinafter, referred to as a \u201cresident application program\u201d.","The CPU  can access various hardware resources in the personal computer  during the execution of the basic program and the application program, in accordance with the program content.","Like existing personal computers, in the personal computer  having such an arrangement, a combination of software resources, such as a basic program, an application program, or the like, and various hardware resources provides various functions, according to the program content. The personal computer  is different from existing personal computers in the following points.","The electronic apparatus (personal computer ) according to this embodiment has the two above-mentioned unique points: (1) approximately the lower half of the liquid crystal display panel  can be covered when the keyboard unit  is in the closed state and (2) the personal computer  includes the switching element  for producing the detection signal Sa, which becomes active when the keyboard unit  is closed. Furthermore, the personal computer  differs from existing personal computers in the following points: (3) the detection signal Sa can be transmitted to the CPU  via a predetermined interface (for example, via the H8 microcomputer , as shown in ); (4) the active or inactive state of the detection signal Sa can be determined by a predetermined application program by using a function of the active basic program in the CPU  (for example, (an application programming interface) API function); and (5) the execution state of the predetermined application program can be changed by using the determined results.","These features (1) to (5) will be specifically described below.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0057","num":"0056"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 4","FIG. 5"],"b":["60","61","62","60","60","20","61","62","61","61","62"]},"For example, when the detection signal Sa is active (the keyboard unit  is closed), a value returned from the, device control function indicates \u201ctrue\u201d, and when the detection signal Sa is inactive (the keyboard unit  is open), the value returned from the device control function indicates \u201cfalse\u201d. Accordingly, the evaluation of an expression \u201cdevice control( )=true\u201d by the application program  can determine that the keyboard unit  is closed.","Referring to the drawing, the application program  includes two independent programs: a first application program  and a second application program (a predetermined application program) . The first application program  is a \u201cresident application program\u201d which determines the open\/closed state of the keyboard unit  by using the device control function. The first application program  can also change the display mode of the liquid crystal display panel  in accordance with the determined results. The second application program  is any application program that can change its own execution state under the control of the first application program . The relationship between the first application program  and the second application program  will be described below.","As described above, the first application program  can determine the open\/closed state of the keyboard unit  and can change the display mode of the liquid crystal display panel  in accordance with the determined results. Here, the expression \u201cchanging the display mode\u201d is broadly defined as giving different visual effects in the open state and closed state of the keyboard unit . For example, during the period determined to be the open state, a normal display (for example, Windows (registered trademark) desktop display) is displayed on the liquid crystal display panel . During the period determined to be the closed state, \u201cany display\u201d which is in response to the closed state is displayed on the liquid crystal display panel .","Although the \u201cany display\u201d may be a display that simply shows a logo image, it is desirable, for the users' convenience, that the display provide some useful information. For example, the display may be a calendar display or time display. The display will be, hereinafter, described as a display capable of displaying time (referred to as a time display).","Referring to , the first application program  includes, for example, four blocks. A first block is a motion clock display unit , and a second block is a launcher control unit . A third block is a setting unit , and a fourth block is a driver unit . Although the first application program  includes four blocks in this embodiment, these four blocks may be integrated into one block. The first application program  may also be divided into a plurality of blocks other than four blocks. In any case, the first application program  should be designed so that the program can be easily developed and parts of the program can be shared.","The launcher control unit is a resident processing unit which is automatically executed (as a startup or a service) by being loaded into the memory  when the personal computer  is started up. The launcher control unit regularly queries the basic program  whether the detection signal Sa is active or inactive via the driver unit during execution of the program. Then, the launcher control unit determines whether to launch or terminate the motion clock display unit on the basis of the results.","The motion clock display unit displays (opens) a predetermined display (time display) on the liquid crystal display panel  when a launcher command is output from the launcher control unit , and closes the display (time display) when a termination command is output from the launcher control unit ","The setting unit has an interface display (not shown). The setting unit sets the operation of the first application program  by using this interface display. The setting unit determines whether or not to enable the motion clock display unit (whether or not to allow a predetermined display to be opened) and whether or not to inhibit a screen saver when the motion clock display unit is enabled and a predetermined display is thus opened.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0066","num":"0065"},"figref":["FIGS. 6A and 6B","FIG. 6A","FIG. 6B"],"b":["70","15","15","71","15","15","15","15"],"i":["b ","a ","b "]},"In both of these layouts, time display objects and , other operational objects such as operational objects for changing between monochrome\/color display and , and any accessory object such as suitably designed animation objects and are all included in the uncovered portion . Both layouts can, therefore, be adopted without substantial problems. It is, however, desirable that the mode for the time displays  and  be set to full screen display, so that the title bar and a window frame are hidden and the desktop display is hidden in order to bring the time displays  and  to the foreground. Hereinafter, descriptions will be made using the time display  shown in  for the sake of simplicity.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0068","num":"0067"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 7"],"b":["63","63","13","11","63","70","12","70","63","13","11","70","63","70","13","63","13","11"],"i":["b","b","b ","b ","b ","b "]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0069","num":"0068"},"figref":"FIG. 8A","b":["15","13","13","20","20","70","15","72"],"i":"a "},"In contrast, as shown in , when the keyboard unit  is closed, the switch contact point of the switching element  is turned on, and the detection signal Sa thus becomes active. This signal change is detected by using the result (true) from evaluating the expression \u201cdevice control( )=true\u201d in step S. In this case, the launcher control unit determines whether or not the time display  is open at that time (step S). If the time display  is not opened, the launcher control unit opens the time display  (step S). Then, the launcher control unit returns to the step for determining whether the keyboard unit  is open or closed (step S). If the time display  is open, the launcher control unit returns to the step for determining whether the keyboard unit  is open or closed (step S).","Accordingly, in the electronic apparatus (personal computer ) according to this embodiment, the lower half of the liquid crystal display panel  can be covered by the keyboard unit  and the display specified for the closed state (time display ) can be displayed on the uncovered portion when the keyboard unit  is collapsed (\u201cclosed\u201d). Consequently, a particular benefit in that the personal computer  can be utilized as a display device which offers predetermined information, such as the current time, even if the keyboard unit  is collapsed (\u201cclosed\u201d). Therefore, the electronic apparatus (personal computer ) according to this embodiment is different from personal computers of other types in which are designed simply for storing the keyboard unit, thus ensuring advantages for the electronic apparatus (personal computer ) according to this embodiment in the market.","As described above, the display specified for \u201ctime display\u201d in the closed state (time display  or ) is displayed on the uncovered portion of the liquid crystal display panel . The spirit and scope of the present invention is, however, not limited to this. Modifications for this embodiment will be described below.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0073","num":"0072"},"figref":["FIG. 9","FIG. 7","FIG. 5","FIG. 11"],"b":["63","63","64","63","70","71","90","91","64"],"i":["b ","b ","b "]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0074","num":"0073"},"figref":"FIGS. 10A and 10B","b":["80","81","80","80","80","80","80","80","81","81","81","80","81"],"i":["a","b","c","c","c ","a ","a "]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0075","num":"0074"},"figref":["FIGS. 11A and 11B","FIG. 11A","FIG. 11B"],"b":["90","91","90","15","15","91","15","15","15","15"],"i":["b ","a ","b "]},"In both of these layouts, time display objects and , other operational objects, such as operational objects for changing between monochrome\/color display and and object groups for audio control and , and any accessory object such as suitably designed animation objects and are all included in the uncovered portion . Both layouts can, therefore, be adopted without substantial problems. It is, however, desirable that the mode for the displays for time and audio control  and  be set to full screen display, similarly to the time displays  and , so that the title bar and a window frame are hidden and the desktop display is hidden in order to bring the displays for time and audio control  and  to the foreground. Hereinafter, descriptions will be made using the display for time and audio control  shown in  for the sake of simplicity.","According to the modified flowchart shown in , the launcher control unit , which is in the resident state, evaluates the expression \u201cdevice control( )=true\u201d at predetermined time intervals, and determines whether the keyboard unit  is open or closed (step S). If the evaluated result indicates that the keyboard unit is open, the launcher control unit determines whether or not the time display  (the display specified for the closed state (1)) or the display for time and audio control  (the display specified for the closed state ()) is open at that time (step S). If the time display  (the display (1)) or the display for time and audio control  (the display (2)) is open, the launcher control unit closes the opened display (step S). If the time display  (the display (1)) or the display for time and audio control  (the display (2)) is not opened, the launcher control unit determines whether or not the second application program  is active (step S).","Here, active means the state in which the second application program  is being executed as a task.","If the determination result in step S is \u201cyes\u201d, that is to say, if the second application program  is active, the launcher control unit focuses on the running display (the detailed display  or the simple display ) (step S). Then, the launcher control unit returns to the step for determining whether the keyboard unit  is open or closed (step S).","In the routines from step S to S, if the time display  or the display for time and audio control  is open when the keyboard unit  enters the open state, the display can be closed. Also, if the second application program  is active at that time, the running display (the detailed display  or the simple display ) can be selected (\u201cin focus\u201d state).","In contrast, if the launcher control unit determines that the keyboard unit  is closed in the step for determining whether the keyboard unit  is open or closed (step S), the launcher control unit determines whether or not the second application program  is active (step S). Then, the launcher control unit selectively executes one of the two routines described below, in response to the determination result.","Routine 1: Keyboard Unit : Closed, Second Application Program : Inactive","In Routine 1, the launcher control unit determines whether or not the time display  (the display (1)) is open (step S). If the time display  (the display (1)) is open, the launcher control unit returns to the step for determining whether the keyboard unit  is open or closed (step S). If the time display screen  (the display (1)) is not opened, the launcher control unit opens the time display  (the display (1)) (step S), and then the launcher control unit returns to the step for determining whether the keyboard unit  is open or closed (step S). In this routine, the display specified for showing time information in the closed state (in other words, the time display ) can be displayed, as in the embodiment described above.","Routine 2: Keyboard Unit : Closed, Second Application Program : Active","In Routine , the launcher control unit determines whether or not the display for time and audio control  (the display (2)) is open (step S). If the display for time and audio control  (the display (2)) is open, the launcher control unit returns to the step for determining whether the keyboard unit  is open or closed (step S). If the display for time and audio control  (the display (2)) is not opened, the launcher control unit opens the display for time and audio control  (the display (2)) (step S), and then returns to the step for determining whether the keyboard unit  is open or closed (step S). In this routine, a display specified for the closed state that is different from that in the embodiment described above, that is to say, the display specified for the closed state (the display for time and audio control ) including the operational objects (for example, title objects, such as \u201cSTOP\u201d, \u201cPLAY\/PAUSE\u201d, \u201cSKIP \u2212\u201d, \u201cSKIP +\u201d, \u201cDISP\u201d, \u201cRWD\u201d, \u201cFF\u201d, \u201cVOL \u2212\u201d, \u201cVOL +\u201d), which are in accordance with the second application program , can be displayed. Functions associated with a click event for each title object are as follows:","\u201cSTOP\u201d: stop playback,","\u201cPLAY\/PAUSE\u201d: start play\/interrupt play during playback,","\u201cSKIP \u2212\u201d: go to the beginning of the current track,","\u201cSKIP +\u201d: go to the beginning of the next track,","\u201cDISP\u201d: switch the display form of track playing time,","\u201cRWD\u201d: rewind the current track,","\u201cFF\u201d: fast forward the current track,","\u201cVOL \u2212\u201d: lower the volume,","\u201cVOL +\u201d: turn up the volume.","Consequently, according to the modified flowchart, the display specified for the closed state (the time display  or ) for displaying time information can be displayed on the uncovered portion of the liquid crystal display panel  while the keyboard unit  is closed, as in the embodiment described above. Also, another type of display specified for the closed state (display for time and audio control  or ), which includes an interface similar to the second application program , instead of the display specified for the closed state (the time display  or ) for displaying time information, can be displayed while the second application program  is active.","Consequently, by using the latter display specified for the closed state (the display for time and audio control  or ), a particular advantage such as the ability to manipulate various audio resources without problems can be obtained even if the keyboard unit  is collapsed. Therefore, advantageous technology can be offered by applying this advantage to electronic apparatuses having a function for playing back, for example, TVs and DVDs.","The modifications described below may be made although they are not mentioned in the above descriptions.","First Modification","When the time display  or  shown in  or B is open, if the user clicks a particular character string on the display, the display for time and audio control  or  shown in  or B may be displayed, instead of the time display  or . In this case, if the second application program  is not being executed, the second application program  is executed at the same time. On the other hand, when the display for time and audio control  or  shown in  or B is open, if the user clicks a particular character string (for example, Motion Clock) on the display, the time display  or  shown in  or B may be displayed, instead of the display for time and audio control  or .","Second Modification","When the time display  or  shown in  or B is open or when the display for time and audio control  or  shown in  or B is open, the lower half (covered portion ) of the liquid crystal display panel  is covered. If a cursor is located in the covered portion , it is troublesome for the user to move the cursor to the uncovered portion in order to select an object. In order to overcome this problem, the coordinates of the cursor are limited to the uncovered portion while the keyboard unit  is closed (while the detection signal Sa is active). The cursor is not covered, so that the inconvenience of the user having to move the cursor to the uncovered portion can be avoided.","Third Modification","For example, when animation objects such as Flash (registered trademark) animations are included in the time display  or  shown in  or B or the display for time and audio control  or  show in  or B in order to enhance the visual effect, some hardware resources (for example, the capacity of the CPU ) are required for display control of such animation objects. If a high-load application program (for example, an image processing program such as an MPEG decoder) is being executed in the background, there is a possibility that the running program may adversely affect the operation of the image processing program. For example, frames may be dropped. In order to overcome this problem, for example, if the particular high-load application program is being executed, the display of the animation objects mentioned above may be prevented, or a corresponding message may be displayed instead of the display including these animation objects (the time display  or , or the display for time and audio control  or ).","Furthermore, in order to improve audio quality, it is desirable that the speakers R and L provided on both sides of the liquid crystal display panel  not be covered by the keyboard unit  even if the keyboard unit  is closed. For example, the speakers R and L are disposed on a portion of the display unit  in such a manner that the speakers R and L are located above the portion covered by the keyboard unit , as shown in . This arrangement provides optimal sound quality even when the user listens to a musical composition or the like with the keyboard unit  closed, thus improving the audio quality.","Main functions of the electronic apparatus according to this embodiment are functionally realized by a combination of hardware resources including the microcomputer (CPU ) and software resources, such as a basic program and various application programs. Since the general hardware resources and basic program can be used, essential items of the present invention are substantially incorporated into the first application program . Consequently, the present invention includes recording media, such as a floppy (registered trademark) disk, a magneto-optical disk (MO), a compact disk (CD), a hard disk, or a semiconductor memory, which stores the entire first application program  or most of it. The recording media include a recording medium that is on the network and that provides only recorded content, as well as a recording medium physically distributed.","The electronic apparatus according to the present invention includes detecting means for detecting whether a portion of a display area of a display unit is covered by an input device and display control means for controlling a display mode for an uncovered portion, which is not covered by the input device, of the display area of the display unit while the detecting means detects that a portion of the display area of the display unit is covered by the input device. Therefore, a portion of the display screen of the display unit (uncovered portion) can be used even while the input device is collapsed. Accordingly, both the ability to store the input device and availability of the display unit can be simultaneously achieved.","Also, according to an embodiment of the present invention, the input device may be a keyboard unit. In the display mode, any display may appear on the uncovered portion, which is not covered by the keyboard unit. Therefore, by using the display, a portion of the display screen of the display unit (uncovered portion) can be used while the keyboard unit is not used.","According to another embodiment of the present invention, the display may include either the current date or the current time, or both the current date and the current time. Accordingly, a portion of the display screen of the display unit (uncovered portion) can be used for either date display or time display, or both the date and time display while the keyboard unit is not used.","According to still another embodiment of the present invention, while a predetermined application program is being executed in the electronic apparatus, the display may have a format corresponding to the application program. Therefore, for example, if an application program for playing back content, such as animation or music, is used, the user can grasp the operating state of the application software for playing back content and can operate the application software through the display appearing on the uncovered portion of the display unit.","According to still another embodiment of the present invention, in the display control step, a cursor is located on the uncovered portion, which is not covered by the keyboard unit, while the processing in the detecting step detects that a portion of the display area of the display unit is covered by the keyboard unit. Therefore, while the keyboard unit is closed, the cursor is always located on the uncovered portion of the display unit. Consequently, the cursor is not hidden in the covered portion."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIGS. 1A","b":["1","1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIGS. 2A and 2B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":"FIGS. 3A and 3B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":"FIGS. 6A and 6B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":"FIGS. 8A and 8B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":["FIG. 9","FIG. 7"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":"FIGS. 10A and 10B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"figref":"FIGS. 11A and 11B"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
