---
title: Methods and systems for accessing a network-based computer system
abstract: A method for accessing a network-based computer system utilizing a server system that is coupled to a centralized database and at least one client system. The method includes the steps of entering at a client system a single sign on identification (SSO ID) and a single sign on password (SSO password) assigned to a user, receiving at the server system the user's SSO ID and SSO password, authenticating the SSO ID and SSO password by transmitting the SSO ID and SSO password to the database, displaying on the client system after authenticating the entered SSO ID and SSO password each computer system that the user is permissioned to access, selecting a computer system to be accessed by the user, randomly generating a user password at the server system for accessing the selected computer system, transmitting a user identification (user ID) and the randomly generated user password from the server system to the selected computer system; and accessing the selected computer system by the user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07690025&OS=07690025&RS=07690025
owner: General Electric Company
number: 07690025
owner_city: Schenectady
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20030403
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION"],"p":["This invention relates generally to computer network-based systems and more particularly to accessing network-based computer systems.","At least some known business entities utilize a variety of network-based computer systems as part of their normal operations of the business. Such computer systems are typically accessed by a variety of employees, and may include, for example, mainframe computer systems and independent legacy computer systems. Typically, an employee will access such a computer system by entering a user ID and a password into a computer workstation that is in communication with the computer system. The user ID and the password are processed by the computer system, and, if recognized by the computer system, the employee is granted access to the computer system.","Typically, each computer system will have its own format for establishing a user ID and a password. Such formats can be different for different computer systems. For example, one such system may only require a four digit user ID, while another such system may require up to seven characters for a user ID. Additionally, at least some computer systems only recognize numeric characters for a user ID) and\/or for passwords, while other known systems may recognize both numeric and alphabetical characters.","Employees at business entities which have a variety of such computer systems, may be required to access more than one of these computer systems on a daily, weekly, or less frequently basis. Consequently, these employees are required to remember a specific user ID and password for each computer system. However, the user ID and password for one computer system may be significantly different from a user ID and password for another computer system, and may be in a format that is difficult to remember. If an employee is unable to remember a user ID and\/or a corresponding password for accessing a computer system, the employee may be unable to access the computer system and may be unable to effectively perform his or her job functions.","In one aspect, a method for accessing a network-based computer system using a server system is provided. The server system is coupled to a centralized database and at least one client system. The method includes the steps of entering at a client system a single sign on identification (SSO ID) and a single sign on password (SSO password) assigned to a user, receiving at the server system the user's SSO ID and SSO password, authenticating the SSO ID and SSO password by transmitting the SSO ID and SSO password to the database, displaying on the client system after authenticating the entered SSO ID and SSO password each computer system that the user is permissioned to access, selecting a computer system to be accessed by the user, randomly generating a user password at the server system for accessing the selected computer system, transmitting a user identification (user ID) and the randomly generated user password from the server system to the selected computer system, and accessing the selected computer system by the user.","In another aspect, a system for accessing a network based computer system is provided. The system includes a client system having a browser, a centralized database for storing information, and a server system. The server system is configured to be coupled to the client system and the database. The server system is further configured to receive from the client system a single sign on identification (SSO ID) and a single sign on password (SSO password) assigned to a user, transmit the SSO ID and SSO password to the database for authentication purposes, display on the client system each computer system that the user is permissioned to access based on the authenticated SSO ID and SSO password, prompt the user to select a computer system to be accessed, randomly generate a user password for accessing the selected computer system, transmit a user identification (user ID) and the randomly generated user password to the selected computer system, and access the selected computer system by the user.","In another aspect, a computer program embodied on a computer readable medium for accessing a network-based computer system is provided. The program includes a code segment that receives a single sign on identification (SSO ID) and a single sign on password (SSO password) assigned to a user and then authenticates the SSO ID and SSO password, displays on the client system each computer system that the user is permissioned to access, prompts the user to select a computer system to be accessed, randomly generates a user password for accessing the selected computer system, and transmits a user identification (user ID) and the randomly generated user password to the selected computer system such that the selected computer system is accessed by the user.","Methods and systems for accessing network-based computer systems are described herein in the context of utilizing a single sign on (SSO) page to access at least one computer system, also known as a mainframe and\/or legacy computer system. The methods and systems, however, are not limited to accessing network-based computer systems and can be utilized for accessing other computer systems. For example, the methods and systems described herein can be utilized for accessing a stand alone computer that is not configured in a network. Although the methods and systems are believed to be particularly useful in accessing network-based computer systems, namely mainframe computer systems and independent legacy computer systems, that may be accessible via wide area networks and local area networks (e.g., an entity's intranet and the Internet), such systems and methods can be also used in accessing many other types of computer systems.","The methods and systems for accessing a computer system are described herein as being implemented in connection with a web site that is accessible via a computer network system, including an entity's intranet. The example web site provides a single entry point through which individuals can access a variety of computer systems in order to access information, support, training, and action. The web site also provides an integrated approach to providing internal users or customers with education, information and computer assisted or human help on a specific subject, problem or a project. In an alternative embodiment, the methods and systems for accessing a computer system as described herein may be implemented using a web site that is accessible via the Internet.","At least one technical effect produced by the system, which is referred to herein as a Single Sign On System (\u201cSSOS\u201d), includes enabling a user to launch a link in a browser on the user's workstation, which opens up a Single Sign On enabled web page. The user then logs into the SSO web page to gain access. The page that loads after the SSO login is a page interfacing with a password application that utilizes a SSO ID as an input parameter for generating a password reset workflow. In the example embodiment, the password application utilized by the system is known as PasswordCourier\u00ae, which is manufactured by Courion\u00ae Corporation, Natick, Mass. (PasswordCourier and Courion are both registered trademarks of Courion Corporation, Natick, Mass.) In the example embodiment, the SSO ID is the user's employee ID. In an alternative embodiment, the SSO ID is another form of identification for a user.","More specifically, in the example embodiment, the user logs into the SSO web page to gain access to a legacy computer system by entering a SSO ID and a password assigned to the user. The SSOS passes the user's SSO ID to a web page for validating the SSO ID. The SSOS validates the SSO ID by using a backend database to determine whether the entered SSO ID exists. Based on the SSO ID entered, a password application, known as PasswordCourier\u00ae, runs a query to return all user IDs associated with the given SSO ID. Each user ID returned from the backend database is associated with a legacy computer system. This information is also part of the record in the backend database. The user can then select which computer system the user wants to log into from a dropdown box. The system then generates a random password according to the password rules defined for the selected computer system. The password is captured in a variable and is passed to the password application. The password application then executes the password reset on the target computer system for the user ID selected. The randomly generated password, which is unknown to the user, is now the user's new password for the selected target computer system only.","A user session to the selected legacy computer system is then opened from the user's browser. In the example embodiment, the user session to the legacy computer system is opened from the browser using an Application Programming Interface (API) and a Telnet emulator, for example a WRQ Reflections\u00ae Web Emulator (WRQ Reflections is a register trademark of WRQ, Inc., Seattle, Wash.; and WRQ Reflections Web Emulator is manufactured by WRQ, Inc., Seattle, Wash.). API code communicates the user's user ID for the selected legacy computer system and the new randomly generated password to the legacy computer system. The user is then securely logged into the selected legacy computer system without ever typing, or knowing, the user's computer system password. Moreover, in the example embodiment, the system may also utilize a live \u201ccookie\u201d such that the user will not even need to enter the assigned SSO password.","The methods and systems described herein provide increased security for accessing computer systems, improve a user's convenience for accessing such computer systems because users only have to remember one set of IDs and passwords, and provide a seamless login to a variety of legacy computer systems.","In one embodiment, the system is a computer program embodied on a computer readable medium implemented utilizing Java\u00ae and Structured Query Language (SQL) with a client user interface front-end for administration and a web interface for standard user input and reports. (Java is a registered trademark of Sun Microsystems, Inc., Palo Alto, Calif.). In an example embodiment, the system is web enabled and is run on a business-entity's intranet. In yet another embodiment, the system is fully accessed by individuals having an authorized access outside the firewall of the business-entity through the Internet. In a further example embodiment, the system is being run in a Windows\u00ae NT environment (Windows is a registered trademark of Microsoft Corporation, Redmond, Wash.). The application is flexible and designed to run in various different environments without compromising any major functionality.","The systems and processes are not limited to the specific embodiments described herein. In addition, components of each system and each process can be practiced independent and separate from other components and processes described herein. Each component and process can be used in combination with other components and processes.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["10","12","14","12","14","12","14","14","14","12"]},"SSOS  also includes a database server . Database server  is connected to a User Directory database  and a User ID Directory database . User Directory database  and User ID Directory database  are linked through a SSO ID. In the example embodiment, to gain access to a legacy computer system, a user logs into a SSO web page by entering into client system  an assigned SSO ID and password. SSO server system  transmits the user's SSO ID to User Directory database  for validating the SSO ID. SSOS  utilizes a Lightweight Data Access Protocol (LDAP) to validate the SSO ID at database .","After validation, SSO server system  generates a user ID query based on the SSO ID, which is transmitted to User ID Directory database . In the example embodiment, User ID Directory database  includes information relating to: (i) each user having permission to access a legacy computer system, (ii) each legacy computer system (e.g., mainframe, AS400, HP3000) that each user has been granted access to, and (iii) a user ID assigned to each user for each of the legacy computer systems.","In the example embodiment, each user ID returned from database  is associated with a legacy computer system. Each user ID is displayed in a table that includes a SSO ID column, a user ID column, and a System column.","SSOS  then enables a user to select which computer system the user wants to log into from a table transmitted from database . After the user selects the legacy computer system to access, SSO server system  generates a random password according to the password rules defined for the selected computer system. The password is captured in a variable and is passed to a password application. The password application then executes the password reset on the target computer system for the user ID selected. The randomly generated password, which is unknown to the user, is now the user's new password for the selected target computer system only. A user session to the legacy system is then opened from the browser on client system .","In another embodiment, User Directory database  and User ID Directory database  are stored on SSO server system  and can be accessed by potential users at one of client systems  by logging onto SSO server system  through one of client systems . In another embodiment, User Directory database  and User ID Directory database  are stored remotely from SSO server system  and may be non-centralized.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1","FIG. 2","FIG. 1","FIG. 1"],"b":["30","30","10","30","32","14","32","16","34","36","38","40","42","12","44","16","40","44","20","22"]},"Servers , , , , , , and  are coupled in a local area network (LAN) . In addition, a system administrator's workstation , a user workstation , and a supervisor's workstation  are coupled to LAN . Alternatively, workstations , , and  are coupled to LAN  via an Internet link or are connected through an Intranet.","Each workstation, , , and  is a personal computer having a web browser. Although the functions performed at the workstations typically are illustrated as being performed at respective workstations , , and , such functions can be performed at one of many personal computers coupled to LAN . Workstations , , and  are illustrated as being associated with separate functions only to facilitate an understanding of the different types of functions that can be performed by individuals having access to LAN .","Server system  is configured to be communicatively coupled to various individuals, including employees  and to third parties, e.g., designated outside users,  via an ISP Internet connection . The communication in the example embodiment is illustrated as being performed via the Internet, however, any other wide area network (WAN) type communication can be utilized in other embodiments, i.e., the systems and processes are not limited to being practiced via the Internet. In addition, and rather than WAN , local area network  could be used in place of WAN .","In the example embodiment, any authorized individual having a workstation  can access SSOS . At least one of the client systems includes a manager workstation  located at a remote location. Workstations  and  are personal computers having a web browser. Also, workstations  and  are configured to communicate with server system . Furthermore, fax server  communicates with remotely located client systems, including a client system  via a telephone link. Fax server  is configured to communicate with other client systems , , and  as well.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0037"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 1","FIG. 1","FIG. 1"],"b":["200","10","10","210","14","10","230","14","12","240","10","250","260"]},"The user then selects  which computer system the user wants to log into from a dropdown box generated by SSOS . After the user selects  the legacy computer system to access, SSO server system  generates  a random password according to the password rules defined for the selected computer system. The password is captured in a variable and the system communicates  the password to the password application. The password application then executes  the password reset on the selected computer system for the user ID selected. The randomly generated password, which is unknown to the user, is now the user's new password for the selected computer system only.","SSOS  opens  a user session to the legacy system from the browser on client system . In the example embodiment, SSOS  opens  the user session to the legacy computer system using an Application Programming Interface (API) and a Telnet emulator, for example a WRQ Reflections\u00ae Web Emulator. The API code communicates  the user ID of the user on the selected legacy computer and the new randomly generated password to the selected computer system. The user is then securely logged into  the selected legacy computer system without ever typing, or knowing, the user's computer system password.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0041","num":"0040"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 1"],"b":["500","10","500","500","500","500"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0042","num":"0041"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 1"],"b":["550","10","550","550"]},"In the example embodiment, user interface  is displayed after a user selects a computer system link displayed on user interface  (shown in ) and if the user is not already logged into SSOS  (shown in ). The user then enters a SSO User ID assigned to the user into the SSO User ID data field, enters a SSO Password assigned to the user into the SSO Password data field, and clicks on the Log In button to access the selected computer system.","In the example embodiment, by selecting the Modify Account link, a user can access that particular user's account and modify the information assigned to that account. By selecting I Forgot My SSO User ID and Password links, a screen is displayed prompting the user to input certain information. By inputting the requested information, SSOS  provides the user with their assigned SSO ID and SSO Password.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0045","num":"0044"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 1"],"b":["600","10","600","600","600"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0046","num":"0045"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 1","FIG. 1"],"b":["650","10","650","650","10"]},"SSOS  the opens a user session to the selected computer system from a browser on client system  (shown in ). In the example embodiment, SSOS  opens the user session to the selected computer system using an Application Programming Interface (API) and a Telnet emulator, for example a WRQ Reflections\u00ae Web Emulator. The API code communicates the user ID of the user on the selected computer system and the new randomly generated password to the computer system. The user is then securely logged into the selected computer system without ever typing, or knowing, the user's computer system password.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0048","num":"0047"},"figref":["FIG. 8","FIG. 1"],"b":["700","10","700"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0049","num":"0048"},"figref":["FIG. 9","FIG. 1","FIG. 6"],"b":["750","10","750","600","750","750"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0050","num":"0049"},"figref":["FIG. 10","FIG. 1"],"b":["800","800","10","800"]},"SSOS  therefore facilitates an increase in security for accessing legacy computer system because users do not know their own legacy passwords and such passwords are not stored anywhere. The SSOS also provides improved user convenience because the user only has to remember one set of IDs and passwords to access a plurality of legacy computer systems. Furthermore, the SSOS provides a seamless login for users that are already logged into the SSOS such that the users are not prompted to login Ids and passwords for each legacy computer system. Consequently, the SSOS eliminates the need for users to be required to remember numerous passwords and user IDs for each legacy computer system. Moreover, the user will no longer have to contact a computer help desk or a technology department within the business so that the user's user ID and\/or password may be retrieved so that the user can access the computer system. Rather, the SSOS provides a secure solution that authenticates the user using a standard employee ID and password, and then sets a new random password that conforms to the proper format each time a user logs into a legacy computer system using a password reset utility.","While the invention has been described in terms of various specific embodiments, those skilled in the art will recognize that the invention can be practiced with modification within the spirit and scope of the claims."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 10"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
