---
title: Method and apparatus for securely providing identification information using translucent identification member
abstract: An apparatus and method for securely providing identification information generates one or more obscured identifiers for a recipient, such as one or more identifiers that are generated based on data unique to a recipient or other information as may be appropriate. In one embodiment, the method and apparatus generates a translucent identification member, such as a plastic card, sheet, film or other suitable member that has a translucent area that includes one or more obscured identifiers. When the translucent identification member is overlayed on a screen displaying a visual filtering pattern, one of one or more obscured identifiers is visually revealed for use during the particular transaction. The revealed identifier is entered into a recipient device and sent to an authenticator to be verified as an appropriate identifier for the transaction.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08612757&OS=08612757&RS=08612757
owner: Entrust, Inc.
number: 08612757
owner_city: Dallas
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20031230
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["FIELD OF THE INVENTION","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF A PREFERRED EMBODIMENT OF THE INVENTION"],"p":["The invention relates generally to methods and apparatus for authenticating users or other entities or for securely providing identification information, and more particularly to methods and apparatus that securely provide identification information such as part of a multi-factor authentication scheme.","Information security and user identification security are becoming increasingly important as technology becomes more sophisticated. For example, multi-factor authentication schemes are used in an attempt to thwart hackers or to thwart other inappropriate uses of information and user identities. For example, a two factor authentication scheme may use information known to a recipient or user such as a password or personal identification number (PIN) as well as some type of physical token such as a banking card, credit card, password token or other physical token which a user must be in physical possession of in order to initiate and complete an on-line transaction. Another level of authentication may include biometric authentication that may include the scanning of a fingerprint, eye or other biometric to again verify that the user attempting to gain access to a process, device, application or other right is in fact the appropriate user.","Transaction cards are known that may include for example smart cards, magnetic strip-based cards, and other transaction cards that facilitate banking transactions, credit card transactions, or any other suitable transactions. As known in the art, a user personal identification number (PIN) is usually required in addition to the possession of a banking card to obtain cash from a cash-dispensing machine or to otherwise carry out an online transaction. One known multi-factor authentication technique employs the use of a hardware token such as a battery operated smart card that displays a periodically changing and seemingly random number on a portion of the smart card. When a user wishes to execute a transaction with the smart card, for example, the user enters the seemingly random number that changes often. The receiving transaction server compares the received code entered by the user as displayed on the smart card with a corresponding number generated by a code source generator. If the code entered by the user matches the number generated by the code source generator, the transaction is approved and the user is granted a particular right such as accessing a bank account, purchasing goods, obtaining information, gaining access to a website or other software application, or any other suitable right as desired. However, such hardware tokens can be quite expensive and are battery powered thereby requiring changing of the battery and the potential of an electronic malfunction due to moisture problems or any other problems related to electronic circuitry.","Other smart cards that do not employ such screens typically require a card reader that reads, for example, a magnetic strip. This can be a restriction where a user wishes to perform an online transaction but is not sitting at a terminal that contains or has access to a magnetic strip reader.","In an apparently unrelated field, translucent cards are known such as plastic cards that contain a semi-transparent picture or pattern that when visually evaluated does not appear to connote any particular information. However, when the translucent card is held over a display with a corresponding background filter pattern, the combination of the pattern on the card with the background pattern on the display screen combine to present a visually recognizable message or word such as the word \u201csorry\u201d or \u201cyou're a winner\u201d. These are static messages which are not unique to any user and typically include only a single message. Such plastic cards may be used for example to see if a holder has won a prize. The card for example may be mailed in the mail to members of a population. Those recipients then go to a web page identified on the translucent card or otherwise indicated in the mailing information to see if they have won a prize. However, such plastic cards do not provide multi-factor authentication, are not user specific, do not include multiple messages and typically include static messages.","Accordingly, a need exists for a method and apparatus for securely providing identification information that overcomes one or more of the above problems.","Briefly, in one embodiment, an apparatus and method for securely providing identification information generates one or more obscured user (e.g., recipient) identifiers for a recipient, such as a plurality of identifiers that are generated based on user secret data such as a password, personal identification number or other secret or non-secret information or identifiers that are not based on user secret data, such as the identifier being randomly generated and then associated with the user. In this case, no user-related information is used, but the identifier can still identify the user. In another embodiment, a single obscured identifier may be used.","In one embodiment, the method and apparatus generates a translucent identification member (TIDM), such as a portion of, or an entire, plastic card, sheet, film, or other suitable member that has a translucent area that includes the one or more obscured identifiers. As used herein, translucent area can also include a transparent area. For example, the translucent identification member may be made from transparent or clear sheets, including smoked plastic or other suitable coloring with the obscured identifiers (including non-character information) printed in ink or otherwise placed thereon or therein. The one or more obscured identifiers may be for example one-time authentication identifiers that are unique to a recipient of the translucent identification member. As such, the translucent identification member or card contains what appears to visually be a random pattern of information.","A corresponding visual filtering pattern is also generated for display on a display device when the user desires to use the translucent identification member. For example, the visual filtering pattern also appears to be random from a visual point of view but when visually combined with the one or more obscured identifiers on the translucent identification member, a designated one of the one or more obscured identifiers is visually revealed. In one embodiment, a user may overlay the translucent identification member over a designated portion of a display device or in the designated portion of a display that displays the visual filtering pattern. A combination of the visual filtering pattern with the pattern of different obscured identifiers on the translucent identification member combine to form a visually revealed single identifier or message from the one or more identifiers. Hence, for example in one embodiment, a seemingly random pattern is generated on a screen which helps ensure only a single identifier is exposed visually to a user that is viewing the translucent identification member which is overlayed on the visual filtering pattern that is being displayed on the display.","Accordingly, if desired, a security officer that has access, for example, to a translucent identification member issuer may use a package of blank cellophane cards that may be used to make the translucent identification members on a local printer. The translucent identification members may be printed having translucent color pattern that serves as the one or more obscured identifiers, or have other suitable indicia that appears to be semi-random or obscured to a user. Use of color or color background may also be used to defeat photocopying attacks. It will be recognized that portions of or all functions of the translucent identification member issuer may be provided through a distribution of providers and networks or through a web based service. For example, a recipient may access a TIDM issuance service through a web connection and locally print the TIDM or receive the TIDM through the mail. Also, identifiers can be provided by one party and sent to another party for printing or manufacturing. Other distribution of operations may also be employed as desired.","Once a visually revealed identifier is presented to a user, a user enters the visually revealed identifier through a user interface where it is compared to an expected identifier. If the entered identifier matches the expected identifier, proper authentication is indicated and a recipient may be granted access to a device, application, or process or other desired right (or submitted data is accepted\u2014e.g. such as a vote). In addition, a list of revoked translucent identification members may also be maintained to prevent compromise due to theft or loss of translucent identification members. The list may be stored in any suitable location and updated by a service provider, translucent identification member issuer or any suitable entity. Since the translucent identification members do not require electronics to generate random numbers, the cost of such translucent identification members may be quite low and their reliability may also be relatively high since they are not susceptible to moisture or other damage typically associated with smart cards.","In an alternative embodiment, a smart card or other transaction card or non-transaction card (e.g., voting card or other suitable card) may include a translucent identification member if desired. Hence a transaction card is disclosed and includes for example a portion containing card identification information (such as a transaction card number, which may be impressed thereon such as through raised printing or electronically or through any other suitable storage mechanism such as magnetic strip or any other suitable mechanism), as well as a portion containing a translucent identification member that has a translucent area that includes one or more obscured identifiers. As such transaction cards such as credit cards, banking cards or any other transaction cards may include a window that contains the translucent identification member or may have a transaction identification number or other identification information affixed to a conventional transaction card to enhance security.","In another embodiment, the role of the translucent identification member and the recipient unit are reversed. For example, in this embodiment, the translucent identification member contains the visual filtering pattern and the display screen displays at least one obscured identifier that may be for example data representing user authentication data that is unique to a user, or other data if desired. The combination of overlaying the translucent identification member (visual filter) over the display that displays an obscured identifier, reveals (un-obscures) the at least one obscured identifier on the screen. The visual filtering pattern on the member stays the same since it is printed on the member, and the displayed obscured identifier is changed during each session or at other suitable intervals.","Accordingly, one or more of the following advantages may result. Since the translucent identification members can be printed by an organization security officer, no manufacturing costs need to be incurred and they can be generated locally for a recipient. Since there need not be electronics, there is no battery to be replaced and no damage from exposure to moisture need occur. No network or radio connectivity is required such as typically required by devices employing magnetic strips. The translucent identification member may be made of plastic or any other suitable material and in any suitable thickness. They are durable and easy to replace in the event of a compromise since they may be produced locally to an organization. Also investment in a substantial network infrastructure to continually generate master codes that are matched with dynamically changing codes on a screen and a smart card can be avoided.","In one embodiment, the displayed visual filtering pattern selectively illuminates a portion of a translucent identification member to visually reveal one of the one or more obscured identifiers. The visual filtering pattern can be changed with each authentication session. The one or more obscured identifiers are printed indicia on a semitransparent (or transparent) card and is preferably unique within a particular domain of users. The one or more obscured identifiers are visually obscured through many suitable techniques such as color shading, ordering of the characters, a combination thereof or any other suitable visual obfuscation technique.  illustrates one example of a system  for securely providing identification information that includes a translucent identification member issuer  operative to generate a secure identification member such as translucent identification member , a visual filter generator , a translucent identification member authentication module , a recipient unit  and memory . In this example, the visual filter generator  and translucent identification member authentication module  are included as part of a translucent identification member authenticator  that may be implemented as one or more software modules executing on a computing unit such as a personal computer, work station, server, hand held device, or any other suitable device or multiple networked devices. The translucent identification member authenticator  is operatively coupled, in this example, to a web server which in turn is operatively coupled to a network such as the Internet  to facilitate web based communication between a recipient unit  and a translucent identification member authenticator . As such multiple circuits are formed by the software and processing device(s). Also, as used herein, circuits also refers to any suitable electronic logic in any suitable form including but not limited to hardware (microprocessors, discrete logic, state machines, digital signal processor etc.), software, firmware or any suitable combination thereof.","The translucent identification member issuer , the visual filter generator , and the translucent identification member authentication module  may be implemented in any suitable manner and is preferably, but not limited to, software modules executing on one or more computing devices that contain one or more processing devices that execute instructions that are stored in memory.","In this example, the translucent identification member issuer  will be described as a local server that generates the translucent identification member  using a printer or other suitable mechanism to generate a translucent identification member . The translucent identification member includes a translucent area that includes one or more obscured identifiers thereon. However, it will be recognized that the translucent identification member issuer  may be included as part of the translucent identification member authenticator , or may be located on any other suitable device including a web server and it will be recognized that any of the software programs described herein may be suitably located on any suitable device or devices as well.","The memory  may be any suitable local or distributed memory and may be located on a web server or locally if desired. The memory may be RAM, ROM or any suitable memory technology. The recipient unit  may be any suitable device such as a laptop computer, desktop computer, hand held device or any other suitable device that includes a display  and user interface, and may include one or more processing devices that execute instructions stored in any suitable memory. The recipient device includes the requisite circuitry to provide one or more user interfaces such as graphic user interfaces through web browsers or other applications or operating systems and may include speech recognition interfaces or any suitable user input interfaces. As such the units include a display circuit operative to display a visual filtering pattern defined such that when the visual filtering pattern is visually combined with one or more obscured identifiers located on a translucent identification member, a designated one of the one or more identifiers is visually revealed; and an input interface operative to receive data representing the visually revealed identifier. In one example, a user interface is used to request entry of a serial number associated with the translucent identification member; and request entry of the revealed identifier to determine whether to grant a desired right for the recipient.","Also if desired, a receiver unit can receive the filter or obscured identifiers for display on a display screen and send the response back through a completely different device (or through a completely different channel) such as a cell phone, by SMS message, email message or other suitable channel and\/or device.","Referring also to , a method for securely providing identification information will be described. As shown in block , a recipient sends a request into the translucent identification member issuer  through the Internet or through any other suitable mechanism to request issuance of a translucent identification member . This may be done for example by a recipient registering with an online financial institution with user-supplied data such as a password or other secret information. This is shown as recipient specific information  that is received by the translucent identification member issuer .","As shown in block , the method includes generating one or more obscured identifiers for a recipient, which may be based on, for example, the recipient specific information  and\/or other information . The other information  may be a translucent identification member serial number or other suitable information if desired. This may be done for example by the translucent identification member issuer , or any other suitable entity. As shown in block , the method includes generating the translucent identification member  that has a translucent area  that includes one or more obscured identifiers . The one or more obscured identifiers  are generated by the translucent identification member issuer  in this example and stored in memory  in a database form. The one or more obscured identifiers are stored in memory  so that they may be subsequently accessed when it becomes necessary to create appropriate visual patterns  to reveal the desired revealed identifier  or when checking the returned revealed identifier .","For example, the translucent identification member issuer  may control a printer to print a cellophane card as a translucent identification member  that has printed thereon one or more obscured identifiers. One example of a translucent identification member is shown in . The translucent identification member  can be made of any suitable material such as plastic or any other suitable material that provides some level of transparency so that a combination of the one or more obscured identifiers when overlayed on a display that emits light, allows the light energy (or lack of light energy) from the display to combine with the one or more obscured identifiers to visually designate one of the one or more identifiers on a translucent identification member. The one or more identifiers on a translucent identification member may also be a plurality of different obscured identifiers.","The translucent identification member  may be a card, sheet, film or other member that may include if desired any suitable adhesive or connecting structure to be applied over a window of transaction card, or any other suitable material. The translucent identification member may also be connected to a transaction card, such as, for example, by using a suitable connecting structure to join the translucent identification member to an end or side of a transaction card. The one or more obscured identifiers  that are printed on the translucent identification member , as noted above, may be characters (e.g., ASCII), symbols, print patterns, colored versions thereof or any other suitable indicia. The one or more obscured identifiers  appear to be visually obscured and hence seemingly random when viewed by a recipient. In other embodiments it may be desirable to print patterns of ink that do not connote characters but instead visually conceal a message or other information so that when overlayed on top of a display the pattern generated by the display in combination with the printed image, allows the viewer to visually decipher a revealed identifier.","The translucent area  includes an information pattern that represents one or more identifiers that may be unique identification information that may be used for one or more authentication sessions or other purposes. The information pattern represented by one or more obscured identifiers is preferably unique to a given domain of users to reduce the likelihood of the same user obtaining a same translucent identification member with the same obscured identifiers. The translucent area  is configured (e.g. sized) to overlay at least a portion of the display screen  on the recipient unit . In one embodiment, each of the one or more obscured identifiers may serve as one-time authentication identifiers for the recipient of the translucent identification member. It is noted, as used herein, identification information includes any information used to directly or indirectly authenticate a user (e.g., TIDM recipient) or other process of interest, or to get access to a desired right associated with a process or device, or any other suitable information that is intended to be kept secret except at the time a transaction is to be effected.","To make the TIDM, the method may include receiving a request from a user for one or more obscured user identifiers and recording a link between the user and the identification information associated with the one or more obscured user identifiers. The method may include providing the one or more obscured user identifiers to the user wherein the one or more obscured user identifiers are on a translucent identification member that is sent to the user, the one or more obscured user identifiers are sent to a third party to be placed on a translucent identification member for the user, the one or more obscured user identifiers are sent to the user for placement on a translucent identification member, and the one or more obscured user identifiers are selected from a pre-existing pool of obscured user identifiers. The request from the user may include user specific information and the user specific information may be used to create the one or more obscured identifiers or may be combined with other information to produce the one or more obscured user identifiers.","As shown in block , once the translucent identification member  has been generated and provided to a recipient, the visual filtering generator , or other suitable mechanism generates a visual filtering pattern for display on the display  of the recipient device. When the visual filtering pattern  is displayed by the recipient device, the visual filtering pattern visually combines with the one or more obscured identifiers located on the translucent identification member , to designate one of the one or more identifiers. In other words, the visual filtering pattern filters out undesired identifiers to reveal a selected one of the one or more identifiers.","As shown in block , the method may include overlaying, such as by a recipient, or a device, the translucent identification member  on the displayed filtering pattern  to visually identify a designated one of the obscured identifiers on the translucent identification member . The visually identified identifier is then entered by the recipient to facilitate a transaction or gain access to a specific desired right associated with any process or device of interest.","As shown again in , the steps of  are presented in more detail. As shown in block , generating one or more obscured identifiers for a recipient may be done for example by the translucent identification number issuer  or any other suitable entity by obtaining recipient specific information, such as secret or non-secret data or non-user related information. This process may also be accomplished by using non user-related and non user-supplied material, in which case, the generated one or more obscured identifiers are subsequently associated with a user. When recipient specific information is used, this may be a personal identification number, password, user name, account number or other data provided by the recipient through the recipient unit  or from any other suitable source. This is indicated as recipient specific information . As shown in block  the recipient specific information  is suitably combined, such as through a suitable mathematical function or algorithm, to produce the one or more obscured identifiers . The other information  may be, for example, output generated from a random number generator, the actual translucent identification member serial number  (or other TIDM identification information) that may be printed on the translucent identification member  or stored by the translucent identification member issuer , or any other suitable information. As shown in block , a translucent identification member serial number, or any other suitable information for identifying the translucent identification member, is assigned to the obscured one or more identifiers . It will be recognized that upon an initial request or generation of a translucent identification member that the translucent identification member issuer  may select a translucent identification member serial number and associate therewith the recipient specific information . This information may be combined to generate the one or more obscured identifiers . The translucent identification member serial number  may be stored in memory  for later use by the translucent identification member authenticator  (authenticating a recipient using the translucent identification member ). The order of the steps as described herein with respect to any method may be suitably reordered based on a desired result.","As shown in block , generating the translucent identification member  may include printing the obscured different identifiers in a desired format on a plastic film, sheet or card to produce the translucent identification member . As shown in block , displaying the filtering pattern  on a display may include randomly selecting, from the obscured identifiers, a selected identifier to produce a visual filtering pattern  on display  that reveals the selected one of the obscured identifiers as the identifier to be revealed when the translucent identification member  is overlayed on the visual filtering pattern .","As shown in , and to further illustrate an example, as shown in , the translucent identification member  has printed thereon the translucent identification member serial number  or other identification information and the one or more obscured identifiers  printed in the translucent area . As noted above this may be printed on cellophane material or other material readily accommodated by conventional printers, if desired, to reduce fabrication costs. However any suitable material or manufacturing process may be used. Once the recipient is in possession of the translucent identification member , multi-factor authentication is provided using the translucent identification member .","The filter may be generated in any suitable way. For example, a selected obscured identifier may be chosen from the stored one or more obscured identifiers whose position on the TIDM is defined. The visual filter pattern generator  produces a filtering pattern based on a predefined layout of the TIDM to insure that the filter blocks the proper character locations. Any other suitable technique may also be used.","As shown in , the recipient device  may display, through a web browser or other suitable user interface, an input screen, based on a received HTML page if a web browser is being used, containing fields that receive user input such as a user identifier field , a password field  and the translucent identification member serial number field . The user submits the entered information through suitable interface buttons . This information is then sent to the web server via the Internet and if desired forwarded to the translucent identification member authenticator . As shown in this example the information entered in user ID field  or the password field  may be considered recipient specific information  that was previously entered when the translucent identification member issuer  initially generated the translucent identification member .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0050","num":"0049"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 5","FIG. 6"],"b":["30","14","600","40","30","24","40","20","40","602"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0051","num":"0050"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 1"],"b":["14","40","14","38","40","40","38","700","602","700","24","24","700","14","30","18","700","702","18","702","22","38","702"]},"Referring to  the issuance of a translucent identification member  will be described in more detail by way of an exemplary embodiment. In order to obtain a translucent identification member , a recipient registers with an online bank or other institution using recipient specific information  such as an account number or other information as indicated by registration request . This request is then passed through to a web server . The web server  then communicates with a bank server  which includes for example a customer management system and translucent identification member requester  which may be a suitable software application executing on a processing device if desired or any other suitable structure. The bank server  then generates a translucent identification member issuance request  to the translucent identification member issuer  which may be included in or separate from a suitable server . The translucent identification member issuance request  includes the recipient specific information  entered by the user. In response, the translucent identification member issuer  provides the obscured identifiers  in a response message  and generates and records a translucent identification member serial number  in the memory  along with the associated obscured identifiers  that will appear on the translucent ID member  for the requesting recipient. In this example, the bank server  links the recipient's account with the translucent identification member serial number  and then stores the linked information in a database  for later use. The bank server  then generates the translucent identification member  by, for example, formatting the obscured identifiers  for printing and sending the information to a printer  or other device which then prints out or manufactures the translucent identification member . Hence the translucent identification member serial number  is assigned by the translucent identification member issuer  and is associated (e.g., linked) with the one or more obscured identifiers  and with the user in memory  in a database.","The translucent identification member issuer  may include an information randomizer  and a translucent identification member formatter . The information randomizer  may use the translucent identification member serial number  as other information  to be combined with the recipient specific information  to generate the one or more obscured identifiers . This may be done using a hash algorithm or other suitable encoding technique as desired to generate the one or more obscured identifiers . The translucent identification member formatter  may be another software application executing on a suitable processing device or devices that formats the information for output to a printer or other manufacturing device.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0054","num":"0053"},"figref":["FIGS. 10 and 11","FIG. 5","FIG. 5","FIG. 6"],"b":["1000","32","14","1002","1004","32","44","1006","206","32","44","24","1010","44","38","14","700","1010","24","700","24","1012"]},"As shown in block  if a match does not exist, the recipient will be sent an error and requested to re-enter the revealed identifier. The system may change to using a different identifier for the re-try. Also, the system may lockout the user after a certain number of failed attempts. However, as shown in block , if a match occurs, second factor authentication is determined to be successful and the user is granted the desired right.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0056","num":"0055"},"figref":["FIG. 12","FIG. 13","FIG. 14","FIG. 12"],"b":["14","14","14","1300","1402","1306","14"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0057","num":"0056"},"figref":"FIG. 13","b":["14","14","1400"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0058","num":"0057"},"figref":["FIGS. 14 and 15","FIG. 15","FIGS. 12 and 13"],"b":["14","40"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0059","num":"0058"},"figref":["FIG. 16","FIG. 14","FIG. 1"],"b":["1600","14","24","1602","1602","1602","22"]},"The translucent identification member issuer , in this example generates a TIDM  having a translucent area having a visual filtering pattern  thereon configured to visually filter a displayed obscured user identifier(s)  and is configured to overlay at least a portion of a display screen. Having a user enter in user specific information to initiate a session may be desirable where the same filtering pattern is printed on translucent identifier members for a plurality of users. It is desirable to know that the holder of the TIDM is a proper user as opposed to a thief that stole the TIDM. The authenticator, or other source, sends the generated obscured identifier to the recipient device. The recipient device displays the at least one visually obscured identifier as user authentication data and receives data representing the revealed user authentication data (such as the revealed ID itself or a representation of it) based on the translucent identification member having a filtering pattern thereon. For example when the translucent identification member having the filtering pattern thereon is held over the display, the filter reveals the user identifier. If desired, a translucent identifier serial number can be assigned to each TIDM even though the same filter pattern may be printed on more than one TIDM. As such, several users may have translucent identification members with the same filter pattern.","The translucent identification member issuer  is operative to generate a translucent identification member  having a translucent area that includes a visual filtering pattern  thereon configured to visually filter a displayed obscured user identifier and configured to overlay at least a portion of a display screen. The obscured identifier generator  generates at least one visually obscured identifier for display on a display, in response to received user information such as user specific information. The translucent identification member authenticator , in this example receives data representing the revealed identifier such as through the user entering the information through a user interface after the filtering pattern is overlayed on the display and as previously described, the translucent identification member authenticator compares the received revealed identifier with a corresponding expected identifier (since it was generated by the obscured identifier generator) to determine whether proper authentication of a recipient is appropriate. Alternatively, the translucent identification member authenticator may send the received revealed identifier to a third party that carries out the comparison and sends a message back to the authenticator or recipient unit. Any other suitable division of operations may also be used as desired. The translucent identification member authenticator or third party then sends right-grant information to a recipient unit in response to the received data matching the corresponding expected identifier.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0062","num":"0061"},"figref":"FIG. 17","b":["1700","1702","14","40","1704","40","1706"]},"Stated another way, the method includes receiving user identification information as a first factor of authentication for a user and using, such as by the TIDM authenticator, service provider or other suitable entity, such user identification information to identify a translucent identification member in memory containing a particular visual filtering pattern known to have been associated with such user. The method includes generating an expected identifier to be used as a second factor of authentication for the user associated with the received user identification information and generating a pattern of obscured user identifiers containing the expected identifier such that when the pattern of obscured user identifiers is combined with the visual filtering pattern on the identified translucent identification member associated with the user the expected identifier will be revealed. The method includes transmitting the pattern of obscured user identifiers to a display (e.g., a displayed GUI) and requesting entry of a revealed identifier; and receiving data representing the revealed identifier. As noted above, the TIDM authenticator for example, or any suitable number of servers, or devices act as the circuits to carry out the above operations.","The primary functionality of the disclosed apparatus, methods and systems may be provided through application programming interfaces (APIs) that are executed by one or more processing devices that can be readily integrated into current infrastructures. In addition, each translucent identification member in one embodiment is different and has seemingly different random information since the seemingly random information is typically, but not necessarily, generated from information unique to a recipient, such as a password, user name, personal identification number, or any other information. In each embodiment, translucent identification members, and\/or visual filters and\/or obscured identifiers can be pre-manufactured and subsequently associated with a user. Additionally, the obscured identifiers and\/or filtering patterns can be pre-generated and subsequently applied to translucent identification members. Such subsequent application to translucent identification members may be done by the creator of the filtering patterns or obscured identifiers or may be done by the entity providing the service or by a third-party contractor of the service provider. Since the manufacture of translucent identification members can be done with very simple materials such as transparent plastic, it is also possible for the service provider to send the obscured identifiers or visual patterns to user who can then themselves, apply the filtering pattern or obscured identifiers to a translucent identification member.","The same translucent identification member may be used a repeated number of times since there may be a plurality of different obscured identifiers thereon wherein each time authentication is requested a different one of the obscured identifiers is exposed through the visual filtering pattern. Hence the visually revealed identifier on the translucent identification member can change during each authentication session if desired. The translucent identification members described herein may be used for user authentication, activating software applications or for any other suitable purpose. The different obscured identifiers may be characters, images, or any other suitable information.","The above detailed description of the invention and the examples described therein have been presented for the purposes of illustration and description and that other variations will be recognized by those in the art. For example, it will be recognized that the various operations described herein may be distributed in a network or non-network configuration. For example, different operations of the authenticator or TIDM issuers or other operations may be performed by one or more third party web server(s) or other entities or devices. It is therefore contemplated that the present invention cover any and all modifications, variations or equivalents that fall within the spirit and scope of the basic underlying principles disclosed above and claimed herein."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0008","num":"0007"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 2"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIGS. 10 and 11"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 12"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 13"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 14"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 15"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 16"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 17"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
