---
title: Water pressured destruct enhancer
abstract: The present invention comprises an extension tube that attaches to the bore end of a water jet producing device that is used to render safe improvised explosive devices by disrupting the firing train of said devices. The present invention comprises an extension tube having a sudden enlargement of cross section, that may be formed by adjusting the dimensions of the interior diameter of the extension tube, at the point of attachment, and a series of apertures in the attachment tube. The extension tube provides a more uniform jet of water with more focused energy by containing the jet until breech pressures are vented. Better control of the water jet will be maintained during firing operations. Further, more energy may be put into the water jet to accomplish specific tasks.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=06896204&OS=06896204&RS=06896204
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 06896204
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20031029
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["PRIORITY STATEMENT","STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENT INTEREST","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENT"],"p":["This application is a continuation-in-part of application Ser. No. 10\/055,254, filed on Jan. 24, 2002, now abandoned, which was a continuation application of application Ser. No. 09\/606,164, filed on Jun. 29, 2000, now abandoned.","The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.","1. Field of the Invention","The present invention pertains to an improvement in water cannons, and more particularly to water cannons used to render safe explosive devices. The present invention improves the performance of such systems, particularly related to their use to render safe explosive devices.","2. Description of the Related Art","Presently, devices using water to disrupt detonation of explosive devices are widely used. This is because of the relatively low velocity and density of a water jet. These devices  normally comprise a slug of water contained within a tube between a burst diaphragm and an obturated pusher plate or piston. When pressure is applied to the pusher plate or piston, the burst diaphragm ruptures and a jet of water issues from the device. Pressure to the pusher plate or piston is normally applied by burning a gun propellant that is housed in a cartridge or as a breech charge. The propellant can be ignited electrically, mechanically, or through other means. Electrical initiation of the firing train may start with a planar bridge element, electric match, squib, or shock tube. Mechanical initiation may begin with a primer or flueric device.","One such device, known as a JROD (jet remote operating device), was developed by the United States Navy to render safe improvised explosive devices at close range. The JROD uses the principles named above to supply approximately 600 ft\/sec of water to accomplish this task. However, because the back portion of the water slug in the JROD, and other water disrupt devices, remains in the bore and is still being accelerated after the front portion of the water slug begins to jet out of the bore, it tends to push against the jet that has left the bore. This tends to distort, degrade, and brake-up the jet causing the jet to disperse relatively quickly after leaving the bore and result in a reduced forward speed of the jet. Therefore, in order to use such means to render safe explosive devices, these systems must be placed within proximity of the explosive devices.","The present invention comprises an extension tube that attaches to the bore end of a water based device that is used to render safe improvised explosive devices by disrupting the firing train of said devices. The present invention comprises an extension tube having a sudden enlargement of cross section, that may be formed by adjusting the dimensions of the interior  diameter of the extension tube, at the point of attachment, and a series of open apertures in the attachment tube.","The extension tube as herein described will provide a more uniform jet of water with more focused energy by containing the jet until breech pressures are vented. Better control of the water jet will be maintained during firing operations. Further, more energy may be put into the water jet to accomplish specific tasks. These advantages will allow better penetration of the item on which the device is used. Also, for procedures involving rendering safe improvised explosive devices, this invention will allow the operator to set up the water based device at a position that is further away from the explosives.","Accordingly, it is the object of this invention to provide a device which improves the performance of systems that dispense jets of water.","It is a further object of this invention to provide a device to increase the length of the water jet stream of systems that produce such water jet streams.","It is yet a further object of this invention to permit a tool used for rendering safe explosive ordnance that employs a water jet to be used from further than from the current usage distance.","This invention accomplishes these objectives and other needs related to improvement of water jet stream dispensing devices.","The invention, as embodied herein, comprises an improvement to devices that produce a jet of water having a water slug, a bore end and an outlet diameter associated with the bore end. In one configuration, such a device comprises a slug of water contained within a tube between a burst diaphragm and an obturated pusher plate or piston. When pressure is applied to the pusher plate or piston, the burst diaphragm ruptures and a jet of water issues from the device. Pressure to the pusher plate or piston is normally applied by burning a gun propellant that is housed in a cartridge or as a breech charge.","The improvement comprises an extension tube having a volume sufficient to hold the entire water slug and a means for attaching the extension tube to the bore end of the device. The extension tube having first and second ends, wherein the first end comprises a location proximate to the attaching means and comprises an inner diameter greater than the inner diameter of the outlet of the device. The inner diameter of the extension tube decreases when moving away from the first end until it becomes approximately equal to the inner diameter of the outlet of the device. The point where the inner diameter of the extension tube stops decreasing depends upon the application of the improved device. At least one aperture to release pressure is located within the extension tube, proximate to the attaching means is incorporated. This extension tube  receives the water jet in a cylindrical configuration from the device during the acceleration provided by the device. The abrupt enlargement of the inner diameter of the tube as the water leaves the original device, along with the pressure release ports and the narrowing of the inner diameter of the tube back to its original length follows the general principles of venturi tubes. The water jet will flow into the extension tube with its increase in internal diameter. Because the breech gases are travelling at a substantially greater speed than the water, partially due to some nozzling of the breech gases at the exit of the water jet producing device and also because gases will normally travel faster than liquids, the breech gases will vent through the pressure release apertures rather than continue to push against the water in the extension tube. The venting of the breech gases relieves the pressure that would continue to accelerate the back of the water slug as the front of the water jet exits the extension tube. Therefore, the extension tube provides a more uniform jet of water with more focused energy by containing the jet until the breech pressures are vented.","Referring to , A, and , the invention comprises a water jet producing device  comprising a slug of water  contained within a tube  between a burst diaphragm  and an obturated pusher plate or piston . When pressure is applied to the pusher plate or piston , the burst diaphragm  ruptures and a jet of water issues from the device . Pressure to the pusher plate or piston  is normally applied by burning a gun propellant that is housed in a cartridge or as a breech charge . An extension tube  comprises a volume sufficient to hold the entire water slug . This is to ensure that breech gases  can be vented prior to any portion of the water leaving the extension tube . There is an attaching means  to attach the extension tube  to the bore end  of the water jet producing device . In one embodiment, the attaching means  comprises an inner thread formed in the first end  of  the extension tube  capable of screwing on to the bore end  of the water jet producing device. The first end  of the extension tube  comprises an inner diameter greater than the inner diameter of the bore end . The inner diameter of the extension tube  decreases when moving away from the first end  until it becomes approximately equal to the inner diameter of the bore end  of the water jet producing device. The point where the inner diameter of the extension tube stops decreasing depends upon the application of the improved device. The extension tube  also comprises at least one pressure release aperture  located proximate to the attaching means . Flange(s)  may be placed proximate to the at least one aperture  to direct the gases  exiting the at least one aperture  away from the end of the extension tube .","In one preferred embodiment of the invention, the extension tube  is used in conjunction with a jet remote operating device water disrupt device . In this embodiment, the extension tube  comprises a first end  comprising a diameter of approximately 1.5 inches and a plurality of pressure release apertures , or more preferably eight pressure release apertures . , which is a cut-away of section A\u2014A from , most clearly shows the preferred eight pressure release apertures . The pressure release apertures comprise a diameter of from about 0.3 inches to about 0.5 inches.","Depicted in , the pressure release apertures  may further comprise angled tubes  so that the breech gases that escapes the apertures  are directed away from the second end of the outer barrel . This is done to reduce recoil from the device. Depicted in , flanges  that force escaping breech gases in a direction opposite of the second end of the outer barrel  may also be used for this purpose. The inner diameter of the bore end  of a water disrupt device normally comprises approximately 1.0 inch. In this embodiment, the extension tube   uniformly decreases in diameter to approximately 1 inch at the second end of the outer barrel . In another preferred embodiment of the invention, the extension tube  comprises a nozzle (not shown) attached to the second end  in order to more fully guide the water jet. Finally, the preferred material to construct the extension tube  is steel.","The present invention also includes a method for disrupting the firing train of unexploded ordnance. This method comprises the step of providing a JROD water disrupt device as described above along with the extension tube improvement described above. The remaining steps include aiming the device at the unexploded ordnance and firing the device. The water jet should disrupt the firing train of the ordnance, thereby, rendering the ordnance safe for disposal.","What is described are specific examples of many possible variations on the same invention and are not intended in a limiting sense. The claimed invention can be practiced using other variations not specifically described above. "],"GOVINT":[{},{}],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The accompanying drawings, which are incorporated in and constitute a part of the specification, illustrate embodiments of the invention, and, together with the description, serve to explain the principles of the invention. ",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":["FIG. 1A","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 2"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
