---
title: Electronic closing
abstract: An electronic closing platform facilitates provision of a variety of closing services for lenders, closing agents, borrowers or other parties to closing transactions. Electronic quality control procedures are invoked for closing data and documents whether they are in electronic or paper form. The platform is independently accessible and therefore accommodates data sharing between mortgage industry participants. Electronic signature capabilities, including a batch signing functionality, and tamper evident sealing after signing accommodate improved processing and system integrity. Additional features include registry filing, an electronic vault for storing electronic documents, and electronic recording.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08571973&OS=08571973&RS=08571973
owner: CoreLogic Solutions, LLC
number: 08571973
owner_city: Irvine
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20031209
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION"],"p":["This application claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119(e) of provisional application 60\/431,847, filed Dec. 9, 2002, now abandoned, entitled \u201cElectronic Closing\u201d the entire contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference.","1. Field of the Invention","This invention relates generally to transaction closings and more particularly to an electronic closing platform for real estate closings.","2. Description of the Related Art","Borrowers often use lenders to finance real estate transactions in the primary mortgage market. A mortgage loan closing may involve a property sale, or a refinancing of an owned property. Where there is a property sale, a typical closing can involve a buyer, seller, lender. The lender loans funds to the buyer, and disburses them to the seller to complete the transaction. The buyer signs a promissory note (also referred to as a mortgage note) that obligates the buyer to repay the loaned funds. The buyer is thus often referred to as the borrower in the mortgage loan closing transaction. The closing will typically be performed by a closing agent.","One problem with existing closings is that there can be errors in the closing documents. Another problem is that each party (e.g., lender, closing agent) may have their own computer system for entering and managing data that corresponds to documents used at the closing. There are often discrepancies between the data belonging to the various parties, or discrepancies between a party's data and the closing documents, which need to be corrected or otherwise remedied after a closing takes place.","In addition to the involvement of a lender and closing agent, other parties may also be involved, including but not limited to those performing an appraisal, providing title insurance, providing flood insurance, providing mortgage insurance, and underwriting the loan. These parties also contribute information that is relevant to the closing and may even be used in the closing documents. This furthers the opportunity for errors and discrepancies between and among parties' data, as well as the closing documents.","Other parties may further complicate matters. Lenders sell mortgages to investors in what is known as the secondary mortgage market. Examples of investors include government sponsored entities (GSEs) such as Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac, and Ginnie Mae. Investors also include commercial banks, community banks, savings and loan associations, and others. Some of these entities participate as both lenders and investors at various times. That is, they both sell and purchase portfolios of mortgages. In any event, these investors may make investments in mortgages conditional on particular requirements. For various reasons, closing participants want to meet these particular requirements so that their loans are marketable on the secondary market.","Electronic documents are being introduced for mortgage transactions. Use of these documents can be beneficial to participants in such markets because they can reduce the amount of physical error checking that is often required for paper documents, as well as the number of opportunities for creating discrepancies and errors among and between the various forms used by different participants. However, even where a lender uses electronic documents, a typical closing will still often implement traditional paper based practices, wherein borrowers sign standard paper forms using pen and ink (also referred to as \u201cwet\u201d signing in the industry). Furthermore, there is a disincentive to using electronic documents where other parties in the closing transaction will not be relying upon the electronic document (e.g. closing agent, borrower).","Still another problem with electronic documents is that there are various different systems to which a document will need to integrate. Even where all of the parties to a transaction, and parties to related transactions use the same electronic document format, there are still often discrepancies among and between the variously defined documents.","What is needed is a system for accommodating closing transactions that allows participants to avoid the above described problems and encourages and accommodates the sharing of data, and ensures the accuracy of data used for the closing.","The present invention provides an electronic closing platform and related systems and processes. The electronic closing platform facilitates provision of a variety of closing services for lenders, closing agents, borrowers or other parties to closing transactions. Electronic quality control procedures are invoked for closing data and documents whether they are in electronic or paper form. The platform is independently accessible and therefore accommodates data sharing between mortgage industry participants. The data used by a party or the closing data may be checked for accuracy and consistency among systems at various stages before, during and after the closing.","Electronic signature capabilities, including a batch signing functionality, and tamper evident sealing after signing accommodate improved processing and system integrity. Additional features include registry filing, an electronic vault for storing electronic documents, and electronic recording.","The present invention can be embodied in various forms, including business processes, computer implemented methods, computer program products, computer systems and networks, user interfaces, application programming interfaces, and the like.","In the following description, for purposes of explanation, numerous details are set forth, such as flowcharts and system configurations, in order to provide an understanding of one or more embodiments of the present invention. However, it is and will be apparent to one skilled in the art that these specific details are not required in order to practice the present invention.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["100","100"]},"Prior to describing the process  in more detail, an example of a lender system and electronic mortgage document are now provided for context. Lenders have various systems for generating loan packages. Many Lenders implement what is referred to as a Loan Originating System (LOS). Lenders may also originate a mortgage and create the necessary documents in conjunction with a service provider's electronic mortgage system, such as the MORNETPlus\u00ae 2000 system, which implements Desktop Underwriter\u00ae, Desktop Originator\u00ae, and MORNETPlus Connections, all provided by Fannie Mae. In particular, the Desktop Underwriter\u00ae works with various conventional LOS systems to allow lenders to originate mortgages and create documents such as loan applications. Other pertinent documents can also be created by independently using an LOS, or through MORNETPlus Connections. There are various alternatives, including but not limited to those working with the Freddie Mac Loan Prospector\u00ae, third party document preparation software, and others. Although it may also exist independently, the ECP may be provided in conjunction with such electronic mortgage systems.","Preparation of a loan package results in the creation of an electronic mortgage data set (\u201cEMD\u201d). The EMD may be variously embodied. For example, the EMD may be a lender dataset that is applicable to the loan package, and is used to create corresponding documents. Another example of an EMD is a closing agent dataset that is used pursuant to the closing agent's participation in the closing. An EMD may also be provided as an Extensible Markup Language (XML) based file containing previously defined elements and attributes, and corresponding values. In another alternative, an EMD may be a formal electronic mortgage document. In either case, the actual closing may be one that uses traditional pen and ink signing of paper documents, or electronic signing of an EMD (e.g., electronic signing of formal electronic document or dataset corresponding to closing transaction). Although aspects of the present invention are applicable to any data set, an example of a format for a formal electronic mortgage document is described further below. Additionally, regardless of how it is embodied, the EMD may later be represented in paper form where the EMD is used to create paper documents, if applicable.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":"FIG. 10","b":["1000","1000","1010","1020","1030","1040","1010","1020","1030","120","130","110","120","130"]},"The signature section  provides the electronic signatures for the electronic document. The signature section  may include one or more of the following: (1) the signers of the document, their roles and order of signing the electronic document ; (2) for unsigned documents, signature templates that indicate where signatures are to be applied in the document, the relationship between the signer and the placeholder and how the components of a signature are presented to the signer; (3) for signed documents, a representation of the signature in either digital or electronic form and its relationship to the signer; and (4) for documents with a tamper seal, an XML digital signature verifying the content of the electronic document  represented in an XML digital signature. The tamper seal may also be referred to as a tamper evident seal, as it later can provide evidence whether the digital content had been altered. Some signatures may also reside in the view area. All of the signature features may also be provided outside the boundaries of the electronic document.","The sections , , ,  are variously optional depending upon the circumstances and usage of the electronic document . For example, it might be desirable to strip one or more of header , data , view  and signature  sections from the electronic document  to facilitate processing, display or transmission. Likewise, an electronic document that is only intended for viewing may not contain a data  section (e.g., a billing statement emailed to a client). It also may be desirable to replace the view  section with viewable electronic documents in alternative formats such as a PDF or an image file. A formal electronic mortgage document is described further in commonly assigned application Ser. No. 10\/321,823, entitled \u201cElectronic Document for Mortgage Transactions\u201d and filed on Dec. 17, 2002 by J. Harvey Trimble, Jr. et al., the contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference.","Again, the electronic document  is described only by way of an example, and other EMDs that differ from the described electronic document  are equally applicable to the electronic closing functionality of the present invention.","Referring again to the flow diagram of , the electronic closing process  initiates with the Lender requesting data validation  prior to placing an order for closing services, which ensures consistency of lender data. Such validation can be provided by an electronic quality control functionality that is provided by the ECP or by the Lender locally. The validation may be performed using conventional validation techniques dependant upon the type of data that is involved, such as validation of an Extensible Markup Language (XML) document based upon a previously defined document type definition (DTD). Validation may also be supplemented with additional validation procedures outside the domain of typical validation, such as checking particular values to ensure that they are consistent with expectations for the given application or that data is consistently presented within and among documents. The validation (\u201cEQC\u201d) processes provided by the ECP are described in more detail below.","The display diagram of  illustrates an example of a Lender loan origination system interface  for interfacing with the ECP. The interface  includes a variety of tabs in a header area, which respectively allow navigation to borrower information , property information , loan information , closing information , and third party services  information that is displayed in the main portion of the interface . Selection of the borrower information , property information , and loan information  tabs respectively prompt display of detailed information about the borrower(s), the subject property, and the corresponding loan for a particular closing. The third party services tab  prompts display of buttons or the like that allow the selection of various third party services, including but not limited to ordering a credit report, underwriting the loan, obtaining flood insurance, ordering mortgage insurance, and ordering closing services.","In the illustrated state, the closing information tab  is selected, which prompts a variety of loan identification information  to be displayed along with buttons respectively entitled Perform EQC Check  and Generate Closing Documents . The loan identification information  includes basic identification information such as the amount and property identification information. It may also include a closing date field as well as an identification of the closing agent. A case file ID number corresponds to the number used by the closing services platform to track the particular loan. Common usage of the case file ID allows the ECP to manage datasets and corresponding requests of various different parties.","Referring to  along with , if the Lender invokes the quality control services provided in conjunction with the ECP, pressing the Perform EQC Check button  prompts processing accordingly. Generally, the EQC Check functionality receives and examines the Lender data, compares it to previously determined data for the closing (if applicable), and applies rules that determine the sufficiency of the data. The EQC process confirms that data is consistent and accurate within and among datasets, and that the corresponding aspects are sufficient for the given transaction, preferably according to rules that are applied to the data. The EQC process is described further below. Following validation , the Lender may order  closing services which can be accepted  by the Closing Agent, all through the ECP. As part of an \u201cOpen Order\u201d process, the Lender identifies the services to be performed by the Closing Agent, such as electronic quality control or electronic signing. A corresponding display (not illustrated) allows the Lender to place, review, and update orders, and to perform other operations such as uploading documents pursuant to the closing, and displays closing order details, such as an identification of the closing company and the type of electronic signature process to be employed.","The acceptance  by the Closing Agent may be similarly conducted through the ECP. In one embodiment, notice regarding the order placement is provided by an e-mail from the ECP to a particular Closing Agent. The e-mail would be sent automatically whenever a Lender would place an order naming the particular Closing Agent. The e-mail contains information identifying the Lender, the loan and corresponding requested services. It would also preferably include the casefile ID number, particularly where the Closing Agent also integrates with the ECP. Finally, the e-mail may also include a hyperlink that allows navigation to the ECP, and population of an appropriate form with the casefile ID number, for easy presentation of the relevant information to the Closing Agent.","Upon completion of the title curative process, the Closing Agent may then send  the title binder to the Lender for receipt  by the Lender. Where both parties are integrated with the ECP, receipt by the Lender may be in the form of retrieving the information from the Platform. This may be accommodated through a user interface that identifies and presents the current documents available for the closing along with status information and a variety of buttons used to take various related actions. The identification and status information preferably includes the document name, date added, entity adding the document, status change information, and an indication of whether the document has been electronically signed. The related actions include uploading, printing, e-mailing, renaming, and removing, and may be applied to any or all of the listed documents. This user interface is described further below in connection with a later stage in the closing process, with reference to .","At this stage, if pertinent data has changed, the Lender may also place an \u201cUpdate Order\u201d request, which is similar to the previously described \u201cPlace Order\u201d request and thus prompts an e-mail or other notification to the Closing Agent informing that entity of the status of the closing and related documents. Also in similar fashion, if the Closing Agent is integrated to the ECP, it will automatically populate the Closing Agent system. There may be multiple instances of an update order request as the documents are created and modified during pursuant to a closing.","For purposes of discussion, it is presumed that the Lender is preparing to provide the closing documents to the Closing Agent as part of the Update Order request. Pursuant to the request, the Lender will be prompted to run  an EQC check against the current set of documents and corresponding datasets. Preferably, anytime an order is placed or updated, the appropriate user will be prompted to run such a check to ensure data integrity. The EQC process is described further below. Once this is done, the closing agent can receive  the closing data. This avoids having the Closing Agent re-key the same data into their system, and ensures accuracy in the closing documents prepared by the closing agent.","The Lender also sends  the closing documents through the ECP. Again, an EQC request can be used to validate the documents prior to uploading the documents to the platform to ensure consistency and accuracy of the data. The Closing Agent similarly receives  the documents through the platform. Receipt  of the documents can be accommodated through user interfaces provided through the ECP, which are described further below with reference to . At this stage, the Closing Agent prepares and sends  the HUD-1 document to the Lender through the ECP, again using an EQC request to ensure detection and correction of any deficiencies. The Lender receives  notification of the posting of the HUD-1 and corresponding EQC results. Again, consistent and accurate data are ensured, and the Lender may receive the validated data directly particularly where both the Lender and the Closing Agent are integrated with the platform.","At this point, the Borrower may also review  the closing documents. An invitation for such review may be provided by an e-mail sent by the ECP on behalf of the Closing Agent, either containing representations of the documents or instructing the Borrower how to navigate to the closing documents. The latter would ensure that the Borrower was reviewing the same document as would be used for the actual closing. According to another aspect of the present invention, the Borrower is provided with a concise (e.g., one page) consumer summary that summarizes the key terms of the deal (e.g., name, loan amount, payment type), which allows a review of easily understandable information by the consumer before the closing.","Prior to the actual closing, the Closing Agent and Lender may respectively run quality control checks , again. This allows the Closing Agent and Lender data corresponding to the documents published for closing to be compared, again ensuring consistency and accuracy of the data, and further ensures that there have not been any last minute changes that might have caused a discrepancy.","The EQC process is now further described with reference to examples of display diagrams for providing the status of an EQC check and corresponding results reports. As described, the EQC process offers business predictability to participants by confirming that data underlying examined documents is consistent, accurate and sufficient for the given transaction, such as the described closing. In addition to the immediate needs of the closing, the EQC process may also address related requirements such as ensuring that the loan will be sufficient for a sale by the Lender to an investor in the secondary mortgage market after the closing.","A first optional portion of the EQC process is a general validation of the document. This portion of the process is most applicable where a formal electronic mortgage document is involved. One example of such validation operates in conjunction with electronic documents having view and main data sections. To validate the electronic document, a set of validation rules is retrieved and applied to the electronic document. The validation rules include comparison rules for determining whether a display provided by the view portion substantially matches the main data portion. In one embodiment, substantial matching is verified for a set of values for fields required to validate a particular transaction. The comparison rules allow a determination whether certain values contained in the main data portion substantially match those found in the view portion of the electronic document. The validation rules can also include identifier reference rules and membership rules. The identifier reference rules determine whether a value is proper for a given field, in accordance with the type of document being validated. The membership rules determine whether the electronic document includes fields required for electronic documents in a particular environment. Application of the comparison, identifier reference, and membership rules in combination facilitates a validation of an electronic document that verifies that the document includes all necessary parameters for a particular transaction, that the values for the parameters meet expectations, and that the parsed data contained in the document substantially matches the document (or other view) used by parties to a transaction involving the electronic document. An example of document validation is further described in application Ser. No. 10\/339,775, entitled \u201cElectronic Document Validation\u201d and filed on Jan. 9, 2003 by Michael Daconta et al., which issued on Nov. 20, 2007, as U.S. Pat. No. 7,299,408, the contents of which are hereby incorporated, by reference.","In addition to the above, the EQC process preferably implements rules that are used to determine whether electronic data corresponding to an examined document (e.g., note) is accurate and includes the necessary elements to support the related transaction (e.g., closing). The rules provided by the EQC system can be thought of as falling within multiple categories. The first can be referred to as a \u201ccore set\u201d that is required to generally support a given transaction. For example, industry standards that govern the sale of loans from any lender to any investor in the secondary mortgage market dictate the constitution of a core set of rules for that type of transaction. The additional categories are respectively party driven. For example, a particular investor may contribute rules beyond the industry standard, and a particular lender may have an even more stringent review process than the investor, and thus desire still further rules. The EQC system is arranged to variously accommodate rule contributions. For example, the EQC system may include the core set of rules by default, and include mechanisms for allowing participants to submit additional rules.","The rules also allow the generation of reports that are tailored to potential problems with electronic mortgage documents. This allows the lender to correct errors or omissions, and thus modify the electronic mortgage document so that it will be known to be marketable. Although one embodiment of this process applies to closings with further support for resale on the secondary mortgage market, it is also applicable to transactions.","An EQC request can be sent along with a corresponding EMD to the EQC system, which retrieves the appropriate rules, applies them to the EMD, and returns corresponding results. An example of an EQC system and corresponding process is further described in commonly assigned application Ser. No. 10\/405,890, entitled \u201cElectronic Mortgage Quality Control\u201d and filed on Apr. 1, 2003 by Charlotte Haberaecket et al., currently pending, the contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0051","num":"0050"},"figref":["FIGS. 3A-B","FIGS. 4A-B","FIG. 4A","FIG. 4B"],"b":["300","400","300","302","304","306","310","312","400","400","400","400","402","404","402","404"],"i":["a","b","a","b","a ","a","b","a ","b ","a "]},"Once issues with the data are identified, the issues can be variously resolved by the Lender. In a simple example, erroneous data can be corrected by linking to the relevant document and correcting the data. At times, there may be a need to require third party actions, such as where an appraisal is too dated to use for the closing. Regardless, upon resolution, the EQC check can be repeated to ensure that the new data is accurate, complete and adequate.","The EQC Results screen of  illustrates examples of the kinds of issues that the EQC process detects in reviewing other parties' data. Particularly shown are sections for the Closing Agent  and Third Party Services , along with Additional Checks to be Performed . As illustrated in the Closing Agent  section, some EQC results may indicate discrepancies found between Lender and Closing Agent datasets (e.g., HUD-1 loan amount disagreeing with loan amount in application). Other EQC results may indicate similar inconsistencies between datasets (e.g., application property type differs from appraisal property type), or indicate problems related to other rules (e.g., date on the appraisal more than 180 days from the current date). Sometimes issues can be immediately resolved. The Perform EQC Check Again button  allows the user to immediately conduct another EQC request after data has been corrected, to see whether any issues remain. The EQC Status screen of  illustrates a status report where no issues are found. It similarly includes a status bar  and corresponding milestones. Here, \u201cchecking for previous versions of data\u201d , \u201cValidating data\u201d , \u201cChecking for Closing Agent data\u201d , and \u201cChecking for third party services data\u201d  are progressively highlighted as the request processing progresses. Optionally, documents can be automatically created (see ) where no issues are found pursuant to the EQC request. The summary area  indicates \u201cCheck complete. There were NO issues found with the data.\u201d","Once there are no remaining issues, referring again to , the closing may take place. The closing may implement electronic signatures  managed by the ECP. The status of which documents are to be signed electronically may be managed throughout the preparation of the documents prior to the closing, wherein the Closing Agent (or others) may select parties (Borrowers, Notaries, Witnesses) and documents (Note, etc.) that will be signed, as well as the type of electronic signature to be provided.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0055","num":"0054"},"figref":["FIGS. 5A-C","FIG. 5A"],"b":["500","502","504","506","508","504","512","512","512","512","512","514"],"i":["a ","a","b","c","d ","a "]},"When the Documents tab  is selected, a screen showing document information appears (). A listing  of the various documents being managed by the platform for the order is provided, along with status and other information as previously described. Check off boxes at the left hand column corresponding to each document accommodate selection of a document, and actions provided by various buttons may then be applied to such selected documents. Namely, these actions acre \u201cPrint\/Save Selected Documents\u201d , \u201cE-Mail Selected Documents\u201d , \u201cRename Selected Documents\u201d , and \u201cRemove Selected Documents\u201d . Documents may also be uploaded to the platform by selection of the \u201cUpload Documents\u201d button , which prompts display of other screens to accommodate an uploading of the document from the Closing Agent (or other party) to the platform.","When the eSigning tab  is selected, a screen showing information ,  about electronic signatures to be applied to various selected documents. Additional navigation is provided by Set Signers , Modify Signatures , and Doc Signing Sequence  buttons. Here, the Set Signers button  has been selected, and thus identification information about the electronic signers is shown in one panel  and document identification and status information is shown in another panel  of the main display. The electronic signatures identifies the names of the parties who will sign (or have signed) certain documents electronically. Other signing parties such as notaries and witnesses may also be identified. The information about the signers may be changed through conventional panels by pressing the modify signatures button , which would prompt corresponding changes in a subsequently displayed electronic signers panel . The document identification and status information panel  identifies the documents managed by the platform and includes columns of check off boxes corresponding to each potential electronic signer. A check in the box corresponding to a particular document and particular signer indicates that the document will be signed electronically by that particular signer. Here, borrowers  and  will both sign the Note electronically. The sequence of signing the documents electronically may also be variously set by selecting the doc signing sequence button  and then providing appropriate input. A default sequence can be provided so that this operation does not necessarily need to be performed.","At the closing stage, the \u201cBegin eSigning\u201d button may be selected, which prompts display of screens that accommodate electronic signing, configured as previously described.  is a display diagram illustrating an introductory screen  for initiating electronic signing pursuant to an electronic closing. A header section  identifies the closing services platform and the eSigning section, and a main display includes a signer identification section  and a document identification section . The documents may be signed individually, or some or all of the documents may be concurrently signed through application of a single signature. Grouping documents for such a concurrent signature is accommodate through a check off box corresponding to each document to be signed.","Once the signers are satisfied with the arrangement of signing, selecting the Begin eSigning button  prompts navigation to interfaces that accommodate the electronic signing. Such electronic signing is conducted according to the underlying documents that will be signed. The signers may individually be presented with information that allows them to confirm that they understand the electronic signing process and may then be prompted to affirm their agreement to continue with electronic signing. The signers are then individually presented with graphical representations of the documents to be signed, such as the note. The Borrower is allowed to navigate through the document to review its contents, and then to an area wherein electronic signing will be affirmed. This area would preferably correspond to the area where a paper document would be signed using pen and ink. Selection of an appropriate button (e.g., \u201cI Agree\u201d) completes the electronic signature. Subsequent viewing of the document will indicate that the document has been signed, such as by a statement \u201cElectronically signed by John Kline Homeowner on DATE at TIME EDT.\u201d","The actual form of the electronic signature and the application of the same to the electronic document may be variously provided. In one embodiment, this may be a formal electronic mortgage document that includes a signature section as previously described. Various signatures, including digital and electronic signatures, may be used. For digital signatures, a signature element according to the W3C XML Signature specification can be used. For electronic signatures, the electronic document could include the following signature elements: SIG_IMAGE, SIG_TEXT, and SIG_OBJECT. The SIG_IMAGE element corresponds to a locally encoded image of the person's signature or a holographic signature. The SIG_TEXT element refers to a string of text inputted by the signer. If the SIG_TEXT element is within a viewable HTML view, the text will appear. Outside of the SIG_TEXT element an application is free to style the signed text with an enclosing SPAN tag. Lastly, a SIG_OBJECT element corresponds to any external object code to be presented as an electronic signature. This would correspond to an HTML embed tag for the specific purpose of presenting a captured signature (e.g., a form of a biometric signature).","The electronic document format is provided only by way of example, and the electronic signature could be variously applied to any type of document corresponding to the closing. Additionally, the present invention contemplates usage with traditional closings wherein paper documents are executed using pen and ink. There, completed closing signatures may be incorporated into electronic documents corresponding to the closing to effectively accommodate the electronic closing functionality. This can be done by entering information regarding the completion of the signature that is retained along with the electronic document (or other EMD), scanning the signed documents, or the like.","Tamper evident sealing may also be applied to the electronic mortgage document following the signature of the documents at closing. Specifically, a tamper evident seal can be applied in the form of a digital signature having as its target the portions or the entirety of the electronic document. The tamper evident seal wraps the contents, preferably including the applied electronic signature(s) of the borrower(s). As described further in the previously introduced application Ser. No. 10\/321,823 (\u201cElectronic Document for Mortgage Transactions\u201d), the tamper seal can be performed using a standard PKI method, with hash and key value being included in relevant signature tags, and the digital signature value stored between opening and closing \u201cSignatureValue\u201d tags. The signature section may also store the digital certificate including the public key of the private-public key pair.","The present invention is not limited to the signing and tamper evident sealing features of the formal electronic document. Informal EMDs may also be electronically signed and tamper evident sealed. Finally, for pen and ink signing of paper documents, the esigning process may be omitted, or a substitute for electronic signing such as verifiably scanning the signatures or signed papers may be implemented.","Following the closing, the Borrower may receive  copies of the closing documents, again through an e-mail if desired, alternatively in traditional fashion. A post closing EQC run  accommodates a confirmation that the data among the various systems integrated with the ECP is consistent, and confirms that the data in the actual closing documents is accurate. Such runs may be performed by both the Closing Agent  and the Lender , to ensure that their own datasets remain accurate and consistent as well.","Finally, the ECP accommodates delivery  to an investor, such as on the secondary mortgage market.  is a display diagram  illustrating electronic loan delivery information  provided by an ECP in accordance with the present invention. This allows easy management of loans and their delivery. The information includes various columns for each loan, including the closing date , lender loan#, primary borrower's last name , property street address , loan amount , interest rate , casefile ID , and order status . For any checked () loan, the delivery details may be viewed by pressing the \u201cView Delivery Details\u201d button . Such details would include conventional delivery information. For paper signing, delivery would be conventional, but corresponding information about delivery could still be conveyed if desired. Electronic documents could be directly transferred to an investor. Conveyed information includes information about the loan, whether the loan is MBS and what pool, and the type of execution.","Following the closing, the electronic ECP may also provide additional features, including but not limited to registry filing, an electronic vault for storing electronic documents, and electronic recording. The registry filing functionality may be variously provided, and reflects a registration of the ownership of the mortgage. For example, the registry may be updated to reflect the transfer of ownership from a lender to an investor, possibly in conjunction with the above described delivery functionality. One example of an electronic registry stores information relating to a transferable electronic record and the controller of an authoritative copy of the transferable electronic record. The electronic registry authenticates a true copy of the authoritative copy of the transferable electronic record, and accommodates registration of the transferable electronic record and transfer of legal rights associated therewith. An example of an electronic registry is described further in commonly assigned application Ser. No. 10\/357,602, entitled \u201cElectronic Registry for Authenticating Transferable Records\u201d and filed on Feb. 4, 2003 by John A. Richards et al., the contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference.","The vault is the repository in which documents are housed. Electronic documents may also be held in a vault. The registry identifies who owns the note, whereas the vault identifies where it is stored. An investor will often keep an \u201cinvestor package\u201d but there are other documents related to the closing transaction that can be vaulted. The investor may also house these documents, or a lender may transfer the documents to a third party service, or undertake the function themselves. Conventional electronic document storage techniques may be implemented in conjunction with this functionality, and industry standards may determine the constraints and conditions of such storage. Additionally, service providers for the vaulting functionality could integrate with the ECP so that documents could be selected for vaulting through the ECP, with easy selection of providers.","Finally, electronic recording allows the closing agent to prepare documents and submit them to a county for electronic recording. Upon receipt of the documents and the appropriate payment, the county processes the fees and records the documents electronically. The recorded documents are returned to the sender in electronic form accompanied by a digital receipt. The electronic recording service may be provided by various parties including but not limited to an investor in the secondary mortgage market. Examples of electronic recording is as provided by Fannie Mae, and described further in provisional application Ser. No. 60\/519,282, entitled \u201ceRecording\u201d and filed on Nov. 13, 2003 by Carmelo D. Bramante et al. (Attorney Docket No. 37540-06003), the contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0069","num":"0068"},"figref":"FIGS. 8A-B","b":["800","800","802","804","806","808","810","812","810","802","808"],"i":["a","b "]},"Each of the parties - can be interconnected by a public network such as the Internet, and they can variously communicate using conventional architectures and protocols, such as according to a client server model implementing the TCP\/IP communication protocol suite, and any necessary protocols for transmitting, accessing, displaying, printing, and otherwise using the above described electronic documents. Alternatively, a private network, a combination or public and private networks, or any conventional arrangement for conducting communications appropriate for the described subject matter can interconnect the parties.","As indicated in , in some systems a mortgage services platform  may be provided by one of the parties performing an existing role -. Particularly, the investor may provide the mortgage services platform , which would provide services similar to the mortgage services ASP (). In either case, the mortgage services preferably include the above described mortgage services platform . Although certain systems are shown, other systems including but not limited to those for the appraiser, mortgage insurance, hazard, flood certification, and loan servicing agent can similarly connect to the EQC system.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0072","num":"0071"},"figref":"FIG. 9","b":["900","900","900","902","904","906","908","910","912","914","900","904","906","904","904","904","904","908","910","912","914"]},"Thus embodiments of the present invention produce and provide an electronic closing platform and related processes. Although the present invention has been described in considerable detail with reference to certain embodiments thereof, the invention may be variously embodied without departing from the spirit or scope of the invention. Therefore, the following claims should not be limited to the description of the embodiments contained herein in any way."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["These and other more detailed and specific features of the present invention are more fully disclosed in the following specification, reference being had to the accompanying drawings, in which:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIGS. 3A-B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIGS. 4A-B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIGS. 5A-C"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIGS. 8A-B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":"FIG. 10"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
