---
title: Method and system for controlling transmission energy in a variable rate gated communication system
abstract: Controlling transmission energy in a variable rate communication system that gates out portions of a frame in a predetermined and predicable fashion. In particular, the present invention describes a method and apparatus which identifies closed loop power control commands that have been generated erroneously based on portions of a frame that have been gated. The identified power control commands are ignored. In an alternative embodiment, if identification of the erroneous power control commands occurs after response measures have been taken, the transmitting station responds by setting the transmission energy back to the state it would have been in had the erroneous power control commands been identified prior to the response.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07573853&OS=07573853&RS=07573853
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 07573853
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20030410
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["RELATED APPLICATIONS","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS"],"p":["This is a divisional of application Ser. No. 09\/363,545 filed on 29 Jul. 1999 now U.S. Pat. No. 6,603,752, \u201cMETHOD AND SYSTEM FOR CONTROLLING TRANSMISSION ENERGY IN A VARIABLE RATE GATED COMMUNCATION SYSTEM.\u201d","I. Field of the Invention","The present invention relates to communications. More particularly, the present invention relates to a novel and improved method and apparatus for controlling transmission energy in a wireless communication system.","II. Description of the Related Art","The use of code division multiple access (CDMA) modulation techniques is one of several techniques for facilitating communications in which a large number of system users are present. Other multiple access communication system techniques, such as time division multiple access (TDMA) and frequency division multiple access (FDMA) are known in the art. However, the spread spectrum modulation techniques of CDMA have significant advantages over these modulation techniques for multiple access communication systems. The use of CDMA techniques in a multiple access communication system is disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 4,901,307, entitled \u201cSPREAD SPECTRUM MULTIPLE ACCESS COMMUNICATION SYSTEM USING SATELLITE OR TERRESTRIAL REPEATERS\u201d, assigned to the assignee of the present invention, and incorporated by reference herein. The use of CDMA techniques in a multiple access communication system is further disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 5,103,459, entitled \u201cSYSTEM AND METHOD FOR GENERATING SIGNAL WAVEFORMS IN A CDMA CELLULAR TELEPHONE SYSTEM\u201d, assigned to the assignee of the present invention and incorporated by reference herein.","CDMA by its inherent nature of being a wideband signal offers a form of frequency diversity by spreading the signal energy over a wide bandwidth. Therefore, frequency selective fading affects only a small part of the CDMA signal bandwidth. Space or path diversity is obtained by providing multiple signal paths through simultaneous links from a mobile user through two or more cell-sites. Furthermore, path diversity may be obtained by exploiting the multipath environment through spread spectrum processing by allowing a signal arriving with different propagation delays to be received and processed separately. Examples of path diversity are illustrated in U.S. Pat. No. 5,101,501 entitled \u201cMETHOD AND SYSTEM FOR PROVIDING A SOFT HANDOFF IN COMMUNICATIONS IN A CDMA CELLULAR TELEPHONE SYSTEM\u201d, and U.S. Pat. No. 5,109,390 entitled \u201cDIVERSITY RECEIVER IN A CDMA CELLULAR TELEPHONE SYSTEM\u201d, both assigned to the assignee of the present invention and incorporated by reference herein.","A method for transmission of speech in digital communication systems that offers particular advantages in increasing capacity while maintaining high quality of perceived speech is by the use of variable rate speech encoding. The method and apparatus of a particularly useful variable rate speech encoder is described in detail in U.S. Pat. No. 5,414,796, entitled \u201cVARIABLE RATE VOCODER\u201d, assigned to the assignee of the present invention and incorporated by reference herein.","The use of a variable rate speech encoder provides for data frames of maximum speech data capacity when the speech encoder is providing speech data at a maximum rate. When the variable rate speech encoder is providing speech data at a less than maximum rate, there is excess capacity in the transmission frames. A method for transmitting additional data in transmission frames of a fixed predetermined size, wherein the source of the data for the data frames is providing the data at a variable rate, is described in detail in U.S. Pat. No. 5,504,773, entitled \u201cMETHOD AND APPARATUS FOR THE FORMATTING OF DATA FOR TRANSMISSION\u201d, assigned to the assignee of the present invention and incorporated by reference herein. In the above mentioned patent application a method and apparatus is disclosed for combining data of differing types from different sources in a data frame for transmission.","In frames containing less data than a predetermined capacity, power consumption may be lessened by transmission gating a transmission amplifier such that only parts of the frame containing data are transmitted. Furthermore, message collisions in a communication system may be reduced if the data is placed into frames in accordance with a predetermined pseudorandom process. A method and apparatus for gating the transmission and for positioning the data in the frames is disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 5,659,569, entitled \u201cDATA BURST RANDOMIZER\u201d, assigned to the assignee of the present invention and incorporated by reference herein.","A useful method of power control of a mobile in a communication system is to monitor the power of the received signal from the wireless communication device at a base station. In response to the monitored power level, the base station transmits power control bits to the wireless communication device at regular intervals. A method and apparatus for controlling transmission power in this fashion is disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 5,056,109, entitled \u201cMETHOD AND APPARATUS FOR CONTROLLING TRANSMISSION POWER IN A CDMA CELLULAR MOBILE TELEPHONE SYSTEM\u201d, assigned to the assignee of the present invention and incorporated by reference herein.","In a communication system that provides data using a Quadrature Phase Shift Keying (QPSK) modulation format, very useful information can be obtained by taking the cross product of the I and Q components of the QPSK signal. By knowing the relative phases of the two components, one can determine roughly the velocity of the wireless communication device in relation to the base station. A description of a circuit for determining the cross product of the I and Q components in a QPSK modulation communication system is disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 5,506,865, entitled \u201cPILOT CARRIER DOT PRODUCT CIRCUIT\u201d, assigned to the assignee of the present invention and incorporated by reference herein.","There has been an increasing demand for wireless communications systems to be able to transmit digital information at high rates. One method for sending high rate digital data from a wireless communication device to a central base station is to allow the wireless communication device to send the data using spread spectrum techniques of CDMA. One method that is proposed is to allow the wireless communication device to transmit its information using a small set of orthogonal channels. Such a method is described in detail in co-pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 08\/886,604, entitled \u201cHIGH DATA RATE CDMA WIRELESS COMMUNICATION SYSTEM\u201d, assigned to the assignee of the present invention and incorporated by reference herein.","In the just-mentioned application, a system is disclosed in which a pilot signal is transmitted on the reverse link (the link from the wireless communication device to the base station) to enable coherent demodulation of the reverse link signal at the base station. Using the pilot signal data, coherent processing can be performed at the base station by determining and removing the phase offset of the reverse link signal. Also, the pilot data can be used to optimally weigh multipath signals received with different time delays before being combined in a rake receiver. Once the phase offset is removed, and the multipath signals properly weighted, the multipath signals can be combined to decrease the power at which the reverse link signal must be received for proper processing. This decrease in the required receive power allows greater transmission rates to be processed successfully, or conversely, the interference between a set of reverse link signals to be decreased.","While some additional transmit power is necessary for the transmission of the pilot signal, in the context of higher transmission rates the ratio of pilot signal power to the total reverse link signal power is substantially lower than that associated with lower data rate digital voice data transmission cellular systems. Thus, within a high data rate CDMA system, the E\/Ngains achieved by the use of a coherent reverse link outweigh the additional power necessary to transmit pilot data from each wireless communication device.","However, when the data rate is relatively low, a continuously-transmitted pilot signal on the reverse link contains more energy relative to the data signal. At these low rates, the benefits of coherent demodulation and reduced interference provided by a continuously-transmitted reverse link pilot signal may be outweighed by the decrease in talk time and system capacity in some applications.","The present invention is a novel and improved method and system for controlling transmission energy in a variable rate communication system that gates out portions of a frame in a predetermined and predicable fashion. In particular, the present invention describes a method and apparatus which identifies closed loop power control commands that have been generated erroneously based on portions of a frame that have been gated. The identified power control commands are ignored. In an alternative embodiment, if identification of the erroneous power control commands occurs after response measures have been taken, the transmitting station responds by setting the transmission energy back to the state it would have been in had the erroneous power control commands been identified prior to the response.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":["FIG. 1","FIG. 1","FIG. 1"],"b":"50"},"In the exemplary embodiment of , the wireless communication device transmits a plurality of distinct channels of information which are distinguished from one another by short orthogonal spreading sequences as described in the aforementioned U.S. patent application Ser. No. 08\/886,604. Five separate code channels are transmitted by the wireless communication device: 1) a first supplemental data channel , 2) a time multiplexed channel of pilot and power control symbols , 3) a dedicated control channel , 4) a second supplemental data channel  and 5) a fundamental channel . The first supplemental data channel  and second supplemental data channel  carry digital data which exceeds the capacity of the fundamental channel  such as facsimile, multimedia applications, video, electronic mail messages or other forms of digital data. The multiplexed channel of pilot and power control symbols  carries pilots symbols to allow for coherent demodulation of the data channels by the base station and power control bits to control the energy of transmissions of the base station or base stations in communication with wireless communication device . Control channel  carries control information to the base station such as modes of operation of wireless communication device , capabilities of wireless communication device  and other necessary signaling information. Fundamental channel  is the channel used to carry primary information from the wireless communication device to the base station. In the case of speech transmissions, the fundamental channel  carries the speech data.","Supplemental data channels  and  are encoded and processed for transmission by means not shown and provided to modulator . Power control bits are provided to repetition generator  which provides repetition of the power control bits before providing the bits to multiplexer (MUX) . In multiplexer  the redundant power control bits are time multiplexed with pilot symbols and provided on line  to modulator .","Message generator  generates necessary control information messages and provides the control message to CRC and tail bit generator . CRC and tail bit generator  appends a set of cyclic redundancy check bits which are parity bits used to check the accuracy of the decoding at the base station and appends a predetermined set of tail bits to the control message to clear the memory of the decoder at the base station receiver subsystem. The message is then provided to encoder  which provide forward error correction coding upon the control message. The encoded symbols are provided to repetition generator  which repeats the encoded symbols to provide additional time diversity in the transmission. Following repetition generator certain symbols are punctured according to some predetermined puncturing pattern by puncturing element (PUNC)  to provide a predetermined number of symbols within the frame. The symbols are then provided to interleaver  which reorders the symbols in accordance with a predetermined interleaving format. The interleaved symbols are provided on line  to modulator .","Variable rate data source  generates variable rate data. In the exemplary embodiment, variable rate data source  is a variable rate speech encoder such as described in aforementioned U.S. Pat. No. 5,414,796. Variable rate speech encoders are popular in wireless communications because their use increases the battery life of wireless communication devices and increases system capacity with minimal impact on perceived speech quality. The Telecommunications Industry Association has codified the most popular variable rate speech encoders in such standards as Interim Standard IS-96 and Interim Standard IS-733. These variable rate speech encoders encode the speech signal at four possible rates referred to as full rate, half rate, quarter rate or eighth rate according to the level of voice activity. The rate indicates the number of bits used to encode a frame of speech and varies on a frame by frame basis. Full rate uses a predetermined maximum number of bits to encode the frame, half rate uses half the predetermined maximum number of bits to encode the frame, quarter rate uses one quarter the predetermined maximum number of bits to encode the frame and eighth rate uses one eighth the predetermined maximum number of bits to encode the frame.","Variable rate date source  provides the encoded speech frame to CRC and tail bit generator . CRC and tail bit generator  appends a set of cyclic redundancy check bits which are parity bits used to check the accuracy of the decoding at the base station and appends a predetermined set of tail bits to the control message in order to clear the memory of the decoder at the base station. The frame is then provided to encoder , which provides forward error correction coding on the speech frame. The encoded symbols are provided to repetition generator  which provides repetition of the encoded symbol. Following repetition generator certain symbols are punctured by puncturing element  according to a predetermined puncturing pattern to provide a predetermined number of symbols within the frame. The symbols are then provided to interleaver  which reorders the symbols in accordance with a predetermined interleaving format. The interleaved symbols are provided on line  to modulator .","In the exemplary embodiment, modulator  modulates the data channels in accordance with a code division multiple access modulation format and provides the modulated information to transmitter (TMTR) , which amplifies and filters the signal and provides the signal through duplexer  for transmission through antenna .","In the exemplary embodiment, variable rate data source  sends a signal indicative to the rate of the encoded frame to control processor . In response to the rate indication, control processor  provides control signals to transmitter  indicating the energy of the transmissions.","In IS-95 and cdma2000 systems, a 20 ms frame is divided into sixteen sets of equal numbers of symbols, referred to as power control groups. The reference to power control is based on the fact that for each power control group, the base station receiving the frame issues a power control command in response to a determination of the sufficiency of the received reverse link signal at the base station.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"figref":["FIG. 3A-3C","FIGS. 3D-3G"]},"In , for full rate frame , each power control group PC through PC are transmitted at energy E. For the sake, of simplicity the frames are illustrated as being transmitted at an equal energy for the duration of the frame. One skilled in the art will understand the energy will vary over the frame and that what is represented in  can be thought of as the baseline energy at which the frames would be transmitted absent external effects. In the exemplary embodiment, remote station  responds to closed loop power control commands from the base station and from internally generated open loop power control commands based on the received forward link signal. The responses to the power control algorithms will causes the transmission energy to vary over the duration of a frame.","In , for half rate frame , the energy is equal to half the predetermined maximum level, or E\/2. This is represented in  The interleaver structure is such that it distributes the repeated symbols over the frame in such a way to attain maximum time diversity.","In  for quarter-rate transmission , the frame is transmitted at approximately one-quarter of the predetermined maximum level, or E\/4.","In the exemplary embodiment, during the transmission of full rate, half rate and quarter rate frames, the pilot signal is continuously transmitted. However, in  transmitter  gates the transmission of half of the frame. In the preferred embodiment, during the periods in which the traffic channel transmissions are gated off, the pilot channel is also gated off to reduce battery consumption and increase reverse link capacity. In each of the embodiments, the frames are transmitted at a 50% duty cycle in which half of the time the energy of the transmission is gated off. During the period in which the frame is transmitted, the energy is scaled to approximately the energy at which a quarter rate frame is transmitted E\/4. However, the inventors have through extensive simulation, determined the preferred average or baseline energy at which the eighth rate frames should be transmitted for each of the alternative embodiments for transmitting eighth rate frames. These energies have been computed to maximize battery savings and reverse link capacity while maintaining the level of reliability of transmission.","In the first embodiment, illustrated in , the frame is transmitted such that it is gated off at alternating 1.25 ms. intervals. Thus, transmitter  is initially gated off for the first 1.25 ms. The second power control group (PCG) is transmitted then with energy E during the second 1.25 ms. The third power control group (PCG) is gated off. In this embodiment, all the odd PCGs (, , , , , , , ) are transmitted while all the even PCGs (, , , , , ,, ) are gated off. The puncturing structure discards half of the repeated symbols and provides approximately four versions of each transmitted symbol. In the preferred first embodiment, the symbols are transmitted at an average or baseline energy of 0.385E In the preferred embodiment, the gating of transmitter  is performed such that the last portions of the frame are not gated off. This is preferred because it allows for meaningful closed power control commands to be sent by the receiving base station to assist in reliable transmission of the subsequent frame.","In the second embodiment, which is the preferred embodiment of the present invention, illustrated in , the frame is transmitted such that it is gated off at alternating 2.5 ms. intervals. The transmission method illustrated in  represents the preferred embodiment, because it results in optimum battery savings and reverse link capacity. During the first 2.5 ms. interval (PCG and PCG) transmitter  is gated off. Then, transmitter  is gated on for next 2.5 ms (PCG and PCG) and so on. I this embodiment PCGs , , , , , , ,  are gated on, while PCGs , , , , , , ,  are gated off. The puncturing structure is such that it discards exactly half of the repeated symbols during gate off in this embodiment. In the preferred second embodiment, the symbols are transmitted at an average or baseline energy of 0.32E.","In the third embodiment, illustrated in , the frame is transmitted such that it is gated off at alternating 5.0 ms. intervals. During the first 5.0 ms. interval (PCG-PCG), transmitter  is gated off. Then, in the next 5.0 ms interval PCGs , , ,  are transmitted and so on. In this embodiment PCGs , , , , , , ,  are transmitted, while PCGs , , , , , , ,  are gated off. The puncturing structure is such that it discards exactly half of the repeated symbols during gate off in this embodiment. In the preferred third embodiment, the symbols are transmitted at an average or baseline energy of 0.32E.","In the fourth embodiment, illustrated in , the frame is transmitted such that it is gated off during the first 10 ms. In the next 10 ms interval PCGs  through  are transmitted. In this embodiment PCGs , , , , , , ,  are transmitted, while PCGs , , , , , , ,  are gated off. The interleaver structure is such that it discards exactly half of the repeated symbols during gate off in this embodiment. In the preferred fourth embodiment, the symbols are transmitted at an average or baseline energy of 0.335E.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0045","num":"0044"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1"],"b":["26","38","52","52","54","56","40","56"]},"Control channel data is provided on line  to spreading element  which covers the supplemental channel data in accordance with a predetermined spreading sequence. In the exemplary embodiment, spreading element  spreads the supplemental channel data with a short Walsh sequence (++++++++\u2212\u2212\u2212\u2212\u2212\u2212\u2212\u2212). The spread data is provided to relative gain element  which adjusts the gain of the spread control channel data relative to the energy of the pilot and power control symbols. The gain adjusted control data is provided to a third summing input of summer .","Summing element  sums the gain adjusted control data symbols, the gain adjusted supplemental channel symbols and the time multiplexed pilot and power control symbols and provides the sum to a first input of multiplier  and a first input of multiplier .","The second supplemental channel is provided on line  to spreading element  which covers the supplemental channel data in accordance with a predetermined spreading sequence. In the exemplary embodiment, spreading element  spreads the supplemental channel data with a short Walsh sequence (+\u2212). The spread data is provided to relative gain element  which adjusts the gain of the spread supplemental channel data. The gain adjusted supplemental channel data is provided to a first summing input of summer .","The fundamental channel data is provided on line  to spreading element  which covers the fundamental channel data in accordance with a predetermined spreading sequence. In the exemplary embodiment, spreading element  spreads the fundamental channel data with a short Walsh sequence (++++\u2212\u2212\u2212\u2212++++\u2212\u2212\u2212\u2212). The spread data is provided to relative gain element  which adjusts the gain of the spread fundamental channel data. The gain adjusted fundamental channel data is provided to a second summing input of summer .","Summing element  sums the gain adjusted second supplemental channel data symbols and the fundamental channel data symbols and provides the sum to a first input of multiplier  and a first input of multiplier .","In the exemplary embodiment, a pseudonoise spreading using two different short PN sequences (PNand PN) is used to spread the data. In the exemplary embodiment the short PN sequences, PNand PN, are multiplied by a long PN code to provide additional privacy. The generation of pseudonoise sequences is well known in the art and is described in detail in aforementioned U.S. Pat. No. 5,103,459. A long PN sequence is provided to a first input of multipliers  and . The short PN sequence PNis provided to a second input of multiplier  and the short PN sequence PNis provided to a second input of multiplier .","The resulting PN sequence from multiplier  is provided to respective second inputs of multipliers  and . The resulting PN sequence from multiplier  is provided to respective second inputs of multipliers  and . The product sequence from multiplier  is provided to the summing input of subtractor . The product sequence from multiplier  is provided to a first summing input of summer . The product sequence from multiplier  is provided to the subtracting input of subtractor . The product sequence from multiplier  is provided to a second summing input of summer .","The difference sequence from subtractor  is provided to baseband filter . Baseband filter  performs necessary filtering on the difference sequence and provides the filtered sequence to gain element . Gain element  adjusts the gain of the signal and provides the gain adjusted signal to upconverter . Upconverter  upconverts the gain adjusted signal in accordance with a QPSK modulation format and provides the unconverted signal to a first input of summer .","The sum sequence from summer  is provided to baseband filter . Baseband filter  performs necessary filtering on difference sequence and provides the filtered sequence to gain element . Gain element  adjusts the gain of the signal and provides the gain adjusted signal to upconverter . Upconverter  upconverts the gain adjusted signal in accordance with a QPSK modulation format and provides the upconverted signal to a second input of summer . Summer  sums the two QPSK modulated signals and provides the result to transmitter .","Turning now to , a functional block diagram of selected portions of a base station  in accordance with the present invention. Reverse link RF signals from the wireless communication device  () are received by receiver (RCVR) , which downconverts the received reverse link RF signals to an baseband frequency. In the exemplary embodiment, receiver  down converts the received signal in accordance with a QPSK demodulation format. The baseband signal is then demodulated by demodulator . Demodulator  is further described with reference to  below.","The demodulated signal is provided to accumulator . Accumulator  sums the symbol energies of the redundantly transmitted power control groups of symbols. The accumulated symbols energies are provided to de-interleaver  which reorders the symbols in accordance with a predetermined de-interleaving format. The reordered symbols are provided to decoder  which decodes the symbols to provide an estimate of the transmitted frame. The estimate of the transmitted frame is then provided to CRC check  which determines the accuracy of the frame estimate based on the CRC bits included in the transmitted frame.","In the exemplary embodiment, base station  performs a blind decoding on the reverse link signal. Blind decoding describes a method of decoding variable rate data in which the receiver does not know a priori the rate of the transmission. In the exemplary embodiment, base station  accumulates, deinterleaves and decodes the data in accordance with each possible rate hypothesis. The frame selected as the best estimate is based on quality metrics such as the symbol error rate, the CRC check and the Yamamoto metric.","The demodulated symbols are also provided from demodulator  to signal to noise ration (SNR) calculator . In the exemplary embodiment, SNR calculator  estimates the signal to noise ratio of the received reverse link signal. One skilled in the art will appreciate that other signal quality metrics such as received power can be used as the basis of the reverse link power control signal.","The signal quality metric from SNR calculator  is provided to comparator . Comparator  compares the signal quality metric against a threshold value. The threshold value may be fixed or variable. In the preferred embodiment, the threshold is controlled by an outer loop process that varies the threshold in order to provide a desired level of reliability in receiving the reverse link signal.","A signal indicative of the result of the comparison is provided to power control command generator . In the exemplary embodiment, when the signal quality metric is less than the threshold value a \u20180\u2019 is transmitted and when the signal quality metric exceeds the threshold value, a \u20181\u2019 is transmitted.","In the exemplary embodiment, the closed loop power control commands are multiplexed with the forward dedicated traffic data. The power control commands are provided to multiplexer (MUX)  which combines the power control commands with the traffic data in predetermined locations. The combined power control commands and traffic data for each remote station in communication with base station , as well as, pilot channel and overhead channels are modulated in modulator . In the exemplary embodiment, the modulation of the traffic channels is similar to the modulation of the fundamental channel of the reverse link. In the exemplary embodiment, the forward link is a CDMA signal modulated in accordance with the cdma2000 ITU Candidate submission. The modulated data is provided to transmitter (TMTR)  which up converts, amplifies and filter the signal for transmission to remote station .","Turning now to , an expanded functional block diagram of an exemplary single demodulation chain of demodulator  is shown. In the preferred embodiment, demodulator  has one demodulation chain for each information channel. The exemplary demodulator  of  performs complex demodulation on signals modulated by the exemplary modulator  of . As previously described, receiver (RCVR)  downconverts the received reverse link RF signals to a baseband frequency, producing I and Q baseband signals. Despreaders  and,  respectively despread the I and Q baseband signals using the long code from . Baseband filters (BBF)  and  respectively filter the I and Q baseband signals.","Despreaders  and  respectively despread the I and Q signals using the PNsequence of . Similarly, despreaders  and  respectively despread the Q and I signals using the PNsequence of . The outputs of despreaders  and  are combined in combiner . The output of despreader  is subtracted from the output of despreader  in combiner .","The respective outputs of combiners  and  are then Walsh-uncovered in Walsh-uncoverers  and  with the Walsh code that was used to cover the particular channel of interest in . The respective outputs of the Walsh-uncoverers  and  are then summed over one Walsh symbol by accumulators  and .","The respective outputs of combiners  and  are also summed over one Walsh symbol by accumulators  and . The respective outputs of accumulators  and  are then applied to pilot filters  and . Pilot filters  and  generate an estimation of the channel conditions by determining the estimated gain and phase of the pilot signal data  (see ). The output of pilot filter  is then complex multiplied by the respective outputs of accumulators  and  in complex multipliers  and . Similarly, the output of pilot filter  is complex multiplied by the respective outputs of accumulators  and  in complex multipliers  and . The output of complex multiplier  is then summed with the output of complex multiplier  in combiner . The output of complex multiplier  is subtracted from the output of complex multiplier  in combiner . Finally, the outputs of combiners  and  are combined in combiner  to produce the demodulated signal of interest for input to Accumulator.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0066","num":"0065"},"figref":"FIG. 6","b":["526","528","600","534","536","600","602","604","414"]},"Turning to , the receive subsystem of remote station  is illustrated. The forward link signal is received and provided through duplexer  to receiver . Receiver  downconverts, amplifies and filters the received signal. In the exemplary embodiment, receiver  downconverts the received signal in accordance with a QPSK demodulation format.","The received signal components (in phase and quadrature phase components) are provided to demodulator . In the exemplary embodiment, demodulator  operates as described with respect to demodulator . The demodulated symbols are provided to demultiplexer  which separates the reverse link power control commands from the traffic data symbols. The traffic data symbols are provided to deinterleaver  which reorders the demodulated traffic symbols in accordance with a predetermined deinterleaving format. The reordered symbols are then provided to decoder  and decoded.","Power control commands are provided to power control processor . In the present invention, portions of the frames are gated out by recognizing the pattern of power control commands that will be issued in response to eighth rate gated frames. At base station , the signal energy is computed and normalized and compared to a threshold value. And based on this comparison, the reverse link power control commands are generated. However, during the portions of the frame which are gated out the reverse link power control commands generated by base station  are not based on the signal energy of the gated portions of the eighth rate frame and will always indicate a request for the transmitter to increase its transmission energy by sending and UP or \u201c1\u201d command.","In the first embodiment, illustrated in , the frame is transmitted such that it is gated off at alternating 1.25 ms. intervals. Thus, transmitter  is initially gated off for the first 1.25 ms. The second power control group (PCG) is transmitted then with energy E during the second 1.25 ms. The third power control group (PCG) is gated off. In this embodiment, all the odd PCGs (, , , , , , , ) are transmitted while all the even PCGs (, , , , , , , ) are gated off.","In response to the reception of an eighth rate gated frame of this format, base station  generates a power control bit stream illustrated in . In response to the even power control groups of the frame that are gated off, base station  will transmit power control commands requesting the remote station to increase its transmission energy, illustrated as \u201c1\u201d commands. In response to the odd power control groups of the frame that are gated on, base station  will transmit meaningful power control commands requesting the remote station to either increase or decrease its transmission energy, illustrated as \u201c1\/0\u201d commands.","In the second embodiment, which is the preferred embodiment of the present invention, illustrated in , the frame is transmitted such that it is gated off at alternating 2.5 ms. intervals. The transmission method illustrated in  represents the preferred embodiment, because it results in optimum battery savings and reverse link capacity. During the first 2.5 ms. interval (PCG and PCG) transmitter  is gated off. Then, transmitter  is gated on for next 2.5 ms (PCG and PCG) and so on. In this embodiment PCGs , , , , , , ,  are gated on, while PCGs , , , , , , ,  are gated off.","In response to the reception of an eighth rate gated frame of this format, base station  generates a power control bit stream illustrated in . In response to the power control groups of the frame that are gated off (PCGs , , , , , , , ), base station  will transmit power control commands requesting the remote station to increase its transmission energy, illustrated as \u201c1\u201d commands. In response to the power control groups of the frame that are gated on (PCGs , , , , , , , ), base station  will transmit meaningful power control commands requesting the remote station to either increase or decrease its transmission energy, illustrated as \u201c1\/0\u201d commands.","In the third embodiment, illustrated in , the frame is transmitted such that it is gated off at alternating 5.0 ms. intervals. During the first 5.0 ms. interval (PCG-PCG), transmitter  is gated off. Then, in the next 5.0 ms interval PCGs , , ,  are transmitted and so on. In this embodiment PCGs , , , , , , ,  are transmitted, while PCGs , , , , , , ,  are gated off.","In response to the reception of an eighth rate gated frame of this format, base station  generates a power control bit stream illustrated in . In response to the power control groups of the frame that are gated off (PCGs , , , , , , , ), base station  will transmit power control commands requesting the remote station to increase its transmission energy, illustrated as \u201c1\u201d commands. In response to the power control groups of the frame that are gated on (PCGs , , , , , , , ), base station  will transmit meaningful power control commands requesting the remote station to either increase or decrease its transmission energy, illustrated as \u201c1\/0\u201d commands.","In the fourth embodiment, illustrated in , the frame is transmitted such that it is gated off during the first 10 ms. In the next 10 ms interval PCGs  through  are transmitted. In this embodiment PCGs , , , , , , ,  are transmitted, while PCGs , , , , , , ,  are gated off. The interleaver structure is such that it discards exactly half of the repeated symbols during gate off in this embodiment. In the preferred second embodiment, the symbols are transmitted at an average or baseline energy of 0.335E.","In response to the reception of an eighth rate gated frame of this format, base station  generates a power control bit stream illustrated in . In response to the power control groups of the frame that are gated off (PCGs , , , , , , , ), base station  will transmit power control commands requesting the remote station to increase its transmission energy, illustrated as \u201c1\u201d commands. In response to the power control groups of the frame that are gated on (PCGs , , , , , , , ), base station  will transmit meaningful power control commands requesting the remote station to either increase or decrease its transmission energy, illustrated as \u201c1\/0\u201d commands.","In the present invention, power control processor  identifies the reverse link power control commands generated in response to gated eighth rate frame by representative patterns in the power control command stream. In a preferred embodiment, power control processor also uses rate information provided by variable rate data source  to assist in the identification of the erroneous power control commands.","The power control commands are provided to power control processor . Power control processor  provides the received power control bit estimates to memory element  and to power control command generator .","In the first exemplary embodiment of the present invention, power control processor will initially assume that the power control bits received were not in response to a gated eighth rate frame and will adjust the transmission energy of the reverse link signal based on the received power control bit estimates. Then after predetermined number of the power control bit estimates for the current frame have been received, memory element  provides the estimates to pattern recognition means , which based on the characteristic patterns illustrate in  will identify power control command streams based on gated eighth rate frames.","If the received power control bit estimates based on the current frame indicate the frame that was received by base station  was a gated eighth rate frame, then pattern recognition means  provides a signal to power control command generator  inhibiting adjustments to the transmission energy based on the power control bit estimates received for the rest of the frame.","In an improved embodiment, the pattern recognition means  provides a signal to power control command generator  indicating that the current set of power control commands were generated based on a gated eighth rate frame, then power control command generator sends a signal to transmitter  \u201cundoing\u201d the increases to the transmission energy that were a result of the power control bit estimates generated based on the gated eighth rate portions of the frame.","In an alternative embodiment, power control command generator  is inhibited initially, and after a determination that the frame upon which the currently received power control bit estimates are based is not eighth rate frame then power control command generator  is reactivated.","In a third improved embodiment, power control processor  assumes that the frame upon which the currently received power control bit estimates are based is an eighth rate frame if the previous frame upon which the previously received power control bit estimates were based was an eighth rate frame. This follows from the fact that pauses in speech happen in intervals of time greater than the duration of a single frame. When one pauses, for example to listen, then the duration of the pause can last for many frame intervals and the probability that frame is an eighth rate frame is substantially higher when the previous frame was eighth rate. In this embodiment, power control command generator  is inhibited initially, and after a determination that the frame upon which the currently received power control bit estimates are based is not eighth rate frame then power control command generator is reactivated.","In an improved embodiment, the rate of frames transmitted by the remote station are provided to memory element . In this fashion once the first eighth rate frame is identified then the remote station will know how many more power control bits based on eighth rate gated frames to expect.","The previous description of the preferred embodiments is provided to enable any person skilled in the art to make or use the present invention. The various modifications to these embodiments will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art, and the generic principles defined herein may be applied to other embodiments without the use of the inventive faculty. Thus, the present invention is not intended to be limited to the embodiments shown herein but is to be accorded the widest scope consistent with the principles and novel features disclosed herein."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The features, objects, and advantages of the present invention will become more apparent from the detailed description set forth below when taken in conjunction with the drawings in which like reference characters identify correspondingly throughout and wherein:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":"50"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1"],"b":"26"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIGS. 3A-3G"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":"400"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 4"],"b":"404"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":"FIGS. 8A-8D"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
