---
title: Autonomous systems and network management using speech
abstract: A method of managing systems in a managed network can include storing configuration information corresponding to at least one managed system and automatically generating a grammar and a speech dialog for each managed system using the configuration information. User speech selecting a managed system can be received over a telephone call. The user speech can be recognized to identify the selected managed system. A grammar and speech dialog for the selected managed system can be loaded. Accordingly, the user can interact with one or more managed systems using the speech dialog. The user speech can be processed using the grammar.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08150697&OS=08150697&RS=08150697
owner: Nuance Communications, Inc.
number: 08150697
owner_city: Burlington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20030930
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["BACKGROUND","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION"],"p":["1. Field of the Invention","The invention relates to the field of system administration and management and, more particularly, to performing such functions using a voice interface.","2. Description of the Related Art","Managing a network of computers and\/or other devices can be a challenging task. Many different software programs are available, however, which help system administrators manage networks. Using network management software, an administrator can define the various components, resources, systems, and\/or subsystems (hereafter systems) belonging to the network to be managed. Network management software also permits a system administrator to define tasks that may be performed on the managed system.","Presently, system administration follows the traditional model of command-line or console-based control. That is, an administrator interacts with a managed system via a conventional computer terminal, having a keyboard and display, which is communicatively linked to the managed system. The administration terminal frequently is located \u201con-premises\u201d with the managed system. The system administrator can receive notifications and monitor the system by viewing messages on the administration terminal display. The system administrator also can provide instructions, queries, or other commands to the system by entering the appropriate information into a command line interface of the administration terminal display using the administrative terminal keyboard.","Through the administration terminal, the system administrator can interact with the system to perform administrative, managerial, and maintenance functions. Legacy software components, for example components written in the C family of programming languages, typically are managed through Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMP) via the administration terminal.","Other systems have come to use a resource management system for handling communications between the administration terminal and the system. For example, within a Java environment, the resource management system can be a Java Management Extension (JMX) enabled system for managing Java components. JMX is defined in the document entitled Java Management Extensions Instrumentation and Agent Specification, v1.1 (March 2002), published by Sun Microsystems, Inc. of Palo Alto, Calif. The JMX specification, which is incorporated herein by reference, defines an architecture, design patterns, application programming interfaces (APIs), and services for application and network management using the Java programming language. The JMX specification is a set of specifications and development tools for managing Java environments and building management solutions.","While conventional management systems allow for significant control over managed resources, such management systems do have disadvantages. One disadvantage is that the operation of conventional network management software typically involves the installation of client software on an administrative computer system or terminal. The administrative terminal must be communicatively linked with the network being managed. In consequence, the administrative terminal typically is located in the same vicinity or proximate to the managed network. In other words, the administration terminal often is located \u201con-premises\u201d with the managed network or system. This essentially requires that the administrator also be located on-premises with the managed system so that any necessary actions can be implemented via the administrative console.","Still other management systems allow for control over managed resources using a thin client such as a Web browser. Through the thin client, the administrator can communicate with the resources being managed. While this solution may not require software to be installed on the client system, such configurations do require data connectivity to the managed systems and\/or resources.","The present invention provides a method, system, and apparatus for providing speech control of administrative or management functions (hereafter administrative functions) relating to manageable systems within a managed network. According to the present invention, configuration data relating to one or more managed systems can be stored. Using the stored configuration data, an autonomic agent can automatically generate any grammars and speech dialogs that may be necessary for interacting with each managed system. The speech dialogs can be loaded into a telephony interface or manager on an as needed basis as administrators call to initiate administrative functions on the systems being managed.","One aspect of the present invention can include a method of administering systems in a managed network. The method can include storing configuration information corresponding to at least one managed system and automatically generating a grammar and a speech dialog for each managed system using the configuration information. User speech selecting a managed system can be received over a telephone call. The user speech can be recognized to identify the selected managed system. A grammar and speech dialog for the selected managed system can be loaded so that the user can interact with the managed system using the grammar and speech dialog.","In one embodiment of the present invention, user speech specifying an administrative function to be performed on the selected managed system can be received. The speech can be converted to a textual representation using the grammar. The textual representation can be matched with an administrative command corresponding to the selected managed system. In another embodiment, the matching step can first select a set of administrative commands corresponding to the selected managed system from which the textual representation can be matched. If necessary, the administrative command can be formatted according to a system management protocol specified by the configuration information for the selected managed system. The administrative command then can be forwarded to the selected managed system.","Another aspect of the present invention can include a method of administering systems in a managed network including storing a system speech profile for each managed system within the managed network, connecting a managed system to the managed network, detecting the managed system, and loading the system speech profile for the detected managed system. At least one grammar and at least one system prompt can be automatically created that corresponds with the detected managed system. The grammar and system prompts can be used in processing speech inputs from a user accessing the detected managed system via a telephony interface.","Another aspect of the present invention can include a network management system. The system can include a configuration data store having stored therein a system speech profile for each system to be managed and an autonomic agent capable of communicating with each system to be managed. The autonomic agent can automatically generate a grammar and a speech dialog for each managed system using the system speech profiles. The system further can include a telephony manager that answers a telephone call, identifies a managed system from user speech received over the call, and obtains from the autonomic agent a grammar and speech dialog corresponding to the identified managed system. Notably, the telephony manager can interact with the user using the grammar and speech dialog such that the user can instruct the autonomic agent to initiate administrative functions on the identified managed system.","Other embodiments of the present invention, when configured in accordance with the inventive arrangements disclosed herein, can include a system for performing, and a machine readable storage for causing a machine to perform, the various processes disclosed herein.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["100","100","105","110","115","120","125","100","130","135","140"]},"The autonomic agent  can be communicatively linked with the telephony manager , the data stores -, and the managed systems - through a suitable communications network. For example, the aforementioned components can be communicatively linked via a Wide Area Network (WAN), a Local Area Network (LAN), an intranet, the Internet, or another suitable communications network.","The managed systems - can be any of a variety of independent systems ranging from telephony switching systems to information processing systems, or any other system that can be managed using some form of management control software. For example, as shown, system  can be a Java Management Extension (JMX) enabled system. System  can be a Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMP) compliant system. One or more other systems which can be compliant with other appropriate management software can be included as illustrated by system .","As each system - is installed, configuration information pertaining to that system can be created and stored within the configuration data store . More particularly, each managed system - can be associated with a system speech profile generated by a system administrator. Each system speech profile can specify which functions of a given managed system have been installed and are available on the managed network, as well as which functions are to be voice-enabled and made available to system administrators via a telephony interface. The configuration information also can specify the particular control system and protocol used by each managed system - as well as any translation rules for converting received spoken utterances to valid administration commands for each respective managed system -.","The telephony manager  is a computer system configured to provide telephone access to applications and data. The telephony manager  can include appropriate software and hardware interfaces for receiving Internet Protocol (IP) calls, conventional landline telephone calls, wireless calls, cellular calls, or any combination thereof. Additionally, the telephony manager  can include interfaces for communicating with any of a variety of different telephony platforms and\/or other applications as mentioned herein, including the Public Switched Telephone Network (PSTN).","The telephony manager  can include a speech recognition engine that detects and recognizes words spoken over a received call and passes those words to an application as text. The speech recognition engine further can process dual tone multi-frequency signals as may be received from a touch-tone telephone. An audio playback system also can be included for playing prompts to callers. For example, the telephony manager  can include an audio playback system to play recorded audio, or a text-to-speech (TTS) engine, or both. The TTS engine can synthesize speech from application text for playback over an established telephone call.","The autonomic agent  is configured to interact with the one or more managed systems - using appropriate management protocols. For example, the autonomic agent  can receive text from the telephony manager  and format that text as an SNMP message, a JMX message, or another message type depending upon which system the received text or instruction is to be routed and the management system protocol used by the target managed system. Rather than each system - using a separate management system, each can be administered via the autonomic agent . Accordingly, despite the particular management protocol used by each individual system, the autonomic agent  can receive speech recognized text and format the text according to the management protocol corresponding to the managed system to which the speech command was directed. The autonomic agent  can utilize the configuration data and, more particularly, the system speech profile of the target managed system, to perform such formatting operations. The formatted command can be provided to the managed system.","Similarly, upon receiving information from each managed system -, the autonomic agent  can parse and extract the relevant information, as the syntax for received messages is known. The extracted information can be provided to the TTS engine to be played to a user over an established telephony link.","The autonomic agent  can automatically construct grammars and speech dialogs corresponding to each managed system -. Using the configuration information stored in the configuration data store , the autonomic agent  builds grammars for each system -. Each grammar is stored in the speech data store  and is associated with the particular managed system with which the grammar is to be used. Each speech dialog generated for one of the managed systems - is stored within the dialog data store . The speech dialogs include one or more prompts that can be played, for example through the TTS engine, to a system administrator over a telephone call. It should be appreciated that while grammars and speech dialogs for each selected system can be automatically generated from the configuration information, a system administrator also can manually edit this information.","In operation, the telephony manager  can receive and answer a telephone call. The user initiating the telephone call can be identified and authenticated by the telephony manager , for example through an initial dialog in which the user is prompted for an identifier such as a user name as well as a corresponding password. The user then can specify a particular managed system to which the user wishes to gain access, whether through speech or a DTMF selection. After determining which managed system the user wishes to access, the telephone manager  retrieves the speech dialog corresponding to the selected system from the autonomic agent . Once the appropriate speech dialog has been retrieved and loaded into the telephony manager , the user can begin accessing administrative functions of the selected managed system using speech commands through the telephone.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":["200","205","210","215","210","220","210"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":["300","305","310","315","320","325"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":["400","405"]},"In step , the telephony manager can authenticate the system administrator by requesting identifying information in the form of either DTMF signals and\/or user speech. For example, the telephony manager can request a username and\/or password. Other methods of authentication, however, can be used as well. For example, biometric authentication mechanisms such as speaker verification or voice print matching technology can be used to match an administrator voice print received over the telephone call with a stored voice print. The telephony unit used by the administrator to initiate the telephone call further can be equipped with a biometric sensor such as a fingerprint detection mechanism that can transmit data to the telephony manager for authentication purposes. In any case, one skilled in the art will recognize that any of a variety of authentication mechanisms can be used. Accordingly, the present invention is not limited by the particular type of authentication methodology or technology used or the various examples disclosed herein.","In step , through continued interaction with the system administrator, the telephony manager can determine which of the managed systems the system administrator wishes to access. It should be appreciated, however, that in cases where only a single system is managed, step  need not be performed. Rather, the system can default to the only system under management.","In step , after identifying the particular system selected by the system administrator, the grammars and speech dialogs associated with the selected system can be loaded into the telephony manager, thereby allowing the system administrator to issue voice commands for administering the managed system. More particularly, the grammars and speech dialogs can be retrieved from the speech and dialog data stores via the autonomic agent. Accordingly, speech input from the system administrator can be received by the telephony manager in step  over the established telephone call. The speech input can specify a system administration command for the selected system under management.","In step , the received speech input can be processed to determine a corresponding system command. More particularly, the speech input can be speech recognized and converted to text by the telephony manager using the loaded grammar. In one embodiment, the telephony manager further can match the text with an administrative command as specified by the grammar. In another embodiment, the autonomic agent can match the resulting text representation of the speech input with a system command using the configuration data store. Alternatively, the autonomic agent can format any textual representations and\/or system commands to generate system administration messages. For example, the autonomic agent can format either the system commands or speech recognized text according to the management protocol corresponding to the managed system being accessed, as specified by the configuration data store. In any case, the autonomic agent can provide the determined administrative command and\/or message to the managed system in step . Upon execution of the system command, the managed system can provide a response back to the autonomic agent in step .","In step , the autonomic agent can extract information from the response from the managed system as dictated by the configuration data store. In step , the extracted information can be provided to the telephony manager so that the TTS engine can render an audio representation of the text to the system administrator over the established telephone call. It should be appreciated, however, that in another embodiment of the present invention, the autonomic agent need not extract information from the response. In that case, the entire response can be provided to the telephony manager for playback to the system administrator. Accordingly, whether the managed system provides information that the system administrator has requested, or merely provides an indication that a command has been successfully or unsuccessfully executed, the response can be provided to the system administrator via the TTS engine.","In step , the telephony manager can monitor whether the call has been terminated. If so, the method end. If not, however, the method can proceed to step , where a determination can be made as to whether the user has requested access to another managed system. If so, the method can proceed to step . If not, the method can proceed to step  to receive further speech inputs and process those inputs as necessary.","Continuing with step , in the case where the system administrator has requested access to a different managed system, the telephony manager can determine whether the system administrator has access privileges on the different managed system. According to one embodiment of the present invention, the telephony manager can access a data store, such as the configuration data store, specifying the access privileges of the system administrator to make the determination. In another embodiment, the telephony manager can authenticate the system administrator for the different managed system. In any case, if the system administrator has privileges on the new managed system or is successfully authenticated, the method can proceed to step  to load the appropriate grammars and speech dialogs to process speech commands for the new managed system. If the system administrator does not have privileges on the new managed system or the authentication process fails, the method can end, at which point the call can be terminated.","The present invention can be realized in hardware, software, or a combination of hardware and software. The present invention can be realized in a centralized fashion in one computer system, or in a distributed fashion where different elements are spread across several interconnected computer systems. Any kind of computer system or other apparatus adapted for carrying out the methods described herein is suited. A typical combination of hardware and software can be a general purpose computer system with a computer program that, when being loaded and executed, controls the computer system such that it carries out the methods described herein.","The present invention also can be embedded in a computer program product, which comprises all the features enabling the implementation of the methods described herein, and which when loaded in a computer system is able to carry out these methods. Computer program in the present context means any expression, in any language, code or notation, of a set of instructions intended to cause a system having an information processing capability to perform a particular function either directly or after either or both of the following: a) conversion to another language, code or notation; b) reproduction in a different material form.","This invention can be embodied in other forms without departing from the spirit or essential attributes thereof. Accordingly, reference should be made to the following claims, rather than to the foregoing specification, as indicating the scope of the invention."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["There are shown in the drawings, embodiments which are presently preferred, it being understood, however, that the invention is not limited to the precise arrangements and instrumentalities shown.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 4"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
