---
title: Method and system for policy-based control in a distributed network
abstract: A method and a system is disclosed for policy-based control of a communication network having a distributed architecture, including at least one heterogeneous communication network, which network elements provide for registering events, sending notifications of the occurrence of events and enforcing a policy upon said events if certain conditions are met, wherein the PEP  serves as a server towards a PDP , being a client By applying the method and system of the invention, multiple Stakeholders, having each at least one Policy Decision Point , can influence policy enforcements carried out at a Policy Enforcement Point 
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09143405&OS=09143405&RS=09143405
owner: Telefonaktiebolaget L M Ericsson (publ)
number: 09143405
owner_city: Stockholm
owner_country: SE
publication_date: 20031022
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","DISCLOSURE OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DECRIPTION OF THE ILLUSTRATIVE EMBODIMENTS"],"p":["1. Technical Field of the Invention","The present invention relates generally to a method for policy-based control of a communication network having a distributed architecture, including at least one heterogeneous communication.","2. Description of Related Art","In an open services market, network operators will have to provide highly secure, open, standard interfaces to their networks.","Policy-based control of a network is a recent approach to meet these requirements by distribution of functionality among network components and simplifying linking the distributed functionality to one another by employing policies. Policies are statements that dictate what policy enforcements and behaviours are permitted and on which events (hereinafter called Events) in a computer- or telecommunications network. A network administrator may define a set of policies governing the network.","According to the state of the art there are methods and systems developed for policy enforcement and policy management. Policy management and policy evaluation is e.g. currently drafted by a Parlay Policy Management Working Group of the Parlay Group, which is a multi-vendor consortium formed to enable the development of applications that operate across multiple, networking-platform environments by developing open, technology-independent application programming interfaces (APIs). The Parlay Policy Management Working Group (PPMWG) is set up to maintain and enhance the Parlay Policy Management and -Evaluation APIs that enable management of policy domains within the network which domains are firstly independent of network architectures and secondly independent of transport\/application protocols. The draft of the PPMWG on policy management covers the composition of policies and the latest contributions also describe policy evaluation.","One example of policies being applied is that currently, networks may provide different services to clients by employing the aforementioned policy management methods. These networks rely on traffic handling mechanisms of the network elements that are transferring data. These elements are mostly switches, routers, proxies and protocol gateways. Such protocol gateways have for instance been defined in Parlay. Also examples of these elements are \u201cCommon Service Enablers\u201d and \u201cOther Service Enablers\u201d as defined by OMA. An enabler (Enabler), in this context, is a logical entity that offers certain services. Its services may typically be invoked by means of an interface.","The traffic handling mechanisms include mechanisms that determine to which flow traffic belongs, and queuing mechanisms by which resources may be assigned to a particular flow. Network elements that support traffic handling mechanisms are also referred to as Policy Enforcement Points (PEPs) because they are able to apply policies to the traffic transferred by them.","In addition, network elements must support mechanisms by which their traffic handling functionality can be executed or configured. Typically, PEPs are associated with some form of Policy Server, also known as a Policy Decision Point (PDP). Typically, a PDP supports one or more commonly known configuration protocols, such as Common Open Policy Services (COPS), which is a protocol between a PEP and a PDP, where the PEP requests a decision from the PDP. For top-down provisioning, a PDP may use COPS-PR to push top-down configuration information to associated PEPs. COPS-PR is an extension to COPS where the PDP contacts a PEP.","Some PEPs may include PDP functionality locally. Others may invoke the PDP functionality from a separate Policy Server. In this way PEPs and PDPs work together to apply policies, acting on policy data related to e.g. business to business configuration, privacy, security and authorisation, that are typically stored in some form of register database (hereinafter called Register).","The described state of the art specifications consider the PEP a client and the PDP a server. An example of this approach is the aforementioned COPS protocol. The Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF) is further developing COPS. COPS may be applied in a client\/server model for supporting policy control over quality of service signaling protocols, but may in general be applied to any other situation with distributed control. The policy framework illustrated in the COPS specification describes the entities PEP and PDP and the mechanism for the PEP to initiate a relation establishment with a PDP. It also describes messages for the interaction between the PEP and the PDP. The model is based on the server returning decisions to policy requests, wherein the PEP sends a request to the PDP to become its client and wherein the PDP as server decides whether or not to accept the PEP client.","Other models that refer to policy management are described in e.g. the Policy Core Information Model (RFC3060), which defines in Unified Modeling Language notation, the classes that a policy may be composed of (policy, policy rule, policy rule Event, policy rule Action); and Radius (RFC2138) and Diameter, which may be used to request decisions regarding network access.","Systems according to the current art comprise a PEP sending out a decision request to a PDP when a specific Event occurs at the entity implementing the PEP. The PEP sends information about the Event or a pointer to such information to the PDP. The PDP evaluates the Events against policy and decides the appropriate policy enforcement. Subsequently the PDP returns its decision on how the PEP must act on the Event to the PEP and the PEP carries out (enforces) the decision taken by the PDP.","Other standards like Radius do not cover the establishment of the Client\/Server relationship or the PEP\/PDP relationship or do not cover the exchange of Event notification and policy enforcement capabilities of the PEP. Event notification Capability in this context means the capability to notify Events that are occurring, such as a request for access to the network, a request for resource usage or a request for any other service. Policy enforcement capability in this context means modification by the PEP of such service request, (partial) refusal of such service request and\/or performing other policy enforcements by the PEP that can be suggested by the PDP.","The current approach by systems, policy models, framework and standards, which considers the PEP a client of the PDP server has inherent limitations, and especially lack:\n\n","In order to overcome the disadvantages of existing solutions, there is a need for methods and systems that efficiently enable stakeholders by their selves or in groups to determine their own policy enforcement upon Events and therefore fully control the PDP in their own domain.","The invention deals with this problem by providing the PEP with a server capability and turn the PDPs into clients of the PEP, being a server, in order to make more possibilities to solve the aforementioned disadvantages available.","The invention provides in a first aspect thereof a method and a system for policy-based control of a communication network having a distributed architecture, including at least one heterogeneous communication network comprising messaging between network elements, comprising at least one PEP, one or more PDPs, which network elements provide for registering events, sending notifications of the occurrence of events and enforcing a policy upon said events if certain conditions are met, wherein the at least one PEP serves as a server towards at least one PDP, being a client.","In a second aspect of the invention, the PEP where the Events are occurring are being kept outside the Stakeholder's domain and therefore outside the domain where the PDP is located, which could be a third party domain.","In a third aspect of the invention, the Stakeholder registers its own PDP to the PEP to be able to suggest its decision to the PEP domain.","The invention furthermore provides for the PEP to report to registered PDPs, specific Events that are of third party interest. The PDP initiates a registration procedure to the PEP. This PDP may be a third party PDP but is not restricted to third party PDPs only. In this procedure the PDP specifies the Events that the PDP is interested in. The PEP registers a reference (hereinafter called Reference) related to the PEP service that can be used by a PDP to contact the PEP. In a later stage when PDP wishes to receive notifications of Events at the PEP, the PDP sends a Reference to the PEP in a request for notification. The PEP sends its notifications to these References.","If such an Event occurs at the PEP, it notifies the PDPs that subscribed to that Event on the registered Reference, after which the PEP awaits the decision of the PDP.","Multiple PDPs may subscribe to the same Event. If multiple PDPs have subscribed to an Event, then the PEP notifies the PDPs one at the time, according to a certain priority scheme. If multiple suggested Decisions of multiple PDPs are received by the PEP, the PEP may carry out a policy enforcement or multiple consecutive Actions according to a certain priority scheme.","New aspects of this Invention are:\n\n","The Invention may preferably be applied in the area of Web Services, Open Services Access (OSA), Single Sign On for multiple vendors, or any other application with distributed functionality, as these standards and standardization bodies include in their scope the service consumer and the service provider.","The innovative teachings of the present Invention will be described with particular reference to the presently preferred exemplary embodiments. However, it should be understood that this class of embodiments provides only a few examples of the many uses of the innovative teachings herein. In general, statements made in the specification of the present Invention do not necessarily delimit any of the claimed Invention.","With reference to  of the drawings, a general overview, according to the current art, is showing the relationship between PEP, PDP and Stakeholders, wherein the Stakeholders are represented via their own PDPs. The current approach by systems, policy models, framework and standards, which considers the PEP a client and the PDP a server has disadvantages such as a lack of possibility for Stakeholders to subscribe to PEP capabilities outside their service domain. Furthermore there is no easy way for defining policies to be enforced by PEPs without having to first register the capabilities of the PEP.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0044"},"figref":"FIG. 2","ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0005","list-style":"none"},"li":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0005-0001","num":"0000"},"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0006","list-style":"none"},"li":[{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0006-0001","num":"0045"},"b":["201","607","607","604"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0006-0002","num":"0046"},"b":["202","607","604"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0006-0003","num":"0047"},"b":"203"},{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0006-0004","num":"0048"},"b":"204"},{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0006-0005","num":"0049"},"b":"205"},{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0006-0006","num":"0050"},"b":"206"},{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0006-0007","num":"0051"},"b":"207"},{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0006-0008","num":"0052"},"b":"208"},{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0006-0009","num":"0053"},"b":"209"}]}}}},"These steps are explained in more detail in the following. The PEP  announces  its capabilities for Event Notification Capabilities at the Register  and its policy enforcements at the Register . The Events and policy enforcements are typical to an instance of a PEP . The Events represent actual Events that may occur at the PEP , and the policy enforcements represent actual policy enforcements that may be carried out by the PEP . The PDP  may access the Register  by means of the PEP Reference to investigate the PEP 's Events, that may be notified  to the PDP  and policy enforcements that the PDP  may suggest. The PDP  and the PEP  establish  a service agreement, part of this is determining which (subset of) the registered PEP service Events and policy enforcements may be requested by the PDP . The PDP  may request to be notified of specified Events. The PDP  subscribes  to specific PEP  Events. Whenever such an Event occurs  at the PEP  it notifies  the PDPs  that have subscribed to this Event. Typically the PEP  would notify the PDPs  one by one. The PDPs  evaluate and decide  for the appropriate policy enforcement upon reception of the Event notification and return  their suggestion for the policy enforcements to be taken back to the PEP . Subsequently, the PEP  determines  which of these policy enforcements to carry out and carries them out.","In case of multiple PDPs having registered to the same event, a preference- or priority scheme is applied by the PEP for sending the notifications to one or more of said multiple PDPs.","In case of a PEP receiving from multiple PDPs, multiple suggestions to enforce a policy, a preference- or priority scheme is applied by said PEP for selecting such a suggestion to enforce a policy upon.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0040","num":"0057"},"figref":"FIGS. 3 and 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0041","num":"0058"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":["604","607","601"],"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0007","list-style":"none"},"li":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0007-0001","num":"0000"},"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0008","list-style":"none"},"li":[{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0008-0001","num":"0059"},"b":"301"},{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0008-0002","num":"0060"},"b":"302","i":"a"},{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0008-0003","num":"0061"},"b":"302","i":"b"},{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0008-0004","num":"0062"},"b":"303","i":"a"},{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0008-0005","num":"0063"},"b":"303","i":"b"},{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0008-0006","num":"0064"},"b":"304"},{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0008-0007","num":"0065"},"b":"305"},{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0008-0008","num":"0066"},"b":"306"},{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0008-0009","num":"0067"},"b":"307"},{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0008-0010","num":"0068"},"b":"308"},{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0008-0011","num":"0069"},"b":"309"}]}}}},"The method is carried out by means of serialization of all the Event related data and shows an Event occurrence  at the PEP , as an Event that may be subscribed to by the PDP . The data describing the Event is gathered and sent in a message (event notification  to the PDP . In this option a message comprises:\n\n","In the service agreement establishment  it is agreed which Events the specific PDP  may be notified of and which policy enforcements may be proposed by the PDP  to the PEP .","The Events of which a notification is requested at  may be a subset of the Events agreed upon in . The notification request  may also contain a callback Reference to the PDP . The callback Reference of the PDP  may also be exchanged when establishing the service agreement .","The notification of the Event in this embodiment is done by submitting to the PDP  all Event related data in the notification message . The PDP  evaluates at  this data and determines a policy enforcement that must be carried out by the PEP . The notification result message  carries the policy enforcement.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0046","num":"0076"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":["604","607","601"],"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0011","list-style":"none"},"li":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0011-0001","num":"0000"},"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0012","list-style":"none"},"li":[{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0012-0001","num":"0077"},"b":"401"},{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0012-0002","num":"0078"},"b":"402","i":"a"},{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0012-0003","num":"0079"},"b":"402","i":"b"},{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0012-0004","num":"0080"},"b":"403","i":"a"},{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0012-0005","num":"0081"},"b":"403","i":"b"},{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0012-0006","num":"0082"},"b":"404"},{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0012-0007","num":"0083"},"b":"405"},{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0012-0008","num":"0084"},"b":"406"},{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0012-0009","num":"0085"},"b":"407","i":"a"},{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0012-0010","num":"0086"},"b":"407","i":"b"},{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0012-0011","num":"0087"},"b":"407","i":"c"},{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0012-0012","num":"0088"},"b":"409"}]}}}},"This method is carried out by means of asynchronous messaging, wherein the PDP  gets the Event related data upon request.","Typical for this embodiment is that the notification of the Event in this method is done by putting a Reference  to the Event related data in the notification message. The PDP  obtains through this Reference the Event data that it is going to evaluate. The PDP  evaluates this data and determines a policy enforcement that must be carried out by the PEP . A separate asynchronous message is sent by the PDP  to let the PEP  know, which suggested policy enforcement should be enforced by the PEP .","The Events and policy enforcements that the PEP  registers at the Register  may be considered capabilities of a PEP service. The service may therefore be implemented as a web service. The Register  may be implemented as a Discovery web service.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0050","num":"0092"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},"A host network operator  hosting a service provider (SP) . An SP  providing services to a mobile virtual network enabler (MVNE)  and having a Relation with an application service provider (ASP) . A Content Provider  providing content data to a MVNE , which passes the content data to a mobile virtual network operator (MVNO) . An ASP  providing application services to an MVNE  and an SP . And finally, a MVNO  having a Relation with an End-User .","An example of a field involving multiple Stakeholders is defined in the upcoming OMA. OMA is a standards body that provides specifications to make the mobile Internet work by means of a standardized architecture and open APIs that enable interoperability. OMA addresses the generation of a layered service model with multiple service domains involved.","In this case a PEP would typically be located in an Enabler in the Service Provider (SP) domain. The other service domains are interested in the Events occurring in the Mobile Virtual Network Enabler (MVNE), such as a specific method being called with a specific set of parameters on the MVNE.","Each of these service domains could have in place its own PDP to be able to influence the decision to be carried out at the PEP\/MVNE. E.g. the Mobile Virtual Network Operator (MVNO) domain PDP represents the end-user when end-user specific settings must be evaluated, when a service is requested from the SP domain, which has the PEP.","Other examples of implementation of the Invention relate to e.g. governmental domains with PDPs that are involved in for example lawful interception legislations.","The present Invention provides several (additional) advantages with regard to existing solutions such as the:\n\n",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0057","num":"0102"},"figref":"FIG. 6","b":["604","607","604","607"]},"The system furthermore comprises next means:\n\n","PDPs  may comprise stakeholders such as operators, application developers, vendors, governmental organizations, end-users or service providers.","Although preferred embodiments of the system, method, and apparatus of the present Invention have been illustrated in the accompanying Drawings and described in the foregoing Detailed Description, it is recognized by those skilled in the art, that the Invention is not limited to the embodiments disclosed, but is capable of numerous rearrangements, modifications, and substitutions without departing from the spirit of the Invention as set forth and defined by the following claims."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["In the following section, the Invention will be described by way of examples of its embodiments with reference to the attached drawing, in which:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0036"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0037"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0038"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0039"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0040"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0041"},"figref":"FIG. 6"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
