---
title: Noback bolt
abstract: There is described and claimed herein a noback bolt design which comprises an elongated shaft having two opposing ends. The first end has an enlarged conical bolt head that extends from this shaft. On the opposite shaft end is a terminus or tip. Between the tip and the conical head, the shaft bears an externally threaded segment on at least a portion of the shaft. The precise length of this segment is determined upon intended applications of my bolt, and the type or exact number of structural components to be assembled. These components include panels, brackets, planar surfaces, chassises, and like structures.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=06935214&OS=06935214&RS=06935214
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 06935214
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20030319
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"GOVINT":[{},{}],"heading":["GOVERNMENT INTEREST","BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["The invention described herein may be made, used, and licensed by, or for, the United States Government for governmental purposes without paying any royalty.","The present invention generally relates to fasteners, such as a screw or bolt, which hold together one or more structural components in a strong, secured fashion. In another aspect, it also relates to non-removable or tamper-resistant fasteners. A special driving tool is also provided herein for the advancement of said fastener into said components.","Described herein is my noback bolt design comprising an elongated shaft having two opposing ends. The first end has an enlarged conical bolt head that extends from this shaft. On the opposite shaft end is a terminus or tip. Between the tip and the conical head, the shaft bears an externally threaded segment on at least a portion of the shaft. The precise length of this segment is determined upon intended applications of my bolt, and the type or exact number of structural components to be assembled. These components include panels, brackets, planar surfaces, chassises, and like structures.","The absence of a standard tool engaging surface on this conical head deters tampering or removal by traditional tools. Furthermore, this bolt is readily installed within one or more structural components to complete an assembly of constructs or workpieces with my aforementioned tool. However, once my noback bolt achieves a predetermined level of tightness, it is not readily removed without extraordinary efforts. Moreover, the noback bolt assures that a strong, mechanical bond or interlock is maintained in all assembled constructs or workpieces. Preferably, at least one of the components being joined together will have a compatible, internally threaded aperture or blind bore for acceptance of the threaded segment of my bolt. Also, at least one component must have a firm bearing surface upon which the underside of my bolt head will ultimately rest.","In the prior art, an ordinary bolt comprises an elongated, externally threaded shaft that longitudinally extends from a hex- or slot-shaped head. Such a bolt is usually positioned in a structural member by simply turning or rotating the head with a standard wrench or screwdriver in either a clockwise, or counterclockwise, direction depending on whether said bolt is being tightened or loosened, respectively.","In sharp contrast, my noback bolt is intended to turn in only a single direction (clockwise) and that is for the sole purpose of tightening said bolt against one or more structural components to make a completed assembly. Thus, for all practical purposes, an installed noback bolt is not removable and the joined constructs or workpieces are permanent. Examples of typical applications include plates of uparmor which can be added to legacy military vehicles to either modernize or upgrade their utility and missions. Similar applications exist within the appliance, automotive, aviation, and related industries of mass production, which prefer, or even mandate, nearly permanent or tamper resistant constructs for safety reasons.","In the drawings, two equally satisfactory embodiments ,  of my invention are depicted.  shows a first embodiment  of my noback bolt in side elevation with a single arcuate slot  contained within an enlarged, conical bolt head . Extending from the underside  of said head is an elongated shaft  that terminates at a tip  distal from the head. This shaft has a common central axis  with the apex  of the conical bolt head. At least a part of said elongated shaft  bears external threads  thereon. Depending on a specific application or need, the threads on this elongated shaft may extend for the full length of the shaft. Moreover, the shapes or sizes of the noback bolt may be of varying lengths and diameters. Further, while a coarse thread is depicted in ; it could just as easily be a fine thread based upon the type of final assembly in which it is employed.  is a top view of the conical bolt  of  with a singular slot  embedded within the conical surface .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 1","FIGS. 1","FIG. 6"],"b":["18","16","40","48","46","3","5","16","46","18","48","32","34","32"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIGS. 3 and 4","b":["40","42","10","40","16","46","14","44","16","46"]},"The sole means for tightening my noback bolt is generally shown in  which are depictions of my driving tool . This tool appears therein as a standard, socket-like device that can be manufactured by conventional methods, such as machining, stamping, or casting. This tool is readily used with an ordinary socket wrench, ratchet, or driver which has a dimensionally compatible square-drive that fits within a first drive means  on top of my tool . This tool can also be further modified with the permanent, or detachable, addition of a \u201cT\u201d or \u201cL\u201d shaped handle. In these latter configurations, the modified tool will resemble a spark-plug wrench or a tire iron, respectively.","Generally, my tool  has an internal conical cavity  that begins as a central bore a short distance at its bottom, and then extends to a point remote from the top and near the first drive means . This cavity  is dimensionally sized and shaped to receive, and then conform with, the exterior conical surface of bolt head(s) , . Upon initial contact with a bolt head, the tool's second drive means  will engage the exterior conical surface(s) ,  of said bolt, and then move directly away from the apex(es) , . After the tool's second drive means  engage the arcuate slot(s) ,  within the heads of my noback bolts, said heads are easily advanced into the structural components ,  to form a completed installation or assembly. Thereby, a mating engagement of the driving tool  with the slots ,  and conical bolt heads ,  will allow the manual application of sufficient forces to controllably position, install, and advance the bolt to perform work (rotation of said bolts) in a tightening direction.","In a preferred embodiment, my tool's second drive means  comprises two projections within the conical cavity  of my tool , which are interiorty positioned within bore(s) , equally spaced-apart, and spring-loaded or spring-biased. These spring-actuated projections are preferably selected from inserts, posts, pins, or detents that will readily deploy into arcuate slot(s) ,  of the conical bolt head(s) ,  when my tool  is placed over said bolts and rotated. As this version of my tool slides over the conical bolt head, the detents or posts will be initially forced back by the smooth, conical surface of the bolt head. As the tool  is then turned in the tightening direction at its fully seated depth on said bolt, these projections will fully engage the arcuate slot(s) of the bolt head and will rotate to a maximum slot depth until the land(s) or shoulder(s) ,  are contacted. Thusly positioned, the subsequent rotating of this tool  will result in a desired degree of tightening of the bolt head to the surfaces of the workpiece(s) to be joined together by my noback bolt. Because the slots , , in the bolt heads , , are offset from the cone apexes , , and from the common axis(es) ,  of both the conical head and the bolt shaft, the projections  of my preferred tool must be spring-actuated to accomplish their desired function. Those skilled in the art are familiar with acceptable substitutes and equivalents.","Referring back to  or , an arcuate slot  or  is essentially a semicircular element in design. It is generally offset from the apex  or , offset from the common axis  or  of the bolt head  or , and offset from the bolt shafts , , respectively, of my noback bolts. Moreover, the depth of these slots in my bolt(s) gradually increases from zero Z at the conical surface(s)  or  to a maximum depth at a point along the conical surface of about 180 degrees while traveling in a clockwise direction. At the termination T of the slot(s), and at their maximum width and depth, a land or shoulder  or  is provided therein for interfacing with both my special tool  and preferred drive means  for driving the conical bolt head. The internal surface(s) of the arcuate slots ,  are also curved to provide a smooth and gradual transition from the exterior, conical surface(s) ,  at the point Z of my noback bolt head to a maximum width and depth T at the land(s)  or . This unique feature of the slots also precludes the application and use of my driving tool  in the reverse (loosening) direction.","I wish it understood that I do not desire to be limited to the exact details of construction or method shown herein since obvious modifications will occur to those skilled in the relevant arts without departing from the spirit and scope of the following claims."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0008","num":"0007"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":"1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":"3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 1"],"b":"1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 6","b":"3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 7"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
