---
title: Rotating feeler gage
abstract: A feeler gage including a pin member having a first end and an opposing end with a gage connected to the opposing end of the pin member. The gage has a first end connected to the pin and a free end projecting past a peripheral dimension of the pin. An indicator is formed on the first end of the pin member in alignment with a longitudinal axis of the gage for determining a position of the gage upon rotation of the pin member. The gage is of a predetermined thickness and is aligned with the indicator formed at the first end of the pin member. Rotation of the pin member correspondingly rotates the gage of the pin member. If the gage rotates freely, then a gap is determined to be present in the area where the gage is rotated through. If the gage does not rotate freely, then no gap exists.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=06845566&OS=06845566&RS=06845566
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 06845566
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20030929
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"GOVINT":[{},{}],"heading":["STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENT INTEREST","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENT"],"p":["The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.","(1) Field of the Invention","This invention generally relates to a gage. More particularly, the invention relates to a feeler gage, which can effectively and economically measure the gap between a watertight hatch and its seat, when the assembly is subjected to submergence pressure.","(2) Description of the Prior Art","The current art for gages in connection with a submarines pressure hatch is normally designed with eight lugs, which extend beyond its gasket-sealing surface. The hatch is mated to a locking ring, which has similar lugs on its interior. When the locking ring is in one position, the hatch can open and close freely. However, if the locking ring rotates 22.5 degrees, the lugs on the locking ring cover the rings on the hatch and prevent it from opening. In addition, the locking ring itself is connected to its foundation by a threaded connection. Therefore, when the locking ring rotates, its moves axially. This results in the locking ring not only blocking the possibility of the hatch opening but it also pulls it firmly against its seat area. This is important to effect a tight seal when the assembly is subjected to sea pressure as well as holding the assembly securely, should it be subjected to a shock load.","However, whenever a submarine hatch assembly is subjected to submergence pressure it deflects in response to the loads induced by the pressure. Accordingly, there is a problem in the art wherein this deflection becomes greater as pressures increase. In addition, there is the potential for this deflection to actually lift the hatch off its gasket seat. If this occurs there is the possibility of the gasket extruding between the hatch and the seat area. If an excessive deflection occurs the assembly may leak. If the gasket extrudes between the hatch and its seat area then there is also the potential to pinch the gasket as the pressure causing component deflection, abates.","Therefore, it is very important to know how big a gap will result from pressurization so that a proper gasket design can be developed to match operating conditions. While this information can be obtained analytically, there is a need to validate the calculations prior to going to sea or implementing a design fix to a fleet problem. Presently, there is no method to measure the gap resulting from component deflections. This disclosure reveals an economical and effective method with the use of a feeler gage in order to determine this gap under either a test or an operating condition.","The following patents, for example, disclose various types of hatch covers, but do not disclose the use of an inexpensive feeler gage for determining a gap between a gasket seat and a hatch.","Specifically, Schoonman (U.S. Pat. No. 4,004,538) discloses a wave responsive hatch cover locking and sealing mechanism. In the mechanism, wave impact closes normally open contacts on a marine vessel hatch cover face to initiate or to increase fluid pressure within a collapsible hollow gasket interposed at the interface between a hatch cover and a deck hatchway to lock the hatch cover to the hatchway and to effect a watertight seal therebetween.","Rodgers et al. (U.S. Pat. No. 4,388,782) discloses a grinder for preparing circular seats behind elliptical handholes of marine boilers. An air motor, mounted within an expandable housing, drives a grinding wheel against the inside surface of the handhole. The housing is expanded to be secured in the elliptical handhole. The center of the motor orbits on a circle about the center of the housing so that a circular seat is formed about the inside edge of the elliptical handhole.","Leung (U.S. Pat. No. 4,466,551) discloses a releasable closure device adapted to provide sealing engagement between abutting surfaces by means of a rotatable locking ring comprising a plurality of locking lugs adapted to frictionally engage recessed locking channels disposed in the surfaces.","Wilger et al. (U.S. Pat. No. 4,534,135) discloses a machine provided for in-situ grinding of tapered lugs on a hatch, such as a hatch aboard a submarine. A base is provided and a device is attached to alternate lugs of the hatch for mounting the base across the hatch opening. An elongated plate is mounted at its center to the base for pivotal movement thereon. The pivotal plate has opposite ends wherein each end is extendable between a pair of alternate lugs, one of the lugs between one of the pair of lugs being a lug to be ground. A device is mounted on the base for oscillating the pivotal plate back and forth between the lugs of each pair of alternate lugs. A grinder is provided, and a device is utilized for mounting the grinder at one end of the pivotal plate for selectively engaging the grinder with or backing the grinder away from the lug to be ground. With this arrangement a lug can be ground by oscillating the pivotal plate and engaging the grinding means with the lug.","Duarte et al. (U.S. Pat. No. 5,562,065) discloses an elastomeric pump including a rigid outer housing defining an outer chamber and having a fluid inlet thereinto. The pump further includes an inner housing disposed within the outer housing. The inner housing is provided with rigid walls and first and second expandable members, the first expandable member having greater elasticity than the second expandable member, the rigid walls and expandable members defining an inner chamber. A fluid conduit extends from the inner chamber to the exterior of the outer housing. A rigid cage is fixed to the inner housing and is disposed over the first expandable member, and is configured to permit and limit expansion of the first expandable member.","It should be understood that the present invention would in fact enhance the functionality of the above patents by providing a feeler gage selectively inserted into an opening formed between a gasket seat and a seating surface of a hatch in a hatch-locking ring assembly as illustrated in the preferred embodiment of the present invention.","Accordingly, it is a general purpose and primary object of the present invention to provide a gap-measuring gage.","It is a further object of the present invention to provide a gap-measuring gage for increasing a gap that is not accessible for direct insertion of a feeler gage.","It is a still further object of the present invention to provide a gap-measuring gage for a hatch-locking ring assembly.","It is a still further object of the present invention to provide a feeler gage for a hatch-locking ring assembly in which the feeler gage is inserted into a gap formed between a gasket seat and a hatch of the assembly.","It is a still further object of the present invention to provide a feeler gage for a hatch-locking ring assembly in which the feeler gage can detect the presence or absence of a gap in seal of the assembly.","It is a still further object of the present invention to provide a feeler gage for a hatch-locking ring assembly in which the feeler gage can detect the presence or absence of a gap between a gasket seat and a hatch portion of the assembly.","To obtain the objects described, there is provided a feeler gage including a pin member having a first end and an opposing end with a gage connected to the opposing end of the pin member. The gage has a first end connected to the pin and a free end projecting past a peripheral dimension of the pin. An indicator is formed on the first end of the pin member in alignment with a longitudinal axis of the gage for determining a position of the gage upon rotation of the pin member. The gage is of a predetermined thickness and is aligned with the indicator formed at the first end of the pin member. Rotation of the pin member correspondingly rotates the gage of the pin member. If the gage rotates freely, then a gap is determined to be present in the area where the gage is rotated through. If the gage does not rotate freely, then no gap exists.","In general, the present invention is directed to a gage, and more particularly to a feeler gage for measuring a gap between a watertight hatch and its seat, when a hatch-locking ring assembly is subjected to submergence pressure.","Turning now to the drawings, wherein like numerals refer to like elements throughout the several views,  reflects a typical hatch-locking ring arrangement. While the subject matter shown here in  illustrating the configuration of a hatch-locking ring arrangement is correctly characterized as Prior Art, the description thereof will be included in connection with the detailed description of the preferred embodiment, since the invention operates in connection with this particular type of hatch-locking ring arrangement.","Accordingly,  generally illustrates a hatch  and a locking ring . The hatch  includes a plurality of lugs  protruding at intervals therefrom around an outer circumference  of the hatch . The interval nature of the lugs  correspondingly define recessed notches therebetween around the outer circumference  of the hatch .","The locking ring  includes a plurality of protruding lugs  spaced around an inner circumference B thereof. Likewise, a plurality of recessed notches  are interspaced between the plurality of protruding lugs . The plurality of hatch lugs  correspond in spacing to that of the plurality of locking ring lugs .","The right side of  depicts the locking ring  rotated such that it captures the lugs  of the hatch . The left side of  depicts how the lugs  of the hatch  fit within the recessed notches  of the locking ring  prior to its rotation.","When the hatch  is viewed as a section in , a gasket groove  is seen in primary ring  and a seating surface  of the hatch  with the body portion of the hatch shown as an elliptical head portion . The purpose of the gasket groove  is to retain a sealing gasket, and with the elliptical head portion  being a pressure containing dished configuration.","Each of , , , and  depict additional detail of the hatch-locking ring arrangement and features which contribute to sealing of the hatch-locking ring arrangement. In particular, there is provided a gasket  having a surface  against which the hatch  seals. The surface  includes a peripheral groove  for receiving a corresponding lip  of the locking ring .  depict the configuration reflected by the left side of  (the unlocked position of the hatch-locking ring arrangement); while  reflect the configuration on the right side of  (the locked position of the hatch-locking ring arrangement).",{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00041","num":"00041"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 4"],"b":["14","10","12","26","14"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00042","num":"00042"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 6"],"b":["12","56","10","12","14","26","14","26","58","22","10","34","32"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00043","num":"00043"},"figref":["FIGS. 7 and 8","FIGS. 7 and 8"],"b":["40","40","42","44","46","42","45","44","48","44","42","50","46","42","52","46","42","54","50"]},"The gaging protrusion  of the feeler gage  is of a length greater than the diameter of the pin  so that a portion of the gaging protrusion  is visible from the top view of the pin  as shown in FIG. . The gaging protrusion  can be of varying thicknesses and lengths determined according to a given use.","As indicated, the gaging protrusion  is attached to the tapped end  of the pin  so that the longitudinal axis of the gaging protrusion  lines up with the scribe mark .",{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00046","num":"00046"},"figref":["FIG. 9","FIG. 10","FIG. 5"],"b":["52","60","10","12","14","26","9"]},"Referring again to  it can be seen that it would not be possible to rotate the feeler gage once in the gap  as the gaging protrusion  could not slide between the seating surface  and the surface . However, as components of the hatch-locking ring arrangement start to deflect, a gap  will occur as illustrated by FIG. . It is then possible to rotate the feeler gage and its gage member  by engaging the gripping portion  and turning the pin . By trial and error based on an arc of rotation  of the gaging protrusion , to a rotating end point , a deflection of the gap  between the hatch  and locking ring  is measurable. A test pressure based upon predetermined factors is correlated with the thickness of the gaging protrusion  fit between the surface  and the seating surface  of the hatch .","If the gap  becomes so large that the gasket within groove  extrudes into it, (therefore blocking rotation of the gaging protrusion  of the pin ) then a special purpose, higher durometer gasket may be used to prevent extrusion, while a test is being conducted.","In addition, the gaging protrusion  is connected to the pin  so that it mechanically aligns with the scribe mark . It is anticipated that a number of pins will be manufactured and marked with a permanently attached gage thickness. Therefore, a set of gages could be used to determine gap spacing without the necessity of attaching and replacing various thickness gages on the same pin. This is a viable option due to the low cost associated with pin manufacture.","In operation, the pin  having the gage protrusion  thereon is rotated so as to be placed in the gap  formed between the locking ring  and the hatch . When there are pressure fluctuations affecting the hatch-locking ring arrangement, the pin  is turned so that the gage protrusion  passes between the surface  and the seating surface  of the hatch . If the thickness of the gage portion  is such that it can pass between the gasket seat  and the seating surface  of the hatch , determinations such as pressure fluctuations are deduced according to the thickness of the gage portion  being used.","This invention has been disclosed in terms of certain embodiments. It will be apparent that many modifications can be made to the disclosed apparatus without departing from the invention. Therefore, it is the intent of the appended claims to cover all such variations and modifications as come within the true spirit and scope of this invention."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The appended claims particularly point out and distinctly claim the subject matter of this invention. The various objects, advantages and novel features of this invention will be more fully apparent from a reading of the following detailed description in conjunction with the accompanying drawings in which like reference numerals refer to like parts, and in which:",{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00024","num":"00024"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00025","num":"00025"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00026","num":"00026"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 1"],"b":["3","3"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00027","num":"00027"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 1"],"b":["4","4"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00028","num":"00028"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 1"],"b":["5","5"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00029","num":"00029"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 1"],"b":["6","6"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00030","num":"00030"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00031","num":"00031"},"figref":["FIG. 8","FIG. 7"],"b":["8","8"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00032","num":"00032"},"figref":["FIG. 9","FIG. 5"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00033","num":"00033"},"figref":"FIG. 10","b":"5"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
