---
title: Authenticating a caller before providing the caller with access to one or more secured resources
abstract: In one embodiment, a system authenticates a caller before providing the caller with access to one or more secured resources. Identification and verification data is stored during system enrollment of known persons. A processing system, in a current call initiated by a caller and prior to identification of the caller, receives voice-based information for the caller including a digital representation of a telephone number spoken by the caller in the current call, the received information including voice-based identification information and voice-based verification information for the caller. The processing system automatically compares the received identification information and the received verification information for the caller with the stored identification and verification data for known persons, respectively, to uniquely identify and verify the identity of the caller as a particular known person. The processing system authenticates the caller for access to the one or more secured resources in response.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07006605&OS=07006605&RS=07006605
owner: Ochopee Big Cypress LLC
number: 07006605
owner_city: Los Altos
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20030127
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["RELATED APPLICATIONS","TECHNICAL FIELD OF THE INVENTION","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION"],"p":["This application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 09\/799,977 filed on Mar. 2, 2001, now U.S. Pat. No. 6,526,126 B1, which is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 08\/982,190 filed Dec. 17, 1997, now U.S. Pat. No. 6,205,204 B1, which is a continuation-in-part of U.S. application Ser. No. 08\/672,677 filed Jun. 28, 1996, now U.S. Pat. No. 5,940,476, a continuation-in-part of U.S. application Ser. No. 08\/819,482 filed Mar. 17, 1997, now U.S. Pat. No. 5,901,203, and a continuation-in-part of U.S. application Ser. No. 08\/918,937 filed Aug. 25, 1997, now U.S. Pat. No. 6,529,881 B2.","This invention relates in general to the field of telecommunications, and more particularly to authenticating a caller before providing the caller with access to one or more secured resources.","Many people, organizations, and commercial and other establishments may identify callers, customers, and other persons for security, billing, record keeping, or other purposes. For example, a customer service representative for a mail order sales organization might identify a caller to verify the caller's authority to receive information concerning an order placed with the organization. A called party in a business, organizational, home, or other setting might elect to accept a call, disconnect a call, or route a call to another person or processing device according to the identity of the caller. A clerk for a commercial or other establishment might identify a customer at the point of sale to allow an informed decision to be made regarding whether to provide goods, services, or other benefits to the customer.","As identification and identity verification procedures become more advanced to serve various needs, these people, organizations, and establishments may identify callers, customers or other persons using a variety of techniques. A known technique for identifying a caller receives a telephone number associated with an incoming call and compares the number with previously stored information to identify the caller associated with the incoming call. These techniques may be unsatisfactory if the caller is calling from a telephone, extension, or location having a telephone number that is different than the number for which there is previously stored information. Other techniques may even compare a spoken word or phrase identifying the caller with a stored voice print to verify an identification made as result of personal interaction with the caller or through digit or voice recognition of a personal identification number (PIN), account number, or other identifier. These and other techniques requiring personal interaction with callers to generate information for comparison with stored identification information are often relatively inefficient and costly.","A known technique for identifying a customer includes receiving a PIN or account number to identify the customer, either verbally or using a magnetic card reader, and then comparing the number with previously stored information to verify the availability to the customer of a good, service, or other benefit. Such techniques are wholly inadequate if the customer loses his card or has it stolen, cannot remember his number or identifier, or is otherwise unable to provide the requisite information. Furthermore, such techniques are burdensome to both the customer and the establishment in that the customer must remember the number or identifier, or carry with him the appropriate card, and the establishment must devote employee resources to the identity verification process.","Although possibly acceptable to verify the identity of an identified caller, customer, or other person, the above techniques do not identify an unidentified person out of a universe of known persons. These and other disadvantages make previous techniques for identifying persons inadequate for many applications.","The present invention addresses disadvantages and problems associated with previous systems and methods for identifying persons.","In one embodiment, a system is provided for authenticating a caller before providing the caller with access to one or more secured resources. Identification and verification data is stored during system enrollment of a plurality of known persons. A processing system is operable to, in a current call initiated by a currently unidentified caller and prior to identification of the currently unidentified caller, receive voice-based information for the currently unidentified caller based on one or more words spoken by the currently unidentified caller in the current call, the received voice-based information for the currently unidentified caller including a digital representation of a telephone number spoken by the currently unidentified caller in the current call, the received voice-based information including voice-based identification information and voice-based verification information for the currently unidentified caller. The processing system is operable to automatically compare the received voice-based identification information and the received voice-based verification information for the caller, which was received in the current call prior to identification of the currently unidentified caller, with the stored identification and verification data for a plurality of known persons, respectively, which was stored during enrollment of these known persons, to uniquely identify and verify the identity of the caller as a particular one of these known persons. The processing system is operable to authenticate the caller for access to the one or more secured resources in response to uniquely identifying and verifying the identity of the caller as the particular one of the known persons.","In another embodiment, a system is provided for uniquely and unambiguously identifying a currently unidentified caller. Voiceprint data is stored for each of a plurality of known persons, and additional identifying data is stored for each of the plurality of known persons, the voiceprint data and additional identifying data for each known person having been stored independently of each other in one or more previous calls that were initiated by the known person. A processing system is operable to, in a current call initiated by a currently unidentified caller and prior to identification of the caller, receive voiceprint data and additional identifying data for the caller, the voiceprint data and additional identifying data for the caller being independent of each other. The processing system is operable to automatically perform an initial comparison of the voiceprint data for the still currently unidentified caller, which was received in the current call prior to identification of the caller, with the stored voiceprint data for at least one known person, which was stored in one or more previous calls initiated by the known person, to positively identify the caller as at least one of the known persons. If the caller is positively yet ambiguously identified as more than one of the known persons as a result of the initial comparison, the processing system is operable to automatically perform an additional comparison of the additional identifying data for the caller, which was received in the current call prior to identification of the caller, with the stored additional identifying data for at least one known person, which was stored in one or more previous calls initiated by the known person, to uniquely and unambiguously identify the caller as a particular one of the known persons. The additional identifying data for a known person includes one of at least a portion of a telephone number, at least a portion of a network address, a store identifier, and historical purchasing information.","The present invention provides a system and method for identifying an unidentified person that does not merely verify the identity of the person, but identifies the unidentified person from among a universe of known persons while resolving any ambiguities in that identification. Although the present invention identifies the unidentified person irrespective of the location, switching system, trunk line, or telephone number from which the person may be calling, the present invention uses such information as one or more ambiguity-resolution criteria when appropriate to resolve an ambiguous identification of the person as two or more known persons. The present invention may therefore increase the efficiency and accuracy of the identification process. Other ambiguity-resolution criteria, for example, store identifiers, historical purchasing information, and other suitable criteria, may be similarly employed.","In a commercial setting, the system and method of the present invention identifies an unidentified person at the point of sale, using appropriate criteria to resolve ambiguous identifications, without requiring the person to remember a PIN, account number, or other identifier, or to physically provide a card containing this information in magnetic form. Furthermore, the present invention may be self-learning, such that the likelihood of identifying a particular unidentified person increases each time the person interacts with the system. Moreover, the present invention may automatically provide stored information concerning a known person in response to the system identifying the unidentified person as the known person, which further increases the efficiency of the interaction with the person.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["8","10","12","36","42","10","12","12","14","20","22","12","22","14","20","12","14","14"]},"Switching system  may be a private branch exchange (PBX) system; a central exchange (centrex) system; an automatic call distribution (ACD) system; a key telephone system; a telephone that is directly, indirectly, locally, remotely, or otherwise connected to network ; or any other appropriate telephone switching system. Switching system  may include a speech generation capability (SG) , a voice messaging (VM) capability , an automated attendant (AA) capability , and any other suitable voice processing or call processing capabilities , in any suitable combination, whether directly integrated into switching system  or as adjunct processors operating on one or more computers or other processing devices at one or more locations and appropriately coupled to switching system . Switching system  also includes analog-to-digital (A\/D) conversion and recording (REC) facilities  and , respectively, which may include suitable hardware and software to digitize and record utterances provided by unidentified callers . In one embodiment, switching system  includes a suitable \u201ccaller ID,\u201d automatic number identification (ANI), or other facility  that identifies telephone numbers, or portions thereof such as area codes or office codes, from which unidentified callers  are calling. While not shown, switching system  further includes one or more call processors for coordinating the operations of the various components of switching system  and one or more suitable buses to allow the components to communicate information.","Switching system  is coupled to and interacts with system server  using link . Link  may be any suitable connection through a local area network (LAN), metropolitan area network (MAN), wide area network (WAN), a global computer network such as the Internet, or other appropriate network; a standard data link and protocol connection used to connect an external computer to a telephone switching system, such as a Telephony Services Application Programming Interface (TSAPI); a service provider's proprietary interface; an integrated services digital network (ISDN) link; an internal bus; or any other appropriate connection. The present invention contemplates system server  being integral to or separate from switching system .","System server  is a mainframe computer or other processing device that manages communications between switching system , agents , and database server  using links , , and , as the case may be. System server  may also manage communications between processing system  and a network or other resource external to network , agents , and processing system . System server  includes a memory  and a processor  that together operate to store, process, or manipulate data. Memory  may be any suitable memory, such as dynamic or static random access memory (RAM), read only memory (ROM), magnetic media, optical media, CD-ROM, or other suitable volatile or non-volatile storage media. Memory  may store information in files, directories, tables, or in any other suitable arrangement. Memory  may contain instructions for processor  to execute in managing the operations of system server . The present invention contemplates multiple system servers  operating in parallel to increase the speed or otherwise improve the performance of processing system  in identifying one or more unidentified callers .","Agents  may be autonomous or operated by one or more employees, representatives, operators, or other persons, possibly associated with an organization, that may interact in some manner with unidentified callers . Link  may be a connection through a LAN, MAN, WAN, a global computer network such as the Internet, or any other suitable communications connection. Agents  may be any logical entities in hardware and\/or software, such as minicomputers or personal computers, that send and receive information using link  and system server . In one embodiment, a particular agent  interacts with unidentified caller  once unidentified caller  has been identified using processing system . Although agents  are discussed, the present invention contemplates more or fewer agents  depending on the organization and the incoming call traffic generated by unidentified callers .","Database server  is coupled to and interacts with database  and an associated database management system (DBMS) . In one embodiment, database  is a relational database that stores information in tables containing rows and columns of data. The rows of a table represent records, which are collections of information about separate items, and the columns represent fields, which are particular attributes of the records. In conducting searches, database  matches information from a field in a first table with information in the corresponding field of a second table to produce a third table that combines requested data from the first and second tables. In general, database  uses matching values in two tables to relate information in one table to information in the other table. Database  may store and retrieve data in any suitable manner, and may include one or more databases, files, or other data repositories at a single or multiple locations internal to or external to processing system . Database  may be more or less permanent or may be a temporary database, file, or other data repository created by extracting information from more permanent databases, files, or other data repositories for use in identifying unidentified callers .","Database  contains one or more records  that each represent the association of an account or other identifier corresponding to a caller whose identity is known to the organization with account data, order data, identity data, utterance data, or other suitable information concerning the known caller. In one embodiment, the utterance data for each known caller includes one or more utterance identifiers that are digitized representations of one or more spoken utterances of the particular known caller, which may include any suitable sound, word, or phrase. The utterances provided by the known callers are digitized and recorded using the facilities  and , respectively, associated with switching system . The present invention contemplates multiple utterance identifiers for each known caller, whether stored in a single or multiple records  and in a single or multiple tables within database . The association of account identifiers with identity data, order data, and utterance data for each known caller in records  is discussed more fully below in connection with through ","Database server  may be a mainframe computer, a minicomputer, microprocessor having memory, or personal computer connected to a LAN, or any other processing device that manages communications between system server  and database . Although database server  is shown as separate from system server , database server  may be integral to or separate from system server . Database server  supports a DBMS  that permits centralized control of security and data integrity requirements for database .","In general, DBMS  is a layer of software between database  and database server  that manages access by processing system  to the resources of database . Where database  is a relational database, the DBMS  supported by database server  may be a relational DBMS (RDBMS). DBMS  and database  may execute queries, conduct searches, or perform other activities in response to direct or indirect communications from database server  in any suitable form. In one embodiment, database server  may provide a key or other suitable identifier to DBMS  for DBMS  to use in finding, identifying, or otherwise locating one or more records or groups of records within database  according to one or more key tables, index files, or other suitable arrangement.","Database server  includes a memory  and a processor  that together operate to store, process, or manipulate data. Memory  may be any suitable memory, such as dynamic or static random access memory (RAM), read only memory (ROM), magnetic media, optical media, CD-ROM, or other suitable volatile or non-volatile storage media. Memory  may store information in files, directories, tables, or in any other suitable arrangement. Memory  may contain instructions for processor  to execute in managing the operations of database server  and the DBMS  supported by database server .","Database server  accesses one or more match parameters  to determine whether a digitized utterance for an unidentified caller  is sufficiently correlated with an utterance identifier corresponding to a particular known caller to identify the unidentified caller  as the known caller. Match parameters  may include, without limitation: an error or discrimination threshold suitable for comparison with an error value derived, calculated, or otherwise determined according to the comparison of the digitized utterance with the utterance identifier, for example, in the manner disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 4,053,710, which is incorporated by reference herein; a merit parameter for associating a figure of merit, determined according to some suitable scale and in some suitable manner, with the identification of an unidentified caller  as a particular known caller; or any other information suitable for determining the sufficiency of the correlation, if any, between utterances for unidentified callers  and utterance identifiers for known callers in database . Database server  may communicate one or more match parameters  to DBMS  in association with a key or other suitable identifier to facilitate the location and retrieval of one or more utterance identifiers or other information from database .","Database server  communicates with database  using interface . Interface  may be any mechanism suitable to allow database server  and database  to communicate with one another. For example, interface  may include the appropriate hardware and software to communicate using a direct connection to a PSTN, a direct connection using a bus or wireline link, a connection through a LAN, MAN, WAN, a global network such as the Internet, or other network, or any other communications connection suitable to access one or more databases or files at one or more locations. Interface  may include protocol conversion and some data processing capabilities suitable to allow interface  to facilitate data communications between database server  and database .","Database server  and interface  may access one or more communication parameters  to communicate with database . Communications parameters  maintain access information for each database, file, directory, or other data repository associated with database  that may include, without limitation: a username; a password; a telephone number; an Internet protocol (IP) address; communication port settings; database specifications; library and file names; directory paths; library and file paths; protocol information; and any other information suitable for communicating information to and receiving information from database .","Processing system  may operate on one or more computers  that are integral to or separate from the hardware and software that support network , agents , system server , database server , and database . Computer  may include an input device , such as a keypad, touch screen, microphone, or other device that can accept suitable information. An output device  may convey information associated with the operation of processing system , including digital or analog data, visual information, or audio information. Both input device  and output  may include fixed or removable storage media, such as magnetic computer disk, CD-ROM, or other suitable media to both receive output from and provide input to processing system . Computer  may have a processor  and an associated volatile or non-volatile memory to execute instructions and manipulate information in accordance with the operation of processing system .","In operation with respect to agents , an unidentified caller  places a call to the organization using network  and link . Switching system  receives the incoming call and prompts unidentified caller  to provide an utterance, such as the spoken name of unidentified caller , using the associated speech generation capability , by playing a prerecorded message, or in any other suitable manner. Before, during, or after prompting unidentified caller  to provide an utterance, switching system  uses facility  to identify the telephone number, or portion thereof such as the area code or office code, from which unidentified caller  is calling. When unidentified caller  responds by providing an utterance, switching system  receives, digitizes, and records the utterance using facilities  and , respectively. Switching system  communicates the digitized utterance to system server  and queues the incoming call until an appropriate agent  becomes available. When an appropriate agent  becomes available, switching system  transfers the call to the appropriate agent  and provides the identity of the selected agent  to system server .","In parallel with the queuing and transfer of the incoming call, system server  communicates the digitized utterance to database server , which together with associated DBMS  searches records  contained in database  to compare the digitized utterance with the stored utterance identifiers corresponding to one or more known callers. If the digitized utterance suitably duplicates, resembles, matches, or is otherwise correlated with a stored utterance identifier according to one or more match parameters , unidentified caller  is identified as the known caller corresponding to the particular stored utterance identifier. Database server  retrieves account data, order data, identity data, or any other appropriate information for the known caller from database  and communicates this information to the selected agent  using system server  and link .","One or more ambiguity-resolution criteria may be used to identify unidentified caller . Ambiguity-resolution criteria may be stored as account data, order data, identity data, or in any other suitable manner and may be compared with any of the following ambiguity-resolution information to resolve ambiguous identifications, without limitation: the telephone number or any portion thereof identified using facility ; an IP address from which unidentified caller  is calling in over the Internet or other computer network; a store location, store number, or other identifier determined using the number identified using facility , an IP address, or in any other suitable manner; and any other appropriate ambiguity-resolution information. As discussed more fully below with reference to and , processing system  uses one or more appropriate ambiguity-resolution criteria and appropriate ambiguity-resolution information to resolve an ambiguous identification of unidentified caller  as two or more known callers.","Processing system  may coordinate and synchronize the identification of and transfer of the call to selected agent ; the identification of unidentified caller  as a particular known caller, whether or not an ambiguity-resolution criterion is used; the retrieval of information corresponding to the known caller from database ; and the communication, delivery, or presentation of the information to selected agent  using any appropriate technique, whether or not switching system  and system server  are integrated with one another. After the selected agent  receives the retrieved information for the formerly unidentified caller , the selected agent may interact with the caller to handle the incoming call in some suitable manner according to the needs of the caller or the organization. The present invention contemplates identifying one or more unidentified callers  using system  in any suitable business, organizational, or other context or application.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0042","num":"0041"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1"],"b":["9","14","11","12","42","9","11","8","10","9","20","26","30","36","9","11","8","10","10","11","50","12","34","42"]},"Voice messaging system  may be any voice mail or other system for receiving, recording, and storing messages from one or more unidentified callers  within or outside the organization. Voice messaging system  may be the same as, may replace, or may combine with voice messaging capability  of processing system  in some suitable manner. Voice messaging system  may be integral to or separate from a telephone switching system, such as switching system  discussed above in connection with , and may receive incoming calls directly or through such a telephone switching system. Voice messaging system  may include analog-to-digital conversion facility , recording facility , \u201ccaller ID,\u201d ANI, or other facility , a suitable speech recognition capability (SR) , speech generation capability , or any other suitable voice processing or call processing capabilities , in any combination, whether directly integrated into voice messaging system  or as adjunct processors operating on one or more computers or other processing devices at one or more locations and suitably coupled to voice messaging system .","In operation, an unidentified caller  places a call to the organization using network  and link . Voice messaging system  receives the incoming call and, if voice messaging system  is not connected to a telephone system in such a way as to determine the identity of unidentified caller  according to the location, switching system, trunk line, or telephone number associated with unidentified caller , prompts unidentified caller  to provide an utterance in the manner discussed above in connection with . When unidentified caller  responds by providing an utterance, voice messaging system  receives, digitizes, and records the utterance using facilities  and , respectively.","Voice messaging system  communicates the digitized utterance to database server , which together with associated DBMS  searches records  contained in database  to compare the digitized utterance with stored utterance identifiers corresponding to one or more known callers. If the digitized utterance suitably duplicates, resembles, matches, or is otherwise correlated with a particular utterance identifier according to one or more match parameters , unidentified caller  is identified as the known caller corresponding to the particular utterance identifier. As discussed more fully below with reference to and , one or more ambiguity-resolution criteria may be used. Database server  retrieves appropriate information concerning the known caller from database , such as a name or other identifier corresponding to the known caller, and communicates this information to voice messaging system . Voice messaging system  prompts formerly unidentified caller  to provide a message, records the resulting message, associates the identity of formerly unidentified caller  with the message, and stores the associated identity and message corresponding to formerly unidentified caller  for subsequent communication to a user of voice messaging system .","When a user of voice messaging system  accesses voice messaging system , using a telephone connection, an integrated computer system, or in some other suitable manner, voice messaging system  provides the user with the identity of formerly unidentified caller  to indicate that a message corresponding to formerly unidentified caller  has been recorded. Voice messaging system  may provide the identity of formerly unidentified caller  to the user separately from or together with the recorded message. Where messages corresponding to multiple unidentified callers  have been recorded, voice messaging system  may provide the user with the identities of these formerly unidentified callers, in the form of a chronological list or otherwise, separately from or together with the corresponding recorded messages.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0047","num":"0046"},"figref":"FIGS. 3","i":["a ","c "],"b":["3","44","44","44","44","42","44","10","44","14"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0048","num":"0047"},"figref":"FIG. 3","i":"a ","b":["100","44","44","102","104","104","106","108","110","112","114","116","118","119","121","120","102","100","102","104"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0049","num":"0048"},"figref":"FIG. 3","i":"b ","b":["130","44","102","132","132","44","130","44","132"]},"Within each record , order data  may include, without limitation: a unique order identifier  assigned to the order by the organization or otherwise; an order date ; a part number  assigned to each ordered item by the manufacturer or otherwise; a manufacturer identifier  for each ordered item; a serial number  for each ordered item; an individual, aggregate, or other purchase amount  for the ordered items; an order status ; and any other information suitable for identifying, tracking, maintaining billing and inventory records for, or relating in any other suitable manner to the order that corresponds to the particular record .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0051","num":"0050"},"figref":"FIG. 3","i":"c ","b":["160","44","102","162","44","162","164","44","165","166","168","106","108","168","14"]},"Table  may contain one or more records  for each account identifier , each record  containing utterance data  that corresponds to a separately digitized and recorded utterance of the known caller associated with the account identifier . Furthermore, database  may contain multiple tables , each table corresponding to a specified range, minimum, maximum, or other value for one or more fields within utterance data , such as utterance length , utterance pitch , gender , or other suitable field. For example, a first table  might contain records  having utterance lengths  within a first range of values, a second table  might contain records  having utterance lengths  within a second range of values, and a third table  might contain records  having utterance lengths  within a third range of values. In identifying an unidentified caller , processing system  may determine the length of the digitized utterance for unidentified caller  and compare the digitized utterance to one or more utterance identifiers  contained in the particular table  that corresponds to the length of the digitized utterance. Database  may contain as many tables  and types of tables  as are necessary or desirable.","Parametric encoding data  may be stored separately from or together with a corresponding utterance identifier . In one embodiment, parametric encoding data  might represent one or more fields of identity data , order data , utterance data , or any other information concerning the particular known caller that is suitable for association with utterance identifier  to identify an unidentified caller . For example, parametric encoding data  might take the form of one or more moment invariants as disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 4,053,710 to represent the utterance for the known caller more concisely than the utterance is represented by the corresponding utterance identifier . A moment invariant is defined in U.S. Pat. No. 4,053,710, for a two dimensional waveform or wave pattern, as a measurement derived from the moment of the waveform, the moment being independent of the waveform position and the waveform size along the two dimensions. The moment invariants may be calculated by switching system  or an associated processing capability and then stored instead of, or in addition to, utterance identifier , which may digitally represent the utterance in its entirety.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0054","num":"0053"},"figref":"FIGS. 4","i":["a ","b "],"b":["4","14","200","14","12","22","8","14","14","202","20","14","204","14","20","24"]},"Before, during, or after generating the greeting at step , switching system  uses facility  at step  to identify the telephone number, or a portion thereof such as the three digit area code or three digit office code, from which unidentified caller  is calling. For example, if unidentified caller  is calling from the telephone number \u201c(214) 555-1212,\u201d facility  may identify the entire number, the area code \u201c214,\u201d or the office code \u201c555,\u201d in any combination. Although three digit area codes and three digit office codes are discussed, facility  may identify any number of digits associated with the telephone number from which unidentified caller  is calling, in any suitable order and in any suitable combination. Switching system  may identify an IP or other network address of unidentified caller  at step  if unidentified caller  is calling over the Internet or other computer network. Other suitable techniques for associating an identifier with the telephone number, network address, or location from which unidentified caller  is calling may be used without departing from the intended scope of the present invention. One or more of these identifiers, singly or in any suitable combination, may be appropriate ambiguity-resolution information for use in resolving an ambiguous identification of unidentified caller  as two or more known callers.","In one embodiment, the greeting generated at step  prompts unidentified caller  to select a destination for the call at step . For example, and not by way of limitation, switching system  and associated automated attendant capability  may prompt unidentified caller  to select a call destination by playing a prerecorded message similar to the following: \u201cPress or say \u20181\u2019 to be connected to our service department, press or say \u20182\u2019 to be connected to our order processing department, or stay on the line to speak with one of our customer service representatives.\u201d One or more agents  may each be associated with a particular call destination. As discussed below, switching system  may transfer the unidentified caller  to a particular agent  associated with the selected call destination at any appropriate time during the operation of system .","Either before or after unidentified caller  selects a call destination at step , switching system  prompts unidentified caller  at step  to provide an utterance, for example, any sound, word, or phrase, such as the name or account number of unidentified caller , that is suitable for comparison with one or more stored utterance identifiers  corresponding to one or more known callers. Switching system  may prompt unidentified caller  to provide an utterance using speech generation capability , by playing a prerecorded message to unidentified caller , such as \u201cWhom may we say is calling?,\u201d or in any other suitable manner. At step , unidentified caller  responds by providing the requested utterance. If the utterance provided by unidentified caller  is inaudible, improper, or unsatisfactory at step , according to one or more specified parameters, the method returns to step , where unidentified caller  is again prompted to provide an utterance. If the utterance is satisfactory at step , switching system  digitizes the utterance at step  using analog-to-digital conversion facility  and records the digitized utterance at step  using recording facility .","At step , switching system  communicates the digitized utterance to system server  using link . At step , switching system  queues the incoming call pending the availability of an appropriate agent  to handle the incoming call, for example, a particular agent  associated with the call destination selected at step . Switching system  may perform steps  and  more or less in parallel, such that the branch of the method beginning at step  proceeds more or less in parallel with the branch of the method beginning at step . Referring to the branch beginning at step , system server  receives the digitized utterance corresponding to unidentified caller  at step  and, at step , communicates the digitized utterance to database server  for comparison with utterance identifiers  contained in database , tables , and records . As discussed above, database server  may be integral to or separate from system server .","At step , database server  accesses database  using interface  and communication parameters . At step , database server  and DBMS  search database  for one or more utterance identifiers  that duplicate, resemble, match, correlate with, or otherwise compare favorably to the digitized utterance corresponding to unidentified caller , according to one or more match parameters . Alternatively, database server  may communicate one or more match parameters  to DBMS  in association with the key or other suitable identifier to allow DBMS  and database  to locate or otherwise identify one or more utterance identifiers  that duplicate, resemble, match, correlate with, or otherwise compare favorably to the digitized utterance corresponding to unidentified caller .","In one embodiment, parametric encoding data  may be searched instead of, or in addition to, utterance identifiers  to identify unidentified caller . The use of parametric encoding techniques in connection with the search may speed the searching process, because the storage size for parametric encoding data  may be smaller than the storage size for corresponding utterance identifier . Furthermore, parametric encoding data  may be invariant with respect to factors used to identify unidentified caller . As a result, database server  and associated DBMS  may handle less data in searching database  to identify the unidentified caller  as a particular known caller represented in database .","One or more tables  may be searched serially, more or less simultaneously, or in any other suitable manner. One or more tables  may be selectively searched according to one or more characteristics of unidentified caller  or the utterance provided by unidentified caller , such as the gender of unidentified caller , the length of the utterance or corresponding digital representation, the average pitch of the utterance or corresponding digital representation, or other suitable characteristic. The present invention contemplates any suitable technique for comparing a digitized, parametric, or other representation of an utterance for unidentified caller  with utterance identifiers  or parametric encoding data , in any combination, for one or more known callers to identify unidentified caller  as a particular known caller.","The correlation between an utterance identifier  or parametric encoding data  and the digitized, parametric, or other representation of the utterance for unidentified caller  may be measured, assessed, calculated, or otherwise determined in any suitable manner. For example, parametric encoding techniques may allow database server  or another component of processing system  to generate one or more discrimination thresholds that may be used to determine whether the digitized utterance matches an utterance identifier  closely enough for unidentified caller  to be identified as the particular known caller corresponding to the utterance identifier . Parametric encoding techniques may allow database server  or another component of processing system  to calculate, arrive at, or otherwise determine a figure of merit, using one or more merit parameters contained in match parameters , a discrimination threshold, or other suitable factor, to indicate the certainty of an identification.","If a match is found for the digitized utterance corresponding to unidentified caller  at step , database server  may measure, assess, calculate, or otherwise determine a figure of merit for the match at step . If the identification of unidentified caller  is ambiguous at step , in that the digitized utterance for unidentified caller  matches utterance data  for two or more known callers at step , database server  searches records  for these known callers at step  for information that matches, correlates with, or is otherwise consistent with the identifier determined at step , according to appropriate parameters. Database server  may search records  for these known callers serially, simultaneously, or in another manner. Unidentified caller  is identified at step  as the known caller for which records  contain information most consistent with the identifier determined at step  or most consistent with information determined using the identifier, resolving the ambiguity.","For example, if unidentified caller  is calling from the telephone number \u201c(214) 555-1212\u201d and facility  identifies the area code \u201c214\u201d and the office code \u201c555\u201d as ambiguity-resolution information at step , database server  searches records  corresponding to the two or more known callers at step  for one or more ambiguity-resolution criteria consistent with this information. In one embodiment, consistent ambiguity-resolution criteria may be contained in table  as identical, geographically associated, or other consistent area code and office code communications identifiers  for a particular known caller. In this case, the known caller for which the area code, office code, or both area code and office code communications identifiers  are consistent with the selected ambiguity-resolution information is the known caller with which formerly unidentified caller  is identified at step .","To increase speed and conserve processing capability, processing system  may use as few ambiguity-resolution criteria as necessary to identify unidentified caller  as a particular known caller. For example, if records  in table  for two or more known callers contained identity data  consistent with the area code ambiguity-resolution information \u201c214,\u201d then office code ambiguity-resolution criterion \u201c555\u201d would be used to resolve the ambiguity if possible. Similarly, if records  in table  for two or more known callers contained identity data  consistent with office code ambiguity-resolution information \u201c555,\u201d an IP address ambiguity-resolution criterion might be used to resolve the ambiguity if possible. The present invention contemplates using as many ambiguity-resolution criteria, serially or in any other suitable manner, as necessary to adequately identify unidentified caller  as a particular known caller. In one embodiment, as discussed below, if suitable information concerning an ambiguous identification is provided to agent , agent  may participate in the ambiguity-resolution process.","At step , database server  and associated DBMS  retrieve information from database  corresponding to the known caller with which formerly unidentified caller  has been identified. The retrieved information may include some or all of the identity data , order data , or utterance data  for the known caller, banking, purchase, account or other data for the known caller, or any other information associated with the known caller and contained in database . Database server  communicates the retrieved information to system server  at step . At step , system server  communicates some or all of the retrieved information to an appropriate agent  in coordination with information received from switching system , as discussed below in connection with the branch of the method beginning at step .","At step , switching system  queues the incoming call from unidentified caller  pending the availability of an appropriate agent  to handle the incoming call. If an appropriate agent  is not available at step , the method loops until an appropriate agent becomes available. If an appropriate agent  is available at step , for example, a selected agent  associated with the call destination provided by unidentified caller  at step , then switching system  transfers the incoming call to selected agent  at step . At step , switching system  communicates the identity, location, network address, or other suitable routing or communication information concerning selected agent  to system server . System server  then communicates the retrieved information to selected agent  in some suitable manner at step . In one embodiment, if unidentified caller  has been ambiguously identified as two or more known callers, agent  may be provided with this information to allow agent  to assist in the ambiguity-resolution process, for example, by selecting a particular known caller based on one or more suitable parameters known or made available to agent .","Coordinating and synchronizing the identification of selected agent  using switching system , the identification of unidentified caller  as a particular known caller, the retrieval of information corresponding to the known caller from database , and the communication, delivery, or presentation of the information to selected agent  may be accomplished using any suitable technique. Such techniques may include, for example, and not by way of limitation: the technique disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 5,309,504, which is incorporated by reference herein; one or more techniques according to a TSAPI specification; one or more techniques according to a telecommunications system provider's proprietary interface; or any other suitable \u201cscreen popping\u201d or other technique. In one embodiment, switching system  and system server  are integrated to more easily coordinate and synchronize the identification of selected agent , the identification of unidentified caller  as a particular known caller, and the communication of retrieved information concerning the known caller to the selected agent .","As discussed above, database server  or another component of processing system  may calculate or otherwise determine a figure of merit to indicate the extent of the correlation or the certainty of the match between the digitized utterance for formerly unidentified caller  and the utterance identifier  for the particular known caller with which formerly unidentified caller  has been identified. In one embodiment, the figure of merit is communicated to selected agent  along with the retrieved information for the particular known caller. If either a figure of merit has not been provided at step , or has been provided at step  and is deemed acceptable by selected agent  at step , in accordance with one or more specified parameters, the method proceeds directly to step , where selected agent  interacts with formerly unidentified caller  in some suitable manner according to the needs of the caller or the organization. If a figure of merit has been provided at step , but is not deemed acceptable by selected agent  at step , selected agent  may interactively verify the identity of formerly unidentified caller  according to conventional techniques at step . After selected agent  handles the call in some suitable manner at step , the method ends.","If processing system  is unable to match or suitably correlate the digitized utterance for unidentified caller  with an utterance identifier  corresponding to a known caller at step , or is unable to suitably resolve an ambiguous identification or unidentified caller  as two or more known callers at step , the agent  selected by switching system  may interactively verify the identify of unidentified caller  using conventional techniques at step . In one embodiment, the present invention is self-learning, such that if no match has been made at step  and unidentified caller  is identified interactively at step , system  may receive and store information for formerly unidentified caller  for use in identifying subsequent unidentified callers . For example, database  may not contain utterance data  to identify unidentified caller  when unidentified caller  calls the organization, because unidentified caller  may have had no previous interaction with the organization. Furthermore, database  may not yet contain utterance data  for any known callers, due to the length of time system  has been operating or for any other reason.","At step , processing system  may create a record  for formerly unidentified caller  containing an utterance identifier  and other utterance data  generated using the utterance provided at step . At step , the created record  for formerly unidentified caller  may be stored in one or more tables  within database . The created record  for formerly unidentified caller  may be associated with identity data , order data , or utterance data , banking, purchase, or account data, or other information concerning formerly unidentified caller , whether the information is generated before, during, or after the record  is created. In one embodiment, the created record  will correspond to a known caller for purposes of identifying subsequent unidentified callers  from among a universe of known callers. Before, during, or after storing the created record  at step , selected agent  handles the call in some suitable manner at step  and the method ends.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0072","num":"0071"},"figref":"FIGS. 5","i":["a ","b "],"b":["5","14","300","14","12","22","9","14","14","60","14","302","304","14","60","60","14","14"]},"If voice messaging system  identifies unidentified caller  at step , based on the origin of the incoming call or otherwise, then the method proceeds to step , where voice messaging system  prompts unidentified caller  to provide a message for subsequent communication to a user of voice messaging system . If voice messaging system  does not identify unidentified caller  at step , for whatever reason, then voice messaging system  generates a greeting for communication to unidentified caller  at step  in the manner discussed above in connection with and . Before, during, or after generating the greeting at step , voice messaging system  may use facility  to determine a suitable identifier at step  for use in resolving an ambiguous identification of unidentified caller  as two or more known callers in the manner discussed above with reference to and . In one embodiment, the greeting generated at step  prompts unidentified caller  at step  to provide an utterance, for example, any sound, word, or phrase, such as a name or other identifier corresponding to unidentified caller , that is suitable for comparison with one or more utterance identifiers  corresponding to one or more known callers and stored using database  and tables .","At step , unidentified caller  responds by providing the requested utterance. If the utterance is inaudible, improper, or otherwise unsatisfactory at step , according to one or more specified parameters, the method returns to step , where unidentified caller  is again prompted to provide an utterance. If the provided utterance is satisfactory at step , voice messaging system  digitizes the utterance at step  using analog-to-digital conversion facility  and records the utterance at step  using recording facility . Voice messaging system  communicates the digitized utterance to database server  at step  using link .","At step , database server  accesses database  using interface  and communication parameters . At step , database server  and associated DBMS  search database  for one or more utterance identifiers  that duplicate, resemble, match, correlate with, or otherwise compare favorably to the digitized utterance corresponding to unidentified caller , according to one or more match parameters . As discussed above with reference to and , parametric encoding data  may be searched instead of, or in addition to, utterance identifiers  to identify unidentified caller  from among a universe of known callers. If the digitized utterance corresponding to unidentified caller  matches an utterance identifier  at step , database server  may measure, assess, calculate, or otherwise determine a figure of merit for the identification of formerly unidentified caller  at step  in the manner discussed above. Voice messaging system  may use any appropriate ambiguity-resolution criteria in identifying unidentified caller  as a particular known caller, as discussed more fully above with reference to and ","At step , database server  and associated DBMS  retrieve information from database  corresponding to the known caller with which formerly unidentified caller  has been identified. The retrieved information may include some or all of the identity data  for the known caller, such as a name or other identifier  for the known caller, or any other information associated with the particular known caller and contained in database . Database server  communicates the retrieved information to voice messaging system  at step . In one embodiment, the figure of merit determined at step  is communicated to voice messaging system  together with or separately from the retrieved information.","At step , voice messaging system  prompts formerly unidentified caller  to provide a message for subsequent communication to a user of voice messaging system . Voice messaging system  records any resulting message at step , associates the identity of formerly unidentified caller  with the recorded message at step , and stores the associated identity and recorded message corresponding to formerly unidentified caller  at step . Voice messaging system  may prompt the caller to provide and may record a message before, during, or after the caller provides an utterance for identification purposes. When a user of voice messaging system  accesses voice messaging system  at step , using a telephone connection, an integrated computer system, or in some other suitable manner, voice messaging system  may communicate the identity of formerly unidentified caller  to the user to indicate that formerly unidentified caller  recorded a message using voice messaging system .","The present invention contemplates associating the identity of formerly unidentified caller  with the recorded message corresponding to formerly unidentified caller  before, during, or after the user accesses voice messaging system . Voice messaging system  may provide the identity of formerly unidentified caller  separately from or together with the recorded message corresponding to formerly unidentified caller . If multiple unidentified callers  have interacted with voice messaging system  to provide messages for a user, voice messaging system  may provide the user with the identities of the formerly unidentified callers  at step , in a chronological list or other suitable format, separately from or together with the recorded messages corresponding to the formerly unidentified callers .","Voice messaging system  may provide the identities and any other information retrieved from database  for one or more formerly unidentified callers  to the user in any appropriate manner. For example, if voice messaging system  is integral to, associated with, or suitably connected to a computer or other processing device such as computer , then voice messaging system  may provide some or all of the retrieved information using output device  or another device suitable for conveying visual information. Alternatively, if voice messaging system  is accessed using a telephone only connection, for example, by the user entering a voice mail box number, PBX extension, or other identifier, voice messaging system  may audibly convey the retrieved information, in whole or in part. The present invention contemplates any suitable combination of such techniques to provide the identities of one or more formerly unidentified callers  for which messages have been recorded to a user of voice messaging system .","Voice messaging system  may provide the identities of one or more formerly unidentified callers , in a chronological list format or otherwise, together with other retrieved or other information concerning formerly unidentified callers , the recorded messages corresponding to formerly unidentified callers , or any combination of the above. For example, for a recorded message corresponding to formerly unidentified caller , voice messaging system  might provide, in any suitable relative arrangement, without limitation: the identity of formerly unidentified caller ; the figure of merit associated with the identification of formerly unidentified caller ; the total number of recorded messages corresponding to formerly unidentified caller ; the length of the message; the time, day, and\/or date the message was recorded; and any other suitable information concerning formerly unidentified caller  or the particular recorded message. Once the user accesses voice messaging system  and receives the identities of formerly unidentified callers  and any other appropriate information at step , the method ends.","In one embodiment, system  is self-learning, such that if no match is made at step  between the utterance provided by unidentified caller  and an utterance identifier  corresponding to a known caller, system  creates a record  for the unidentified caller  that may be used to identify a subsequent unidentified caller  as the unidentified caller  corresponding to the created record . For example, database  may not contain utterance data  suitable to identify unidentified caller , because unidentified caller  may have had no previous interaction with the organization or voice messaging system . Moreover, database  may not yet contain utterance data  for any known callers, due to the length of time system  has been operating or for some other reason. If the identity of unidentified caller  is verified in some suitable manner after the created record  is generated, the created record  for unidentified caller  may be used as a record  that corresponds to a known caller to identify one or more subsequent unidentified callers  in the manner discussed above.","If voice messaging system  cannot or does not match or suitably correlate the digitized utterance for unidentified caller  with an utterance identifier  corresponding to a known caller at step , for whatever reason, voice messaging system  may prompt unidentified caller  to provide an utterance at step  in the manner discussed above with reference to step . The present invention contemplates voice messaging system  using the utterance provided at step  instead of, or in addition to, prompting unidentified caller  for an utterance at step . Unidentified caller  provides the requested utterance at step  and, if the utterance is satisfactory at step , voice messaging system  digitizes and records the utterance at steps  and , respectively. In one embodiment, voice messaging system  may also translate the utterance into a format understandable to system  using the associated speech recognition capability . If the provided utterance is not satisfactory at step , the method returns to step , where unidentified caller  is again prompted to provide an utterance.","Before or after unidentified caller  is prompted to provide an utterance at step , voice messaging system  prompts unidentified caller  to provide a message at step  for subsequent communication to a user of voice messaging system . Voice messaging system  records any resulting message at step  and associates the utterance, the translated utterance, or both the utterance and translated utterance for unidentified caller  with the recorded message at step . In conjunction with database server  and associated DBMS , voice messaging system  creates a record  for unidentified caller  at step  and, at step , stores the created record  in one or more tables  within database . In one embodiment, the created record  for unidentified caller  contains an utterance identifier  that digitally represents the utterance provided by unidentified caller . One or more created records  may also contain other utterance data  corresponding to the utterance and any other suitable information, whether or not associated with utterance identifier .","In one embodiment, the recorded utterance or the translation of the utterance for unidentified caller  is used to indicate to a user of voice messaging system  that a message corresponding to unidentified caller  has been recorded. The created record  for unidentified caller  is used to identify a subsequent unidentified caller  as the particular unidentified caller  for which the created record  was generated.","When a user of voice messaging system  accesses voice messaging system  at step , voice messaging system  may communicate the utterance, the translated utterance, and any other suitable information concerning unidentified caller  to the user at step  using any of the techniques discussed above. For example, if voice messaging system  is integral to, associated with, or suitably connected to a computer or other processing device such as computer , then voice messaging system  may provide a translation of the utterance, generated using speech recognition capability , to the user using output device  or another device suitable for conveying visual information. Alternatively, if voice messaging system  is accessed using a telephone only connection, for example, by the user entering a voice mail box number, PBX extension, or other identifier, voice messaging system  may audibly convey the utterance to the user.","Voice messaging system  may provide utterances or translated utterances for one or more unidentified callers , in a chronological list format or otherwise, together with or separately from: any other suitable information concerning unidentified callers ; the recorded messages corresponding to unidentified callers ; the identities of formerly unidentified callers ; any other information concerning formerly unidentified callers ; the recorded messages corresponding to formerly unidentified callers ; or any combination of the above. After system  has provided this information to the user at step , the method ends.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0087","num":"0086"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 1"],"b":["70","14","12","20","72","72","74","76","78","15","17","24","25","26","46","48","42","72","50","20","50","72","50","72","42","72","72","50","20"]},"Voice board  includes appropriate circuitry for detecting ringing signals or other call origination signals and for performing analog-to-digital or digital-to-analog conversion, as the case may be. Voice board  is of a type well known in the art and may be in the form of a computer-oriented modem, in the form of a specialized voice board of the type manufactured by DIALOGIC CORPORATION or RHETORIX CORPORATION and used for computer telephony integration (CTI), or in any other suitable form. Voice board  may replace or combine with analog-to-digital conversion facility  shown in . Analog-to-digital conversion may alternatively be performed using capabilities associated with switching system . Match module (MATCH)  performs functionality discussed above with reference to  for identifying unidentified callers  by comparing utterance information for unidentified callers  with stored utterance data  for known callers. Control module (CONTROL)  coordinates communications between various components of processing system  according to the operation of processing system  and system . Using the capabilities discussed above, system  identifies one or more unidentified callers  and, in response, provides one or more call routing options to a called party. System  may use ambiguity-resolution criteria in the manner discussed above with reference to and . The present invention contemplates processing system  routing calls in a pre-programmed manner according to the identification of some or all unidentified callers .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0089","num":"0088"},"figref":["FIGS. 7","FIG. 7","FIG. 7"],"i":["a ","d ","a ","a"],"b":["7","72","54","50","72","80","72","14","14","14","80","82","14","80","84","80"]},"In one embodiment, call routing options  include: (1) an accept option  that the called party selects to accept the call from formerly unidentified caller ; (2) a voice messaging option  that the called party selects to transfer the call or otherwise leave a message to voice messaging capability ; (3) an attendant option  that the called party selects to transfer the call to a secretary or other assistant or to automated attendant capability , as the case may be; (4) a disconnect option  that the called party selects to disconnect the call; and (5) any other call routing options . Voice messaging capability  may be a message recording facility either collocated with or remote from the called party and the associated computer  or telephone unit. Collectively, voice messaging option  and attendant option  may be referred to as transfer option . The functionality associated with attendant option  may be separated among multiple transfer options . The called party may select from among call routing options  using a mouse or other suitable pointer to select an appropriate window button on output device , using a keyboard such as input device  of computer  to enter an appropriate number or letters, or using any other suitable technique for indicating a selection. Processing system  may route calls from one or more formerly unidentified callers  according to pre-programmed routing information in response to identifying unidentified callers  as known callers.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0091","num":"0090"},"figref":"FIG. 7","i":"b ","b":["92","86","80","80","92","82","84","87","88","89","84","84","54","52","50"]},"In one embodiment, second option screen  includes textual information  that instructs the called party to provide a corrected identity if the formerly unidentified caller  was identified incorrectly, because the formerly unidentified caller  provided an utterance sufficiently different from one or more previous utterances for formerly unidentified caller  or for any other reason. For example, and not by way of limitation, unidentified caller  may have a changed name, a medical or other condition, or a relatively poor transmission facility. After the called party types, speaks, or otherwise enters or provides a corrected identity, assuming one is necessary, the called party may cause processing system  to store the corrected identity of formerly unidentified caller  with utterance information that processing system  used to incorrectly identify the formerly unidentified caller  in database , as name  and corresponding utterance identifier . The called party may use a store window button  on output device , keys on input device , or any other suitable technique to store the corrected identity and utterance information.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0093","num":"0092"},"figref":"FIG. 7","i":"c ","b":["96","72","14","14","14","14","80","96","82","84","86","87","88","89","84","82","14","86","14"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0094","num":"0093"},"figref":"FIG. 7","i":"d ","b":["98","86","96","92","98","82","84","87","88","89","84","98","82","14","14","72","82","97","14","14","164","14"]},"After the called party provides the identity of unidentified caller  or selects the identity of a known caller from list , the called party may cause processing system  to store the identity as a new name  in table  with the utterance information for unidentified caller  or, if a known caller is selected from list , to store the utterance information as an utterance identifier  associated with name  for the known caller. The called party may register the formerly unidentified caller  using a store window button  on output device , keys of input device , or any other suitable technique. The called party may also select a cancel window button  or otherwise indicate that the called party does not wish to register formerly unidentified caller  with processing system . As the above discussion indicates, the present invention may be self-learning to increase the likelihood that processing system  will correctly identify the formerly unidentified caller  the next time the formerly unidentified caller  calls.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0096","num":"0095"},"figref":"FIGS. 8","i":["a ","b "],"b":["8","14","400","14","12","22","70","14","14","402","20","404","78","72","402","70","405","78","14","406","408","14","14","164"]},"If the utterance provided by unidentified caller  at step  is inaudible, improper, or unsatisfactory at step , according to one or more specified parameters, the method returns to step , where voice board  again prompts unidentified caller  to provide an utterance. If the utterance is satisfactory at step , voice board  digitizes the utterance at step  and processing system  records the digitized utterance for unidentified caller  at step  using recording facility . At step , match module  of processing system  attempts to match the digitized utterance for unidentified caller  with an utterance identifier  contained in database  in the manner discussed more fully above. One or more ambiguity-resolution criteria may be used. If a match is found for the digitized utterance at step , processing system  presents first option screen  and the associated call routing options  to the called party at step , using output device  of computer , an LCD or LED display associated with the called party's telephone unit, audibly using a speaker or \u201chead set\u201d associated with computer , or in any other appropriate manner.","If the called party accepts the call at step , for example, by selecting accept option  using a mouse or other pointer, keys on input device  of computer , or in any other suitable manner, processing system  connects the called party to formerly unidentified caller  at step . Processing system  may connect unidentified caller  to the called party, for example, by coupling the phone line to a microphone and speakers associated with computer  or the called party's telephone unit, to a \u201chead set\u201d associated with computer  or the called party's telephone unit, or using any other appropriate technique. At step , processing system  presents the called party with second option screen , which may be presented as an entirely new screen on output device  or as a modified version of first option screen .","If the called party does not accept the call at step , and instead selects another call routing option  for the call, processing system  transfers or disconnects the call at step  according to the call routing option  selected, and the method ends. For example, if voice messaging option  is selected, formerly unidentified caller  is transferred to voice messaging capability  through a \u201cswitch hook transfer,\u201d telecommunications API (TAPI), TSAPI, or ISDN commands, or any other appropriate mechanism. If voice messaging system  is integral to computer , transfer may be unnecessary and processing system  may invoke voice messaging capability  more or less directly. Alternatively, if the called party selects attendant option , formerly unidentified caller  is routed to an assistant, to automated attendant capability , or to any other suitable predetermined destination. As discussed above, this transfer may be performed according to a \u201cswitch hook transfer\u201d or standard commands. Another alternative for the called party is to select disconnect option  to disconnect the call. The present invention contemplates other call routing options  as alternatives to accept option . Processing system  may also route calls from some or all unidentified callers  according to pre-programmed call routing information in response to the identification of unidentified callers .","If formerly unidentified caller  has been identified in error at step , for whatever reason, the called party may provide a corrected identity at step  and store the corrected identity with the utterance information for the formerly unidentified caller  at step , using store window button  or any other suitable technique, as name  and corresponding utterance identifier  in database . Since the called party maintains real-time control over the call even after accepting the call, the called party may select a transfer option  or disconnect option  at step  according to particular needs, in which case the method proceeds to step . Alternatively, the call may proceed at step  until terminated in some manner at step , for example, when the call reaches its natural conclusion and the called party hangs up, in which case the method ends. Steps  through  are repeated more or less continually until the called party transfers the call, disconnects the call, or the call is terminated in some other manner. If formerly unidentified caller  was not identified in error at step , the method proceeds to step  directly. Steps  through  may occur in any relative sequence according to the operation of processing system  and the actions of the called party.","If processing system  is unable to find a match or resolve an ambiguous identification at step , processing system  presents third option screen  and associated call routing options  to the called party using output device  or in any other suitable manner at step . If the called party selects a transfer option  or disconnect option  rather than selecting accept option  at step , then processing system  transfers or disconnects the call at step  according to the selected call routing option , and the method ends. If the called party selects accept option  at step , processing system  presents the called party with fourth option screen  at step . If fourth option screen  includes a list  of one or more known callers for which utterance identifiers  possibly match the utterance information for the formerly unidentified caller  at step , and one of the known callers is in fact the formerly unidentified caller , the called party may select the identity of a particular known caller at step . At step , the called party may store the utterance information for the formerly unidentified caller  with name  for the corresponding known caller in database , and the method proceeds to step , where the called party may exercise real-time control over the call by selecting a call routing option .","If fourth option screen  does not include a list  of one or more known callers for which stored utterance identifiers  possibly match the utterance information for formerly unidentified caller , or if no known caller in list  is in fact the formerly unidentified caller , the called party may register formerly unidentified caller  with processing system  at step . The called party may type, speak, or otherwise enter the identity of the formerly unidentified caller  at step  and, at step , may store the utterance information for the formerly unidentified caller  with the identity of the formerly unidentified caller  in database  as name  and corresponding utterance identifier . The method then proceeds to step , where the called party may exercise real-time control over the call. If the called party does not elect to register the formerly unidentified caller  with processing system  at step , the method proceeds directly to step .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0103","num":"0102"},"figref":"FIG. 9","b":["500","510","500","502","50","512","42","36","512","500","36","510"]},"Each processing system  includes, without limitation: control module , match module , analog-to-digital conversion facility , recording facility , a conventional or other suitable speech recognition facility (SR)  of the type known to those skilled in the art, speech generation capability , match parameters , communications parameters , interface , and any other components discussed above. Using these and any other suitable components, system  identifies one or more unidentified customers  at the point of sale from among a universe of known customers, using one or more ambiguity-resolution criteria if appropriate, to provide access to goods, services, and any other suitable benefits. In a particular embodiment, some or all of the components of system , such as voice input device , processing system , agent , and database , may be integral to an automated teller machine (ATM) that dispenses currency to, receives deposits from, and provides any other suitable banking transactions for patrons of a corresponding banking establishment.","In one embodiment, each processing system  within system  operates on one or more computers  at a particular point of sale to provide functionality discussed above with reference to . Database  may be replicated in whole or in part at each point of sale or may be located remotely from processing systems  at a centralized location, for example, a centralized point of sale or organizational headquarters. The present invention contemplates multiple processing systems  at multiple points of sale operating on the same distributed computer  and contemplates database  being integral to or separate from one or more processing systems . When database  is remote from processing system , processing system  communicates with database  using interface  and any suitable wireline or wireless link , as discussed above.","For purposes of this discussion, a point of sale may include any commercial or other establishment or location, or portion thereof, at which one or more customers  may purchase, rent, otherwise receive, or order a tangible or intangible item, for example, a good, service, or other benefit. For example, the point of sale associated with a particular processing system  may be a video rental point of sale, a grocery store point of sale, a banking point of sale, such as an ATM point of sale, a department store point of sale, a gasoline station point of sale, a dry cleaning point of sale, or any other appropriate point of sale. Moreover, the point of sale may be a Social Security Administration point of sale, a Department of Health and Human Services point of sale, Federal job training center point of sale, or other point of sale at which monetary or other governmental benefits are provided. Recipients of such benefits are considered customers for purposes of this discussion.","A single establishment or location, such as a large department store, may include multiple points of sale, for example, at each cash register in the store. The point of sale may also be a telephone or personal computer in a home, business, or other suitable setting that includes the requisite components and from which items or other benefits may be purchased, rented, ordered, or otherwise requested. For example, unidentified customer  may call or dial in from a telephone or personal computer point of sale in the home to purchase an item, in which case the identification process may be performed at the point of sale, at the other end of the link associated with the organization from which the item is purchased, or at some other remote location. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that system  may operate in connection with other suitable points of sale without departing from the intended scope of the present invention.","Communications from unidentified customers  to processing systems , represented by arrows , may be conventional speech communications, speech communications transmitted using an appropriate wireless communications technique, or any other suitable verbal communications. These communications are received at voice input device  and converted into electrical signals for use by processing system  in identifying unidentified customer  from among a universe of known customers at the point of sale. As discussed above, processing system  may perform the customer identification local to or remote from the point of sale.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0109","num":"0108"},"figref":"FIGS. 10","i":["a ","b "],"b":["10","510","550","36","500","510","552","510","510","164","510","552","554","550","500","510","554","502","556","558"]},"At step , processing system  attempts to match the digitized utterance for unidentified customer  with an utterance identifier  contained in database  in the manner discussed more fully above. If a match is found for the digitized utterance at step , processing system  may measure, assess, calculate, or otherwise determine a figure of merit for the match at step . In a particular embodiment, one or more ambiguity-resolution criteria in records  may be used at steps  and  to resolve an ambiguous identification of unidentified customer  as two or more known customers in the manner discussed above. Ambiguity-resolution criteria may also be used to verify an unambiguous identification of customer  as a particular known customer.","For example, at step , system  may determine a location, number, or other identifier associated with a point of sale in a commercial establishment, government office, or other premises at which unidentified customer  seeks a good, service, or other benefit. At step , system  compares the identifier determined at step  with an identifier  contained in records  for one or more known customers with which customer  has been identified. Customer  is identified as the particular known customer for which the identifier determined at step  is consistent with identifier , thereby resolving the ambiguity or verifying the unambiguous identification. The goods, services, or benefits customer  is seeking may be compared with historical purchasing information  for one or more known customers to resolve an ambiguous identification or verify an unambiguous identification, as the case may be. The present invention contemplates using any suitable ambiguity-resolution criteria in connection with system  to perform these functions at the point of sale or remote from the point of sale.","At step , processing system  and DBMS  cooperate to retrieve information from database  that corresponds to the known customer with which formerly unidentified customer  has been identified. Although identity data , order data , utterance data , and other data contained in database  is discussed above in connection with callers, database  may contain analogous information for one or more known customers instead of or in addition to information concerning known callers.","The retrieved information may include some or all of the identity data , order data , or utterance data  for the known customer; banking, purchase, account or other data for the known customer; or any other suitable information associated with the known customer and contained in database . In one embodiment, this other information retrieved from database  may include some or all of historical purchasing information  for formerly unidentified customer  that evidences or reflects dates; times; frequencies; amounts; brands; product types; a PIN, password, or other identifier used to authorize all or particular types of transactions; and any other historical purchasing information, in any combination. Although purchasing information is discussed, this infonmation may include any information associated with the provision or receipt of a tangible or intangible benefit, however such benefit is transferred, with or without consideration. The retrieved information is then provided to agent  at the point of sale at step  using any suitable \u201cscreen popping\u201d or other technique discussed more fully above.","As discussed more fully above, processing system  may calculate or otherwise determine a figure of merit at step  to indicate the extent of the correlation or the certainty of the match between the digitized utterance for formerly unidentified customer  and the utterance identifier  for the particular known customer with which formerly unidentified customer  has been identified. In one embodiment, the figure of merit is communicated to agent  along with the retrieved information for the particular known customer. If either a figure of merit has not been provided at step , or has been provided at step  and is deemed acceptable by agent  or processing system  at step  in accordance with one or more specified parameters, the method proceeds directly to step , where agent  interacts with formerly unidentified customer  in some suitable manner at the point of sale according to the needs of the customer and the nature of the establishment. If a figure of merit has been provided at step , but is not deemed acceptable at step , agent  may interactively verify the identity of formerly unidentified customer  using conventional techniques at step .","Whether or not a figure of merit is provided at step  or deemed acceptable at step , processing system  or agent  may prompt formerly unidentified customer  at step  to provide a PIN, password, or other suitable identifier to authorize one or more transactions formerly unidentified customer  is trying to complete. For example, processing system  or agent  may require formerly unidentified customer  to enter a PIN, either manually or verbally, to authorize purchases that exceed a predetermined price threshold or include particular items. At step , processing system  or agent  compares the provided PIN with a PIN previously stored in one or more records  in database  to authorize the purchases. A PIN, password, or other suitable identifier may be required for all transactions or particular types of transactions according to particular needs.","In one embodiment, if a match is made at step , whether or not a figure of merit is calculated or deemed acceptable, processing system  or agent  may also prompt formerly unidentified customer  to provide a security utterance at step , such as the current time or date, that processing system  uses to provide further security and prevent fraud. For example, after formerly unidentified customer  has provided the current date as requested, processing system  uses speech recognition capability  to convert the security utterance to a form suitable for comparison at step  with time and date information that computer  maintains and updates more or less continuously during normal processing. If the current date that formerly unidentified customer  provided is correct at step , it is much less likely that a person has simply previously recorded an utterance of formerly unidentified customer  and used this recorded utterance in an attempt to fraudulently obtain a good, service, or other benefit using system . If the security utterance is not acceptable at step , agent  may interact with formerly unidentified customer  as appropriate to verify the identification of formerly unidentified customer  as the known customer to reduce or eliminate the potential for fraud.","In addition to verifying the accuracy of the provided security utterance, processing system  may compare the security utterance with stored utterance data  for formerly unidentified customer  in order to verify the identification made at step  using the techniques discussed above. In one embodiment, a time or date such as described for the security utterance is the utterance prompted at step  and provided at step  for initially identifying unidentified customer  from among a universe of known customers, which provides additional security over an utterance, for example, that contains only the name of unidentified customer .","The present invention also provides further security over previous systems, such as an ATM that requires users to input a magnetic card, because voice characteristics may change during an attempted robbery to the extent that no match can be made at step  and no good, service, or other benefit is provided. Processing system  may also use speech recognition facility  to recognize one or more predetermined distress, maintenance, or other utterances that prompt processing system  to alert or summon law enforcement authorities, maintenance personnel, or other appropriate persons or devices. Other security measures, including the use of ambiguity-resolution criteria to verify an identification, may be used without departing from the intended scope of the present invention. After agent  interacts with customer  in some suitable manner at step , for example, to provide a good, service, or other benefit, or to decline to provide a good, service, or other benefit, the method ends.","If processing system  is unable to match or suitably correlate the digitized utterance for unidentified customer  with an utterance identifier  corresponding to a known customer at step , or is unable to resolve an ambiguous identification at steps  and , agent  may interactively verify the identity of unidentified customer  according to conventional techniques at step . In one embodiment, the present invention is self-learning, such that if no match has been made at step  and unidentified customer  is identified interactively at step , system  may receive and store information for unidentified customer  for use in identifying one or more subsequent unidentified customers . For example, database  may not contain utterance data  to identify a particular unidentified customer  when unidentified customer  visits the establishment, for example, because unidentified customer  may have had no prior interaction with the establishment. Furthermore, database  may not yet contain utterance data  for any known customers, due to the length of time system  has been operating or for any other reason.","At step , processing system  may create a record  for formerly unidentified customer  containing an utterance identifier  and other utterance data  generated using the utterance provided at step . At step , the created record  for formerly unidentified customer  may be stored in one or more tables  within database  to register formerly unidentified customer  with system . The created record  for the formerly unidentified customer  may be associated with identity data , order data , or utterance data ; banking, purchase, or account data; or any other appropriate information concerning formerly unidentified customer , such as purchasing information, whether the information is generated before, during, or after record  is created. In one embodiment, the created record  will correspond to a known customer for purposes of identifying subsequent unidentified customers  from among a universe of known customers at the point of sale. Before, during, or after storing the created record  at step , agent  interacts with formerly unidentified customer  in some suitable manner at step , for example, to provide a good, service, or other benefit, or to decline to provide a good, service, or other benefit if appropriate, and the method ends.","Although callers are discussed with reference to and customers are discussed with reference to , callers and customers may be collectively referred to as persons. References to persons are intended to include all such callers and customers. The present invention contemplates the use of one or more suitable ambiguity-resolution criteria for resolving an ambiguous identification of an unidentified person as two or more known persons, or for verifying an unambiguous identification of an unidentified person as a particular known person, in any of the ways discussed above.","Although the present invention has been described with several embodiments, a plethora of changes, substitutions, variations, alterations, transformations, and modifications may be suggested to one skilled in the art, and it is intended that the present invention encompass such changes, substitutions, variations, alterations, transformations, and modifications as fall within the spirit and scope of the appended claims."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["For a more complete understanding of the present invention and for further features and advantages thereof, reference is now made to the following description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings, in which:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIGS. 3","i":["a ","c "],"b":"3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIGS. 4","i":["a ","b "],"b":"4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIGS. 5","i":["a ","b "],"b":"5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIGS. 7","i":["a ","d "],"b":"7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIGS. 8","i":["a ","b "],"b":"8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIGS. 10","i":["a ","b "],"b":"10"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
