---
title: Aircraft wheel and tire compressor
abstract: This new wheel compressor has a spring loaded, shaft with a foot operated torque brace, that when stepped on moves the shaft down. The shaft has an ACME threaded collar welded to the inside that has an ACME bolt threaded T-bar that has a compressor wing that when inserted through the center axel of the wheel threaded to the shaft compresses the wheel.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=H0002175&OS=H0002175&RS=H0002175
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Air Force
number: H0002175
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20031219
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"GOVINT":[{},{}],"heading":["STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENT INTEREST","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENT"],"p":["The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalty thereon.","The present invention related generally to aircraft and more specifically to an improved aircraft wheel and tire compressor system. Air Force military aircraft have their tires serviced in accordance with USAF Technical Orders 4T-1-3 the disclosure of which is incorporated by reference.","Previously our aircraft wheel and tire assemblies were compressed by stepping on the wheel assembly, while placed on boards, or on top of workbench. Another method that was used was placing the wheel and tire assembly between two large pieces of wood in the bead breaker compressing the assembly by drawing the rings together and inserting the nuts and bolts.","Before the compressor was implemented, O-rings were pinched causing air leaks resulting in having to take the assembly apart to repair. The tie bolts would not always come completely through the tie bolt holes and the individual standing on the wheel assembly would have to shift weight forward to the person installing the nut and bolt, or bounce up and down to insert a nut on the bolt. Quite often, trying to insert the nut to the bolt would result in having to aim the nut to the bold before the bolt receded back into the hole. Placing the wheel and tire assembly into the bead breaker on small wheels would require balancing the tire assembly on your knee between two boards and than compressing, often the bolts would catch on the other half and push back out (gravity angle), you would than have to push bolts back in and then install nuts. You're finger manipulation area was smaller and the assemblies very limited.","The present invention includes a modification to a military aircraft wheel assembly fixture used on servicing tires of F-16, T-38, F-15 and similar aircraft. In operation the wheel compressor has a spring loaded, shaft with a foot operated torque brace, that when stepped on moves the shaft down. The shaft has an ACME threaded collar welded to the inside that has a ACME bolt threaded T-bar that has a compressor wing that when inserted through the center axel of the wheel assembly threaded to the shaft compresses the wheel. The invention was tested on a F-16 main, T-38 main, F-16 Nose, and an Fl-15 Nose. We found that the compressor tool worked extremely well and that a job that took normally 2 people was reduced down to one person, also to unsafe procedures need be implemented, and no carrying the assembly from one area to another just to insert bolts.","The present invention includes an improved aircraft wheel and tire compressor system for use in servicing aircraft tires. To understand the improvements of the present invention it is necessary to describe the current practice of aircraft tire service.  are illustrations of the major elements of the aircraft wheel assembly fixture used in the present invention. This unit is designed to hold a wheel under uniform compression for installation of bolts during wheel-tire build-up. It will handle practically every wheel-tire assembly in current use up to 1400 pounds. It will serve as a bead breaker for wheels with up to and including 19-inch rim diameters.","In the process of the deflation, all aircraft tires must be completely deflated and the valve core removed before any attempts are made to dismount tires and disassemble the wheels. Failure to do so has resulted in fatal injury to personnel.","Another concern is that aircraft tires, tubes, and wheels can be damaged beyond repair by improper dismounting procedures and use of unauthorized tools. Tubeless tire bead sealing surfaces and the relatively soft aluminum and magnesium alloy wheels are easily damaged.","The present invention compresses aircraft evenly so that nuts may easily threaded onto bolts and O-ring will not be pinched, while utilizing one individual for a complete process.","The elements of  are:","a main frame  with a cap  and pivot point ; an interior drive shaft  which has a threaded central surface  on its top and which goes down when the foot pedal  is depressed. The foot pedal  is held up by fixed springs  but drives downwards when the foot pedal is depressed.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":["FIG. 1","FIG. 2"],"b":"3"},"When an aircraft tire is placed on the cap  of the frame  the \u201ctee\u201d of FIG.  and foot bar  of  act as described below.","The present invention is an aircraft tire compression system that is hand operated to evenly compress the tire from the wheel rim. The reader's attention is directed towards  which shows a threaded adaptor  in which a tee  drive down the foot bar  along a threaded axis , through the center of a wheel when the foot pedal  is pressed.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 3","FIG. 4","FIG. 4","FIG. 4"],"b":["300","251","251","300","300","400","251"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIGS. 1-3"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},"Now, in order to understand the improvements the present invention offers, readers are reminded that at Edwards Air Force Base, part of the aircraft tire compression process currently used includes standing on the tire! The tire can be on a frame where someone is four feet above ground level, which presents a potential safety hazard from falls as well as inefficient tire compression.","While the invention has been described in its presently preferred embodiment it is understood that the words, which have been used, are words of description rather than words of limitation and that changes within the purview of the appended claims may be made without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention in its broader aspects."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0007","num":"0006"},"figref":"FIGS. 1-3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0008","num":"0007"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":["1","3"]}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
