---
title: Precharging load capacitor for power-factor-corrected AC-to-DC power supply
abstract: A power supply for a capacitive-resistive load includes plural paralleled phase correcting modules together with current sharing controllers for tending to equalize their currents. Each module is provided with a diode, poled to prevent forward current from flowing in the return current path, for aiding in equalizing module currents. Surge currents are reduced by a single saturable reactor coupled to the combined outputs of current sharing controllers, thereby avoiding the need for soft-start in each controller. A precharging path extends from a source of pulsating direct voltage to the load, for precharging the load capacitance at turn-on.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07023716&OS=07023716&RS=07023716
owner: Lockheed Martin Corporation
number: 07023716
owner_city: Bethesda
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20031104
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"GOVINT":[{},{}],"heading":["GOVERNMENTAL INTEREST","FIELD OF THE INVENTION","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION"],"p":["This invention was prepared under government contract N00014-99-2-0002 (HBMRS). The United States Government has a non-exclusive, non-transferable, paid-up license in this invention.","This invention relates to electrical power supplies, and more particularly to paralleled power supplies in which, variously, turn-on surge currents are controlled, unidirectional return current equalization is assured, and a capacitive load is precharged.","It is often necessary to parallel power supplies in order to achieve a desired level of power. Such paralleling allows the use of standardized or commercial-off-the-shelf (COTS) modules or units to achieve a level of power which might otherwise require a costly custom-designed power supply. For example, most single-phase power-factor-corrected (PFC) boost AC-DC power supplies available as COTS modules offer no more than 1 KW of power capacity, and must be paralleled in order to provide, say, 10 KW.  is a simplified diagram in block and schematic form illustrating a prior-art paralleled power supply  for providing direct voltage to a capacitive load . In , the capacitive load  includes a load resistor  which represents the real or energy-absorbing portion of the load, and a paralleled capacitor  which represents the quadrature or out-of-phase (imaginary) portion of the load. The capacitor  may be an actual discrete capacitor or capacitor bank, and it may also include the stray capacitance of various components and or connections. One end of resistor  and capacitor  is connected to a load reference or ground conductor LG, and the other ends are connected to a load hot terminal LH.","In , a source of alternating current, such as power-line mains, is illustrated as . The source of alternating voltage drives a full-wave rectifier represented as a block , which as known produces pulsating direct voltage (also known as pulsating direct current) represented by a symbol . Pulsating direct voltage is characterized by unidirectional half-sinusoids of voltage, with the voltage value between voltage peaks going to approximately zero volts. The pulsating direct voltage may be viewed as being established or generated between a first common conductor  relative to a common second or reference conductor . In , a plurality  of standardized single-phase switching phase correcting power-supply boost modules , , . . . , are connected to conductors  and  for receiving pulsating direct voltage from rectifier , and for generating direct voltage for ultimate application to the load . Each power supply module of set  includes first and second power input terminals. More particularly, power supply includes first and second power input terminals or ports  and , respectively, which are connected to common power conductors  and , respectively. Similarly, power supply includes first and second power input terminals or ports  and , respectively, which are connected to common power conductors  and , respectively, and power supply includes first and second power input ports  and , respectively, which are connected to common power conductors  and , respectively. It should be noted that the term \u201cport\u201d formally includes a pair of terminals or electrodes, but common usage extends the definition. Each power supply of set  also includes first and second power output terminals, and more particularly power supply includes first and second output terminals  and , power supply includes first and second output terminals  and , and power supply includes first and second output terminals  and . One example of such single-phase power-factor correcting boost power supply modules is model PFC-1000 manufactured by RO Associates, Inc. of 246 Caspian Drive, P.O. Box 61419, Sunnyvale, Calif. 94088.","Each switching power supply module or element of set  of power supplies of  includes internal circuitry, which may or may not be known to the user. Such power supplies almost always include an input inductor, which is represented in  by inductors I, I, . . . , I connected to the first input ports , , . . . ,  of power supplies , , . . . , , respectively. The power supplies also often include a unidirectional current conducting device, illustrated as a diode or rectifier D, D, . . . , D, through which an output or integrating capacitor is charged. In power supply of , these capacitors are represented by a capacitor designated C, and capacitors C and C of power supplies and correspond. The integrating capacitor C, C, . . . , C of each of the power supply modules , , . . . , is connected across the output terminals , ; , ; . . . ; ,  of the module, for providing a low output impedance. Each switching power supply of set  also includes a current sensing resistor for sensing the current flow in the return path. In , power supply has a return current sensing resistor R, power supply has a return current sensing resistor R, and power supply has a return current sensing resistor R. The purpose of these return current sensing resistors in the various switching power supply module or element of set  is to provide a signal representing the return current at the second input terminal; this return current signal is compared by a comparator (not illustrated) with a scaled version of the full-wave rectified voltage  to produce an error signal, which error signal forces the return current to follow or track the full-wave voltage, thereby forcing the current to be in-phase with the applied voltage, which is the essence of phase correction. Each power supply , , . . . , of set  is also associated with a further return current equalizing resistor R, R, . . . , Rn of a set  of return current equalizing resistors. More particularly, each power supply , , . . . , of set  is also associated with a further return current equalizing resistor R, R, . . . , Rn, respectively, which is connected between the return current output terminal and the load ground LG. Thus, resistor R is connected to return current output terminal  of power supply and to LG, resistor R is connected to return current output terminal  of power supply and to LG, and resistor Rn is connected to LG and to the return current output terminal  of power supply ","Within each switching power supply module or element of set  of power supplies of , a \u201cline current shaping controller LCSC and associated power FET perform the boost power conversion. When the FET of a module of set  is ON or conducting, energy is stored in the associated input inductor (I, I, . . . , I) associated with the input port of the module. When the FET goes OFF or becomes nonconductive, the inductor produces a reaction voltage which adds to the input voltage to produce the boosted output voltage. At the same time, the average input port current follows the shape of the full-wave rectified or pulsating direct input voltage .","In theory, it should be possible to simply connect the output terminals of the various power supplies of  to the load . However, some problems arise when the power supplies are paralleled in this manner and connected to the load. A first problem is that the internal impedances of the various power supplies , , may not be equal, with the result that the current provided by each module may differ from the current provided by the other modules. Such differences in internal impedance may be the result of differences in the gain of the feedback circuits, which as known tends to change the impedance. It may also arise as a result of stray differences in connection resistances. Such current-sharing problems are controlled in the prior art by a set  of forward current sharing controllers, including current-sharing controllers , , . . . , , which tend to maintain the same forward current to the load from each power supply module of set . Current-sharing controller has an input port connected to output terminal  of power supply module and an output terminal connected to load conductor LH, and further includes a connection to ground conductor LG. Current-sharing controller has an input port connected to output terminal  of power supply module , an output terminal , which is connected to load conductor LH, and a reference terminal , which is connected to ground conductor LG. Current-sharing controller has an input port connected to output terminal  of power supply module , an output terminal connected to load conductor LH, and a reference terminal connected to ground conductor LG. Thus, the output ports of the current sharing controllers of set  are connected in common to load supply conductor LH. Each of the current sharing controllers of set  is also connected by a reference terminal to ground conductor LG. The current sharing controllers of set  are of the soft ramp-up variety, to thereby prevent surge currents from occurring when the initially uncharged load capacitor  is connected to the charged output capacitor C, C, . . . , C of any one of the power supply modules of set . Such surge currents, as known, may be large enough to cause failure of a capacitor or the interconnections, or to reduce their life expectancy.  is a simplified diagram in schematic form of a prior-art current sharing controller  with soft start.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 7","FIG. 7","FIG. 7"],"b":["30","30","30","710","30","30","30","724","726","726","724","724","728","730","730","732"],"i":["a","a ","ai ","ao","ao ","a ","a ","b","n","a. "]},"In , the gate of the PFET is connected to input port by way of a resistor , which provides the PFET with gate voltage more positive than the voltage at output port to tend to hold the PFET conductive or ON. The gate of the PFET is also coupled to the collector of an NPN bipolar transistor . The emitter of transistor  is connected to ground by way of an emitter resistor . When transistor  is ON, collector current flows through resistor , and turns OFF the PFET by reducing its gate current toward zero volts. The base of transistor  is driven by way of a resistor  from the output of a comparator (a high-gain amplifier) . When comparator  tends to higher output, transistor  conducts more and the PFET conducts less. A current regulating arrangement includes resistor  and a bipolar PNP transistor . When the output current of current sharing controller becomes large enough, the base-emitter junction of transistor  becomes forward biased, and the transistor becomes active. When active, transistor  adjusts the voltage at the positive (+) input terminal of comparator , to tend to drive its output positive and thereby turn OFF the PFET. The inverting (\u2212) input terminal of comparator  is connected to A \u201cstartup\u201d signal is generated by an external logic circuit (not illustrated) which uses a variety of logic schemes to determine the existence of a start-up condition, and a start-up signal is applied to the noninverting input terminal of comparator  by way of an intermediary FET .","Improved paralleled power supply arrangements are desired.","An electrical apparatus according to an aspect of the invention is for powering a load including a resistive and a capacitive component. The electrical apparatus comprises a source of pulsating direct voltage, and a first plurality of power factor correction units coupled to the source of direct voltage, each for converting the pulsating direct voltage into a direct voltage at an output port, and for tending to maintain the current through the source of pulsating direct voltage in-phase with the pulsating direct voltage. The apparatus also includes a plurality, equal to the first plurality, of current sharing controllers, each of which current sharing controllers includes a port coupled to the output port of one of the power factor correction units, and each also includes an output port in common with all output ports of the current sharing controllers. The current sharing controllers are subject to surge current when the direct voltage of the associated one of the power factor correction units is coupled to the capacitive component of the load at turn-on. The apparatus also includes controllable switch means coupled to the source of pulsating direct voltage and to the load, for precharging the capacitive component of the load.","In one version of this aspect, the power factor correction units are boost power factor correction converters. A desirable version further comprises a plurality, equal to the first plurality, of ground current equalizing impedances coupled between a common reference terminal and a current return port of each of the power factor correction units; these equalizing impedances preferably include unidirectional current conduction characteristics, as in the case of a diode. Another desirable version further includes means, such as a saturable reactor, for delaying application of the direct voltage to the load.","In a preferred embodiment of the invention, the controllable switch comprises unidirectional current conducting means, and the unidirectional current conducting means is poled to conduct when the pulsating direct voltage exceeds the load voltage. In this preferred embodiment, when the power factor correction units are boost converters which generate direct voltage having a first value greater than the peak value of the pulsating direct voltage, the unidirectional current conducting means becomes nonconductive when the pulsating direct voltage drops below the first value.","It has been discovered that the arrangement of  may not be as stable or consistent in performance as desired. More particularly, it has been discovered that a forward cross circulation current, represented in  as a dash line , can flow from one PFC module to another, as for example from PFC module to PFC module , returning to conductor . This cross circulation current tends to disrupt the current sensing mechanism of the affected module, and eventually the AC line current shaping. In addition, the uncontrolled circulation may easily exceed the rating of the current-balancing resistors of the PFC modules, such as resistor R of module , for example, and lead to component destruction. Further, the cross circulation current also causes signal ground drift (reference shift) and erroneous signal processing.","Circulation of cross currents from one module to the others is prevented by the use of unidirectional current conducting devices such as rectifiers or diodes (diode). In , a diode or rectifier of a set  of unidirectional current conducting devices is connected in series with a return current equalizing resistor of set . More particularly, a diode is connected in series with resistor R, a diode is connected in series with resistor R, and a diode is connected in series with resistor Rn. The diodes of set  are poled to allow the flow of return current to the module in question, but prevent the flow of forward current from the second output port of each power-supply module. More particularly, diode is poled with its cathode adjacent second output port of power supply module , diode is poled with its cathode adjacent second output port of power supply module , and diode is poled with its cathode adjacent second output port of power supply module . With the cathodes adjacent the output return current ports, forward current cannot flow from an output return current port, and therefore cannot flow into the return current port of another power supply module. Instead, the forward current in each power-supply module of set  flows in a path, illustrated in conjunction with power-supply module , extending from conductor , through the first input port  of the power-supply module, through at least the internal capacitor C, through the internal current sensing resistor R, and out to conductor .","The cost of providing soft-start current ramp-up in each of the current-sharing controllers of set  of  may be excessive. The need for soft-start current ramp-up in each current-sharing controller is avoided by the addition of a single saturable reactor between the paralleled power supply modules and the load. More particularly, referring to , a saturable reactor  is connected in series between conductor portions LH\u2032 and LH\u2033, between load  and the paralleled output terminals , , . . . , of set  of current sharing controllers. A saturable reactor has a magnetic core which is characterized by a BH curve  such as that illustrated in , where B is the magnetic induction and H is the magnetizing force. The incremental induction, represented by the slope of curve , is maximum near the center of the curve, and is much less at the ends of the curve. The regions of large slope represent operating regions in which the inductor has a large reactive impedance, and the zero-slope regions at the ends of the curve represent regions in which the inductor has little or no reactive impedance. The magnetic core of the saturable inductor is selected in conjunction with the number and layout of turns in order to provide maximum induction and inductance at high rate of load current changes, and low or zero induction and inductance at low rate of current of load resistor . The relatively large inductance presented by the saturable inductor  of  to rapidly changing or surge currents tends to suppress surges. Thus, any of the phase correcting power-supply modules or units of set  which may tend to produce a surge current finds that such a surge is opposed by a reaction of saturable reactor . The opposition to the surge essentially suppresses the surge. Since the presence of saturable reactor  tends to suppress any surge currents flowing to the capacitive component  of load , the set  of current sharing controllers need not have soft-start characteristics. In general, the use of a single saturable reactor, such as reactor , will be cheaper and more reliable than the use of a soft-start controller.  is a simplified diagram illustrating a current sharing controller similar to that of , but in which the soft-start feature is absent, and the signal paths required for distributing startup signals to the various controllers are also absent.","Circuit arrangement  of  is similar to circuit arrangement  of , and corresponding elements are designated by the same alphanumerics. Circuit arrangement  differs from circuit arrangement , in accordance with an aspect of the invention, by the addition of a precharging current path including a diode (D) . The precharging current path extends from conductor  at the output of full-wave bridge rectifier  to conductor LH adjacent the load . In operation at turn-on, the pulsating direct voltage  produced by rectifier  is immediately applied to the anode of diode , and current flows through diode  and load capacitance , thereby charging capacitance  even in the absence of significant voltage at the output terminals , , . . . ,  of the set  of power-factor correcting modules. Thus, by the time the set  of power-factor correcting modules reaches a nominal output voltage and the set  of current sharing controllers couples the set  of power-factor correcting modules to load  by way of conductor LH, the load capacitance  is already at least partially charged. The precharge applied to load capacitance  tends to reduce the magnitude of surge currents which might occur when the current sharing controllers couple the power-factor correcting modules to the load.","It should be noted that if the power factor correction modules of set  of  are voltage boost modules producing a direct output voltage which exceeds the peak value of the pulsating direct voltage  produced by rectifier , the precharging path including diode or rectifier  will be turned OFF or become open-circuited, because the greater positive value of the direct voltage applied to the cathode of device  by comparison with the lesser positive value of the pulsating direct voltage  will result in reverse bias of the diode or rectifier. This arrangement avoids the need for a separate switch and timing circuit to disconnect the precharging path.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 1","FIG. 2","FIGS. 3 and 4","FIG. 6","FIG. 5","FIG. 1"],"b":["210","50","60"]},"Thus, an electrical apparatus (, ) according to an aspect of the invention is for powering a load () including a resistive () and a capacitive () component. The electrical apparatus (, ) comprises a source () of pulsating direct voltage () and a first plurality (n) of power factor correction units (, , . . . , ) coupled to the source () of direct voltage (), for converting the pulsating direct voltage () into a direct voltage at an output port (, , . . . , ), and for tending to maintain the current through the source of pulsating direct voltage in-phase with the pulsating direct voltage (). The electrical apparatus (, ) also includes a plurality equal to the first plurality (n) of current sharing controllers (, , . . . ), each of which current sharing controllers (, , . . . ) includes a port (, , . . . , ) coupled to the output port (, , . . . , ) of one of the power factor correction units (, , . . . , ), and also includes an output port (, , . . . , ) in common with all output ports of the current sharing controllers (, , . . . ). The current sharing controllers (, , . . . , ) are subject to surge current when the direct voltage of the associated one of the power factor correction units (, , . . . , ) is coupled to the capacitive component () of the load () at turn-on. The apparatus (, ) further includes controlled current path () coupled to the source () of pulsating direct voltage () and to the load (), for precharging the capacitive component () of the load ().","In a more preferred embodiment, the apparatus () further comprises a plurality, equal to the first plurality (n), of ground current equalizing impedances (R, R, . . . , Rn) coupled between a common reference terminal (LG) and a current return port (, , . . . , ) of each of the power factor correction units (, , . . . , ). In a more preferred embodiment, the apparatus () further comprises means, such as a saturable reactor () for delaying application of the direct voltage to the load () by way of the current sharing controllers (, , . . . ). In a most preferred embodiment, the current equalizing impedances are unidirectional current conducting devices (, , . . . , ).","According to another aspect of the invention, the controllable path () includes a controllable switch. In a desirable embodiment of the invention, the controllable switch includes a unidirectional current conducting device which conducts when the pulsating direct voltage () is greater than the voltage on the capacitive component and which ceases conduction when the pulsating direct voltage is less than the voltage on the capacitive component. According to another aspect of the invention, the power factor correction units (, , . . . , ) are boost converters which generate direct voltage having a value greater than the peak value of the pulsating direct voltage, whereby the unidirectional current conducting means becomes nonconductive when the current sharing controller becomes conductive."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWING","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIGS. 2"],"b":["3","5"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIGS. 1"],"b":["2","5"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":["FIG. 8","FIG. 3"]}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
