---
title: Copy server for collaboration and electronic commerce
abstract: Systems and methods for collaborating over the Internet (or an intranet) in which two or more parties, such as a user and an agent, can share dynamic content generated by a web site server. Collaboration can be accomplished on live, dynamic pages without imposing a proxy server between user browsers and the web servers. Mechanisms prevent multiple submissions, and filters can be provided to selectively filter versions of a page for different users.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07010571&OS=07010571&RS=07010571
owner: Cisco Technology, Inc.
number: 07010571
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20031114
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"p":["This Patent application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 09\/347,870, filed Jul. 6, 1999, now U.S. Pat. No. 6,675,216, entitled \u201cCOPY SERVER FOR COLLABORATION AND ELECTRONIC COMMERCE\u201d. The entire contents and teachings of this referenced application are hereby incorporated by reference herein in their entirety.","Electronic commerce (e-commerce) is growing in popularity with increased use of the Internet and the world wide web. While some web sites just provide information over the web and then rely on telephone calls for placing orders or buying products and services, many other companies, including booksellers and mutual fund companies, allow purchases to be made and other commerce to be transacted over the web. These companies typically have a web server with back end processing software and a database with information that can be provided over the web, including product information and ordering forms. These sites are typically designed to generate dynamic content that is personalized and secure for self-service. If a user is having a problem working with a form on the web site or finding relevant information, the user may be able to call a call center to ask about the problem and describe what he or she sees.","A prior method for collaboration, in which content can be shared over the Internet between a user and an agent, is described in patent publication WO 97\/42728, which is expressly incorporated herein by reference.","Dynamic content is content that requires some processing to typically add or select information that is customized or unique to the user in some way. For example, a user who is already known to the web site could be served with a form in which a name, address, and credit card number are filled in at the web site, in advance, for the convenience of the purchaser. Other examples include pages in which content is based on information provided by the user, such as mapping information that obtains from the user an initial position and a destination and performs calculations that determine the directions.","When more than one participant to a collaboration session wish to collaborate with respect to a page that has dynamic content, it is desirable that each user see the same dynamically generated content. However, it would not be desirable for each participant to have the same processing performed repeatedly, because such duplication would create additional overhead and potentially duplicate audit trails and even business transactions. Furthermore, it is very desirable to restrict access to the shared session to collaboration participants, protecting shared content from unauthorized access from the Internet.","The present invention includes systems and methods for collaborating over the Internet (or an intranet) in which two or more participants, such as one or more users and an agent, can share dynamic content generated by a web site server. The invention facilitates collaboration on real, active forms and dynamic pages without the need to impose a proxy server between user browsers and web servers. The invention also includes mechanisms to facilitate content capture, to prevent multiple submissions, to selectively filter content from either the agent or user views; and to limit collaborative access to collaboration participants.","The invention includes a copy server that can store dynamic content after it is generated by the web site in such a way that the content can be provided repeatedly to two or more participants to a collaboration session without interacting with a web content server, application server, or database. The use of the copy server thus eliminates additional overhead of producing identical dynamic pages for multiple participants, and in some applications will eliminate redundant database entries associated with the production of a dynamic page, such as form submissions and audit trails.","The copy server is different from a proxy server, in that, unlike proxied pages, the copied page in the copy server has live links and active buttons that direct all of the participants browsers back to the original web site rather than to the copy server.","The participants collaborate through a collaboration server, as described in the incorporated document. The content in the copy server can be protected and thus can be made secure such that only authorized participants to a collaboration session are permitted to collaborate using the shared content in the copy server. To accomplish this, the collaboration server communicates with the copy server to identify to the copy server the authorized participants to the collaboration session so that the copy server can restrict access to the content in the copy server.","The copy server can also present different pages to different participants using filters. Such different participants will typically be grouped by role, e.g., as an agent or as a user. The filter, copy server, and collaboration server work together to allow a user and an agent to have the same view of dynamic content where needed, and filter information from one or more different types of views so that one participant may not see everything that another participant does. Such filtering can be controlled, for example, such that the agent sees only what the agent needs, while excluding other content. One use for filtering is to remove a \u201csubmit\u201d button from an order form to permit the agent and the user from both submitting the form on behalf of the user.","The present invention also includes components to capture dynamic content and store that content in the copy server. These components are called adapters because they are specific for different types of e-commerce platforms, making the copy server easier to use. In other words, they \u201cadapt\u201d the copy server to different e-commerce environments.","Another feature of the adapters (or appropriate custom code) is the ability to synchronize access to a page to prevent race conditions between multiple participants and to avoid redundant operations. Once identical copies of a page are loaded into multiple participant browsers, a race condition may be created if more than one participant operates on the page and then submits that page to the web server. The adapter only allows one participant to operate on the page through the adapter; subsequent operations are blocked. When a result page is generated from the operation in response to the participant who submitted the page, that resulting page is copied into the copy server and thus becomes the copied page for access by each participant.","Other features and advantages will become apparent from the following detailed description, drawings, and claims.","Referring to , an entity  that performs commerce over the Internet, such as an on-line financial services company or an on-line bookseller, has a web site with an HTTP content server  that allows a user browser  to interact with the web site. User browser  accesses content server  through the Internet to request information. If the user is requesting static content, i.e., a page of information that does not change regardless of who is accessing it, such as a typical home page, content server  can retrieve the page from its own file system  and serve the page to user browser . For dynamic content, content server  passes the request for information to an application server . If the application is intended merely to serve dynamic, personalized content, it might format a dynamic page whose content depends on the identity of the client browser. If the application server is a front end to a transaction-based system, then server  provides the request to back office processing , which uses data from the database  in order to provide the processed information back to user browser  via application server  and content server ","With or without the back office processing  and database , this is known as a typical multi-user self-service (non-collaborative) environment. In such a case, a user may not recognize that the content is static or dynamic. Nevertheless, it is possible for each user to experience unique, personalized content which depends on the identity of the user.","According to the present invention, an additional server, referred to as a copy server , is provided. Application server  has code  that causes server  to interact with copy server  through an application programming interface (API)  in copy server . Application server  provides to the copy server a copy of the page, form, or other dynamic content (referred to here generally as a \u201cpage\u201d) received from back office processing  to become copied page  in copy server . Copy server  stores copied page  along with a uniform resource locator (URL) associated with copied page  to allow subsequent access. Code  captures the page that is provided from processing , causes copied page  to be stored in copy server , and obtains from copy server  the URL to identify the copied page. Code  then causes the browser requesting the original page to be redirected to the copied page  in the copy server . The redirection is accomplished with a redirect header provided to content server  over connection , and then from content server  as indicated by line  to user browser .","User browser  thus receives the URL in the redirect header for copied page , and uses that URL as indicated by line  to automatically access copied page  over HTTP. The user, on receiving copied page , can then fill in information, for example, if the page is a form, and submit the form back to the web site through content server . All of the links in the page relate to the original content server  to force operations on the copied page back to the original content server . Any resulting response from the application server can again be stored as a copied page.","The copied page is the basis for the collaboration. As described in the incorporated patent document, the user, if desiring a collaboration session, can provide the URL to a collaboration server , which forwards the URL to an agent browser , and if appropriate to other user browsers. Meanwhile, the user and agent can talk over a separate telephone line  or by using voice-over-IP. Agent browser  can then use that URL from collaboration server  to access and retrieve copied page , so that agent browser  and user browser  both have copied page  and both have direct access to the copied page. Such access to copied page  is desirable for the user and agent to be able to confer about the content of the copied page.","Collaboration server  is preferably an enterprise-class, HTTP server application that enables agents to visually interact with remote users over the Internet while the user and agent can also conduct a voice conversation about the visually shared material. To participate in a collaborative session, a customer need only have an Internet-connected computer and a Java-enabled browser. The voice connection can take place over a separate telephone line or over a single voice\/data connection if the appropriate voice-over-IP (VoIP) hardware and software are in place. The agents can share static and dynamic web content with users, can navigate with the users around the web, demonstrate software, help users complete secure web-based forms, or transfer downloadable files, all while simultaneously conducting a voice conversation. Such collaboration is described in more detail in the incorporated patent publication.","One characteristic of copy server  is that the copied page loaded into user browser and agent browser contains live links to content server  directly, and that application server , back office processing , and database  were accessed (and perhaps updated) only one time in the original production of the copied page. This feature is thus unlike a proxy server in which the proxy server appears to the user to be the actual location of the information, when in fact the proxy server has an internal mapping to an actual location of the information. Bookmarks and historical (cached) pages stored in the browser come from the proxy server not the original source of the dynamic page. A proxy server would also have an undesirable limitation in that the proxy captures all the actual history of the client browser, depriving the content server of valuable data. The copy server , on the other hand, does not isolate the content server  from the client browser  nor does it isolate the server from the direct browser interaction.","In another embodiment of the present invention also shown in , code  of the type indicated above for use in application server  could alternatively be provided as code  in content server , with the code coupled to API  as represented by dashed line .","Copy server  can regulate access to copied page  so that only authorized participants in a collaboration session are permitted to access the copied page. Collaboration server  communicates via connection  and copy server API  to copy server  and tells copy server  when participants are added or removed from a collaboration session. Agent browser and user browsers request and receive unique cookies from copy server  via HTTP connections  if they identify themselves as authentic participants. Subsequent requests for copied pages are granted by the copy server as long as the users are authentic participants in the session.","Referring to , in another embodiment of the present invention, unlike the embodiment of  in which the user and agent can directly access copied page  from a copy server, a copy server  is located behind the security infrastructure of content server  and application server . Server  has code  for interacting with copy server . In this case, the process is similar to that in the embodiment of , except that the user browser  is redirected to copied page  through application server  and code . This approach is more secure, and can take advantage of a more powerful application server for faster processing, although it does mean that the application server will have more functions to perform.","The server code for interacting with the copy server, whether code , , or , each be custom code written by application programmers or system integrators on site for use with copy server API . As custom code, it becomes part of the application infrastructure of the site. Alternatively, such code may be an off-the-shelf product, installed and part of the systems infrastructure of the site. As a product, it is a specialized \u201cadapter\u201d that permits a generic plug-in copy server  or  technology to interoperate with a variety of application server  and content server  platforms without requiring custom code. Generic adapter technology is \u201cported\u201d or \u201cadapted\u201d to many specific web server  and application server  platforms.","The server code for interacting with the copy server, whether code , , or  may also be configured to allow certain URL's to pass through without being copied and without the requesting browser  or  being redirected. In some cases this is desirable to distribute cookies and other header information to all participants' browsers.","The system of the present invention also preferably includes a filter  that operatively works with copy server  to determine who the user is, what page the user is requesting, and what information each participant can see. This filter can be used to share some portions of the copied page among all participants but not all portions of the page. Such a filter can preserve secrecy, provide efficiency, and prevent accidental or malicious entry of an order by the wrong participant. The security issue can arise in case information can be displayed on a screen that should not be seen by an agent or user, e.g., if the user accesses account information that also references another user's information, or if an agent needs to check a resource on the web site that also has information that is confidential to other parties. The filter can also be used to offer a button to one participant in a collaborative session while removing it from another, preventing the accidental or malicious operation on a copied page by the wrong user.","Efficiency savings can be obtained because the filter can avoid the need to display unnecessary information on both views, such as additional features that are available but for which agent services are not required, or to filter out logos, advertising, or other information not needed by the agent.","Filter  essentially modifies copied page  in order to provide that copied page back to the user or the agent thus providing a user version and an agent version of the copied page. Because the agent is associated with the web site entity, the agent can either register through collaboration server  to copy server  or the agent may be identifiable based on an aspect of their request. The filter will thus be able to discriminate the user version of the copied page from the agent version of the copied page. The filtering code will typically be associated with particular pages, such that for a particular form and type of participant (agent or client), the code will suppress some piece of the form.","As shown in , copy server  can provide copied page  to a user view  or an agent view . In this example, user view  has a form region , an ad , and a submit button . Agent view , however, only has form  but does not provide ad , and also does not provide submit button  that would otherwise allow either participant to submit the form. This filtering can be achieved with code designed for and associated with specific forms, or certain types of information, such as a PIN, can always be suppressed to the agent. Thus, a request for the page causes a filter routine to be invoked to determine how to display information.","To prevent multiple processing on a page, the server code for interacting with the copy server, whether code , , or  can determine when a page has been submitted and prevent a further submission until a result page is sent. Referring again to , assume there is a collaboration session and a first user enters information into the copied page and submits the page back to the web site for processing. The operation is sent from user browser  or  to content server  to application server  where code  is invoked to determine if this is the first operation on a copy or not. If it is the first operation on the copy, the application continues and may interact with back office processing  and database . If a second user (or agent) tries to submit the page with different inputs, code  stops the processing on the second submission and generates and returns a configurable \u201cplease wait\u201d result page to the second user's browser indicating that the second user has to wait. When the first submission is processed, a resulting page is captured by code , stored as a copied page  in the copy server , and the first user is redirected to the copy page. Once the copied page becomes current in the collaboration server , it replaces the \u201cplease wait\u201d page on the second user's browser and can be viewed and discussed further by the participants. The system thus prevents inconsistent or duplicative submissions of the shared copied page.","Having described preferred embodiments of the present invention, it should be apparent that modifications can be made without departing from the scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIGS. 1 and 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 3"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
