---
title: System for generating two-dimensional masks from a three-dimensional model using topological analysis
abstract: A method of generating two-dimensional masks from a three-dimensional model comprises providing a three-dimensional model representing a micro-electro-mechanical structure for manufacture and a description of process mask requirements, reducing the three-dimensional model to a topological description of unique cross sections, and selecting candidate masks from the unique cross sections and the cross section topology. The method further can comprise reconciling the candidate masks based on the process mask requirements description to produce two-dimensional process masks.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07065736&OS=07065736&RS=07065736
owner: Sandia Corporation
number: 07065736
owner_city: Albuquerque
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20030924
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"GOVINT":[{},{}],"heading":["STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENT INTEREST","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["The invention was developed under Contract DE-AC04-94AL85000 between Sandia Corporation and the U.S. Department of Energy. The U.S. government has certain rights in this invention.","Designing a device for production by silicon micromachining is very different from macro-scale mechanical design. In the macro-scale, a designer can create a three-dimensional model of the device that is sufficient for a design program to translate into tool paths for device production. In contrast, for a silicon micromachined device, the designer must create a set of process-specific masks that are used to fabricate the device. Creating the masks is equivalent to requiring the macro-scale designer to design not only the product, but also the tools used to construct the product. Masks are dependent on the process used for fabrication and can have complex interactions within a production system, therefore creation of the masks is a significant challenge to innovative device design and the manufacture of a device on multiple processes.","What is desired is a technique for translating a designer's three-dimensional model of a product directly into the masks used to produce the model.","Previous attempts to create MEMS mask sets have used existing technology in process simulators, for example programs that can simulate fabrication from masks that are supplied with process data for a specific production process. Typically, a trial mask set is used to produce a three-dimensional object that is then compared to the desired object. Differences between the two objects are used to alter the trial mask set. The process is repeated until a mask set is found which correctly produces the desired part. The process is computationally intensive and has been unable yet to produce production masks for complex, multiple-layer surface micromachined devices.","According to some embodiments, a method of generating two-dimensional masks from a three-dimensional model comprises providing a three-dimensional model representing a micro-electro-mechanical structure for manufacture and a description of process mask requirements, reducing the three-dimensional model to a topological description of unique cross sections, and selecting candidate masks from the unique cross sections and the cross section topology. The method further can comprise reconciling the candidate masks based on the process mask requirements description to produce two-dimensional process masks.","According to other embodiments, a method of generating two-dimensional masks from a three-dimensional model comprises disassembling the three-dimensional model into one or more independent bodies, and processing the individual independent bodies. Processing the individual independent bodies comprises generating a topology tree composed of one or more nodes, categorizing the one or more nodes of the topology tree, and locating deposition boundaries to define one or more deposition domains. The method further comprises processing the individual deposition domains comprising locating candidate masks, and saving masks in a candidate mask set. The method further comprises summing the candidate masks in the candidate mask set.","According to further embodiments, a method of generating two-dimensional masks from a three-dimensional model comprises analyzing cross sectional topology of a three-dimensional body, and generating a topology tree describing connectivity and relationships between cross sections. The topology tree includes one or more nodes and branches connecting the nodes. The method further comprises processing the individual nodes comprising calculating a cross sectional area of the node, and categorizing the node relative to topological neighboring nodes. The method further comprises processing the individual branches comprising locating deposition boundaries to define one or more deposition domains. The method also comprises processing individual deposition domain regions between the deposition boundaries comprising defining a mask set and deposition thickness.","Beginning with a three-dimensional model of an object, what is desired is an accurate, efficient, and flexible technique for deriving a two-dimensional mask set that can be used to manufacture the object in a surface micromachining process. The design of a surface micromachined micro-electro-mechanical systems (MEMS) device can efficiently employ a process independent mask set that describes various layers of material and the combination of the layers to construct the device. The technique illustrated herein uses inferences from the cross-sectional topology of a three-dimensional model to create masks for fabricating the device. The inferred masks are general in nature and can be fitted to a specific production process using information describing the process mask constraints. The described system enables a MEMS designer to focus on creation of a three-dimensional model of a desired device, rather than the masks used to fabricate the device in a specific production process.","Referring to , a schematic mixed pictorial diagram and flow chart shows a flow model of a process  for generating two-dimensional masks  from a three-dimensional model . The process or method  generally comprises the actions of providing a three-dimensional model  representing a micro-electro-mechanical structure for manufacture and a description of process mask requirements, and reducing the three-dimensional model to a topological description of unique cross sections, called a topology graph . With the topology information available, the method comprises selecting candidate masks from the unique cross sections and the cross section topology  in the topology graph structure. Given a description of a process mask requirements, the candidate masks are reconciled the mask constraints description to produce true two-dimensional process masks .","For a three-dimensional model  that includes multiple structures, the method can include the action of separating the three-dimensional model into at least one independent model bodies .","The illustrative process  simplifies surface micromachining design, enabling a designer to create the three-dimensional model  in a traditional Computer Aided Design (CAD) environment.","In some embodiments, the action of reconciling the masks to predetermined process constraints  can be eliminated. If a model cannot be produced within constraints of a particular process or a particular process is not specified, a technique for defining the process steps that could be used to produce the model can be useful. For example, if a three-dimensional model is supplied and a specific manufacturing process for production of a part corresponding to the model is not defined, then the method can produce two-dimensional masks as well as a process description for a manufacturing process capable of producing the device.","Referring to , a schematic pictorial flow diagram shows additional detail of a process or method  for generating two-dimensional masks  from a three-dimensional model . The model is separated  into independent bodies, in the illustrative example a rack , a gear , a hub , and a rack restraint . The independent bodies are depicted in perspective and side views. Independence of the bodies is defined as a condition in which the bodies do not intersect, are constructed of different materials, or are topologically related at only one point.","Each independent body is searched for unique cross sections . The cross-sections are arranged in a tree with one or more nodes based on the mutual topological relationship between the sections.","Topology trees or graphs are analyzed  by calculating area for each node and categorizing the node relative to the node's topological neighbors. Simple heuristic rules are used to identify masks. For example, local maxima typically identify masks for structural material such as polysilicon (Poly). The topological neighborhood can influence the heuristic selection process, although what is typically sought is a general mask set that can be used to build the particular body. The results of the analysis are cross-sectional area and topology graphs for the rack , the gear , the hub , and the rack restraint .","The analysis also includes selecting candidate masks based on structure of the topology graphs. Masks are summed  from the individual topological analyses. The mask set is reconciled with process constraints  to create production masks. Reconciliation ensures that the correct number and type of masks are used. Reconciliation converts a general and non-optimal mask set that results from topology tree analysis into a mask set that is tuned for usage in an actual production process. Mask reconciliation includes processes such as reordering, merging, and splitting the summed candidate masks and is based on criteria such as number of layers, material type of a layer, thickness of a layer, and number of masks.","Referring to , a flow chart depicts an embodiment of a method for generating two-dimensional masks from a three-dimensional model . The method  comprises the actions of disassembling the three-dimensional model into one or more independent bodies , and processing the individual independent bodies . For the processing of the individual independent bodies  the actions comprise generating a topology tree composed of one or more nodes , categorizing the nodes of the topology tree , and locating deposition boundaries to define one or more deposition domains . The method  further comprises processing the individual deposition domains . For the individual processing domains, the method  comprises locating candidate masks , and saving the candidate masks in a candidate mask set . The candidate masks in the candidate mask set are summed .","A three-dimensional body typically will be composed of many independent bodies. Most efficiently, the method  operates upon the independent bodies separately. Accordingly, in some embodiments and applications, an initial action divides the object into constituent non-intersecting, independent components. The method  compensates for the division into separate bodies by summing the candidate masks  following decomposition and analysis. Summation is straightforward since the independent bodies have non-overlapping masks in a topological sense.","The illustrative method  is an analytical approach to fabrication of micro-electro-mechanical (MEMs) structures, for example for surface micromachining of complex devices. Generation of the topology tree  for the individual independent bodies involves analysis of cross-sections of the three-dimensional model. The analysis most particularly focuses on three aspects including topology, equivalency, and area.","The cross-sectional topology describes the connectivity or relationship between the various cross sections. With etching and deposition processes, structures are logically analyzed in terms of horizontal cross sections and associated topology.  are schematic pictorial diagrams showing a part that is used as an example for a simple analysis of topology tree generation. Referring to , a schematic pictorial diagram shows a part  that is used as an example for a simple analysis of topology tree generation. For the illustrative part , the cross section of the top section A has two segments separated by an interior void. The cross section of the middle section B is constant and extends between the level of top section A and the level at which section B connects to the cross section of the bottom post C. The bottom post C connects to a silicon substrate, termed ground. With the cross section of the top sections represented as A, the cross section of the middle represented as B, and the cross section of the bottom post termed C, then the topology of the object is simply A connected to B connected to C which connects to ground (A\u2192B\u2192C\u2192ground). The structure, A\u2192B\u2192C\u2192ground, is called a topology tree or topology graph, and A, B, and C are nodes on the tree or graph.","Equivalency describes the similarity of cross sections taken at any position along the vertical axis. For example, each of cross sections A, B, and C includes only horizontal cross-sections at all vertical levels that are identical and equivalent because the intersection and union of any pair of cross sections yields the same cross sections. According each of cross sections A, B, and C is internally equivalent, although cross section A is not equivalent to either of cross sections B or C, and cross section B is not equivalent to cross section C.","Area describes the relative size of a cross sectional segment. The criteria of topology, equivalency, and area are used to infer mask specifications by analysis of the topology trees or graphs.","With the description of a three-dimensional model rendered into a topology tree, the masks for constructing the object are assembled. The cross sectional topology is made free of neighboring masks that are equivalent. Equivalent cross sections are redundant so that removal from the topology simplifies analysis. Referring again to , nodes of the topology tree are categorized . Masks are identified from a topology tree based on a node's cross sectional area in relation to the area of a neighboring node. For topologically-connected cross sections A, B, and C in the tree A\u2192B\u2192C and the notation area[x] denoting the area of cross section, then Table I shows heuristics that can be used to categorize topology tree nodes:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0034"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00001","num":"00001"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"105pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"98pt","align":"center"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":[{},"TABLE I"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]},{"entry":[{},"Relationship","Node Category"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"area[A] > area[B] < area[C]","B is a local minimum"]},{"entry":[{},"area[A] < area[B] > area[C]","B is a local maximum"]},{"entry":[{},"area[A] > area[B] and area[C] = 0","B is an ending minimum"]},{"entry":[{},"area[A] < area[B] and area[C] = 0","B is an ending maximum"]},{"entry":[{},"Area[A] < area[B] < area[C] or","B is a connection"]},{"entry":[{},"area[A] > area[B] > area[C]"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}}}}},"The topology trees can be simplified for redundant nodes. The redundant nodes can be joined. Nodes that topologically connect to the same nodes are combined into one node.","After categorizing the nodes, several inferences can be made. All local minima can be considered boundaries between successive layers in a multiple layer process. For example, if two different depositions of polysilicon are used in a particular process, then the local minima in a structure tend to occur where holes are located in an intervening supporting but removable layer, such as a sacrificial oxide layer, to connect the two polysilicon or other structural layers. The characterization is not absolute since two structural layers could alternatively be laminated. If lamination is not used, local minima are typically used to connect different deposition layers.","In the action of locating deposition boundaries to define one or more deposition domains , locations of all local minima within a topology tree can be identified and recorded. Local minima locations signify boundaries between different depositions in a manufacturing process. Local minima generally call for a sacrificial oxide (SacOx) mask. In a deposition zone, for example in a region between two deposition boundaries, the local maximum corresponds to the polysilicon mask used for the object.","A deposition zone can contain an ending minimum or maximum, features that uniquely identify special process masks used to produce dimples and undercuts, respectively.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0040","num":"0039"},"figref":"FIG. 4B"},"Referring to , B, and C, schematic pictorial diagrams show examples of topologically distinct structures.  shows an example of an overlap . An overlap is characterized by local maxima with overlapping local minima. The local maxima can be formed using a polysilicon mask. The local minima can be ignored.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0042","num":"0041"},"figref":"FIG. 5B","b":"502"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0043","num":"0042"},"figref":"FIG. 5C","b":"504"},"Referring again to , the candidate masks are summed  and the system accounts for process influences. The identifying masks from a topology tree produce a generalized mask set that is typically not optimized for a specific process. The set of candidate masks generated from the topology tree can be reconciled with mask constraints of a selected process .","A surface micromachining manufacturing process typically has a fixed order of layer deposition and a fixed thickness on the individual layers. Accordingly, the process expects masks in a predetermined order. The expected process sequence is compared to the sequence of masks in the derived candidate mask set. Some mathematically-allowed operations, such as inverting, dividing, some rearranging, and the like, can be performed on the candidate masks for fitting to a specific process sequence. More specifically, masks can be inverted, for example if a dark field mask is expected where a light field mask is generated. Here, the etching sense of the mask can be inverted. Candidate masks for layers that are thicker than the layers in the specific target process can be split with an additional, identical sacrificial oxide mask placed between the split mask, enabling handling of laminated layers. In another example, ordering of candidate masks can be rearranged if the underlying object result is the same for a relocated mask that is applied later in the process. Rearranged ordering enables specific material masks, such as doped polysilicon, to be moved from the topological placement in the candidate mask set to a more useful and\/or pragmatic location in the process mask set.","Adjustments to the candidate masks can be performed with a stepwise optimization sequence. If the optimization process fails to fit masks to the selected process, then the desired product cannot be fabricated in the selected process. Accordingly, the reconciliation action  can identify the topological feature causing the problem and communicate the information to a designer or user.","In the illustrative method embodiment, the method  does not account for specific process details until reconciliation .","Referring to , a mixed schematic pictorial and flow diagram illustrates an example of application of an automatic mask generation process embodiment. The illustrative three-dimensional model is a gear and hub on silicon substrate .  depicts the gear and hub on silicon substrate model  with additional detail. The gear and hub represent two independent bodies so that analysis  generates two topology trees, one tree for the gear  and one for the hub . Nodes for the trees are designated by the letters A through M and subscripts to the nodes are numbers representing the relative area of the node or, in the case of nodes E, the area of each node labeled E.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0049","num":"0048"},"figref":["FIG. 6C","FIG. 6D","FIG. 6E"],"b":["612","614","616","604","604"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0050","num":"0049"},"figref":["FIG. 6F","FIG. 6G","FIG. 6H"],"b":["618","620","622","606","606"]},"Summing the candidate mask set and reconciling the masks  produces the final mask set for the gear and hub object . Masks that are summed are those masks of the same type occurring at the same height. Summing the candidate mask sets for the gear and hub produces the mask set listed in TABLE II including relative material layer thicknesses and heights.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0052","num":"0051"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00002","num":"00002"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"98pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"63pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"56pt","align":"center"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":"TABLE II"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["Mask","Material Thickness","Top Height"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Poly (B, G)","1.5","7.5"]},{"entry":["Sacrificial Oxide LF (H)","0.3","6.0"]},{"entry":["Sacrificial Oxide (J)","0.3","6.0"]},{"entry":["Pin Joint (H)","n\/a","6.0"]},{"entry":["Poly (D, K)","1.0","5.7"]},{"entry":["Sacrificial Oxide (L)","2.0","4.7"]},{"entry":["Dimple (E)","1.5","4.7"]},{"entry":["Poly (M)","0.3","2.7"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}},"Reconciling the mask set of Table II with a particular set of mask constraints, specifically, Sandia Ultra-planar, Multi-level MEMS Technology 5 (SUMMIT V\u2122) mask constraints from Sandia National Laboratories of Albuquerque, N. Mex., imposes two alterations. An example of reconciliation of the mask set is depicted in detail in Table III, as follows:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0054","num":"0053"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00003","num":"00003"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"98pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"119pt","align":"center"}}],"thead":{"row":{"entry":"TABLE III"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["Derived Process","Actual (Summit V\u2009\u2122) Process"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"4"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"56pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"42pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"77pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"42pt","align":"center"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Mask","Thickness","Mask","Thickness"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["Poly Mask (B, G)","1.50","MMPoly2 (B, G)","1.50"]},{"entry":["SacOx (inner B)","0.30","SacOx2 (inner B, J)","0.30"]},{"entry":["SacOx_Cut (J)","0.30"]},{"entry":["PinJoint_Cut (H)","n\/a","PinJoint_Cut (H)","n\/a"]},{"entry":["Poly Mask (D, K)","1.00","MMPoly1_Cut (blank)","1.00"]},{"entry":["SacOx_Cut (L)","2.00","SacOx1_Cut (L)","2.00"]},{"entry":["Dimple_Cut (E)","n\/a","Dimple1_Cut (E)","n\/a"]},{"entry":["Poly Mask (M)","0.30","MMPoly0 (M)","0.30"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}},"The second and third masks are combined, first by taking the inverse of the light field mask, Sacrificial oxide Light Field (LF), and summing the inverted mask with the next sequential sacrificial oxide mask, here Sacrificial Oxide (L). The sacrificial oxide 2 cut (SacOx2_Cut) is a \u201cdrawing-only layer\u201d and can be exclusive-ORed with the sacrificial oxide layer (Sac_Ox). Second, the Poly (D,K) mask is redundant, having an outline that is the same as Poly (B,G). Thus, the Poly 1 mask is cut with the Poly 2 mask. Summit V mask constraints allow Poly (D,K) to be excluded. Accordingly, Poly Mask (D,K) can be replaced with a blank mask. Following the two alterations, the candidate mask set meets the constraints for the Summit V\u2122 process. The final two-dimensional mask set  is shown.","The described algorithm is capable of generating mask sets for complicated three-dimensional devices. The technique focuses first on topology of the three-dimensional model and can identify masks for anisotropic and isotropic, wet and dry, etching applications.","Referring again to , the usage of topology trees enables analysis of complex branched objects and devices. A particular cross section may be connected to one cross-section, multiple cross-sections, or none. Analysis is applied to each branch of the topology tree, covering the individual nodes. The analysis technique is applied to separate parts of a three-dimensional structure with the separate parts being analyzed with a separate topology tree.","Referring to , pictorial views depict an example of an object and identification of candidate masks.  is a graph showing the area and height relationships of segments of the object.  shows a side view of the object.  illustrates a top view of the individual segments A, B, and C of the object. The graph shown in  describes the area and height of the individual segments. The masks are identified within a single deposition layer. Within a deposition layer, masks are the cross-sections at the layer top and bottom, excluding projected holes and overhangs. In practice, the minimum area utilizes a sacrificial oxide mask and a maximum area a poly mask. Deposition thickness can be calculated from the height of a cross section's location on a 3D model.","Referring to , a pictorial diagram and a graph respectively illustrate the process of identifying deposition boundaries. The deposition boundaries are defined as a node that is a local minimum. Specifically, for an area Sif (S<S) and (S<S), then the interface S, Sis defined as a deposition boundary. Accordingly, in , the interface between segments C and D is a deposition boundary. One deposition layer is between two boundaries.","Referring to , multiple schematic pictorial diagrams illustrate another example of application of an automatic mask generation process embodiment.  illustrates a perspective  and side  view of an electrical connector  from a standard part library that can be modeled in three dimensions by a 3D modeler. In a method of generating two-dimensional masks from a three-dimensional model the cross sectional topology of a three-dimensional body is analyzed to generate a topology tree describing connectivity and relationships between cross sections.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0061","num":"0060"},"figref":"FIG. 9B","b":["902","904","900","906"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0062","num":"0061"},"figref":"FIG. 9C","b":["908","910","910"]},"For the individual deposition domain regions between the deposition boundaries, a mask set and deposition thicknesses are defined.  is a graph showing the definition of masks. Within a domain, local minima are assigned a sacrificial oxide mask (SacOx) and local maxima are assigned a Poly mask. In the example, nodes B, F, and I use Poly masks. Nodes C and H are assigned SacOx masks.  shows a mask set for the example object.","The candidate mask set is reconciled with the SUMMIT V\u2122 mask constraints. An example of reconciliation of the mask set is depicted in detail in Table IV, as follows:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0065","num":"0064"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00004","num":"00004"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"112pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"105pt","align":"center"}}],"thead":{"row":{"entry":"TABLE IV"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["Derived Process","Actual (Summit V\u2009\u2122) Process"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"4"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"56pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"56pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"56pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"49pt","align":"center"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Mask","Thickness","Mask","Thickness"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["Poly Mask (B)","2.32","MMPoly3 (B)","2.25"]},{"entry":["SacOx_Cut (C)","2.08","SacOx2 Cut (C)","2.00"]},{"entry":["Poly Mask (F)","2.55","MMPoly2 (F)","1.50"]},{"entry":[{},{},"SacOx2 (blank)","0.30"]},{"entry":[{},{},"MMPoly1 (blank)","1.00"]},{"entry":["SacOx_Cut (H)","1.97","SacOx1 (H)","2.00"]},{"entry":["Poly Mask (I)","0.35","MMPoly0 (I)","0.30"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}},"In the example of reconciling the candidate mask set with the Summit V\u2122 process, Summit V\u2122 does not have an actual MMPoly1 mask. Accordingly, the Poly1 mask is cut with the Poly2 mask. The layer F is constructed with the MMPoly1 mask and the MMPoly2 mask.","The various functions, processes, methods, and operations performed or executed by the system can be implemented as programs that are executable on various types of processors, controllers, central processing units, microprocessors, digital signal processors, state machines, programmable logic arrays, and the like. The programs can be stored on any computer-readable medium for use by or in connection with any computer-related system or method. A computer-readable medium is an electronic, magnetic, optical, or other physical device or means that can contain or store a computer program for use by or in connection with a computer-related system, method, process, or procedure. Programs can be embodied in a computer-readable medium for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system, device, component, element, or apparatus, such as a system based on a computer or processor, or other system that can fetch instructions from an instruction memory or storage of any appropriate type. A computer-readable medium can be any structure, device, component, product, or other means that can store, communicate, propagate, or transport the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system, apparatus, or device.","The illustrative block diagrams and flow charts depict process steps or blocks that may represent modules, segments, or portions of code that include one or more executable instructions for implementing specific logical functions or steps in the process. Although the particular examples illustrate specific process steps or acts, many alternative implementations are possible and commonly made by simple design choice. Acts and steps may be executed in different order from the specific description herein, based on considerations of function, purpose, conformance to standard, legacy structure, and the like.","In an illustrative embodiment, an algorithm is implemented in a C++ program called faethm using the ACIS geometric modeling library version 11.0 and is operational with at least versions 7 through 11 (http:\/\/www.spatial.com) for import and manipulation of the three-dimensional models.","While the present disclosure describes various embodiments, these embodiments are to be understood as illustrative and do not limit the claim scope. Many variations, modifications, additions and improvements of the described embodiments are possible. For example, those having ordinary skill in the art will readily implement the steps necessary to provide the structures and methods disclosed herein, and will understand that the process parameters, materials, and dimensions are given by way of example only. The parameters, materials, and dimensions can be varied to achieve the desired structure as well as modifications, which are within the scope of the claims. Variations and modifications of the embodiments disclosed herein may also be made while remaining within the scope of the following claims.","In particular, the examples herein discuss implementations for usage with the Summit V\u2122 process for illustrative purposes only. The methods and techniques can be used with any suitable process."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["Embodiments of the invention relating to both structure and method of operation, may best be understood by referring to the following description and accompanying drawings.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIGS. 2A and 2B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIGS. 4A and 4B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIGS. 5A","b":["5","5"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIGS. 6A through 6H"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":["FIGS. 7A and 7B","FIG. 7C"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIGS. 8A and 8B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIGS. 9A through 9E"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
