---
title: Concept-based method and system for dynamically analyzing results from search engines
abstract: A method, system and computer program for identifying a relationship between concepts in an object includes (i) selecting the object for inclusion in an initial subset of objects obtained as an output of a search engine; (ii) storing the object in a database; (iii) creating an index of the object; (iv) analyzing the index to extract two concepts relating to the object; (v) highlighting the two concepts within object; (vi) calculating a strength of a relationship between the two concepts using a ratio; (vii) storing the two concepts and the strength of the relationships between the two concepts in a database; (viii) presenting the two concepts and the strength in an interface that has a concept matrix; and (ix) repeating steps vi through viii for every possible pairwise combination of concepts within the index. The relationship can be the two concepts both occur in the same object; the two concepts occur near each other within the same object; and the two concepts occur near each other and in a particular order within the same object. The ratio can be a support ratio; an occurrence ratio; and a combined ratio. An additional concept can be added to the index; all the concepts can be grouped in the index by concept type; and complex meta-structures can be created. The concept type can be a part of speech; a geographic region; a person; a group of persons; a business unit; an organization; an action; a process; a product; a service; a subject; and a category.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08589413&OS=08589413&RS=08589413
owner: IxReveal, Inc.
number: 08589413
owner_city: Jacksonville
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20031029
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF EMBODIMENTS OF THE INVENTION"],"p":["Priority is claimed under 35 U.S.C. \u00a7119(e) and\/or 35 U.S.C. \u00a7120 to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10\/087,053, entitled CONCEPT-BASED METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR ANALYZING UNSTRUCTURED INFORMATION, filed Mar. 1, 2002, (now U.S. Pat. No. 6,970,881), which is incorporated by reference herein.","Priority is claimed under 35 U.S.C. \u00a7119(e) and\/or 35 U.S.C. \u00a7120 to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10\/393,677, entitled CONCEPT-BASED METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR DYNAMICALLY ANALYZING UNSTRUCTURED INFORMATION AND PROVIDING TRENDS AND EXCEPTIONS TRACKING CAPABILITIES, filed Mar. 19, 2003, (now U.S. Pat. No. 7,194,483), which is incorporated by reference herein.","Priority is claimed under 35 U.S.C. \u00a7119(e) and\/or 35 U.S.C. \u00a7120 to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60\/422,237, entitled CONCEPT-BASED METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR DYNAMICALLY ANALYZING RESULTS FROM SEARCH ENGINES, filed Oct. 29, 2002, which is incorporated by reference herein.","Priority is claimed under 35 U.S.C. \u00a7119(e) and\/or 35 U.S.C. \u00a7120 to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60\/435,926, entitled CONCEPT-BASED METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR DYNAMICALLY ANALYZING RESULTS FROM SEARCH ENGINES, filed Dec. 19, 2002, which is incorporated by reference herein.","1. Field of the Invention","This invention pertains generally to the field of unstructured data analysis and more particularly, to analyzing textual information and dynamically identifying relationships.","2. Discussion of the Related Art","Structured data or objects generally refer to data existing in an organized form, such as a relational database, that can be accessed and analyzed by conventional techniques (i.e., Standard Query Language, or SQL). In contrast, so-called unstructured data or objects refer to objects in a textual format (i.e. faxes, e-mails, documents, voice converted to text) that do not necessarily share a common organization. Unstructured information often remains hidden and un-leveraged by an organization, primarily because it is hard to access the right information at the right time, or to integrate, analyze, and\/or compare multiple items of information due to their unstructured nature. Thus, there exists a need for a system and method to provide structure for unstructured information such that the unstructured objects can be accessed with powerful conventional tools (such as, for example, SQL, or other information query and\/or analysis tools) and analyzed for hidden trends and patterns across a set of unstructured objects.","Conventional systems and methods for accessing unstructured objects have focused on tactical searches that seek to match keywords. These conventional systems and methods have several shortcomings. For example, assume a tactical search engine accepts search text. For purposes of illustration, suppose information about insects is desired and the user-entered search text is \u2018bug\u2019. The search engine scans available unstructured objects, including individual objects. In this example, one unstructured object concerns the Volkswagen Bug, one is about insects at night, one is about creepy-crawlies, one is about software bugs, and one is about garden bugs. The tactical search engine performs keyword matching, looking for the search text to appear in at least one of the unstructured objects. In this \u2018bug\u2019 example, only those objects about the Volkswagen bug, software bugs, and garden bugs actually contain the word \u2018bug\u2019 and will be returned. The objects about insects at night, and creepy-crawlies may have been relevant to the search, but could not be identified by the conventional tactical search engine.","One conventional method of addressing this problem allows a user to enter detailed searches utilizing phrases or Boolean logic, but successful detailed tactical searches can be extremely difficult to formulate. The user must be sophisticated enough to express their search criteria in terms of Boolean logic. Furthermore, the user needs to know precisely what he or she is searching for, in the exact language that they expect to find it. Thus, there is a need for a search mechanism to more easily locate documents or other objects of interest, preferably searching with the user's own vocabulary. Further, such a mechanism should preferably enable automatically searching related words and phrases, without knowledge of advanced searching techniques.","In another conventional method, the search is based on meaning, where each of the words or phrases typed is semantically analyzed, as if second guessing the user (for example, use of the term \u201cJuvenile\u201d picks up \u201cteenager\u201d). This increases the result set, and thus makes analysis of search results even more important. Also, this technique can be inadequate and quite inaccurate when the user is looking for a concept like \u201cdefinition of terrorism\u201d or \u201cdefinition of knowledge management,\u201d where the \u201cmeaning\u201d of the phrase is more important than the meaning of the individual words in the search term.","Even when tactical searches succeed in searching or finding information, the problem of analyzing unstructured information still remains. Analyzing unstructured information goes beyond the ability to locate information of interest. Analysis of unstructured information would allow a user to identify trends in unstructured objects as well as to quickly identify the meaning of an unstructured object, without first having to read or review the entire document. Thus, there exists a need to provide a system and methodology for analyzing unstructured information.","Classification systems exist that can organize unstructured objects in a hierarchical manner. However, utilizing these classification systems to locate an object of interest requires knowing what the high-level of interest would be, and following one path of inquiry often precludes looking at other options.","Some conventional technologies store data and information utilizing proprietary methods and\/or data structures. This prevents widespread or open access or analysis by keeping objects in a native (non-standard) proprietary format. Thus, there is a need to store captured information about unstructured objects in an open architecture and preferably in a readily accessible standard storage format.","Accordingly, the present invention is related to a concept-based method and system for dynamically analyzing results from search engines that substantially obviates one or more of the disadvantages of the related art.","In one embodiment, there is provided a method, system and computer program for identifying a relationship between two concepts from an object including (i) selecting the object for inclusion in an initial corpus of objects obtained as an output; (ii) storing the object in a database; (iii) creating an index of the object; (iv) analyzing the index to extract two concepts relating to the object; (v) highlighting the two concepts within object; (vi) calculating a strength of a relationship between the two concepts using a ratio; (vii) storing the two concepts and the strength of the relationships between the two concepts in a database; (viii) presenting the two concepts and the strength as a concept matrix; and (ix) repeating steps vi through viii for every possible pairwise combination of concepts within the index.","The relationship can be, for example, (1) the two concepts both occur in the same object; (2) the two concepts occur near each other within the same object; and\/or (3) the two concepts occur near each other and in a particular order within the same object. The ratio can be, for example, (1) a support ratio; (2) an occurrence ratio; or (3) a combined ratio. The two concepts and the strength of the relationships can be stored in a master database. A user can be alerted when the strength of the relationships is within a certain range of the strength of the relationships between two other concepts stored in the master database. An additional concept can be added to the index; all the concepts can be grouped in the index by concept type; and complex meta-structures can be created based upon the concept type.","The concept type can be, for example, (1) a part of speech; (2) a geographic region; (3) a person; (4) a group of persons; (5) a business unit; (6) an organization; (7) an action; (8) a process; (9) a product; (10) a service; (11) a subject; and (12) a category. A percentage threshold for the one or more ratios can be set. The previous steps can be repeated as long as the ratio exceeds the percentage threshold.","Additional features and advantages of the invention will be set forth in the description that follows, and in part will be apparent from the description, or may be learned by practice of the invention. The advantages of the invention will be realized and attained by the structure particularly pointed out in the written description and claims hereof as well as the appended drawings.","It is to be understood that both the foregoing general description and the following detailed description are exemplary and explanatory and are intended to provide further explanation of the invention as claimed.","Reference will now be made in detail to the preferred embodiments of the present invention, examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying drawings.","Some of the terms used in this application are defined below:","Object: An electronic file containing unstructured, semi-structured, and\/or structured data. Exemplary objects include word-processing documents, emails, text files, web pages, spreadsheets, or database entries.","Unstructured data: A collection of free-form textual information within an object that may or may not be formatted. Unstructured data can be located in any object.","Corpus: A collection or set of objects (usually a subset of a \u201cuniverse\u201d of objects).","Concept: a word or a phrase composed of several words, or a similar semantic construct.","This invention is related to systems, algorithms, methods, computer programs and computer program products as well as other ways to dynamically analyze, identify and present relationships in a collection of textual data. Embodiments of the invention use compact and tailor-made indices for building concept and relationship matrices that dynamically address some limitations of conventional indexing techniques.","While there is a need to identify relationships, patterns and exceptions embedded in large volumes of textual data, there is also a need to identify patterns and relationships in smaller subsets of data, such as search engine results. This invention proposes methods to identify any type of relationship automatically in a given corpus and to visualize relationships amongst textual information.","The system and method of the present invention can identify trends and exceptions irrespective of where they occur, as well as assist a user with the same. They can be spotted through the analysis and exception process, as described in co-pending above-referenced U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10\/087,053 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10\/393,677, which are incorporated by reference herein. The process of identifying relationships among and between extracted concepts is explained below. This process can be used separately, in conjunction with the dynamic analysis of search results, or as part of analyzing any collection of textual data. This collection of textual data includes, but is not limited to e-mails, documents, web links, textual columns, and the like.","The process of relationship discovery includes the optional step of concept extraction. Extraction is used to categorize, search, and deduce the theme, or meaning, of unstructured information. A number of extraction mechanisms are possible, and it will be appreciated that the extraction mechanism described below with reference to  is only one of a number of options.","An analysis and categorization engine  accesses unstructured objects , including individual unstructured objects , , ,  and . The analysis and categorization engine  which has been developed by Intelligenxia Inc., of 4905 Belfort Rd., Suite 110, Jacksonville, Fla. and is described in above-referenced U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10\/087,053, and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10\/393,677.","The analysis and categorization engine  also accepts user-specific input  and can include search text. Based on the unstructured objects , the user input , and the search text, the analysis and categorization engine  generates structured information . An object concept-based search engine  can be used. The search engine  accepts search text  and utilizes the structured information  generated by the analysis and categorization engine  to return unstructured objects  having a concept match. This approach includes a search capability, but returns objects with a concept (not keyword) match and returns relevant unstructured objects  having a conceptual match to the search text even if the text of the returned object does not contain any of the search words.","The analysis and categorization engine  operates to generate or otherwise determine structured information from or about unstructured objects . The analysis and categorization engine  generates, determines, or builds categories and assigns unstructured objects  to categories. A \u2018category\u2019 denotes a set of words or phrases that become related to one another when they are grouped (or otherwise identified) as forming or belonging to a category.","User input  and\/or training objects  are utilized by the analysis and categorization engine  to build categories (). The analysis and categorization engine  uses the built categories operation () to capture concepts (). With further user input  and a dictionary or thesaurus look-up , the analysis and categorization engine  generates concept groupings. A captured \u2018concept grouping\u2019 (see  in ) denotes a group of concepts related in one or more predefined ways\u2014such as synonyms or meaning words and phrases discovered in a dictionary look-up or setup by the user using a concept customization interface. Each captured concept grouping  is headed, or named, by one concept\u2014\u201ca seed concept.\u201d","The analysis and categorization engine  accepts an unstructured object () as input, filters the object () and utilizes the concept groupings () to index the object (). Indexing, as generally known in information retrieval, refers to representing an object as a function of the parameters that will be utilized to search, analyze, or retrieve the object. The indexing generates a vector representation of the object, having a number of dimensions where each dimension has a weight. Each dimension corresponds to a seed concept, and the weight given to each seed concept depends in part on the frequency of occurrence of that concept within the object.","The index is utilized by the analysis and categorization engine  to generate a Gaussian distribution of weights () for each object and select a set of concepts to represent each object (), here referred to as \u201ckey concepts\u201d. The objects are scored () and assigned to categories (). The analysis and categorization engine  stores the information it extracts in a structured open architecture format for use by available structured analysis tools and the user interface.","Throughout the steps taken by the analysis and categorization engine , output or information generated or determined by the analysis and categorization engine  is stored as structured information in an open architecture format.","One or more unstructured objects are input () and optionally filtered (), to first remove undesired information and\/or to extract only other predetermined information. The filtering  involves removing one or more of formatting characters, special characters and encoding of information. Other or different characters or information may also be removed when present. The output of the filtering process is a filtered object\u2014preferably extracted text along with properties of the unstructured object, such as created date, size, title, description, and modified date. Filters are widely available and known in the art for most object formats.","As shown in , categories , including individual categories , , , are built by the analysis and categorization engine  after scanning a set of training objects , or in concert with user input , or by a combination of these two approaches. One exemplary structure for forming the category  is to provide or otherwise generate a category name and a category description that together define the category . A description is a set of words that are in some way related to the category name and that further define the category. Categories may be specific to a user, or groups of users, and may be built through user input or by automatically training the analysis and categorization engine  on a set of objects, or through a combination of these two techniques. The category  may simply consist of a list of words or phrases, it need not have a \u2018name\u2019 or \u2018description\u2019 as utilized in the example.","The generated category name will be a subset of category description. In an example embodiment the top N(e.g., five) highest key concepts are selected from the category description as the category name. The user, through an interface, can edit and change the generated category name and the selection of concepts for the name and description. Creating a category name is based on a number of objects for object name and description creation. Generally, the greater the number of objects in the training set, the better the generated concept name and description. The user can group a set of objects and instruct the analysis and classification engine to create category description and category name.","Once the categories  have been established (note that they may be modified or updated as desired to reflect further intelligence, knowledge, understanding, or data), the analysis and categorization engine  captures a set of concepts. The concepts are preferably given a global concept ID number. This number is generated generally by the database engine and is stored as a unique identifier. Global concept ID numbers and concept text, along with an optional (but preferably included) date\/time indicator, such as a timestamp, are stored in a concept relational database. These dates and times assist in assessing relevance and currency of the information which may change over time.","A seed concept  is a concept that serves as a basis for a concept grouping and is a sub-type of concept. It is either generated when words get extracted or when the user provides category name and description. Thus the seed concept ID is assigned from the same pool of concept identifiers. Three examples of capturing or generating seed concepts are given below.","In one embodiment, the analysis and categorization engine  accepts a set of training objects  that define a category. The engine  extracts seed concepts , based on a category descriptions -. In this case, the category description - are parsed to get individual words by removing the stop and noise words. The resulting set of words become seed concepts .","In another embodiment, the analysis and categorization engine  scans all available documents (such as those stored in a defined directory or a list) and extracts a list of the most frequent keywords and their related words. The analysis and categorization engine  utilizes categories and training objects to extract a list of concepts.","Seed concepts  are refined by a dictionary and thesaurus look-up . The thesaurus can be augmented by use of additional thesaurus as well. For example, in addition to the English thesaurus, for the legal industry a legal thesaurus will be first accessed for the look-up (for example). This word extraction or generation procedure may, for example, utilize semantic analysis rules or policies and take into account word or phrase occurrence frequency, synonymy, and\/or polysemy, grammatical part of speech as well as other optional attributes and\/or rules. In some instances, the rules may vary depending upon the number and size of documents or other information items available. An electronic dictionary and thesaurus  in the form of a database stored in a memory or storage device can be used to generate additional words and\/or phrases. Based on the set of extracted words, the seed concepts  are generated.","Extraction can use a variation of Latent Semantic Indexing, a well known information retrieval technique. The idea is to extract best possible words out of every document and build a superset of words or phrases and their relationships that would then be able to describe the object collection. The first step in this process is extracting most frequently occurring words from every document. Documents can be sampled in arithmetic or geometric progression and the sampling selection can be based on several criteria, such as time, size, author etc. The type and frequency of sampling can be modified by the user. The number of words to be extracted from a document is limited by a constant that can be set by the user. Also, in order for smaller documents to contribute at the same proportion as the bigger documents, the word extraction process has to be normalized. The process for extracting words from an individual object is as follows.","A typical assumption is that every kilobyte of text has approximately W words. The number of words (n) that can be extracted from a document is given by the formula n=D\/W, where Dis the document size. The user can control the upper limit of n. In this first step, the system will extract up to n*10 frequently occurring words from the document. In the next step, for every word extracted, the word's part of speech will be determined based on grammar look-up. A proper noun will be given the highest weight W(word), a verb will be given lowest weight and a polysemy word will be given medium weight. The overall weight by word for every selected word is W(word)*f(word) where f(word) is the number of occurrences of the word. Now, ncan be chosen in the descending order of W(word)*f(word). If we call word collection nfrom object Oas nthen the superset, {n, n, . . . n} becomes a collection of seed concepts for m objects where {O. . . O} is a collection of individual objects.","In yet another embodiment, a list of words and phrases is generated from a user provided description for a category. This is a preferred way of generating seed concepts, as user-specific information is directly input to the system. The user can input one or more phrases each within double quotes and the engine will capture and store each of them as a multi-word concept. Multi-word concepts are given as much part-of-speech weight as a proper noun.","Once seed concepts  have been generated (see ), they are extrapolated into concept groupings  using a seed concept extrapolation procedure (see ). The procedure preferably uses a combination of seed concepts , user input , dictionary\/thesaurus look up  and industry specific thesaurus . Seed concepts  are augmented utilizing one or both of a dictionary\/thesaurus look-up  and user-entered words (user input)  to form the concept groupings  that are a set of related concepts. The concepts in the concept groupings  are related in predetermined, structured ways and are stored together, for example, in a relational database table that demonstrates their relatedness. The analysis and categorization engine  preferably extracts not only words from the dictionary or thesaurus, but the relationship between the words and the seed concept and optionally but preferably the part of speech as well.","An exemplary embodiment of a concept grouping (see ) employs four levels, where each level denotes a conceptual manner by which the concepts are related\u2014meaning words , synonyms , related words , and user-entered words , although more than (or fewer than) four levels could be used. The seed concept is \u2018young\u2019, and meaning words (Level I) () determined through a dictionary look-up (or reference to some other meaning sources) include \u2018youthful\u2019, \u2018new\u2019, and \u2018offspring\u2019. Synonyms (Level II) () determined through a thesaurus lookup (or some other source), include \u2018adolescence\u2019, \u2018immature\u2019, and \u2018childish\u2019. Related words (Level III) () determined in a thesaurus lookup or reference to other sources include \u2018youth.\u2019 Finally, the user has entered the phrase \u201818 to 24 years old\u2019 as a user-entered word or phrase (Level IV) (). By incorporating user-entered words and phrases into the concept groupings, the analysis and categorization engine  preferably goes beyond thesaurus and dictionary terms to capture meaning specific to a user or an industry. For example, the term \u2018delinquent\u2019 may refer to unlawful activity in typical English language usage while it refers to overdue accounts in the consumer credit industry. The concept groupings allow this specialized meaning to be captured. The user can deactivate any of the words or phrases included in the concept grouping, as well as elect not to use any of the available levels.","Concept groupings  can be stored in a seed relationship relational database table. Since concept groupings  are generally user-specific, the user ID is stored along with a global seed concept ID, a related concept ID, and the type of relationship. A status flag or indicator also may be stored, allowing the user to activate or deactivate specific relationships.","It should be noted that the seed concepts  themselves can be interrelated. For example, the two seed concepts \u201cbug\u201d and \u201cinsect\u201d have the same meaning. The engine  scans the database looking for relationships among individual seed concepts. This is done by taking an individual seed concept  and looking for the existence of related concepts. The relationship is established again using thesaurus look-up . For example, in this case, bug has the same meaning as insect and, when insect appears in the table of concepts, a concept grouping entry will be created by linking \u201cbug\u201d at Level I with \u201cinsect.\u201d Thus, concepts having similar meanings, synonyms, inflections and related words would be linked.","The analysis and categorization engine  scans an unstructured object  and extracts concepts (, see ) and the number of occurrences, or hits, of each concept within the object. The engine  neglects or ignores stop and noise words. The words such as \u201ca\u201d, \u201cthe\u201d, and \u201cand\u201d are examples of common noise words that are ignored in search strategies. Stop words are words that need not be processed and are not important for the user or the view. The user has the flexibility to set any word to be a stopword and allow the engine  to skip processing such words.","The analysis and categorization engine  preferably determines if each extracted concept  is in the known concept groupings  and generates a vector representation of the object  where each dimension corresponds to a seed concept. The known concept groupings  may be different for different users or groups for the same unstructured object . Preferably but optionally, the analysis and categorization engine  assigns a weight to each vector dimension so that more important concepts may be given greater consideration. For example, weight may be assigned based on the frequency of occurrence of that concept in the object.","The total number of occurrences of an extracted concept  within an object  or some measure or metric derived from such total is stored in a cross-reference relational database table. This table preferably includes the global object ID (as indexing is desirably independent of user), the concept ID, number of hits, and location of the concept within the object. Additionally, an index start time and cross-reference time are included to keep a block of cross-references for an object together and to enable later search capabilities. Preferably, a cross-reference entry is made for each concept.","In addition, the system looks beyond synonyms, related words, and definition words by using the concept groupings that have already been built and which are described in greater detail elsewhere in this description. The concept groupings preferably have four levels, as described above, spanning synonyms (Level I) (), related words (Level II) (), meaning words (Level III) (), and user specific input (Level IV) () that are utilized to reduce the dimensionality of the vector representation.","Specific information extracted by the analysis and categorization engine  could be stored at different stages in relational database tables having a slightly different organization. Further, other data storing mechanisms could be utilized for making available the output of the analysis and categorization engine  analysis.","There also exists a need for analyzing extracted concepts for relationships and patterns. While there is value to extracting concepts indicative of the corpus of documents, there is greater value if the user were given an opportunity to understand how any of these extracted concepts relate to each other. An example would be if the user were provided with an ability to pick up the relationship between Atta and Osama (two international terrorists) in the intelligence research or between cholesteatoma and atelectasis (two ear related diseases) in healthcare research.","Analysis for embedded relationships and patterns provides the ability to mine the extracted concepts  for relationships. A corpus with a given set of concepts can be analyzed for possible relationships and patterns. The idea is to discover anomalies and patterns hidden (or not readily apparent) in data that are worth further examination. This can be performed on any corpus and can include but not be limited to the results of a search engine or contents of a folder, or the like. Taxonomy builders that receive a corpus as input and generate hierarchical ordering of concepts as output, could organize data based on user input, or automatically, using some predetermined rules or policies, or using some dynamic procedure or a combination of predetermined and dynamic rules and policies. In either case, taxonomies are built to organize data rather than discover anomalies. Thus a different analytical approach is necessary.","The process of analyzing relationships amongst concepts is based on mathematical theorems and their corollaries of relations (termed \u201cR\u201d). Thus, before discussing the flow chart and process flow for identifying relationships among concepts, an understanding of properties of relations among concepts is necessary. Relationships have the following properties:","Let \u201ca\u201d be a concept with child concepts ac, where i=1 through n, and n=number of child concepts that define the concept a. Similarly, \u201cb\u201d is a concept with child concepts bcwhere i=1 thru n, and n=number of child concepts. Example: Afghanistan is a concept with Kabul, Kandahar and Mazar-I-Sharif as child concepts. (For a complete discussion on embodiments and notions of concepts, their levels, and other properties and features, refer to above-referenced co-pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10\/087,053 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10\/393,677, which are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety).","\u201caRb\u201d is then defined as a relation b where \u201ca\u201d and \u201cb\u201d are concepts, and \u201cR\u201d is any relation that may exist, or be defined to exist, or is queried to exist between a and b. The relation R can be any relationship between two concepts. In this case, R may include, but is not limited to: {and, or, proximity\/near}. The notion of proximity or nearness\/farness in this context includes appearing in the same document, appearing within some number of words, symbols, letters, sentences, paragraphs, pages, or any other distance relationship. Furthermore, proximity, \u201cand\u201d, \u201cor\u201d, \u201cnot\u201d, or other logical or Boolean expression may be combined as the relation. For aRb, the following properties hold true:","i. aRa is always true. This means the relation is reflective.","ii. aRb does not imply bRa. This means the relation is not necessarily symmetric. Continuing the terrorist example from above: The concept \u201cOsama\u201d occurring before concept \u201cbin Laden\u201d is not the same as \u201cbin Laden\u201d occurring before \u201cOsama\u201d.","iii. aRb and bRc does not imply aRc. This means the relation is not transitive. For example \u201cOsama\u201d can occur immediately before \u201cbin\u201d, and \u201cbin\u201d can occur immediately before \u201cLaden\u201d. However, \u201cOsama\u201d need not occur immediately before \u201cLaden\u201d.","iv. aRbRc=(aRb)Rc=aR(bRc). Here, the grouping or sub-groupings of relations are equivalent. For example \u201cOsama\u201d is related to \u201cbin\u201d is related to \u201cLaden\u201d. If the prior statement is true, then \u201cOsama bin\u201d is related to \u201cLaden\u201d and \u201cOsama\u201d is related to \u201cbin Laden\u201d.","Once the relationship between two concepts a and b has been identified, it facilitates creation of a new concept c=aRb. For example, consider the concept a=\u201cOsama Bin Laden\u201d and concept b=\u201cTerrorism.\u201d Let the relation R be \u201cand.\u201d We need to see if ((Osama bin Laden) and (Terrorism)) occur as a strong relationship in the corpus of objects. If in the corpus of documents, it turns out that ((Osama bin Laden) and (Terrorism)) occur together, then a concept c=((Osama bin Laden) and (Terrorism)) can be created. This will become a concept that can be analyzed with other concepts for possible relationships.","The strength of the relationship between two concepts can be measured by a numerical metric. For example, the following ratios can be used:","a. The ratio between the number of objects (n) that have the relationship aRb occurring at-least once and the total number of objects (n). Let this be n\/n. As the ratio increases, the occurrence of the relationship aRb among the objects increases. In data analysis terminology, this is also called the \u201csupport ratio.\u201d","b. Let o(x) be the number of times (occurrence) that a concept x occurs in the targeted object(s). Then o(aRb) is defined as the occurrence of aRb, o(a) is the occurrence of concept a, and o(b) is the occurrence of concept b. Then o(aRb)\/[o(a)+o(b)] defines the ratio of how many times a relationship occurs in the corpus of objects. This term is called the \u201coccurrence ratio\u201d and is relevant for text analysis. This is because (unlike data transaction records where a concept can occur only once in a record, e.g., as a coded column or field), the same concept can occur multiple times in a given object. For example, the concepts \u201cOsama bin Laden\u201d and \u201cterrorism\u201d can occur multiple times in the same document. Thus, a ratio to take this factor into account is needed. Note that this ratio is independent of number of objects (n) in the corpus. As this ratio increases, the strength of the observed relationship in the corpus increases.","The \u201ccombined ratio\u201d S=(n\/n)*(o(aRb)\/[o(a)+o(b)]) represents the overall strength of the relationship in the corpus.","If there are a, a. . . aconcepts, then in order to identify relationships among different groupings, there are n+nC+nC+ . . . +nC(n\u22121) combinations. C is the combination operator, nCk is also read as \u201cn choose k\u201d, and nCk=(n!\/[k!*(n\u2212k)!]), where ! is the factorial operator [n!=n*(n\u22121)* (n\u22122)* . . . *2*1]. These n+nC+nC+ . . . +nC(n\u22121) combinations would be:","a, a, . . . aas the base concepts;","(aRa), (aRa), . . . (aRa), (aRa), . . . are concepts taken two at a time; and","(aRaRa), (aRaRa) . . . are concepts taken three at a time and so on.","Relationships that exist among concepts within the set of objects (the corpus) are identified as set forth below:","In order to identify relationship among concepts athrough a, where n=number of concepts, it is sufficient to identify relationships between two concepts at a time, i.e., pair-wise manner. Such pair-wise relationships can then be extended to other pairs.","Proof of the sufficiency of pair-wise identification to any number n of concepts can be derived by induction:","i. Concept ais related to itself. aRais true by reflective property.","ii. By symmetric property aRa\u2260aRawhere i, j=1 . . . n and i\u2260j","iii. Let aand abe two arbitrary concepts. Then, aRaRaR . . . acan be written as (aRa)RaR a. If, aRa=b. Then the relationship becomes bRaR . . . a. This can be written as (bRa)R a. This becomes bR . . . Ra. By applying this successive reduction, the relationship will finally be bRa.","Thus, it is possible to show relationship among concepts taken two at a time, and then extend this process to show relationship among concepts with any combination greater than two. Note that there is no theoretical limitation on what the relation R can be, per pair of concepts. R can be {and, near, (a b), (b a)}, where a and b are two arbitrary concepts.","An embodiment of an analytical process for extracting relationships from a corpus will be described with reference to . In this embodiment of the process for extracting relationships the following steps are performed to generate a matrix of observed relationships from the corpus.","In step , a set of objects is selected (for example, search results from a search engine output), which become the \u201cuniverse\u201d of objects. The set of objects can be stored on a server within a LAN, becoming the \u201ccorpus\u201d of objects (step ). This is needed for subsequent indexing and hits highlighting and is useful for reducing network traffic. The contents of the set of objects can optionally be stored on a client machine. This is useful for reducing traffic between the client and the LAN server. An index is then created (step ), which may be a master index , or a quick index . The index generally identifies location of contents within the object (or objects), in other words, for example, in a text document, the location of words in the document. Metadata can also be included in the index. As opposed to adding this data to a master index for subsequent analysis, another option includes dynamically building a smaller quick index that includes only the set of objects from step . A quick index is an index of the contents of a selected subset of objects, rather than an index of the entire corpus. This helps in the following ways:","i. It cuts short dramatically the time it takes to analyze the index.","ii. It focuses the analysis to just the corpus resulting from step . This way, any trends, exceptions and patterns discovered are attributed to the search results corpus.","The index is scanned (step ), and the contents are analyzed looking for any embedded concepts. In step , concepts are extracted, as described further below. Key ideas and concepts may be stored in a database  which might contain extracted or manually added or refined concepts An interactive analysis can be conducted with user input (step ). A set of objects can be selected (step ), with input from the quick index  and Key ideas and concepts . The set of objects can be selected in various ways, such as:","a. Output of search results (see , block ).","b. A subset of objects (the corpus) from prior search engine output (, block ) (for example when performing drill-down within a set of objects.)","c. A subset of objects (forming the corpus) selected from several sources (, block ) such as (not limited to) links, documents, or faxes, or in other ways, or selected from other sources based on the metadata contained within the objects.","d. Selecting the initial set of objects in any other way when the data sources are unstructured (, block ).","e. Search engine output from additional searches (, block ).","Key concepts and ideas embedded in the document are extracted (step ). Concepts can be extracted using either the Master Index  or Quick Index . A key concept is a concept that is representative of the \u201cmeaning\u201d or \u201cidea\u201d of the object. For example, a key concept in an article about Osama bin Laden may be \u201cterrorism\u201d, even if the word \u201cterrorism\u201d is not mentioned in the article itself. The key concepts may be presented in the form of a list of concepts with appropriate weights. These can be presented as (1) a suggested concepts list and (2) a concepts matrix. The suggested concepts list is a list of suggested concepts that can be sorted in multiple ways. Some of the ways are:\n\n","Data is analyzed by selecting concepts to be analyzed (see interactive analysis step ). The selected concepts will be viewed for example, in a matrix format where the concepts occur as columns (y) and the documents as rows (x). The coordinate (x, y) will be occurrence or the number of hits of the concept (x) in the document (y).","Relationships amongst concepts taken two at a time are identified as follows:","a. Build and use quick index as discussed with reference to step  above.","b. For the selected concepts, build a matrix for capturing relationships (step ) with the same set of concepts occurring in both rows and columns. Each cell will have four entries as follows (it will be appreciated that these entries, and their number is exemplary only, and other types of entries can be developed):","c. Let a and b be two arbitrary concepts. Then:","d. Generate or compute Entry 1: is (a and b) occurring in the corpus of documents. This is ((number of objects with (a and b))\/(total number of objects))*((number of times (a and b) occurs in the corpus)\/((number of times a occurs in the corpus)+(number of times b occurs in the corpus)).","e. Generate or compute Entry 2 is (a near b). Nearness is measured by distance between the rightmost word of concept a and leftmost word of concept b. The distance for analysis can be set or modified by the user as well. This is ((number of objects with (a near b))\/(total number of objects))*((number of times (a near b) occurs in the corpus)\/((number of times a occurs in the corpus)+(number of times b occurs in the corpus)).","f. Generate or compute Entry 3 is (b a) where \u201cb a\u201d occurs as a phrase. This is ((number of objects with (b a))\/(total number of objects))*((number of times (b a) occurs in the corpus)\/((number of times a occurs in the corpus)+(number of times b occurs in the corpus)).","g. Generate or compute Entry 4 is (a b) where \u201ca b\u201d occurs as a phrase. This is ((number of objects with (a b))\/(total number of objects))* ((number of times (a b) occurs in the corpus)\/((number of times a occurs in the corpus)+(number of times b occurs in the corpus)).","Perform steps - nC times by choosing different combinations of concepts a, b to generate a relationship matrix (step )","The resulting observed relationship matrix (see step ) for example concepts {ship, pak, april, Tamu, Pakistan, Texas, email, HIV} is shown in . The relationships matrix represents the cross reference of concepts chosen for analysis and the strength of the relationship amongst them. The relationship strength is a ratio that is represented here as a percentage. Every entry in the matrix has been evaluated for R={and, near, (a b) and (b a)}, where a, b are two arbitrary concepts. Thus, there are four possible percentages. The cross-reference percentage for the first entry: a and b will be always greater than or equal to the cross-reference percentage for the second entry: a near b. Also, the cross-reference percentage for a near b is always greater than or equal to the cross-reference percentage for (a b) (3entry) or (b a) (4entry). Note that the relationship matrix is upper triangular because of properties of relations (the only relation that is not symmetric (\u2018(a b)\u2019 and \u2018(b a)\u2019) is represented as 3and 4entries of every intersection of the upper triangular matrix.","Some observations about the concept relationships based on the performed analysis should be noted:","a. Concepts \u201cRehan\u201d and \u201cSiddiqui\u201d occur only in 3.57% of all the objects. But wherever they occur, they occur near each other (in  analysis, the distance was set to two words). Also Rehan occurs just before Siddiqui all the times. It is very likely that Rehan Siddiqui is a single name possibly of a person.","b. Concepts \u201cPakistan\u201d and \u201cTamu\u201d in  occur in the same document 100% of the time, but 78.57% of the time they occur near each other (the distance was set to two words) and every time they occur near each other, they occur as (Pakistan Tamu).","c. Drilling down, as illustrated in , on the intersection of concepts \u201cRehan\u201d and \u201cSiddiqui\u201d, in the objects that have both \u201cRehan\u201d and \u201cSiddiqui\u201d, they occur as Rehan Siddiqui 100% of the time.","In , in step , the relationship matrix is tested against a set of concept generation rules . If the rules are satisfied, new concepts can be created (step ).","Optionally, depending on evaluating the ratio, the user can choose the relationships of interest and create a new concept c=aRb (, step ) where R in this case is {and, near, (b a), (a b)}. The newly created concept will be added to the existing set of concepts. This concept can also be added to the set of concepts being analyzed. This way, concepts can be built based on other concepts and so on. Optionally, this matrix can be iteratively built for existing concepts and newly created concepts in the previous step.","By setting percentage thresholds and rules, optionally, concepts can be automatically built, as defined in , step .","Optionally, it is also possible to further drill down in this corpus by any concept intersection. For example, two arbitrary concepts aand acan be chosen, see , step .","If an identified set of objects {o. . . o} already exists, a subset of objects can be selected from this set. This subset will have all the objects that have {aRa} R is the relation between concepts aand a. (, step ).","Once the subset of objects has been identified, a relationship analysis can be performed again, starting with step  in , as described above.","The above iterative analysis can be generalized to multi-planar analyses of nested strength of relationship (S), as illustrated in the 4\u00d74 concept table in .","Let the concept notations C, C, C and C represent ship, Pak, april, and Tamu, respectively. In general, there can be any number of concepts that can be considered C, C, C, C, . . . Ci, Cj, Ck, . . . Cm. A two-dimensional planar view is illustrated in . In this example, four types of relationships were stated. In general, there can be many types of relationships between and\/or among concepts not described in this document. Including but not limited to compound joinder between concepts such as (C AND C) or (C AND NOT C). Relationship types will be indicated by Roman numerals I, II, III and IV only for illustrative purposes in that there may be many more relationships defined. The Sis indicated for each relationship defined between and\/or among the nested concepts (see  and  step ).","Concepts can be grouped by various levels of importance. For example \u201cPAK\u201d can be grouped as a \u201cCountry\u201d or as \u201cRegion\u201d or as a \u201cNoun\u201d. \u201cTamu\u201d can be grouped as a \u201cUniversity\u201d. A concept such as \u201cHiding\u201d can be grouped as \u201cAction\u201d, \u201cVerb\u201d etc. These groupings can be custom defined or can be derived by doing a look-up in a dictionary, thesaurus, or the like.","Next, a relationship discovery algorithm can be run, by selecting a group of countries and discovering embedded relationships, for example, against a group of \u201cActions\u201d. This is very powerful and can help construct complex meta-structures such as \u201cCountry-Action-Country\u201d, \u201cNoun-Verb-Noun\u201d, etc. A meta-structure therefore is a pattern of concept types, and relationship discovery allows meta-structures to be identified.","Now consider taking the intersection of concepts C, C using the relationship IV (see the circle in  and  step ). The nested concept functionality will now examine all documents at this intersection and remove unrelated documents from further consideration. The concepts can be further nested so as to narrow the documents under investigation by adding another intersection with the above nested concept plane. In the example below, the intersection of (C and C on relationship IV) is taken, with C and C on relationship I (see the rectangle in  and . The concepts, the relationships, and the corresponding strength of each relationship can be stored in a database (either the same database as used for storing the objects and the index, or in a separate master database) to which other users have access. This process may continue multiple times until all documents found fall in the intersection of these nested planes and there can be no further nesting; otherwise, an empty set of documents will result.","There are three distinct advantages of this nested, flexible arrangements of concepts and their relationships. The first advantage is the greater ease and automation of identifying relationships. Each two-dimensional plane identifies a set of documents and all related relationships. Therefore, each plane can provide a snap shot view of not only the number of concepts present and their S, but also the type of relationships present among the various concepts and documents. This allows navigation by concept intersections and relationship types, rather than navigation through a typical taxonomy of tree like concepts. This speeds the discovery of the exact document types by not only concepts but also how these concepts interact. Furthermore, the nested nature of moving to the next plane in the drill down clusters concepts in a concept of concepts. This nesting of two-dimensional planes allows multi-conceptual levels of analysis simultaneously from the specific to the most general concept.","The second advantage is the discovery of other concepts that are present when the nested concepts with a particular relationship are examined. At each nested two-dimensional plane, other concepts and their S's are displayed showing how other previously unknown concepts are related to known concepts. This knowledge discovery is the most powerful snapshot feature of these nested two-dimensional concept planes.","The third advantage lies in the ability and the flexibility to finely tune concepts through child concepts. Because concepts can be considered strictly, using synonymy, polysemy, or user defined, individual concepts can be corpus- and\/or user-specific with well-defined boundaries. These well-defined boundaries can shape more accurate concept clusters in the nested concept two-dimensional planes as well as their relationships. Further, these two-dimensional planes may be used to link concepts across corpora by linking two-dimensional planes. This relational link of nested concept planes across corpora provides insights on how different corpora are related and allow greater scalability as only relevant and compressed information across large disparate and physically separate corpora are compared.","The following process summarizes rules for automatic concept building using a relationship matrix:","Let \u201ca\u201d be a parent concept consisting of child concepts a, a, . . . a. Let \u201cb\u201d be a parent concept consisting of child concepts b, b, . . . b. Let s(x) be the strength of the relationship x=aRb, where R is a relation and a, b are arbitrary concepts. The strength is Sas described below. Let y (0<=y<=1) be an arbitrary threshold value. Let \u201cnear\u201d be the distance between two words\/phrases as measured by \u201cz\u201d (z is a positive integer).","A compound concept is a concept with one or more embedded Boolean terms. Example: \u201cIntelligenxia\u201d is a simple concept. But (Intelligenxia or Intellicabinet) is a compound concept as the Boolean term \u201cor\u201d is embedded in it.","For each pair of concepts, the strength of the relationship is calculated. There are four commonly used relationship scenarios (as in Table 1 below) for automatically building concepts. Taking \u201cChevrolet\u201d and \u201cGeo\u201d as examples, then case 1 is (Chevrolet and Geo) as a Boolean expression, case 2 is (Chevrolet near Geo) as a string expression, case 3 is \u201cChevrolet Geo\u201d as one phrase and case 4 is \u201cGeo Chevrolet\u201d as one phrase. Special characters such as comma, dashes, and underscores are ignored. The first column is the relationship scenario. In this case, relationship R={and, near, (a b), (b a)} where a, b are arbitrary concepts. The second column shows the name of the newly created concatenated concepts. Since the concepts can have different levels and child concepts (please refer to above-referenced co-pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10\/087,053, incorporated by reference herein in its entirety), the third column is the expansion of the two concatenated concepts with their active child concepts. The fourth column describes the rule used to build the expansion.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0137","num":"0140"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00001","num":"00001"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"4"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"28pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"56pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"56pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"77pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":"TABLE 1"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":[{},"ParentConcept aka","Associated",{}]},{"entry":["Case","ConceptName","Concepts","Active Concepts"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["1","ab R1","(a and b)","existing child concepts"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"for a and b from concepts"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"cross reference"]},{"entry":["2","ab R2","(a near b)","existing child concepts"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"for a and b from concepts"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"cross reference"]},{"entry":["3","b a","(b a)\/(b w\/1 a) ","existing child concepts"]},{"entry":[{},{},"for compound","for a and b from concepts"]},{"entry":[{},{},"concept","cross reference"]},{"entry":["4","a b","(a b)\/(a w\/1 b) ","existing child concepts"]},{"entry":[{},{},"for compound","for a and b from concepts"]},{"entry":[{},{},"concept","cross reference"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}},"Based on the strength of the observed relationship, actions can be taken automatically per Table 1. The actions are described below in pseudocode:","If S(a and b)=S(a near b)=S(a b), then perform case 4 and index the concept against the entire corpus;","If S(a and b)=S(a near b)=S(b a), then perform case 3 and index the concept against the entire corpus;","If S(a and b)=>S(a near b)=>(S(a b) or S(b a)), then\n\n","end if;","If S(a and b)>=S(a near b)>>(S(a b) or S(b a)), then\n\n","end if.","There is a need for dynamically analyzing search engine results for exceptions, trends, and patterns. While the need to analyze large volumes of data for exceptions, trends and patterns is proven (see, for example, a task of looking for discussion patterns in a discussion group archive, such as that described in above-referenced U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10\/087,053, and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10\/393,677, both incorporated by reference herein in their entirety), there is also a need to dynamically analyze smaller sets of data, such as search results to spot documents of interest or documents with exceptions or find out relationships, patterns, commonalities, differences, trends or other relationships that exist among or between those. As an example, the user can search for \u201cOsama Bin Laden\u201d through a search engine and get 1500 results. In order to find out if there is anything of interest in this corpus (in this context, a corpus is a collection of documents or files), the user's options are:","Option 1: Read the contents one by one to see if there is anything of value and if there are any relationships, patterns, trends or the like worth pursuing. Manually going through the corpus is cumbersome, and can be overwhelming, as it is very difficult (and time consuming) to read each and every one, and to remember every other possible relationship and exception to see which of these emerge as possible trends worth pursuing.","Option 2: Run dynamic taxonomy engines on this data and build a hierarchical structure by organizing the corpus. Since the structure is hierarchical, it is difficult to find relationships that might exist across different hierarchies or some relationships that may fit in any hierarchy. For example, \u201cOsama bin Laden\u201d search results contents can be categorized into topics such as Afghanistan, Terrorism, or in some other way. Within Afghanistan, it can be further sub-categorized into topics such as Service Organization (CIA, etc.). But what if there was a connection between a Service Organization, some other country (such as Iraq) and Terrorism? These are different drill-down paths, and by choosing to drill down on one path, others are excluded.","Option 3: Run dynamic analysis engines on the data and let the engines interactively extract concepts, relationships and patterns of relevance in accordance with the present invention. At a glance, the user will get an idea of concepts that exist in this result set and that might be of importance. The user can then analyze the result set using a relational matrix structure that allows a user to view multiple paths of their choice simultaneously. The benefits of doing this are threefold:","a. The user will often quickly be able to analyze and then find the document or article of interest.","b. If there are additional concepts of importance that the user might not have otherwise realized, it will help the user formulate and build new hypotheses.","c. If no concepts of value are found, then the user can save time by not reading the search results and instead of moving on to other searches.","This view of the data can be taken, and drilled down in multiple ways automatically to see if there is a relationship between two different data sets. Thresholds and exceptions can be set to identify concepts and documents of interest (see, for example, the description in the above-referenced U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10\/087,053 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10\/393,677, both incorporated by reference herein in their entirety). Multi-dimensional analysis and exception identification analysis can be performed on these search results.","The most interesting concepts may be analyzed by examining their frequency of occurrence. This analysis may be visualized as part of a multi-dimensional analysis.","According to one embodiment of the invention, a dynamic analysis of search results is performed using a particular embodiment of the inventive user interface by the user clicking a button called \u201cAnalyze Results\u201d or equivalent, at which time the search engine will pass the search query results in an XML (extensible markup language) format to the ACE engine. The XML format is merely an example; one of ordinary skill in the art would recognize many other variations and alternatives. ACE engine refers to the","This XML format may or may not contain information regarding the location of the file, any relevant information, author, size or the like information, or it can contain the contents of the file itself. At this point Intelligenxia's engine will process the XML input. Search engine results are composed of one or more textual objects or locations to the physical object. The Intelligenxia engine extracts concepts (based on, for example\u2014but not limited to, the concept extraction method and algorithms described in above-referenced U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10\/087,053 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10\/393,677) and dynamically sets up analysis. It will be appreciated that references to particular file formats such as XML format are merely exemplary and that other file formats either presently existent or to be developed in the future may be utilized. In particular it will be appreciated that XML and extensions and improvements thereof as well as successors thereto may be utilized.","The search results can be added to a master database and master index for further processing. As the collection of successive search results and their index can become very large, immediate analysis and identification of embedded concepts can become difficult or impossible. Steps to dynamically set up analysis are as follows:","Step 1: Get the output of any search results in XML (or other) format, such as EDI (electronic data interchange), CSV (comma separated values), SGML (standard generalized markup language), or any other markup language.","Step 2: Parse the contents of the entire XML search results stream. If the XML stream contains the location of the search result files and these search results are accessible by an analysis engine, then the contents of the search files are not cached. Just the locations of these files are recorded in Intelligenxia's database. If the XML stream contains the search file content, these search results contents are cached as files in an analysis database.","Step 3: Instead of adding this search results data to a master index for subsequent analysis, a quick index can be dynamically built, that includes only the collection of search results from step 2. This quick index helps in the following ways:","a. First, the quick index cuts shorts dramatically the time it takes to analyze the collection. Note that we are now confined to only the results from parsing the XML stream in step 2.","b. Second, the quick index increases the analysis focus to just the corpus resulting from the Parse the XML stream of step 2. This way any trends, exceptions and relationships that are discovered are attributed to the search results collection.","Step 4: Analyze the contents of the collection of search results looking for any embedded concepts. This analysis may be desirable or needed when, for example, the user has no idea about the contents of the corpus, or if the user is looking for relationships, trends and patterns in the corpus. Scanning refers to, for example, any process by which documents, paragraphs, sentences, phrases, words, symbols, speech, electronic signals, or other form of communication are parsed, scanned, or otherwise evaluated to identify or extract concepts, so that conventional reading by a human reader is not required.","Step 5: The extracted key concepts and ideas can be presented in graphical user interface that has either (1) a suggested concepts list, or (2) a concepts matrix, or (3) both. The suggested concepts list is a list of suggested concepts that can be sorted in multiple ways. Some of the possible ways are:","a. Alphabetical: Concepts are presented in ascending or descending alphabetical order.","b. Hits (number of hits or occurrence): Concepts are presented in ascending or descending order of hits (i.e., their frequency of occurrence or how many times the word or phrase or other words\/phrases or symbols or sets of symbols that are the parent word\/phrase's children occur) in the corpus or search query.","c. Document Count: Concepts are presented in ascending or descending order by the number of objects contained within the corpus in which they occur.","d. Concept rarity: Concepts are presented in ascending or descending order of score calculated using a concepts extraction scoring model algorithm, such as the Intelligenxia concept extraction algorithm described in above-referenced co-pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10\/087,053 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10\/393,677, which are incorporated by reference herein. Other concept extraction scoring model algorithms known in the art may alternatively be used. As the score is more dependent on how strong a concept occurs in a document, the sorted order by score reveals concepts that may not occur most frequently but appear as themes of selected group of documents.","Step 6: Having determined or identified: (i) important concepts embedded in the object, and (ii) learned from the collection, the user can now analyze the data by selecting concepts to be analyzed. In one embodiment, the selected concepts will advantageously be viewed in a two-dimensional matrix format where the concepts occur as columns and the documents as rows. The coordinate (n, m) will be occurrence or the number of hits of the concept (n) in the document (m).","One embodiment of the invention will be summarized with the aid of the flow chart of . As shown in , a search of a \u201cuniverse\u201d of objects is performed, for example, by using a search engine (step ). A subset of objects (or, possibly, only one object) is selected as meeting an initial set of criteria (step ). The selected objects may be stored in a database (step ). An index is created, that includes location of content within the selected object and optionally metadata relating to the selected objects (step ). With concept rules generated (step ), at least two concepts are extracted from the index (step ). Concepts are stored in a database (step ). A numerical metric, such as a ratio corresponding to a strength of the relationship between the concepts, is calculated (step ). Key concepts, such as those that meet a particular strength threshold, are stored in a key concepts database (step ). The concepts can be presented to a user (step ). The strength(s) can be presented to a user (step ). The concepts and the strength(s) may be presented to a user in a graphical format, such as a list or a concept matrix (step ). Additional concepts may be created or identified (step ). These additional concepts may be added to the index (step ), and the concepts grouped by type (step ). A concept matrix may be generated (step ) for display to the user (). A meta-structure may be created based upon the concept type (step ). A percentage threshold for the metric may be set (step ). If the metric exceeds the threshold (step ), the user can be alerted (step ). If all pairs of concepts are examined (step ), the process can exit. If there are still pairs of concepts unexamined, the process can return to step  (or to step ), continuing the process of examining relationship strengths between all relevant pairwise concept pairs. It will be appreciated that the steps illustrated in  may be performed in a different order than that illustrated, and that the concepts may be derived from sources other than the index (e.g., they may be supplied by the user, etc.).","It should be noted that the identified concepts can be then be used in the relationship discovery process for building new complex concepts. The concepts identified in the dynamic analysis process can be made available to the trends and exceptions algorithm described in above-referenced co-pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10\/087,053 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10\/393,677, which are incorporated by reference herein. Also, although the embodiment described above uses several databases, the information can be stored in a single database, rather than spread among a number of databases.","While various embodiments of the present invention have been described above, it should be understood that they have been presented by way of example, and not limitation. It will be apparent to persons skilled in the relevant art that various changes in form and detail may be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. This is especially true in light of technology and terms within the relevant art(s) that may be later developed. Thus, the present invention should not be limited by any of the above-described exemplary embodiments, but should be defined only in accordance with the following claims and their equivalents."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE ATTACHED DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":"FIGS. 9-14"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
