---
title: Dynamic presence proxy for call sessions
abstract: A telecommunications system includes a telephone routing system; and a presence database manager unit operably coupled to the routing system and adapted to maintain one or more watcher lists of registered users. The routing system is adapted to receive phone calls and provide an indication to the presence database manager unit whether the phone calls originate from registered users. The presence database manager unit is adapted to determine if such a user has a watcher list and transmit an indication to parties associated with the watcher list that said user is present.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07945035&OS=07945035&RS=07945035
owner: Siemens Enterprise Communications, Inc.
number: 07945035
owner_city: Boca Raton
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20030228
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF EMBODIMENTS OF THE INVENTION"],"p":["The present invention relates to telecommunications systems and, in particular, to an improved system and method for user presence.","Modern messaging systems, such as those based on the Session Initiation Protocol (SIP), provide presence capabilities, particularly in association with Instant Messaging systems. In presence server systems, a user typically maintains a buddy list or contact list of persons for whom presence information is desired. The presence server system in turn maintains one or more watcher lists of those who are watching a particular user and to whom that user's presence information is sent. When a user A logs in, a presence server identifies the logged in user as present and transmits the information to users on the watcher list of user A. The active users can then exchange instant messages with user A, and the like.","In order to update presence status in users' watcher lists, such systems, however, are dependent upon users logging into, and being logged in to, the system. If a user who is not logged in is listed on an active user's watcher list, an indication can be made on the active user's watcher list that the not logged-in user is not active. However, the presence status of the user is not updated until the user logs in, even if the not logged-in user is present, but engaged in another task not involving the system.","As such, there is a need for a system and method for more effectively providing presence information. There is a further need for a system and method for providing presence information for users who are not logged in to a presence system.","These and other drawbacks in the prior art are overcome in large part by a system and method according to embodiments of the present invention.","A dynamic presence proxy according to embodiments of the present invention monitors for not logged-in users accessing the system. If the dynamic presence proxy detects a user accessing the system, the user is identified as being present. The dynamic presence proxy then updates the presence status of the user.","A telecommunications server according to an embodiment of the present invention includes a telecommunications controller for supervising a presence system and a telephone switching system. The telecommunications controller is adapted to transmit presence information to the presence server about a party calling in via the telephone switching system without the calling party logging in to the presence system. In certain embodiments of the present invention, the presence system is an instant messaging and presence system.","A telecommunications system according to embodiments of the present invention includes a telephone routing system; and a presence database manager unit operably coupled to the telephone routing system and adapted to maintain one or more watcher lists of registered users. The telephone routing system is adapted to receive phone calls and provide an indication to the presence database manager unit whether the phone calls originate from registered users. The presence database manager unit is adapted to determine if such a user is being watched by another party and transmit an indication to such parties that the user is present.","A better understanding of these and other specific embodiments of the invention is obtained when the following detailed description is considered in conjunction with the following drawings.","Turning now to the drawings and, with particular attention to , a diagram schematically illustrating an exemplary telecommunications system  according to an embodiment of the present invention is shown. The telecommunications system  includes a dynamic presence proxy  adapted to monitor user access to monitored programs or to monitored call facilities, and adapted to transmit notifications to other parties watching the monitored user in response thereto.","Shown in  is an exemplary telecommunications server  including one or more telecommunications controllers, such as a routing system  and a presence server unit  that maintains contact information for a plurality of users. The telecommunications server  also includes a dynamic presence proxy , as will be explained in greater detail below. The routing system  may be embodied, for example, as a private branch exchange or IP telephony gateway or gatekeeper or other that operates as a telephony portal.","In the example illustrated, the presence server unit  maintains presence information for users Alpha (online), Beta (offline), Charlie (online), Echo (online), Foxtrot (online), Juliet (offline and on the phone), November (offline), and Zulu (online). Also shown are a plurality of users (Foxtrot), (November), (Charlie), and (Juliet).","In the example illustrated, each user -includes a telephone -and a presence application maintaining contact lists -. As shown, user (Foxtrot) has users Alpha, Beta, and Charlie on his contact list ; user (November) has Alpha, Echo, Foxtrot, and Zulu on his contact list ; user (Charlie) has Echo, Juliet, and November on his contact list ; and user (Juliet) has Alpha, Echo, and November on her contact list . The presence server unit  maintains watcher lists  of those parties who are being watched by specific other parties. Thus, for example, the watcher list for user Alpha indicates that user Alpha is being watched by Foxtrot, November, and Juliet.","As noted above, users Charlie and Foxtrot are indicated to be online. Normally, this means that the users have logged in to the presence server unit  and uploaded their presence states. Users Juliet and November, however, are offline. Thus, they have not logged in to their presence system. In operation, one of the offline users, such as Juliet, can use her phone to make a call, either to another user or to a remote party. The call is received at the routing system , which provides a calling party identification to the dynamic presence proxy . The dynamic presence proxy  then interacts with the presence server unit  and can then determine if the calling party is a presence user. If so, and the calling party is not logged in to the presence server, then the dynamic presence proxy  can inform the presence server  that the user is available and the presence server  will then use the watcher lists  to update the calling party's presence status and transmit the updated status to the logged in users that are monitoring Juliet's presence.","Operation of the embodiment of  is shown with reference to the flowchart of . At step , the presence server unit  () becomes activated. At step , the presence server unit  receives watcher lists of registered, logged in users, and monitors the status of listed parties. For example, in , users Alpha, Charlie, Echo, Foxtrot, and Zulu are logged in and online. At step , a user who is not logged in the presence system nevertheless makes use of a monitored system. Thus, for example, user Juliet makes a phone call. The call is received at the routing system  (). The routing system  identifies the calling party and provides this information to the dynamic presence proxy , which updates the logged in parties' presence, at step . In particular, the dynamic presence proxy  communicates with the presence server unit  with the identity of the calling party. The system determines that the calling party, Juliet, is a registered user but is not logged in to the presence system. The presence server unit  updates the presence information to indicate that Juliet is on the phone, and then sends out the presence update to the logged in watching parties that are monitoring Juliet's presence. It is noted that in certain embodiments, the users can specify which watchers are authorized to receive their presence information. Thus, a check of authorization information may occur prior such to distribution of a presence update.","A block diagram of an exemplary telecommunications server according to an embodiment of the present invention is shown in . In the embodiment illustrated, the telecommunications server  includes one or more telecommunications controllers, such as routing system , dynamic presence proxy , and presence server unit . It is noted, however, that in alternate embodiments, the presence server may be located remotely from the telecommunications server.","The presence server unit  may be implemented as an Instant Messaging system and may include a presence manager unit and a watcher list database manager unit . The presence manager unit receives presence information from registered users and their contact lists. The watcher list database manager unit receives and coordinates the corresponding watcher list information.","For example, once a user has logged in and sent its contact list to the presence manager unit , the watcher list database manager unit determines who is watching whom and allows the presence manager unit to provide the information to the parties on each list as to who is logged in and what their presence status is. The presence manager unit or the watcher list database manager unit may also maintain an authorization list or lists indicating parties who are authorized to receive other parties' presence information. In the embodiment illustrated, the routing system  receives calls from remote users and identifies them, typically via a known calling number identification technique using calling number identification unit . The dynamic presence proxy  then receives the identification and accesses the watcher list database manager . The dynamic presence proxy  then uses the user's watcher list and updates the user's presence information. The presence manager unit then transmits the updated presence information to the contact lists of the corresponding watchers of that user.","More particularly,  is a flowchart illustrating operation of an embodiment of the present invention and, in particular, an embodiment in which the monitoring system is a routing system () such as a telephony routing system. It is noted that in other embodiments, the monitoring system can be any of a variety of shared systems, such as other forms of multimedia server or network server. In step , the presence manager unit receives log in requests and contact lists of registered users. In step , the watcher list database manager updates its lists with the presence status of the logged in users. In step , the dynamic presence proxy  receives the list of users for whom telephony activity is to be monitored. This may be implemented using a predetermined default or through explicit user authorization. In step , the routing system  receives a call and identifies the calling party number. In step , the dynamic presence proxy  compares the calling party identification with the users being monitored. At step , if a calling party number is recognized, the dynamic presence proxy  tells the watcher list database manager to update the presence status of the caller identified. At step , the watcher list database manager instructs the presence manager unit to transmit the presence updates to the registered users on whose contact lists the calling party appears. In certain embodiments, the updates are provided only to users authorized by the calling party. At step , the call ends, for example, by the calling or called party hanging up. At step , the routing system  tells the dynamic presence proxy  that the call has ended. At step , the dynamic presence proxy  again tells the watcher list database manager to update its watcher list containing the caller. Finally, at step , the update is transmitted to the watchers.","As noted above, the dynamic presence proxy  of embodiments of the present invention may be provided in a variety of network settings and degrees of integration with servers, and the like.  illustrate an exemplary network configuration and server according to a particular embodiment of the present invention. It is noted, however, that operation of the dynamic presence proxy  is generally similar to that discussed above.","As shown, the telecommunications system  of  includes a packet network such as a local area network (LAN) . The LAN  may be implemented using a Transmission Control Protocol\/Internet Protocol (TCP\/IP) network and may implement voice or multimedia over IP using, for example, the Session Initiation Protocol (SIP). Operably coupled to the LAN  is a multimedia server . The multimedia server  may include one or more controllers , which may be embodied as one or more microprocessors, and memory  for storing application programs and data.","The controller  can also implement an instant messaging system . The instant messaging system may be embodied as Microsoft Windows Messenger or AOL Instant Messenger or any other instant messaging system. The multimedia server  may also implement a presence server  in association with or distinct from the instant messaging system . In addition, according to embodiments of the present invention, a dynamic presence proxy  may be provided, which may be part of an interactive suite of applications , run by controller , and typically stored in memory , as will be described in greater detail below.","The dynamic presence proxy  is used to determine whether a user or a party to a call session is a presence user and transmit, or cause to be transmitted, presence updates to watchers of the user. Also connected to the LAN  is a gateway  which may be a telecommunications switch and may be implemented as a gateway to a private branch exchange (PBX) or the public switched telephone network (PSTN) , or any of a variety of other networks, such as a wireless or cellular network. In certain embodiments, the gateway  may be integrated with the multimedia server . In addition, one or more LAN telephones -and one or more computers -may be operably coupled to the LAN . The computers -may be personal computers implementing an instant messaging\/presence application; certain LAN telephones -may also implement instant messaging and presence. The computers -may include telephony and other multimedia messaging capability using, for example, peripheral cameras, microphones and speakers (not shown) or peripheral telephony handsets . In other embodiments, one or more of the computers may be implemented as wireless telephones, digital telephones, or personal digital assistants (PDAs). Thus, the figures are exemplary only. As shown with reference to computer , the computers may include one or more controllers , such as Pentium-type microprocessors, and storage  for applications and other programs. Finally, the phones -and computers -and specifically, the controllers , may implement presence services -according to embodiments of the present invention. The presence services -may be implemented in conjunction with instant messaging applications -and the presence server . The presence services  allow access to the presence server  of the multimedia server  and thus can receive updates of user status from the dynamic presence proxy .","Turning now to , a functional model diagram illustrating the dynamic presence proxy  is shown. More particularly,  is a logical diagram illustrating a portion of a particular embodiment of a multimedia server . The multimedia server  includes a plurality of application modules  and a communication module . The multimedia server  also provides interfaces, such as application programming interfaces (APIs) to IP phones\/clients  and gateways\/interworking units . Typically, such application modules are stored in memory  () and executed by the controller  (). According to the embodiment illustrated, the broker module  includes a basic services module , a presence server , an advanced services module  and a toolkit module .","The basic services module  functions to implement, for example, phone support, PBX interfaces, call features and management. The phone support features allow maintenance of and access to buddy lists.","The advanced services module  implements function such as multipoint control unit (MCU), recording, and the like. MCU functions are used for voice and\/or video conferencing and support ad hoc and dynamic conference creation from a watcher list following a conferencing model, such as the SIP\/MMUSIC conferencing model, for ad hoc conferences. In certain embodiments, the MCU may take the form of a decomposed model, where the signalling portion of conferences are handled by a Multipoint Controller (MC) and the media portion of conferences are handled by one or more Multipoint Processors (MPs). Such a decomposed MCU model would make use of a generally available protocol to provide signalling control between the MC and the MPs (e.g. H.248). In certain embodiments, support for any number of audio codecs (e.g. G.711, G.723.1, ZG.722, G.729) and\/or video codecs (e.g. H.261, H.263) would be provided by the MP or MCU.","The presence server  is adapted to maintain and update presence status in response to requests from the dynamic presence proxy . Thus, the presence server  functions as the presence manager unit () and a watcher list database manager unit () discussed above.","It is noted that, while shown as integrated with the multimedia server , the presence server  and\/or the dynamic presence proxy  may also be implemented in a separate unit. Further, in other embodiments, either or both of the multimedia server  and the presence server  may be services provided on or via a PBX or PSTN  rather than provided on the LAN  (). Thus, the figures are exemplary only.","The presence server  may additionally provide device context for both IP registered devices and user-defined non-IP devices. Various user contexts, such as In Meeting, On Vacation, In the Office, etc., can be provided for. In addition, voice, e-mail and instant messaging availability may be provided across the user's devices. The presence server  enables real time call control using presence information (e.g., to choose a destination based on the presence of a user's devices). In addition, various components have a central repository for presence information and for changing and querying presence information.","Real time call control is provided by an IP phones\/client module  associated with the basic services module . That is, calls can be intercepted in progress and real time actions performed on them, including directing those calls to alternate destinations based on rules and or other stimuli. The IP phones\/client module  also provides call progress monitoring capabilities and for reporting status of such calls to interested applications. The IP phones\/client module  also provides for call control from the user interface.","According to the embodiment illustrated, the application modules  include a collaboration module , an interaction center module , a mobility module , an interworking services module , and the dynamic presence proxy .","The collaboration module  allows for creation, modification or deletion of a collaboration session for a group of users. The collaboration module  may further allow for invoking a voice conference from any client. In addition, the collaboration module  can launch a multi-media conferencing package, such as the WebEx package. It is noted that the multi-media conferencing can be handled by other products.","The interaction center  provides a telephony interface for both subscribers and guests. A guest user is a user who has not authenticated as a subscriber. Subscriber access functions include calendar access and voicemail and e-mail access. The calendar access allows the subscriber to accept, decline, or modify appointments, as well as block out particular times. The voicemail and e-mail access allows the subscriber to access and sort messages. Similarly, the guest access feature allows the guest user to have access to voicemail for leaving messages and calendar functions for scheduling, canceling, and modifying appointments with subscribers. Further, the guest access feature allows a guest user to access specific data meant for them (e.g., receiving e-mail and faxes).","The mobility module  provides for message forwarding and \u201cone number\u201d access across media, and message \u201cmorphing\u201d across media for the subscriber. Further, various applications can send notification messages to a variety of destinations, such as e-mails, instant messages, pagers, and the like. In addition, the subscriber can set rules that the mobility module  uses to define media handling, such as e-mail, voice and instant messaging handling. Such rules specify data and associated actions. For example, a rule could be defined to say \u201cIf I'm traveling, and I get a voicemail or e-mail marked Urgent, then page me.\u201d","As noted above, while illustrated as a single server, the presence server  may be separate from the multimedia server . In addition, it is noted that other server configurations are possible.","The invention described in the above detailed description is not intended to be limited to the specific form set forth herein, but is intended to cover such alternatives, modifications and equivalents as can reasonably be included within the spirit and scope of the appended claims."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 6"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
