---
title: Suite of configurable supply chain infrastructure modules for deploying collaborative e-manufacturing solutions
abstract: A suite of configurable supply chain infrastructure modules provides the “collective manufacturing management infrastructure” necessary to support a high velocity e-business initiative. At the core of the collaboration scheme is the Business Process Modeling Module. The Business Modeling Module consists of two components: Business Process Event Coordinator, and Business Process Modeler. To further support the collaborative scheme, a suite of highly configurable application templates and pre-configured industry applications provide an interface or wrapper around the business rules. The application templates are designed to be used as stand-alone components, or can be assembled/configured into a cohesive solution to provide a basic foundation layer for a Collaborative Manufacturing Execution System (CMES). To address the connectivity of the CMES layer to the business layer and the shop floor automation layer, an Extensible Markup Language (XML) Business Connector and Optical Photo Conductor (OPC) Shop Floor Connector fulfill the interface needs required to support a collaborative infrastructure.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08069071&OS=08069071&RS=08069071
owner: Rockwell Automation Technologies, Inc.
number: 08069071
owner_city: Mayfield Heights
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20030429
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION FIELD OF THE INVENTION","DISCUSSION OF THE BACKGROUND","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF A PREFERRED EMBODIMENT OF THE INVENTION"],"p":["This application is a continuation of commonly assigned, application Ser. No. 10\/358,305, filed Feb. 5, 2003 now abandoned, which claims benefit under 35 USC 119(e) to U.S. provisional application Ser. No. 60\/354,151, filed Feb. 6, 2002.","The present invention relates to Manufacturing Executive Systems (MES). Particularly, the present invention relates to Collaborative Manufacturing Executive Systems (CMES), which can be defined as \u201ccollaborative manufacturing management infrastructure.\u201d","U.S. Pat. No. 6,470,227 (hereinafter 227 patent) discloses a method for automating a manufacturing process including configuring application objects embodied in a computer program. The inventors recognized that the '227 patent does not provide any solution to synchronize key supply chain modules (ERP, PLM, and APS etc.) and production support systems (LIMS and FCS etc.) with events and activities that occur on the factory floor, and that the '227 patent fails to disclose the ability to synchronize and coordinate activities across multiple manufacturing sites.","A MES system means a software application that provides a real-time view of manufacturing operations. These systems perform the task of integrating corporate or plant business systems information with shop floor data systems. The resulting values provided by MES are data that can be automatically converted into \u201cactionable information\u201d that can then be used for improved decision making at all levels of the manufacturing enterprise. For example, MES provides values derived from data obtained from operations, manufacturing management, engineering, IT, planning, materials management, etc.","A CMES system is about information, and how to get your data from the plant floor, from production control, from inventory and quality control, from purchasing, from engineering, from marketing and sales, and turn that data into information that can be used by managers at all levels of the enterprise to make mission-critical decisions. To summarize. CMES is about communication, and how to optimize the bi-directional flow of information to and from the operating units in a manufacturing enterprise.","Therefore, it is the object of the present invention to provide a collaborative manufacturing execution system (CMES) and method. The CMES is designed in the form of a collaborative software system infrastructure that interfaces with business systems, the supply chain modules, such as Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) and Advanced Planning & Scheduling (APS), production support systems, such as Laboratory Information Management Systems (LIMS), Finite Capacity Scheduling (FCS) Systems, and plant floor systems, such as Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition Systems (SCADA), Distributed Control Systems (DCS), and Programmable Logic Controllers (PLC).","This collaborative infrastructure, which is a collaborative manufacturing execution system (CMES), supports and enables high velocity e-business initiatives for manufactures in many different market segments, e.g., automotive, consumer products, food and beverage, pharmaceutical, electronic. Furthermore, this collaborative infrastructure is able to coordinate and synchronize business systems, production support systems and plant floor systems across multiple manufacturing sites through an enterprise intranet or the Internet.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},"Furthermore,  illustrates how Interwave Coordinator provides all of the coordination and synchronization with the external entities (ERP, PLM, PDM, etc.) at a business level that are impacted by the events and activities that occur on the plant floor. This coordination and synchronization is provided via business process modeling modules, such as the Business Process Event Coordinator, along with a supporting communication connector module, such as the XML Business Connector. In addition, Interwave Coordinator provides the internal coordination and synchronization to support typical plant floor production management functions, such as Work Order Management, WIP Management, Inventory Management, etc. This coordination and synchronization is provided via another supporting communication connector module, such as the OPC Shop Floor Connector. These two types of coordination and synchronization provide a completely synchronized information system to support the tremendous information demands of a CMES model. As a result, there will be no overlapping and disconnected segments in various levels of manufacturing work flow and among remote manufacturing sites. The CMES of this invention includes a suite of universal application templates, utilities and pre-configured solutions that leverage Microsoft technology such as Visual Basic, COM+ and SQL Server.","The universal application templates are configurable, scalable, and maintainable application templates that can be deployed in a stand-alone mode, or can be assembled into a fully functional solution, that is a custom application, based on specific business needs. Specifically, the universal application templates are configurable because they are configurable through a user friendly Graphical User Interface panel or panels to designate a particular business specification by way of selecting parameters in various entries. Further, the universal application templates are scalable because each and every one of them can function independently or in combination with other application template or templates. Enterprises can design a custom application to fit special business needs in manufacturing simply by selecting at least one appropriate application template. This is the reason why the present invention is capable of operating in a stand-alone mode or being packaged into a fully functional business solution. Finally, the universal application templates are maintainable because it is easy to maintain these templates. Due to the independence nature of each application template, it is less costly, less time-consuming and easy-access to fulfill maintenance needs, such as debugging and updating.","These application templates provide capabilities, such as Work Order Management, WIP Management, Inventory Management, Material Management, Tool Management, Quality Management, Quality Data Collection, Defect Tracking, Downtime Tracking, Specification Management, Receiving and Inspection, Shipping, Return Merchandise Authorization, Engineering Change Order, Work Instructions and Electronic Notebook.","Pre-configured solutions are also provided to address specific vertical industries. These market available pre-configured solutions utilize and extend the basic functionality in the universal application templates to address the unique information requirements of a particular manufacturing industry. These solutions include Roll Tracker, which provides basic roll tracking functions for manufacturers in the roll goods industry; Discrete Assembler, which provides discrete assembling and tracking functions for customers in the discrete manufacturing sector; Pharma Manager, which provides specification management, batch execution, on-line data collection, and genealogy for preweigh and dispensing operations under FDA control; MedDevice Tracker, which provides basic tracking, genealogy, quality management, and data collection functions for manufacturers in the medical device industry under FDA control; and Food Processor, which provides basic tracking, genealogy and quality control of inventory and product in the regulated food industry.","This new CMES application, Intewave Coordinator, also includes a plurality of support applications, such as Shop Scheduler and Lab Manager, providing basic functionality for scheduling and laboratory management. Utility modules are also included in the invention to address common functions such as label printing, event messaging, data archiving, auto tracking, auto data collection and work traveler printing. Furthermore, the invention provides modules to interface to the business systems and shop floor systems, such as the Extensible Markup Language (XML) and Ole for Process Control (OPC) technologies to provide open and standardized interfaces.","The Interwave Coordinator embodiment also provides a visualization module that provides standard or ad-hoc reporting capability through Microsoft Excel. This module provides visibility into the performance of the manufacturing enterprise by analyzing and reporting Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) and Overall Equipment Efficiency (OEE), such as performance to schedule, downtime, scrap, utilization and efficiency. Because of the visibility of manufacturing performance, enterprises are able to adjust and make better business objectives and, therefore, increase overall enterprise achievements based on the received analysis and report. Moreover, some of the business rules are automatically adjusted based on the visibility feedback.","There are many advantages of this inventive CMES application. First, the invention decreases time-to-deployment, which accelerates payback and Return On Investment (ROI). Secondly, this invention enables easy, rapid, and cost effective pilots or proof-of-concept. This CMES application is cost-effective and provides affordable industry-based solutions that reduce total cost of ownership (TCO) and increase return on investment. Furthermore, this CMES application reduces project risk and utilizes modular approach that accommodates phased implementations and scalable point solutions. Based on extensive domain expertise, this CMES application contains proven knowledge of market best practices, operational and business processes and enhances lean manufacturing initiatives.","In one aspect, the invention provides a system and method for providing a work flow from a business decision making layer to a production line and decision making layer; and implementing a real-time integration of said work flow. In additional aspects, the invention provides systems and methods for determining business objectives at said business decision making layer; performing said business objectives at said production line and decision making layer; and carrying out said real-time integration of said business decision making layer, said production line and decision making layer by a collaborative infrastructure, analyzing a result from said production line and decision making layer; and reporting said analyzed result to said business decision making layer; receiving a report containing analyzed result from said reporting process; and adjusting said business objectives according to said report; wherein said report comprises a plurality of formats, including Spreadsheet and GANTT Chart; wherein said collaborative infrastructure further comprises a first coordinator connector providing interface for said collaborative infrastructure and said business decision making layer; wherein said first coordinator connector is a web-based open technology for electronic data interchange; wherein said first coordinator connector is the Extensible Mark-up language (XML) Business Connector; wherein said collaborative infrastructure further comprises a second coordinator connector providing interface for said collaborative infrastructure and said production line and decision making layer; wherein said second coordinator connector is an Application Programming Interface (API); wherein said second coordinator is the Ole Process Control (OPC) Shop Floor Connector; integrating said business decision making layer, production line and decision making layer by said collaborative infrastructure through an Intranet or the Internet; wherein said production line and decision making layer further comprises a plurality of business rules; analyzing a result from said production line and decision making layer; reporting said analyzed result to said business decision making layer; receiving a report containing analyzed result from said reporting process; and automatically adjusting said business rules based on said report; wherein said collaborative infrastructure further comprises a plurality of configurable module templates; wherein said collaborative infrastructure further comprises a graphical user interface capable of configuring and modifying said plurality of business rules; wherein said configurable application templates are capable of synchronizing and optimizing execution activities at said production line and decision layer; wherein said infrastructure is a Manufacturing Executive System (MES); wherein said infrastructure is a Collaborative Manufacturing Executive System (CMES); wherein said collaborative infrastructure further comprises a plurality of scalable application templates; wherein said collaborative infrastructure comprises at least one custom application constructed with at least one scalable application template; wherein said collaborative infrastructure further comprises a plurality of maintainable application templates; wherein said maintainable application templates increase the updating and debugging abilities of said collaborative infrastructure.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0068","num":"0067"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},"Collaborative Manufacturing Executive Systems (CMES) are the key to extending the principles of e-business throughout the enterprise. The extended enterprise is the core business, and the web of suppliers, partners, alliances, and customers in which the business participates. At the heart of this extended enterprise is the value chain from raw material to user. The business will have to optimize this value chain in order to be competitive in the future. An example of optimization is using the least raw material and going through most efficient process to produce the best possible products. Hence, open, maintainable, and scalable manufacturing solutions are required to be able to optimize the value chain in the extended enterprise. Collaborative MES pertains to information and how to get data from the plant floor, production control, inventory and quality control, purchasing, engineering, marketing, and sales, and turning that data into information that can be used by management at all levels in the extended enterprise to make mission-critical decision.","Further, CMES deals with communication, and how to optimize the bi-directional flow of that information to and from the operating units of an enterprise. Collaborative MES opens that bi-directional flow of information to the entire strategic value chain of the extended enterprise. Because CMES enables most of the value-add in of an enterprise derived from the factory floor, CMES becomes the vital link that makes enterprise-wide integration possible. As shown in , in an extended enterprise, real-time integration with the business decision making sector and the production line and process decision sector is made possible utilizing a CMES application. Thus, CMES greatly improves the return on applied assets for any given enterprise by increasing on-time delivery, shortening inventory turn time, increasing gross margin and, most of all, improves the cash flow performance. A CMES application synchronizes key supply chain modules (ERP, PLM, PDM, APS, CRM, SCM) in a manufacturing enterprise with events and activities that occur on the factory floor.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0071","num":"0070"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":["1","8"]},"In step , an order is entered via the Web and then downloaded into the MES.","In step , once the download is finished, BOM (Bill of Materials) and order specifications are transmitted to the e-Manufacturing System. Step  also includes transmitting order information to devices performing step  and step .","In step , the order is sent to FCS for real time scheduling and optimal sequencing, and the result is then feed back to step .","In step , an automatic process is set up which performs the manufacturing and quality testing and transmits information to the structure performing step .","In step , the system generates total product genealogy and automatic device history record, and then sends the generated information to step .","In step , shipping labels are generated when the order is completed.","Step  is responsible for ERP updates and invoicing.","In step , advanced customer notification of shipment is generated along with shipping instructions. As a result, product is shipped via overnight from the plant.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0080","num":"0079"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":["10","20","30","40","50","60","70"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0081","num":"0080"},"figref":["FIGS. 4A and 4B","FIG. 3","FIGS. 4A and 4B"]},"At the business level, the business system  is equipped with a business system database . Various pieces of information are passed between the business system  and the production management system (CMES). The business system  requires key information from the production management system (CMES)  in order to fulfill the informational needs (i.e. raw material consumption, production order status, finished good quantities) of the decision support systems that execute within the business system . Furthermore, the production management system requires information from the business system  to execute manufacturing orders on the plant floor. This invention provides a XML business system connector module  to fulfill the interface needs between the business system  and the production management system (CMES) .","At the production management system (CMES) level, a production management (CMES) database  is employed to provide a common data repository for all plant execution functions. Various pieces of information are passed between the production management system (CMES)  and the SCADA & Process Control System . The SCADA & Process Control System  requires information, such as machine setup parameters, from the production management system (CMES)  to manufacturer the product to the proper specification. Furthermore, the production management system (CMES)  requires information, such as process alarms and production events, from the SCADA & Process Control System  in an effort to manage the production process. This invention provides an OPC shop floor connector module  to fulfill the interface needs between the production management system (CMES)  and the SCADA & Process Control System .","The basic manufacturing work flow demonstrated in  is that raw materials  are received from a plurality of raw material vendors . These raw materials  are processed through a sequence of production work centers \/ until a semi-finished or finished product  is produced. Upon completing the manufacturing process, the finished product  is shipped to the customer . At each production work center \/, vertical databases and dedicated process control systems are employed to control and manage the manufacturing process.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0085","num":"0084"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},"Application templates are leveraged to build industry specific solutions, or custom solutions that provide typical production management functions such as work order management, WIP management, inventory management, material management, tool management, quality management, etc. These templates operate together in a seamless fashion to provide a cohesive and integrated solution. Some of the benefits realized as a result of the execution of this model are waste reduction, higher process excellence, greater throughput, accurate capability, accurate inventory levels. This feature can be better illustrated by .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0087","num":"0086"},"figref":"FIG. 6","b":["300","301","302","303","300","301","301"]},"Subsequently, the plant schedule is executed at the Execute  stage. The Execute  stage facilitates machine setup, processing and tear down by product code. Upon completion of the Execute  stage, the execution process is analyzed to surface issues that cause waste to be generated, excessive cycle times, etc. This feedback ultimately triggers an effect that produces better sequencing at the Schedule  stage, and better planning at the Plan  stage. The net effect that is achieved by this invention is that through coordination and synchronization, continuous improvement is realized at all stages of the process.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0089","num":"0088"},"figref":["FIGS. 7 and 8","FIG. 7"],"b":["410","420","430","440","450"]},"After installation of desired application templates at step , desired Coordinator Industry Applications are installed on the Coordinator Application Server at step , and desired Coordinator Support Applications are installed on the Coordinator Application Server at step . The available Industry Applications include Roll Tracker, Discrete assembler, Food Processor, Pharma Manager module, and Med Device Tracker module. The available Coordinator Support Applications for installation are Lab Manager, and Shop Scheduler. Referring to , after installation of all the desired Application Templates Applications, Support Applications, desired Coordinator Connectors are installed on the Coordinator Application Server at step . Those available Coordinator Connectors are XML Business Connector and OPC Shop Floor Connector. The installation process continues to step . At step , desired Coordinator Utilities are installed on the Coordinator Application Server. The available Coordinator Utilities include Auto Tracker, Auto Collector, Event Messenger, Work Traveler, Label Manager, and Data Archiver. Finally, desired Coordinator Visualization Tools are installed on the Coordinator Application Server at step , such as Digital Dashboard. The present invention is better described with further detailed information regarding the configurable modules. The modules have classified as Business Process Modeling, Application Template, Industry Application, Support Application, Connector, Visualization or Utility modules.","Business Process Modeling","The Business Process Modeling modules address event transaction modeling and execution, along with static process modeling. It includes two modules, the business process event coordinator and business process modeler.","Business Process Event Coordinator","The Business Process Event Coordinator (BPEC) provides the end users with the ability to graphically model and configure the manufacturing business rules required by a particular manufacturing entity. The business rules essentially describe the interaction and synchronization required between supply chain modules (ERP, APS, etc.), production support systems (LIMS, FCS, etc.), other manufacturing plants, and the factory floor. For example, how to record the machine downtime and dispose defect product. Once business rule models have been established, a runtime component of (BPEC) enforces or executes the models and rules through the runtime component\/module.","Examples of business rules that would be enforced or executed by BPEC are: when a machine downtime event is detected, send a message to the Computerized Maintenance Management System to create an emergency work order to repair the machine and send a message to the Finite Capacity Scheduling System to re-schedule the others currently assigned to the machine. When a production test sample is created, send a message to the Laboratory Information management System to create a new lab sample. When a new product is being introduced to manufacturing (even if received from external system), retrieve all necessary product specifications (i.e., routes, bills of materials, etc.) from the Product Data Management System. When a work order has been put on hold by Quality, send a message to the ERP to update the status of the order to \u201cHold.\u201d","Business Process Modeler","The Business Process Modeler (BPM) provides the ability to model static manufacturing entities such as: departments, work centers, routes, materials, tooling, machines, locations, users, security profiles, user certifications, data collection templates, recipes, and work instructions.","Application Templates","In order to further support the collaborative scheme, a suite of highly configurable application templates have been engineered to provide basic production management functions such as work order management, WIP management, inventory management, material management, etc. The application templates are designed to be used as stand-alone components, or can be either assembled or configured or both into a cohesive solution to provide a basic foundation layer for a Collaborative Manufacturing Execution System (CMES). Once configured, these application templates provide a highly integrated factory floor information system that is essential to operating a highly efficient manufacturing operation. The application templates leverage ActiveX OCX technology to promote rapid solution configuration and deployment.","The Interwave Coordinator application templates provide the essential production management functions of the Execution layer illustrated in . In particular, the templates provide production dispatching, schedule execution, WIP and resource tracking, document control, data collection, resource management, quality management and process management. These functions are essential with respect to supporting a truly collaborative manufacturing model.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0101","num":"0100"},"figref":["FIG. 10","FIG. 10"]},"Work Order Management Application Template",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0103","num":"0102"},"figref":"FIGS. 11A","b":["11","12","12"]},"Work Order Creation supports automatic creation of work orders based on the latest schedule received from the ERP\/APS. It includes Bill of Materials (BOM) and routing, and also provides the ability to manually create work orders to support WAN\/LAN failure, or R&D production scenarios.","Machine Assignment provides the ability to manually assign\/schedule machines to work orders at specific work centers.","Picklist Assignment provides the ability to create material picklists for production work orders. It provides the ability to reserve inventory items against specific BOM items within a production work order.","Work Order Update provides the ability to modify the quantity, priority, BOM, or routing assignment associated with existing work orders, as shown in . It also provides the ability to assign special instructions to work orders to support custom orders. Work Order Release provides the ability to dispatch work orders for production execution. It also provides the ability to suspend\/hold in-process work orders. Work Order Deletion supports the automatic deletion of work orders based on the revised work order schedule received from ERP\/APS. It also provides the ability to manually delete existing work orders.","WIP Management Application Template",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0109","num":"0108"},"figref":"FIG. 13"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0110","num":"0109"},"figref":"FIGS. 14A and 14B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0111","num":"0110"},"figref":["FIGS. 15A","FIGS. 15A and 15B","FIG. 16","FIG. 17","FIG. 18","FIG. 19","FIG. 20","FIG. 21","FIGS. 9 and 10"],"b":["15","16","21"]},"If required, the Lot Create automatically creates WIP lots when production is reported at a particular work center. Lot Start\/Complete provides the ability to Start and\/or Complete a WIP entity at a given work center or a specific work operation. It also supports the ability to disposition WIP to scrap, rework, inventory, or next work center on route. The Lot Start\/Complete further enforces data collection, material issue, and disposition requirements established for each work order. Containerization is used to provide the ability to assign WIP or Inventory items to a container in order to support bulk transaction processing.","Inventory Management Application Template",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0114","num":"0113"},"figref":"FIG. 45"},"Receiving and Inspection provides the ability to receive and inspect incoming raw materials. Receiving and Inspection supports manual receipt or receipt against purchase orders. Picklist Delivery provides the ability to view picklists for a particular work order\/work center and confirm delivery. Lot Disposition\/Move provides the ability disposition\/move inventory entities to different locations within the system. Lot Split provides the ability to split an inventory entity into multiple entities. The Lot Split further supports the ability to re-grade the split entity.","Lot Merge provides the ability to merge multiple inventory entities into a single entity. Material Re-grade provides the ability to re-grade an existing inventory entity to support material re-classification. Quantity Adjustment provides the ability to modify the quantity of an inventory entity to support cycle counting. Tiered Storage provides the ability to create a hierarchical inventory storage location scheme to support parent\/child storage relationships. Containerization provides the ability to assign inventory items to a container to support bulk transaction processing.","Material Management Application Template",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0118","num":"0117"},"figref":"FIG. 22"},"Genealogy provides full component genealogy and tracking by work center for each work order.","BOM Enforcement displays BOM requirements for a designated work center and work order. BOM Enforcement also provides validation to ensure that proper components are consumed to produce the finished good.","BOM Substitution provides the ability to define substitutes for standard items in the BOM. BOM Substitution also enforces substitute definition within the BOM Enforcement function.","Material Staging provides the ability to stage material at a given work center for automatic consumption.","Automatic Consumption provides the ability to automatically consume staged materials based upon the BOM established for a particular work order.","Manual Consumption provides the ability to manual consume material against BOM items established for a particular work order.","Tool Management Application Template",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0126","num":"0125"},"figref":"FIG. 55"},"Genealogy provides full tool genealogy and tracking by work center for each work order.","Tool Enforcement displays tooling requirements for a designated work center and work order. Tool Enforcement also provides validation to ensure that proper tools are utilized to produce the finished good.","Tool Substitution provides the ability to define substitutes for standard tooling. Tool Substitution enforces substitute definition within the Tool Enforcement function.","Tool Maintenance provides the ability to add new tools to the system, or modify the attributes of existing tools. Tool Maintenance also provides full inventory management and tracking capabilities.","Quality Management Application Template",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0132","num":"0131"},"figref":"FIG. 50"},"Quality Hold provides the ability to issue one or more quality holds against a single WIP or Inventory entity and further implements quality holds by restricting transactional access to held entities. Hold Resolution provides the ability to resolve and release quality holds against a single WIP or Inventory entity. However, it requires selection of a resolution code from a configurable list.","Quality Quarantine provides the ability to issue one or more quarantines against a single WIP or Inventory entity, and further implements quarantines by restricting the ability to release a finished good to inventory. Quarantine Resolution provides the ability to resolve and release quarantine holds against a single WIP or Inventory entity. It also requires selection of resolution code from a configurable list.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0135","num":"0134"},"figref":"FIG. 23"},"Quality Data Collection Application Template",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0137","num":"0136"},"figref":["FIG. 24","FIG. 24"]},"Work Instructions and Electronic Notebook Application Template",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0139","num":"0138"},"figref":"FIG. 25","sup":"rd "},"Electronic Notebook Application Template",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0141","num":"0140"},"figref":"FIG. 54"},"Material Review Board Application Template","The Material Review Board (MRB) application template under Quality Manager supports the features of MRB Submission and MRB Management. MRB Submission provides the ability to submit and subject semi-finished or finished goods to an evaluation prior to being processed or shipped to customers. The MRB Management provides the ability to manage the evaluation, disposition, and documentation processes associated with nonconforming or discrepant materials.","Defect or Waste Tracker Application Template",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0145","num":"0144"},"figref":["FIG. 26","FIG. 26"]},"Downtime Tracker Application Template",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0147","num":"0146"},"figref":"FIG. 27"},"Specification Management Application Template",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0149","num":"0148"},"figref":"FIG. 56"},"Shipping Application Template",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0151","num":"0150"},"figref":"FIG. 46"},"Return Merchandise Authorization Application Template","The Return Merchandise Authorization application template supports Product Return, Product Repair, and Product Shipment. Product Return receives a returned product into the system for repair. It also provides the ability to document the symptoms and problems of the returned product, then determining the disposition of the product as either repair or scrap. Product Repair supports the ability to initiate the repair process and document the repair procedures via pre-configured repair codes. Product Repair can recommend repair procedures based upon repair history. Finally, Product shipment provides the ability to ship the repaired product after all the symptom and repair procedures are well documented.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0154","num":"0153"},"figref":"FIGS. 28A and 28B"},"Engineering Change Order Application Template","The Engineering Change Order (ECO) application template supports the features of Engineering Change Requests (ECR) and ECO Management. At first, ECR submits Engineering Change Requests that may suggest or recommend the possible use of new or changed materials, products, procedures, processes, or methods. Subsequently, ECO provides the ability to initiate and manage the authorization process centered around the use of new or changed materials, products, procedures, processes, or methods within a manufacturing organization.","Support Applications","The Interwave Coordinator CMES application includes support applications to further support its collaborative infrastructure. They are Lab Manager and Shop Scheduler.","Lab Manager Support Application","Lab Manager provides basic Laboratory Information Management System (LIMS) functions to assist engineers and technicians with managing lab data in a manufacturing environment. Lab Manager is a highly configurable LIMS application that supports Sample Management, Lab Test Data Collection, Lab Test Template Maintenance and Lab Instrumentation Management.","The Sample Management function provides automatic (CSV file) and manual sample logging. The manual logging manually logs in samples via a configurable template, as shown in . The configurable template offers multiple or single sample login process and prints out sample ID labels. It also provides visibility to samples and associated test and result data. Furthermore, it provides comprehensive audit trail and enforces a configurable electronic signature scheme, such as Performed By and Verified By.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0162","num":"0161"},"figref":"FIG. 30"},"The Lab Test Data Collection function supports result entry against a group of samples to reduce data entry and partial result entry. It can also enforce automatic holds when specification limits have been exceeded. Repetitive entry schemes are also supported to enhance data entry capabilities. Lab Test Data Collection allows displays of specification limits and supports many types of results, such as textual, list select, or file.","The Lab Test Template Maintenance function supports the ability to configure lab test templates on an item or item class basis, as shown in . It supports template versioning and enables modification of existing templates or browsing of previous revisions. Lab Test Template Maintenance further tracks changes to templates and enforces electronic signatures. Specification limits can defined on a per parameter basis with auto hold capability.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0165","num":"0164"},"figref":"FIG. 32"},"Shop Scheduler Application Template","The Shop Scheduler support application is ideal for finite capacity scheduling, which optimizes the efficiency of manufacturing resources, in dynamic environments. The dynamic environments, as shown in , are environments that focus focuses on fulfilling established work priorities, such as due date, etc. The application pro-actively schedules items in a changing environment, rather than optimizing a stable environment. Shop Scheduler supports the ability to rebuild a production schedule around changing orders, priorities, inventory, or resource availability.","The Shop Scheduler leverages the planning and scheduling capability native to Microsoft\u00ae Project, which is shown in . Microsoft\u00ae Project can be used to display, analyze, and manually adjust the resulting schedule. For example, the calculated schedule is displayed in MS Project, including dependencies and summarization of tasks. The Microsoft\u00ae Project displays can be manually adjusted by using the drag-n-drop features. Furthermore, the Shop Scheduler is featured with an auto update function that automatically updates Shop Scheduler with the changes made within Microsoft\u00ae Project.","The Shop Scheduler is aimed to provide Finite Capacity Scheduling functions to assist manufacturers in coordinating manufacturing activities on the shop floor and generating realistic production sequences. Moreover, it enables the users to visualize the effects of schedule changes and significantly improves accuracy and timeliness of production schedule in dynamic production environment.","Furthermore, the Shop Scheduler enables enterprises to improve their ability to react to business changes rapidly. Shop Scheduler provides the feature of real-time scheduling that quickly updates schedules as changes occur on the factory floor. The visualization feature enables accurate available-to-promise delivery for customer service, and end users get to the visualize impact of, for example, inserting a \u201chot\u201d order on the schedule before dispatching.","In , a flexible and easy way to use the Shop Scheduler is demonstrated by two GUI panels. One panel shows an intuitive user interface that does not require complex synchronization, scripts or functions to create a Schedule Calendar. The second panel shows user-defined prioritization rules in scheduling a particular machine for a job. Besides machines and assembly lines, tools and inventory can be addressed by Shop Schedule. With respect to tool configuration, whether to utilize the tools, and whether to assign a machine, or what assignment to which machine need to be scheduled. With respect to inventory configuration, whether to use inventory, and whether to delay start based on inventory or even the availability dependency all need to be scheduled. The scheduling granularity can be work orders, batches, individual items, or mixed granularity.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0172","num":"0171"},"figref":"FIG. 36"},"The Shop Scheduler functions as a pure scheduling engine and retrieves required input constraint information from external systems to eliminate the need of maintaining redundant data within the application. The data import and export routines are customizable to support a variety of external system interfaces.","The scheduling engine of Shop Scheduler is illustrated in . As shown in , the scheduling engine has many user friendly GUI features for easy access, such as drop-down menu and radio buttons. The radio buttons selection facilitates forward or backward job-step scheduling and drop-down menu specifies the schedule period. It can also coordinate dependant orders by using existing or planned inventory, and incorporate changeover times and yield constraints as well.","Shop Scheduler also includes many standard or custom displays and report capabilities, as shown in .  shows a total schedule GANTT chart display with detailed order input window and a spreadsheet display of resultant schedule.  shows a machine GANTT display with a overview of machine schedule and a particularly selected machine.  shows a order GANTT display with a overview of order and a particularly selected order.  shows an Ad-hoc Query Generator with a query input window and a result display window.  shows a Web-enabled view of the schedule dispatch report, which can be easily transformed into a Schedule GANTT display via IE 5+ browser.","Industry Applications","The Interwave Coordinator CMES application includes industry applications to accelerate time-to-deployment and leverage industry best practices and standards. The industry applications utilize and extend the basic functionality in the universal application templates to address the unique information requirements of a particular manufacturing industry. The specific industry applications claimed by this invention are Roll Tracker, Discrete Assembler, Pharma Manager, MedDevice Tracker and Food Processor.","Roll Tracker Industry Application","The Roll Track industry application provides basic roll tracking functions for manufacturers in the roll goods industry. Roll Tracker is also a highly configurable MES application that supports the capability to coordinate the track the many to one, and one to many production scenarios typical in the roll goods industry.","Specifically, Slit Optimization is included to accommodate unique industry requirements with respect to slitting production items. Slit Optimization applies order cut requirements and calculates allocation for order set up. It also enables fast execution, which significantly reduces time when the number of orders and widths increase. Slit Optimization further supports use of \u201coverage\u201d to improve optimization results and integrates work order output with external scheduling systems.","Discrete Assembler Industry Application","The Discrete assembler industry application provides discrete assembling and tracking functions to customers in the discrete manufacturing sector. Discrete Assembler is a highly configurable MES application that supports component tracking and validation features necessary in the assembly of a discrete product.","Electronics Box Builder Industry Application","Electronics Box Builder industry application provides basic assembly and test functions for manufacturers in the electronics industry that relies heavily on contract equipment manufacturers for board assemblies and components.","Surface Mount Technology (SMT) Assembler Industry Application","SMT Assembler industry application provides surface mount component placement and printed circuit board tracking\/testing functions for manufacturers in the electronics industry printed circuit board manufacturing.","High-speed Data Acquisition is particularly included to accommodate unique industry requirements. Specifically, there are two features involved in High-speed Data Acquisition, they are AutoTracker and AutoCollector. AutoTracker is designed for highly-automated production lines to track electronic components through highly-automated work centers. AutoTracker is configurable for work center tracking stations. Further, AutoTracker recognizes bar code ID and is able to register each process step in MES. AutoTracker also recognize out-of-sequence production and is able to do bi-directional feedback to control layer.","AutoCollector supports product genealogy and is designed for automatic collection of quality data from installed test stations. Furthermore, AutoCollector provides the ability to configure collection frequency and times, such as data source.","Semiconductor Assembler Industry Application","Semiconductor Assembler Industry Application provides basic wafer tracking and data collection for manufacturers in the semiconductor industry. The present invention, a CMES application, can improve the production work flow a great deal.","Pharma Manager Industry Application","The Pharma Manager industry application provides recipe\/specification management, batch execution, on-line data collection and genealogy for pre-weigh and dispensing operations under Food and Drug Administration (FDA) control. Further, Pharma Manager implements all its functionalities in compliance with 21 CFR Part 11 security, and electronic record management guidelines.","MedDevice Tracker Industry Application","The MedDevice Tracker industry application provides basic tracking, genealogy, quality management and data collection functions for manufacturers in the medical device industry under FDA control. Further, MedDevice Tracker implements all its functionalities in compliance with 21 CFR Part 11 security, and electronic record management guidelines.","Food Processor Industry Application","The Food Processor industry application provides basic tracking, genealogy and quality control of inventory and product in the regulated food industry. Moreover, Food Processor industry application implements its functions in accordance with the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) and Hazards Analysis and Critical Control Points (HACCP) standards.","Food Processor is utilized to track waste against production orders for both individual components and finished goods. It also increases WIP visibility and control with on-line KPI's and embedded reporting. Food Processor is able to configure and enforce electronic signature schemes and improve the flexibility of the production process. The Food Processor industry application further includes a plurality of food processing features, such as Formulation, Production and Packaging, QA Product Evaluation, QA Product Test, QA Environmental Test, QA Product Retention, QA Checklist, and HACCP Enforcement.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0198","num":"0197"},"figref":"FIG. 43"},"Particularly, Formulation supports containerization, which is production of multiple batches or containers against a single production order. It also tracks scrap produced against production order, such as ingredients and\/or finished product. Further, Formulation displays formulation step and order specific instructions and current batch history for each production order.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0200","num":"0199"},"figref":"FIG. 44"},"The Production and Packaging GUI displays label printing requirements, label format, product specifications, product recipes, and performance information, i.e., target vs. produced quantity and yield. Moreover, the Production and Packaging GUI displays and enforces bill of material requirements and HACCP data collection requirements.","The QA Lab Product Evaluation function within Food Processor industry application is shown in . The GUI panel provides the ability to configuring product evaluation specifications on a production item basis, and further, define one or more evaluation specifications for a production item. The panel is also capable of enforcing a configurable electronic signature scheme. Moreover, the GUI panel is able to link evaluation data to a plurality of production lots and enter evaluation data against multiple samples for a particular production lot.","The QA Lab Product Test function within the Food Processor industry application is shown in . The GUI panel supports the ability to enter test data against multiple samples for a particular production lot and define minimum and maximum values for each parameter within a test specification. The end users can easily configure product test specifications on a production item basis and define one or more test specifications for a production item through the GUI panel. The panel further links test data to production lots and enforces a configurable electronic signature scheme.","The QA Lab Environmental Test function within the Food Processor industry application is shown in . The GUI panel provides the ability to configure environmental test specifications on a location basis and define one or more test specifications for a location. It is also capable of defining minimum and maximum values for each test specification parameter and enforces a configurable electronic signature scheme.","The QA Hold Management function within the Food Processor is shown in . The QA Hold Management is used to issue multiple holds against a production entity and for issuing individual releases. The QA Hold Management is able to prevents raw materials from being consumed with a status of HOLD and prevents production entities from being shipped with the status of HOLD. Further from being able to capture hold and release reason codes, the QA Hold Management is able to enforce configurable electronic signature under Performed By and Verified By scheme.","The QA Product Retention function within Food Processor is shown in . The GUI panel provides the ability to enter product retention samples and associated data, disposition samples to other locations within the system, and discard retained samples that have exceeded the required retention window. Furthermore, the QA Production Retention function links retention samples to production lots for genealogy and product recall purposes. As other GUI panels discussed above, the QA Product Retention function enforces a configurable electronic signature scheme.","The QA Checklist function within Food Processor is used to define an execution schedule for each checklist, and to log a deficiency and corrective action, and preventive measure for each item in a checklist. The QA Checklist displays required and actual execution date and time for each checklist, as shown in , and enforces a configurable electronic signature scheme.","In , a HACCP Data Entry window and a HACCP Data Collection Log window of the HACCP Enforcement functions within Food Processor are shown. Both quantity and time based HACCP data collection schemes are enforceable by the HACCP Enforcement function. Data is collected through the configurable data collection templates. Further, it supports full audit trail of data collection activities, and displays the history of HACCP data collection activities for a particular work order.","Connectors","The Interwave Coordinator CMES application includes two connector modules to provide a standardized mechanism to interface with the business system and plant floor automation systems. These connectors are the XML Business System Connector and the OPC Shop Floor Connector.","XML Business Connector Module","The XML Business Connector module provides connectivity to supply chain modules\/business systems such as ERP, APS, PDM, etc. It provides a standard mechanism (XML schema) for receiving work orders, bill of materials (BOM), bill of routes (BOR), and tooling. Additionally, the XML Business Connector provides a standard mechanism (XML schema) for reporting material consumptions\/issues, scrap and production associated with a work center.","Ole for Process Control (OPC) Shop Floor Connector Module","The OPC Shop Floor Connector module provides connectivity to the shop floor control automation systems via an OPC connection. It also provides a standard mechanism for downloading machine setup\/recipe information, or work order specification information from the production management layer to the shop floor automation system. Furthermore, the shop floor automation system sends alerts and events to the production management layer via the OPC Shop Floor Connector module.","Visualization","The Digital Dashboard module is a visualization module included in the Interwave Coordinator CMES application. It provides visibility into the performance of the manufacturing enterprise. The Digital Dashboard module enables the configuration of a personalized performance dashboard view on an individual user basis.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0217","num":"0216"},"figref":["FIGS. 15A","FIGS. 15A and 15B","FIG. 16","FIG. 17","FIG. 18","FIG. 19","FIG. 20","FIG. 21"],"b":["15","16","21"]},"Utilities","The Interwave Coordinator CMES application includes six utility modules to perform standard utility type functions. These are Event Messenger, Work Traveler, Label Manager, Data Archiver, Auto Tracker and Auto Collector. Each of these modules has strengthened the performance of the CMES disclosed in the present invention.","Event Messenger Module","Event Messenger module provides the ability of sending e-mail or text based pager messages to users based upon production events or upset conditions that affects the manufacturing production. It is also able to configure user groups and associate event messages with user groups.","Work Traveler Module","Work Traveler module supports the ability to define the content of the traveler from pre-configured option lists (i.e., BOM, routing, work instructions, etc). Work Traveler specifies the text displayed in the header and footer of the traveler, and further assigns work traveler definitions to products or classes of products. Furthermore, Work Traveler prints travelers on demand or automatically at the start or completion of a process step\/operation. Work Traveler is also able to store travelers in a central location to reduce maintenance and deployment costs.","Label Manager Module","Label Manager module supports the ability to define the content of a label from pre-configured option lists (i.e., BOM, routing, work instructions, etc.). Label Manager assigns label definitions to products or classes of products, and further prints labels on demand or automatically based upon an event (i.e., the start or completion of a work order). Finally, Label Manager store labels in a central location to reduce maintenance and deployment costs.","Data Archiver Module","Data Archiver module provides the ability to configure an archiving scheme for the production database to increase system performance. Further, Data Archiver supports the ability of archiving data to a data warehouse and deleting information from the production database.","Auto Tracker Module","Auto Tracker module provides the ability to track WIP items through highly automated work centers via barcode technology. Furthermore, it supports the ability to create and configure tracking stations, and attach specific tracking attributes. Finally, Auto Tracker sends alerts and events to the shop floor automation system to annunciate upset conditions and events that occur in the production management layer.","Auto Collector Module","Auto Collector module provides the ability to automatically collect quality data from test machines against a particular production entity. Furthermore, it supports the ability to define collection scenarios such as collection frequency and data source.","While the invention has been particularly shown and described with reference to a preferred embodiment or a specifically designed template, it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes in form and detail may be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The foregoing and other objects of the invention are described with reference to the following figures in which like elements are referred to by the same or similar reference numerals.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":["FIGS. 4A and 4B","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":["FIG. 8","FIG. 7"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":"FIG. 9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIG. 10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":"FIGS. 11A","b":["11","12","12"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":"FIG. 13"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":"FIGS. 14A and 14B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":"FIGS. 15A","b":["15","16","21"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":"FIG. 22"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"figref":"FIG. 23"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0034"},"figref":"FIG. 24"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"figref":"FIG. 25"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0037","num":"0036"},"figref":"FIG. 26"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0037"},"figref":"FIG. 27"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0039","num":"0038"},"figref":"FIGS. 28A and 28B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0040","num":"0039"},"figref":"FIG. 29"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0041","num":"0040"},"figref":"FIG. 30"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0042","num":"0041"},"figref":"FIG. 31"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0043","num":"0042"},"figref":"FIG. 32"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0044","num":"0043"},"figref":"FIG. 33"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0045","num":"0044"},"figref":"FIG. 34"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0046","num":"0045"},"figref":"FIG. 35"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0047","num":"0046"},"figref":"FIG. 36"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0048","num":"0047"},"figref":"FIG. 37"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0049","num":"0048"},"figref":"FIG. 38"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0050","num":"0049"},"figref":"FIG. 39"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0051","num":"0050"},"figref":"FIG. 40"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0052","num":"0051"},"figref":"FIG. 41"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0053","num":"0052"},"figref":"FIG. 42"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0054","num":"0053"},"figref":"FIG. 43"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0055","num":"0054"},"figref":"FIG. 44"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0056","num":"0055"},"figref":"FIG. 45"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0057","num":"0056"},"figref":"FIG. 46"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0058","num":"0057"},"figref":"FIG. 47"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0059","num":"0058"},"figref":"FIG. 48"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0060","num":"0059"},"figref":"FIG. 49"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0061","num":"0060"},"figref":"FIG. 50"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0062","num":"0061"},"figref":"FIG. 51"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0063","num":"0062"},"figref":"FIG. 52"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0064","num":"0063"},"figref":"FIG. 53"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0065","num":"0064"},"figref":"FIG. 54"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0066","num":"0065"},"figref":"FIG. 55"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0067","num":"0066"},"figref":"FIG. 56"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
