---
title: Optical data communication
abstract: The present invention employs a method for transmitting and/or receiving high data bandwidths at reduced cost by employing a holographically corrected telescope for transmitting or receiving data-carrying signals remotely, at IR, optical or UV frequencies for low cost data communication.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07102804&OS=07102804&RS=07102804
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Air Force
number: 07102804
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20030129
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["RELATED APPLICATIONS","STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENT INTEREST","FIELD OF THE INVENTION","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DISCRIPTION OF PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS"],"p":["This application is a CIP of patent application, Ser. No. 09\/465,974, filed on 13 Dec. 1999 now abandoned, having the same title and applicant.","The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalty thereon.","This invention relates to optical data communication, particularly data communication by corrected optics.","Holographic correction of aberrated optical elements has been demonstrated in the prior art. The adaptation of this technique for correcting large optical components for telescopes was first suggested in 1971. The basic principle has not changed much since then, with only minor variations in the method by which this correction is achieved. The main emphasis of such research however, has been to use these holographically corrected telescopes (HCTs) for imaging, lidar (light ranging and detection) or directed energy weaponry. However, there has been no suggestion in the prior art that this device could be used for other purposes such as in data communications.","Data transmission relies on the modulation of an electromagnetic carrier wave broadcast by a suitable antenna to a receiving antenna where the signal is demodulated and the information extracted. Most communications networks broadcast through the atmosphere or in space use radio or microwave frequencies because it is easy to modulate these carrier waves and they are largely unaffected by weather. Unfortunately, due to diffraction of these large waves, even emitters several meters in size tend to scatter the broadcast signal over a large area. This spreading of the signal wastes much of the signal power as well as reducing the Signal to Noise Ratio (SNR) at the receiver. The SNR is a measure of the strength of the received carrier wave compared to the random emissions at the same frequency coming from other sources. It is important to have a large SNR so that the desired information can be separated from signals that do not come from the transmitter. The SNR depends heavily on the size of the transmitter and receiver as well as the frequency of the carrier wave.","Ideally, a communications network would utilize infrared, optical or UV frequencies, which are much higher than radio or microwave frequencies. At these wavelengths, a signal diffracts less, which means a beam can be transmitted with much less spread, resulting in less wasted power, a more secure transmission, and a higher SNR. The higher frequencies also means that the signal can be modulated at a much higher rate allowing for higher data bandwidths and hence a larger amount of data over a given channel in a specific period of time. This is the reason that optical fiber communications have gained so much prominence in recent years.","One of the major problems with optical communications has been that the receiver and transmitter optics must have a very accurate surface figure\u2014to a fraction of the wavelength of the radiation used. At radio and microwave frequencies where the wavelengths are anywhere from 1 cm to 1 m, it is relatively simple to manufacture a dish (or telescope) which has a surface quality at this tolerance. At infrared and optical wavelengths, however, where the wavelengths are around a micron (a millionth of a meter), it is expensive to fabricate large telescopes to these specifications. For a space-based network of communications satellites, there is the added problem of ensuring that the mirrors maintain their high surface quality during launch, deployment and lifetime in a thermally stressful environment.","Accordingly, there is need and market for an optical data communication system that overcomes the above prior art shortcomings.","There has now been discovered a method for data communication of clarity of transmision employing optics of low cost.","Broadly, the present invention provides a method for transmitting and\/or receiving high data bandwidths at reduced cost by employing a holographically corrected telescope for remotely transmitting or receiving data-carrying signals at IR, optical or UV frequencies for low cost data communication.","The invention further provides a method for transmitting or receiving, signals having high data bandwidths at reduced cost comprising,","a) employing at least one telescope of low cost mirrors or lenses having defects,","b) correcting for the defects of the mirrors or lenses by writing at least one hologram thereof and","c) transmitting or receiving data-carrying signals at IR, optical or UV frequencies through the telescope optics and the hologram. for accurate processing thereof.","Definitions:","By: a \u201cprimary\u201d (or secondary) as used herein, is meant a primary (or secondary) objective of lens or mirror.","There are two processes involved in making the inventive telescope. The first includes writing (exposing) the hologram to record information about the primary mirror. The second step involves using the hologram to correct for the aberrations of the primary. These are usually separate steps, but in the case of real-time holography, they can take place at the same time.","A hologram is a diffractive element created by the combination of at least two coherent light sources (see ). Where these two beams intersect, an interference pattern is produced. A recording of this pattern is the hologram . The major property of this hologram is that if one of the original beams used to write the hologram is directed onto the recorded pattern, part of the light will diffract off to recreate the wavefront of the other beam (). In the case of a communications device, the hologram is created by the interference of an optically perfect wave (the reference beam) and a heavily distorted wave from a poor quality telescope optic (the object beam). After recording, the distorted light from the telescope, the hologram will be used to recreate the undistorted wavefront of the reference beam, to produce a near perfect point focus.","It should be mentioned that holograms can be recorded in several different ways, e.g., in a permanent medium such as photosensitive film, photopolymers or fixable photorefractive crystals. In these materials, the hologram is a static record of the interference pattern between the two beams at a particular instant in time. Other recording possibilities include real-time media such as four-wave mixing in photorefractive materials or various types of spatial light modulators in which the hologram is continuously and simultaneously recorded and reconstructed. The operation of the holographically corrected telescope can be adapted to suit any type of hologram. Further, it is not essential that visible light be used, since many of these media can be used at other wavelengths. The generic terms \u201clight\u201d and \u201coptical\u201d are meant to pertain to any part of the electromagnetic spectrum.","There are many possible designs for holographically correcting an optical system for use as a communications transmitter\/receiver. One method is as follows:","A. Recording","The writing of the hologram () begins with a source of coherent light, such as a laser beam  which is split into two separate beams by a beamsplitter . One of these beams reflects off a mirror  and passes through a spatial filter . A spatial filter is a lens\/pinhole combination used to \u201cclean up\u201d a laser beam by removing all high spatial frequencies. The lens in the spatial filter focuses the beam through a pinhole of such a small size that only the lowest order spatial frequency can pass through. After being spatially filtered, the expanding beam is collimated by a high quality lens  to produce a diffraction limited plane wave reference beam. A beam is said to be diffraction limited if the phase of the wavefront nowhere exceeds a quarter of the wavelength of the light. Such a beam is generally recognized as being optically perfect, and any improvement on the phase error of the wavefront will produce a negligible effect to an image formed using this beam.","The second beam required to form the hologram comes from the distorted primary. A point source of laser light, spatial filter , located a long distance away is used to illuminate the primary. In most cases this is achieved using a spatial filter, but if the distance to the laser is large enough, the natural spreading of the laser beam alone due to diffraction, may be large enough to fully illuminate the mirror, in which case a spatial filter may not be required.","The focused, reflected light from the poor-quality primary  is gathered by a secondary optic  and produces an image of the surface of the primary onto the plane of the recording medium . Optics  &  can be either refractive (a lens) or reflective (a mirror) with any surface curvature. In this distant beacon approach, it is not strictly necessary to use a high quality secondary optic, though the better the quality, the higher the field of view of the final telescope. It is also not strictly necessary to place the hologram at the image plane of the mirror, though due to the lack of intensity variations at this position, a higher quality hologram will be produced, with less light losses on reconstruction. In fact, optic  could be discarded altogether, with the light from the primary focused directly onto the hologram. However, this would both reduce the field of view and produce a poorer quality hologram, though it would simplify the design and reduce the weight of the telescope.","The reference beam  is made to interfere with the object beam  at the recording medium . In , this is done using a reflection of a single directing mirror  but in practice, any number of mirrors (or none at all) will suffice, so long as the reference beam is made to intersect the object beam at the plane of the recording medium. The recorded interference pattern is the hologram . As mentioned previously, the recording material can be one of many suitable media for recording interference patterns such as photosensitive films, nonlinear crystals, photopolymers or spatial light modulators in either a fixed medium or a real-time medium. Both transmission or reflection holograms will work, and they can be binary, intensity, relief or phase holograms. After processing, the reconstruction process takes place per .","B1. Replay\/Reconstruction as a Receiver","A distant transmitter  of , now broadcasts a modulated laser signal at the telescope. The frequency of this signal is identical to that of the laser used to record the hologram in the previous step. The aberrated primary mirror  focuses this light onto the secondary  which once again transmits a beam  and forms an image of the primary onto the plane of the recording medium . Since this beam is just like the object beam created in the recording process, when it strikes the hologram, a second beam  is created which is a reconstruction of the original reference beam with the signal modulation still retained. Since this beam is free from any aberrations, it can be focused by a suitable optic, a lens  in this case, to a very small, highly intense point, where a detector  can be placed. In this way, a perfectly focused beam of light can be obtained from a mirror. that would otherwise produce a focus over a large area, decreasing the SNR at the detector.","B2. Replay\/Reconstruction as a Transmitter","A modulated reference beam  from transmitter  per , is collimated by a suitable optic, in this case a lens . This beam is then directed onto the hologram , along the reverse path of the reference beam used to record the hologram. At the hologram a beam is created which can pass back through the telescope optics  and . The nature of this beam is such that when it emerges from the primary  as beam , it is free of aberrations, but still contains the signal modulation originally introduced to the reference beam . This beam is the transmitted signal that is sent to the distant receiver or detector  of .","Preferably the source of coherent light, laser beam , is remote from the optic  to be corrected, in , i.e., at least 1 km or more removed from such optic .","That is, the preferred correction scheme in the present invention, provides a distant laser source for both recording and replay as opposed to a local or proximal recording scheme to correct a for distant light source.","By \u201cdistant or remote\u201d laser source is meant the \u201cdiffraction far-field\u201d of the telescope is defined as follows:","For a telescope aperture size (D) and laser wavelength (w) the diffraction far-field is a distance (x) such that:\n\n\n","Thus for a 1 meter (m) diameter mirror (objective) and a wavelength of 500 nm (green), a laser source would desirably be located a distance >2 times 10m or 2000 km for accurate writing or recording of a corrective hologram such as hologram  in .","In another example, to obtain a far-field distance (x) below say 10 km, the telescope aperture (objective) size would need to be about 10 cm or less across or diameter, a small telescope.","As indicated above, for big telescopes, the far-field distance is much greater. For practical telescopes, one can say that a distance of 1 km or more and even 10 km or more are suitable distances from light source  to mirror , in , or in , the location of distant transmitter  from mirror , or in , the location of distant receiver or detector  from mirror  are also suitable.","Generally the hologram  and optic  are located proximate to the mirror or objective , i.e., within 100 meters or less.","Also, the aperture size (D) can range in length or diameter from 1 cm to 10 cm to 1 m to 10 m or more within the scope of the invention.","In another embodiment of the invention, it is feasible to correct for aberrations present in both receiver and transmitter with a single hologram. This design greatly simplifies the construction of a holographically corrected transmitter\/receiver pair, and provides a compact package for each. One arrangement, per , is as follows:","To record the hologram, a laser beam  of  is passed through a spatial filter , producing a point source of light which illuminates a primary mirror  from its focal point. The reflected light is captured by another primary mirror  some distance away, which focuses the light down through a secondary optic , as beam , onto a holographic recording medium . A hologram  is formed by the interference of the beam  and a coherent plane wave reference beam  at such medium , as shown in  and constructed as outlined in the previous example above, per .","When data is to be transmitted, the same set-up is used per . A laser beam  is modulated and the light passes through the same optical elements (\u2013) to reconstruct the reference beam  of  as beam . The beam  is then focused with a suitable optic such as lens , to give an unaberrated focal spot on a detector . Both the receiver  &  and the transmitter  can be low-quality optics which are corrected by a single hologram. As demonstrated above (sections B1 and B2), the transmitter and receiver are interchangeable, so the detector  can be replaced with a modulated signal laser which can broadcast along the reverse path to be detected at the focal point of primary  where spatial modulator  is shown.","The use of holographically corrected optics and optical devices for data transmission and reception has several advantages over the prior art, that is;\n\n","Thus the invention provides a low cost method of transmitting or receiving optical, IR and UV data by correcting for defects and aberrations in low cost optics to transmit data images of high clarity and\/or high SNR.","More specifically, if a hologram is recorded of the imperfections of a low quality optical element, such as a large curved mirror for a telescope, the same hologram can be used to remove the distortions present in an image formed by the telescope primary. This invention is a new use for this concept in that the holographically corrected telescope can be used as transmitter\/receiver for optical\/infrared\/UV data communications. This greatly reduces the cost of manufacturing and installing such receivers while improving the bandwidth of a communications relay over conventional radio networks. Furthermore, the simplicity and ease of construction of this device makes it ideal for a network (including space-based) of low-cost high-bandwidth communications receivers."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The invention will become more apparent from the following detailed specification and drawings in which;",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIGS. 1","i":["a ","b "],"b":"1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 2"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 2"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 5"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 7"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
