---
title: Methods for transmitting data across quantum interfaces and quantum gates using same
abstract: Quantum gaps exist between an origin and a destination that heretofore have prevented reliably utilizing the advantages of quantum computing. To predict the outcome of instructions with precision, the input data, preferably a qubit, is collapsed to a point value within the quantum gap based on a software instruction. After collapse the input data is restructured at the destination, wherein dynamics of restructuring are governed by a plurality of gap factors as follows: computational self-awareness; computational decision logic; computational processing logic; computational and network protocol and logic exchange; computational and network components, logic and processes; provides the basis for excitability of the Gap junction and its ability to transmit electronic and optical impulses, integrates them properly, and depends on feedback loop logic; computational and network component and system interoperability; and embodiment substrate and network computational physical topology.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07451292&OS=07451292&RS=07451292
owner: 
number: 07451292
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20030808
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATION","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS","Quantum Gap","Quantum-Mechanically Inversely-Related Input\/Output, Ingress\/Egress, Encoding\/Decoding","A Cosmic Clock to Ensure Flawless Temporal Operation at All Scales","Spatial and Temporal Interconnectivity","Quantum Gate  Four-Tier (Three Spatial, One Temporal) Quantum Network Computational Density","Optical Photon Quantum Computer","Optical Cavity Quantum Electrodynamics","Nuclear magnetic Resonance","Ion Trap","Harmonic Oscillator Quantum Computer","Square Well Quantum Computer","Further Quantum Computer Realizations"],"p":["This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60\/402,427, filed Aug. 10, 2002, which is incorporated herein by reference.","1. Field of the Invention","The subject disclosure relates to quantum computing and related components, and more particularly to improved quantum computing gates, quantum computing memory registers, quantum computing switches and quantum computing routers using a data transmission process that collapses the data to a point value and reconstructs the data thereafter.","2. Background of the Invention","Classical computers are constructed from sets of electrical circuits containing wires and logic gates where the wires convey information around the circuit and the logic gates manipulate the information. The only non-trivial example of a classical single-bit logic gate is the NOT gate, whose operation is defined by its truth table, in which 0\u21921 and 1\u21920, meaning that the 0 and 1 states are interchanged.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0007","num":"0006"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["10","12","1"]},"Two classical gates not shown in  are the FANOUT and CROSSOVER gates. The FANOUT circuit gate enables bits to divide, that is, it replaces a bit with two copies of itself. The CROSSOVER gate interchanges the value of two bits.  also does not illustrate the preparation of additional ancilla or work bits, that create additional working space during classical computation.","Circuit elements ranging from simple to highly complex are routinely assembled from combinations of all of these classical gates to compute all possible classical functions. Five major elements that are utilized in universal circuit construction include: i) Wires, that preserve the states of bits; ii) Ancilla bits prepared in standard states and used in the n=1 case of a given proof; iii) The CROSSOVER operation; iv) The FANOUT operation; and v) The AND, XOR and NOT gates.","The limits of this time-tested approach to computing can be seen on the horizon. An extrapolation of the exponential trend of miniaturization, which has held since 1950 under Moore's Law, indicates the attainment of a limit of single-atom bits and Single Electron Transistors (SETs). Prior to efficient attainment of the single-atom bit and single-electron transistor scales, it will be necessary to use quantum effects to read bits from and write bits to the memory registers of nano-, pico-, (and soon thereafter) femto-, atto-, zepto- and yocto-scale computers and network nodes.","Moore's Law is exponential; any classical approach demands exponential increases in space or time. Even the Avagadro's number of elements in a molecular computer is quickly limited by the size of the exponential problem. Of all the candidate technologies to continue scaling beyond the Very Large Scale Integration (VLSI) era, quantum logic has one unique feature. Quantum computing accesses Hilbert space, the one exponential resource that has been untapped for computation.","Two essential bases to quantum computer and network systems are:\n\n","Bosons (the ultimate basis of optical computing and networking) are particles whose spin is a whole number. Fermions (the ultimate basis of electronic computing and networking) are particles whose spin is half of a whole (odd) number\u2014tend to give canceling quantum-mechanical contributions.","When the quantum jitters of a boson are positive, those of a fermion tend to be negative, and vice versa. Since supersymmetry ensures that bosons and fermions occur in pairs, substantial cancellations occur from the outset\u2014cancellations that ultimately calm the apparently frenzied quantum effects.","Continuing trends in miniaturization have ushered in the inexorable requirement to use quantum physics to describe the elementary and complex operations of computers and networks. Classical models of computation, based on a mathematical idealization known as the Universal Turing Machine, are rendered invalid at the atomic (10meter) and electronic\/photonic (10meter) quantum computational scales. At these or more expressed junctures, the entire spectrum of computing and computer networking\u2014from design of quantum algorithms, to loading programs, loading network configurations, to running programs and configurations, to reading results\u2014will necessarily be dominated by quantum effects.","While the Universal Turing Machine model is essentially flawed outside of classical physics-based computations, it is, however, as applicable today as it was at its inception by Alan Turing in 1936 (it is noteworthy that Alonso Church, Kurt Godel and Emil Post each independently created mathematical models of the computing process around the same period). The Deterministic Turing Machine (DTM) model consists of an infinitely long tape that is marked off into a sequence of cells on which can be written a \u20180\u2019, a \u20181\u2019, or a blank, and a read\/write head that is able to move back and forth along the tape scanning the contents of each tape cell. The head therefore, can exist in one of a finite number of internal states and contains a set of instructions (that constitute the program) specifying how the state must change given the bit currently being read under the head, whether the bit should be subsequently changed, and in which direction the head should then be advanced. Unfortunately, the Turing model proves that, given sufficient time and memory capacity, there is not a single computation that a supercomputer can perform that a personal computer could not also perform.","The Probabilistic Turing Machine (PTM) model incorporates a DTM with the ability to make a random choice. The PTM has multiple possible successor states available to any given state, whereas a DTM, in a given state, reading a certain symbol, has precisely one successor state available to itself. However, the probabilistic computation model introduces tradeoffs between the time required to return an answer to a given computation, and the probability that the returned answer is correct. Therefore, if a correct answer is required (almost certainly always the case) uncertainty is encountered in the length of time a probabilistic algorithm must run. The Turing Machine model has been known to contain fundamental flaws since the early 1980s when it first became evident that DTM and PTM models were bounded by classical space-time symmetry physics. As computers, network nodes and their components increasingly miniaturize, their behavior must be properly described through the physics appropriate for small scales\u2014quantum physics.","The first truly quantum Turing machine (QTM) was described in 1985 by David Deutsch of Oxford University following initial descriptions of quantum mechanical computation by Richard Feynman of Caltech in 1982. Whereas a classical Turing machine could only encode a \u20180\u2019, \u20181\u2019, or blank in each cell of its tape, a QTM could encode a blend, or \u201csuperposition,\u201d of \u20180\u2019, and \u20181\u2019 simultaneously. Quantum computing superposition encoding enables performance of calculations on all of the inputs in the time required to perform just one calculation classically, and is known as quantum parallelism.","The determination that each bit in a QTM can be a blend of a \u20180\u2019 and a \u20181\u2019 can be illustrated by representing each quantum bit, or qubit, as a vector contained within a sphere where a \u201cstraight up\u201d position represents the (classical) binary value of \u20180\u2019, a \u201cstraight down\u201d position represents the (classical) binary value of \u20181\u2019, and when the vector is at any other position, the angle the vector makes with the vertical axis is a measure of the ratio of \u20180-ness\u2019 to \u20181-ness\u2019 within the qubit. The angle made by this vector with the vertical axis is related to the relative contributions of the |\u03c8> and |\u03c8> eigenstates to the whole state. Therefore, a given qubit state can have equal proportions of \u20180-ness\u2019 and \u20181-ness\u2019 but actually displays differential amplitudes due to different phase factors.","A QTM can be considered as a quantum mechanical generalization of a PTM with the significant difference that in a classical PTM only one particular computational trajectory is followed, whereas within a QTM all computational trajectories are followed and the resulting superposition results from the summation over all possible trajectories achievable in time t.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":["14","16"],"br":[{},{},{},{}],"in-line-formulae":[{},{},{},{}]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0023"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00001","num":"00001"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mi":"X","mo":"\u2261","mrow":{"mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":[{"mn":"0"},{"mn":"1"}]},{"mtd":[{"mn":"1"},{"mn":"0"}]}]}},"mo":"."}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":"Formula","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},"mn":"3"}}}]}}}},"br":{}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0024"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00002","num":"00002"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":{"mi":"\u03b1"}},{"mtd":{"mi":"\u03b2"}}]}},"mo":","}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":"Formula","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},"mn":"4"}}}]}}}},"br":{}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0025"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00003","num":"00003"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mi":"\u03c7","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":{"mi":"\u03b1"}},{"mtd":{"mi":"\u03b2"}}]}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":{"mi":"\u03b2"}},{"mtd":{"mi":"\u03b1"}}]}},"mo":"."}],"mo":"="}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":"Formula","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},"mn":"5"}}}]}}}},"br":{}},"Two significant single-qubit gates are the Z gate and the Hadamard gate. The Z gate leaves |0> unchanged and flips the sign of |1> to \u2212|1>:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0027"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00004","num":"00004"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mi":"Z","mo":"\u2261","mrow":{"mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":[{"mn":"1"},{"mn":"0"}]},{"mtd":[{"mn":"0"},{"mrow":{"mo":"-","mn":"1"}}]}]}},"mo":"."}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":"Formula","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},"mn":"6"}}}]}}}},"br":{}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0028"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00005","num":"00005"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mi":"H","mo":"\u2261","mrow":{"mrow":{"mfrac":{"mn":"1","msqrt":{"mn":"2"}},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":[{"mn":"1"},{"mn":"1"}]},{"mtd":[{"mn":"1"},{"mrow":{"mo":"-","mn":"1"}}]}]}}},"mo":"."}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":"Formula","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},"mn":"7"}}}]}}}},"br":{}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0029"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00006","num":"00006"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mi":"cos","mo":"\u2062","mfrac":{"mi":"\u03a5","mn":"2"}}},{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mo":"-","mi":"sin"},"mo":"\u2062","mfrac":{"mi":"\u03a5","mn":"2"}}}]},{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mi":"sin","mo":"\u2062","mfrac":{"mi":"\u03a5","mn":"2"}}},{"mrow":{"mi":"cos","mo":"\u2062","mfrac":{"mi":"\u03a5","mn":"2"}}}]}]}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":"Formula","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},"mn":"8"}}}]}}}},"br":{},"sup":["i",{"sup2":"\u03b1"}]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0030"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00007","num":"00007"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":[{"msup":{"mi":"\u2147","mrow":{"mrow":[{"mo":"-","mi":"i"},{"mi":"\u03b2","mo":"\/","mn":"2"}],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}}}},{"mn":"0"}]},{"mtd":[{"mn":"0"},{"msup":{"mi":"\u2147","mrow":{"mi":"i","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mrow":{"mi":"\u03b2","mo":"\/","mn":"2"}}}}]}]}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":"Formula","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},"mn":"9"}}}]}}}},"br":{},"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0003","list-style":"none"},"li":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0003-0001","num":"0000"},"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0004","list-style":"none"},"li":["Suitable state space; quantum computational circuits operate on some number, n, of qubits, therefore, the quantum computational state space is a 2-dimensional Hilbert space, with product state of the form |X, . . . , X>, where (X=0,1) are called computational basis states.","Any computational basis state |X, . . . , X> can be prepared in \u2266n steps.","Quantum gates that can be applied to any subset of qubits and a universal family of gates that can be implemented.","Ability to perform measurements in the computational basis of \u22671 qubit(s).","Inherent ability to perform classical (non-quantum) computations if quantum computations are not required."]}}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0036"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":["18","20","22"],"sup":["2","2","i",{"sup2":"\u03c6"}]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0037"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":["22","24"]},"The Toffoli gate  and its corresponding truth table  is shown in  and is interesting because it can be implemented both as a classical and as a quantum logic gate. One of its main roles as a quantum gate is to enable simulation of classical logic circuitry. Whereas several classical logic gates such as the NAND gate are inherently irreversible, any classical circuit can be replaced by an equivalent quantum circuit containing only reversible elements through use of the reversible Toffoli quantum gate. The Toffoli gate has three input bits and three output bits, where two of the bits are control bits that are unaffected by the action of the gate. The third bit is a target bit that is flipped if both control bits are set to 1, otherwise the target bit is not changed. Reversibility of the Toffoli gate is shown by applying the gate twice to a set of bits as [(a,b,c)\u2192(a,b,c\u2295ab)\u2192(a,b,c)].","Quantum logic gates are the basic units of quantum computational algorithms just as classical logic gates are the basic units of classical computational algorithms. The major distinction between the quantum and classical computational contexts is that quantum gates must be implemented unitarily and, in particular, must incorporate reversible operations. The OR statement on two classical bits, for example, is not invertible since the four possible inputs {00, 01, 10, 11} map onto only two possible outputs {0, 1}.","Major quantum algorithmic classes include:","Classical computations on a quantum computer; enabled, for example, by the Toffoli gate.","Quantum parallelism; a feature of several quantum algorithms that enables quantum computers to evaluate a function \u0192(x) for multiple different values of x simultaneously. If, for example, \u0192(x): {0,1}\u2192{1,0} is a function with a one-qubit domain and range, and a two-qubit quantum operation initializes in the state |x, y>, an appropriate sequence of quantum logic gates can transform this state \u2192|x,y\u2295\u0192(x)>, where \u2295 is addition modulo 2, the first register is the data register, and the second register is the target register. The transformation map |x,y>\u2192|x,y\u2295\u0192(x)> is unitary (U). Quantum circuits can be constructed that apply U to inputs not in the computational basis and where the data register is prepared in the superposition (|0>+|1>)\/\u221a\u25a1. A Hadamard gate, for example, acts on |0>, then U is applied, with the resulting state |0,\u0192(0)>+|1,\u0192(1)>\/\u221a\u25a1. This result contains information about both \u0192(0) and \u0192(1). A single quantum \u0192(x) circuit has therefore been used to evaluate the function for multiple values of x simultaneously.","Deutsch's algorithm; this quantum algorithm combines quantum parallelism with the interference property of quantum mechanics, resulting in the ability to determine a global property of \u0192(x), that is, \u0192(0)\u2295\u0192(1), through a single evaluation of \u0192(x). The Deutsch-Jozsa algorithm is related.","Quantum simulation algorithm; simulation seeks to solve differential equations that capture laws governing the dynamic behavior of a system. Classical computation cannot effectively simulate quantum system behavior as even simple quantum systems are governed by Schr\u00f6dinger's equation",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0039","num":"0045"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00008","num":"00008"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mi":["i","\u210f"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mfrac":{"mo":"\u2146","mrow":{"mo":"\u2146","mi":"t"}},"mrow":{"mo":["\uf603","\u232a"],"mi":"\u03c8"}},{"mi":"H","mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mo":["\uf603","\u232a"],"mi":"\u03c8"}}],"mo":"="}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":"Formula","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},"mn":"10"}}}]}}}},"br":[{},{},{},{}],"sup":["n","\u2212iHt"],"in-line-formulae":[{},{},{},{}],"i":["id|\u03c8>\/dt=H|\u03c8>","t","e"]},"Quantum Fast Fourier Transform (QFFT); The QFFT is the key component of quantum factoring, order-finding, period-finding, order of a permutation, hidden linear function, and Abelian stabilizer algorithms. The discrete (non-quantum) Fast Fourier Transform (FFT) receives as input a vector of complex numbers, x, . . . , xwhere the length N of the vector is fixed. The transformed data is output as a vector of complex numbers y, . . . , ywhere",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0041","num":"0047"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00009","num":"00009"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["y","k"]},"mo":"\u2261","mrow":{"mfrac":{"mn":"1","msqrt":{"mi":"N"}},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"munderover":{"mo":"\u2211","mrow":[{"mi":"j","mo":"=","mn":"0"},{"mi":"N","mo":"-","mn":"1"}]},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mrow":{"msubsup":{"mi":["x","j"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"msup":{"mi":"\u2147","mrow":{"mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mi":["\u03c0","i"],"mstyle":[{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.6em","height":"0.6ex"}}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}],"mrow":{"mi":["jk","N"],"mo":"\/"}},"mo":"\u2062","mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}}},"mo":"."}}}}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":"Formula","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},"mn":"13"}}}]}}}},"br":{}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0042","num":"0048"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00010","num":"00010"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mo":["\uf603","\u232a"],"mi":"j"},{"mfrac":{"mn":"1","msqrt":{"mi":"N"}},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"munderover":{"mo":"\u2211","mrow":[{"mi":"k","mo":"=","mn":"0"},{"mi":"N","mo":"-","mn":"1"}]},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mrow":{"msup":{"mi":"\u2147","mrow":{"mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mi":["\u03c0","i"],"mstyle":[{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}],"mrow":{"mi":["jk","N"],"mo":"\/"}},"mo":"\u2062","mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}}},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mrow":{"mo":["\uf603","\u232a"],"mi":"k"},"mo":"."}}}}],"mo":"\u2192"}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":"Formula","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},"mn":"14"}}}]}}}},"br":{}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0043","num":"0049"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00011","num":"00011"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"munderover":{"mo":"\u2211","mrow":[{"mi":"j","mo":"=","mn":"0"},{"mi":"N","mo":"-","mn":"1"}]},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["x","j"]},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mo":["\uf603","\u232a"],"mi":"j"}}},{"munderover":{"mo":"\u2211","mrow":[{"mi":"k","mo":"=","mn":"0"},{"mi":"N","mo":"-","mn":"1"}]},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["y","k"]},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mo":["\uf603","\u232a"],"mi":"k"}}}],"mo":"\u2192"},"mo":","}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":"Formula","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},"mn":"15"}}}]}}}},"br":{},"sub":["k ","j"]},"Quantum factoring; finding the prime factorization of an n-bit integer requires approximately exp(\u039e(nlogn)) operations using the classical number field sieve, is exponential in the size of the number being factored, and therefore quickly becomes an intractable problem with increasing values of n. By contrast, quantum computers can factor any number exponentially faster than the most efficient classical factoring algorithms, using O(nlog n log log n) operations.","Quantum search algorithm (a.k.a. Grover's algorithm); rather than search through a space of N elements directly, a quantum oracle can be invoked to, for example, focus on the index to those elements, which is a number 0\u2266element index\u2266N\u22121. If N=2, the index can be stored in n qubits, and the quantum search problem will have M solutions, with 1\u2266M\u2266N. The quantum search oracle obtains a search solution within O(\u221aN\/M) iterations. In general, quantum search problems can be formulated in terms of an oracle \u0192(x) that equals 1 for arguments x that solve the problem of interest, where x may be, for example, a pair of integers and \u0192(x) a check for prime factors, or x may be database entries and \u0192(x) a test for answers to a query. Lov Grover has shown that a quantum computer can solve the quantum search problem in \u221aN steps. The quantum search algorithm is also referred to as the database search algorithm where a quantum database is structured in quantum memory containing N=2cells of l qubits each and the contents dof the xth memory cell are added to the data register as |d>\u2192|d\u2295d>, and where the addition is performed bitwise, modulo 2.","Quantum counting; classical computation requires \u039e(N) iterations with an oracle to determine the number of solutions, M, to an N item search problem if M is not known in advance. Quantum counting estimates the number of solutions significantly more rapidly by combining the Grover iteration with the phase estimation technique based upon the QFFT.","Quantum cryptography; classical cryptography includes private key and public key systems. The major challenge within private key cryptosystems is secure distribution of key bits. Quantum cryptography, or quantum key distribution (QKD) uses the principles of quantum mechanics to enable provably secure distribution of private information, and utilizes quantum corollaries of classical private cryptography, information reconciliation (error-correction conducted over a public channel) and privacy amplification. QKD is provably secure in that private key bits can be created between two parties over a public channel and the key bits can be used to implement a classical private key cryptosystem, enabling parties to communicate securely.","The QKD protocol transmits non-orthogonal qubits over a public channel. The sender and receiver establish an upper bound on any noise or eavesdropping occurring within their communication channel through the use of \u2018check\u2019 qubits that are randomly interspersed among data qubits. Information reconciliation and privacy amplification are then performed to distill a shared secret key string with security of the resulting key ensured by the properties of quantum information.","Three QKD protocol cases are BB84, B92 and EPR, used in quantum teleportation. In the BB84 QKD protocol, for example, one user, Alice, initializes with a and b, two strings each of (4+\u03b4)n random classical bits, which are next encoded as strings of a block of (4+\u03b4)n qubits (cooperating quantum cryptographic users are generally referred to as Bob and Alice, and someone attempting to eavesdrop into a quantum communication channel is by convention referred to as Eve). These bits are next encoded as strings of a block of (4+\u03b4)n qubits,",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0050","num":"0056"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00012","num":"00012"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mo":["\uf603","\u232a"],"mi":"\u03c8"},{"munder":{"mover":{"mo":"\u2297","mrow":{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mn":"4","mo":"+","mi":"\u03b4"}},"mo":"\u2062","mi":"n"}},"mrow":{"mi":"k","mo":"=","mn":"1"}},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mo":["\uf603","\u232a"],"mrow":{"mi":"\u03c8","mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"msub":[{"mi":["a","k"]},{"mi":["b","k"]}]}}}],"mo":"="},"mo":","}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":"Formula","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},"mn":"16"}}}]}}}},"br":[{},{},{},{},{}],"sub":["k ","k ","00","10","01","11"],"in-line-formulae":[{},{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},"The four states of Formula 17 are not all mutually orthogonal and therefore no measurement can distinguish among all of them with certainty. At this point, Alice sends |\u03c8> to Bob over a public quantum communication channel. Bob receives \u03b5(|\u03c8><\u03c8|), where \u03b5 describes the quantum operation that results from the combined effect of the channel between Bob and Alice, and to any possible eavesdropping actions by Eve. Bob then publicly announces this quantum operation state set and each of the three then has their unique quantum state set described by separate density matrices. It is also true that Alice has not revealed b and the noise \u03b5 may be a poor channel artifact in addition to possible eavesdropping by Eve.","Bob next measures each qubit in basis X or Z, as determined by a random (4+\u03b4)n bit string b\u2032 which he creates, with his measurement result=a\u2032. Next, Alice publicly announces b. Then, by public channel communication, Bob and Alice discard all bits in {a\u2032, a} except those for which corresponding bits of b\u2032 and b are equal. The remaining bits satisfy a\u2032=a. Alice then randomly selects n bits (of a mutual 2bits) and announces the selection to Bob over a public channel. They both then publish and compare the value of these check bits and, if more than t bits disagree, they re-initialize the protocol. If t is mutually selected, they can then apply information reconciliation and privacy amplification algorithms to obtain m acceptably secret shared key bits from the remaining n bits.","Quantum Error-Correcting Codes; Classical network error detection and correction is well known and in prevalent use at multiple architectural layers. There are two basic approaches generally taken in classical (non-quantum) network designs for handling transmission errors: (1) Include sufficient redundant information with each block of data sent to enable the receiver to deduce the transmitted character correctly (error-correcting codes), or (2) Incorporate only sufficient redundancy to allow the receiver to determine that a transmission error has occurred (error-detecting codes).","Very generally, transmitted classical frames consist of m data bits and r redundant bits, or checkbits, where the total length equals n(n=m+r). An n-bit classical network transmission unit that contains data and checkbits is referred to as an n-bit codeword. Given two possible codewords, for example 10001001 and 10110001, an EXCLUSIVE OR (XOR) logic operation using modulo-2 arithmetic and yielding a remainder can determine that they differ by three bits. The number of bit positions in which a pair of codewords differs is the Hamming distance. This is significant because two codewords that are a Hamming distance d apart will require d single-bit errors to convert one into the other.","It was originally thought that analogous error-correction techniques would not apply to the quantum network transmission of qubits, due to the assumption that qubit measurement would force the collapse of the qubit into a specific state, therein losing superpositionality. It was also noted that an inherent problem exists with copying or cloning an arbitrary quantum state.","However, others have developed nine-, seven-, and five-qubit error-correcting codes (algorithms). For example, in U.S. Pat. No. 5,768,297 to Shor a nine-qubit error-correcting code is disclosed. Shor's nine-qubit error-correcting code, for example, presumes that one qubit is encoded into nine qubits via the following scheme:\n\n\u03b1|0>+\u03b2|1>\u2192\u03b1(|000>+|111>)\u2295(|000>+|111>)\u2295(|000>+|111>) \u03b2(|000>+|111>)\u2295(|000>+|111>)\u2295(|000>+|111>),\u2003\u2003(Formula 18)\n\nwhere constant factors that can be recovered from the normalization are ignored. Once the nine qubits are received, the goal of the algorithm is to recover the original superposition, assuming that no greater than one Pauli-type error has occurred within the quantum network. Shor's code invokes specific quantum entanglements with additional, or ancillary, qubits and measures the ancillary qubits to correct any error. The process of error correction must be accomplished while retaining the original quantum information superposition.\n","Shor's code is a combination of the three-qubit phase-flip and bit-flip codes. In this algorithm, the qubit is first encoded using the phase-flip code:\n\n|0>\u2192|+++>,|1>\u2192|\u2212\u2212\u2212>.\u2003\u2003(Formula 19)\n\nThe second step is to encode each of the qubits using the three-qubit phase-flip code. |+> is encoded as (|000>+|111>)\u221a2, and |\u2212> is encoded as (|000>\u2212|111>)\u221a2. This results in a nine-qubit code with codewords given by\n",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0058","num":"0064"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00013","num":"00013"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mrow":[{"mo":["\uf603","\u232a"],"mn":"0"},{"mrow":{"mo":["\uf603","\u232a"],"msub":{"mn":"0","mi":"L"}},"mo":"\u2261","mfrac":{"mrow":[{"mrow":[{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mo":["\uf603","\u232a"],"mn":"000"},{"mo":["\uf603","\u232a"],"mn":"111"}],"mo":"+"}},{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mo":["\uf603","\u232a"],"mn":"000"},{"mo":["\uf603","\u232a"],"mn":"111"}],"mo":"+"}},{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mo":["\uf603","\u232a"],"mn":"000"},{"mo":["\uf603","\u232a"],"mn":"111"}],"mo":"+"}}],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"]},{"mn":"2","mo":"\u2062","msqrt":{"mn":"2"}}]}}],"mo":"\u2192"},{"mo":["\uf603","\u232a"],"mn":"1"},{"mrow":[{"mo":["\uf603","\u232a"],"msub":{"mn":"1","mi":"L"}},{"mfrac":{"mrow":[{"mrow":[{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mo":["\uf603","\u232a"],"mn":"000"},{"mo":["\uf603","\u232a"],"mn":"111"}],"mo":"+"}},{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mo":["\uf603","\u232a"],"mn":"000"},{"mo":["\uf603","\u232a"],"mn":"111"}],"mo":"+"}},{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mo":["\uf603","\u232a"],"mn":"000"},{"mo":["\uf603","\u232a"],"mn":"111"}],"mo":"+"}}],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"]},{"mn":"2","mo":"\u2062","msqrt":{"mn":"2"}}]},"mo":"."}],"mo":"\u2261"}],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2192"],"mstyle":{"mtext":{}}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":"Formula","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},"mn":"20"}}}]}}}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0059","num":"0065"},"figref":"FIG. 6","b":"30"},"Quantum error-detection and error-correction can also be performed in the absence of measurement, using only unitary operations and ancilla systems prepared in standard quantum states. This technique is essentially the same as those used for modeling arbitrary quantum computing and networking operations. The major advantage of quantum error-detection and error-correction in the absence of measurement is that it becomes increasingly difficult for real-world quantum information systems to render a reliable procedure to perform quantum measurements. In essence, the solution is to introduce an ancilla system with basis states, |i>, corresponding to possible error syndromes, where that system initializes in a standard pure state, |0>, prior to error-correction. A unitary operator, U, is then defined on the principal system plus ancilla and operates on the whole state space. The result is that U preserves inner products and can also be extended to a unitary operator on the entire (Hilbert) state space.","In view of the above, several systems have been developed to utilize quantum computing. Techniques for maintaining and transmitting states are evolving. Some examples are illustrated in U.S. Pat. No. 5,768,297 to Shor and U.S. Publication No. 2002\/0030186 to Tomita, and are incorporated herein by reference. However, none of these techniques have accomplished developing components that are extensible and interconnective on a cosmological level.","The currently observable universe is thought to have a scale of approximately 10meters (m), the atomic scale is 10m, and there are thought to be 10atoms in the observable universe. Quantum computing and networking is ushered in at the nano-scale (10m) and functions intrinsically at the Angstrom (atomic, 10m) and pico (photonic\/electronic, 10m) scales due to the earlier statement that classical (non-quantum) models of computation, based on a mathematical idealization known as the Universal Turing Machine, are rendered invalid at the atomic (10m) and electronic\/photonic (10m) scales. This is due, as stated earlier to the extrapolation of the exponential trend of miniaturization, which has held since 1950 under Moore's Law, indicating the attainment of a classical computational limit of single-atom bits and single-electron transistors (SETs) by the year 2010, beyond which continued miniaturization and computational operation becomes classically infeasible.","The entire spectrum of computing and computer networking\u2014from design of quantum algorithm, to loading program, loading network configurations, to running programs and configurations, to measuring and reading results\u2014will be necessarily increasingly dominated by quantum effects at Angstrom (10m) and smaller scales. Non-quantum wires cannot be thinner than a single atom; classical (non-quantum memories) cannot have fewer than one electron.","As can be seen from the discussion above, quantum computing can provide significant advantages over classical methods. Therefore, there is a need for improved components to allow utilizing the advantages that quantum computing can offer.","It should be appreciated that the present invention can be implemented and utilized in numerous ways, including without limitation as a process, an apparatus, a system, a device and a method for applications now known and later developed. These and other unique features of the system disclosed herein will become more readily apparent from the following description and the accompanying drawings.","It is therefore an object of the present invention to provide a structure and method for extending the quantum processing scale and quantum communications scale to the cosmological scale and any subset thereof.","Picotechnologies","In a preferred embodiment, a quantum computation gate method is expressed in various picotechnologies (operating at the pico-scale, 10m), the intrinsic domain of spintronics, quantum computation and quantum networking, based upon electronic spin rather than charge. The SET (10m scale), for example, can enable an electron to tunnel across an insulator onto a conducting island only if states are available to it on both sides, creating a periodic modulation called the Coulomb blockade in the charging current due to an integer number of electrons allowed on the island. This technology can also be applied to create a memory cell that stores a single electron.","Femtotechnologies","In a preferred embodiment, the invention may further include a quantum computational gate method expressed in various femtotechnologies (operating at the femto-scale, 10m, the characteristic length of the Strong Force). Picotechnologies and femtotechnologies are intrinsic to quantum computing and quantum networking due to the quantum properties of superposition and quantum entanglement (the latter, where the spins of particles polarized together remain correlated even if the particles are spatially separated).","Attotechnologies","In a preferred embodiment, the invention may further include a quantum computational gate method expressed in various attotechnologies (operating at the atto-scale, 10m\u2014the characteristic length of the Weak Force), as well as at 10m and\/or 10m scales.","Zeptotechnologies","In a preferred embodiment, the invention may further include a quantum computational gate method expressed in various zeptotechnologies (operating at the zepto-scale, 10m), 10m and\/or 10m.","Yoctotechnologies","In a preferred embodiment, the invention may further include a quantum computational gate method expressed in various yoctotechnologies (operating at the yocto-scale, 10m), as well as at 10m and\/or 10m scales.","Fermionic and Bosonic Domains","In a preferred embodiment, the invention may further include a quantum computational gate method expressed in the Fermionic and Bosonic Domains. The range of 10m to 10m scales is the elementary particle basis to electronic computing and electronic networking, and is the range of Fermi-matter fields, the fermionic domain. The scalar range of 10m to 10m is also the force field basis to optical computing and optical networking, and is the range of Bose-force fields, the bosonic domain. Elementary particles are resonant excitations of the fields. Elementary particles are the smallest packets (quanta of energy) of the Unified Field. Twenty-four fermionic elementary particles plus the bosonic elementary particles mediate the four forces and their fundamental force particles (photons for the Electromagnetic Force; weak gauge bosons for the Weak Force; gluons for the Strong Force; gravitons for the Gravitational Force). Force (Bose-force) and matter (Fermi-matter) fields are the initial relative expression of the Unified Field; there are four force fields and 24 matter fields. The Unified Field gives rise to the fundamental force fields (Bose Fields) and matter fields (Fermi Fields), which are expressed as optical and electronic computing and networking, respectively. The Unified Field also gives rise to the supersymmetric basis of the Quantum Gate 200\u2014a quantum and pre-quantum computer and network gate that incorporates n-qubit addressability, unitarity, measurability, and computational reversibility.","In another embodiment, a quantum computational gate method is expressed at the 10m. scale. In another embodiment, a quantum computational gate method is expressed at the 10m. scale. In another embodiment, a quantum computational gate method is expressed at the 10m. scale. In another embodiment, a quantum computational gate method is expressed at the 10m. scale. In another embodiment, a quantum computational gate method is expressed at the 10m. scale. In another embodiment, a quantum computational gate method is expressed at the 10m. scale. In another embodiment, a quantum computational gate method is expressed at the 10m. scale (10cm. Scale).","In one embodiment, an n-qubit quantum gate and quantum circuit is capable of operating n-qubit quantum memory registers, n-qubit quantum switch nodes, and n-qubit quantum router nodes. The quantum circuit performs quantum and classical computations enabling any unitary operation to be approximated to arbitrary accuracy. The quantum circuit contains quantum memory registers, quantum switch nodes, and quantum router nodes that are universally unitary, measurable, logically reversible, and extensible to cosmological computational scales and any subset thereof. The quantum circuit can switch, store and retrieve an exponential number of inputs using a polynomial number of qubits, and executes quantum algorithms. The quantum circuit enables definition, configuration and operation of singular and massively parallels quantum teleportation circuits, and incorporates a superstring gate (pre-quantum gate) wherein an n-superstring bit (n-subit) superstring memory register can store and retrieve an exponential number of inputs using a polynomial number of subits. Each calculation step within the quantum switch contains complete knowledge\/memory of all previous steps and its computational relationship to the quantum memory register.","The present invention overcomes many of the prior art problems associated with implementing quantum computing. The advantages, and other features of the components disclosed herein, will become more readily apparent to those having ordinary skill in the art from the following detailed description of certain preferred embodiments taken in conjunction with the drawings which set forth representative embodiments of the present invention and wherein like reference numerals identify similar structural elements. For clarity throughout the following description, arrows are shown to indicate the direction and ellipses to indicate additional components, such shorthand is for clarity in reference to the figures and not meant in a limiting sense. Tables 1A and 1B provide a legend for the mathematical notation.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0096","num":"0102"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00001","num":"00001"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"4"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"70pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"35pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"77pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"35pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":"TABLE 1A"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["scalars","a","general vectors","a"]},{"entry":["unit vectors","\u00e2","scalar product","a \u00b7 b"]},{"entry":["vector cross-product","a \u00d7 b","gradient operator","\u2207"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["Laplacian operator","\u2207","derivative",{"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00014","num":"00014"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mfrac":{"mrow":[{"mo":"\u2146","mi":"f"},{"mo":"\u2146","mi":"x"}]},"mo":",","mi":"etc"}}}}]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["parital derivatives",{"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00015","num":"00015"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mfrac":{"mrow":[{"mo":"\u2146","mi":"f"},{"mo":"\u2146","mi":"x"}]},"mo":",","mi":"etc"}}}},"derivative of r withrespect to t","{dot over (r)}"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["nth derivative",{"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00016","num":"00016"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mfrac":{"mrow":{"msup":{"mi":["d","n"]},"mo":"\u2062","mi":"f"},"msup":{"mi":["dx","n"]}}}}},"closed loop integral",{"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00017","num":"00017"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"msub":{"mo":"\u222e","mi":"L"},"mo":"\u2062","mi":"dl"}}}}]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["closed surface integral",{"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00018","num":"00018"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"msub":{"mo":"\u222e","mi":"s"},"mo":"\u2062","mi":"ds"}}}},"matrix","A or a"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["mean value (of x)","<x>","binomial coefficient",{"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00019","num":"00019"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"msup":{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":{"mi":"n"}},{"mtd":{"mi":"r"}}]}},"mo":"-"}}}}]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["factorial","!","unit imaginary (i= \u22121)","i"]},{"entry":["exponential constant","e","modulus (of x)","|x|"]},{"entry":["natural logarithm","ln","log to base 10","log"]},{"entry":["less than","<","exponentiation","exp"]},{"entry":["less than or equal to","\u2266","approaches","\u2192"]},{"entry":["probability","Pr","addition modulo 2","\u2295"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["function of variable x","f(x)","tensor product",{"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00020","num":"00020"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mo":"\u2297"}}}]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["logarithm","log","spin","S"]},{"entry":["absolute value of","|x|","angular momentum","J"]},{"entry":"variable x"},{"entry":["Planck constant","h","cosine","cos"]},{"entry":["h\/(2\u03c0)","{dot over (h)}","sine","sin"]},{"entry":["wave function","\u03c8","complex number,","\u03b1"]},{"entry":[{},{},"fine-structure constant"]},{"entry":["complex number,","\u03b2","weight, complex","\u03c9"]},{"entry":["fine-structure",{},"number, angular"]},{"entry":["constant",{},"velocity"]},{"entry":["summation","\u03a3","quantum bit (qubit)","|0>, |1>"]},{"entry":[{},{},"notation"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0097","num":"0103"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00002","num":"00002"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"4"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"84pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"21pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"91pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"21pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":"TABLE 1B"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["greater than",">","eigenstate, state vector","|\u03c8 "]},{"entry":["greater than or equal to","\u2267","variable","n"]},{"entry":["variable","m","micro","\u03bc"]},{"entry":["change","\u0394","speed of light","c"]},{"entry":["wavelength","\u03bb","frequency","\u0192"]},{"entry":["nanometer","nm","optical input signal wave-","\u03bb"]},{"entry":[{},{},"length"]},{"entry":["optical pump wavelength","\u03bb","optical converted wave-","\u03bb"]},{"entry":[{},{},"length"]},{"entry":["Markovian\/exponential","M","general","G"]},{"entry":["infinity","\u221e","Lagrangian","L"]},{"entry":["Hamiltonian","H","perturbation Hamiltonian","H\u2032"]},{"entry":["Permittivity","\u03b5","Permittivity of free space","\u03b5"]},{"entry":["ohm","\u03a9","Angstrom","\u212b"]},{"entry":["integral, integration","\u222b","pi","\u03c0"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0098","num":"0104"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 8"],"b":["100","100","102","104","102","104"]},"The bidirectional, sequential expression of software instructions into hardware primitives and hardware primitives into software instructions occurs through a process of collapse onto the point value of the quantum gap  from which the process is elaborated, leading to the emergence of the next software instruction or hardware primitive.","Four aspects of the quantum gap  are: (1) Collapsing data based on a software instruction and\/or hardware primitive to a point value ; (2) When the data is at a point value , the data is fully collapsed within the quantum gap ; (3) After the data is fully collapsed, the data is restructured, i.e. de-collapsed. The dynamics of de-collapsing are governed by a summation of eight gap factors as follows; and (4) Ultimately, the data is reconstructed whether the reconstruction occurs at the software instruction set  or the hardware registers .","In short, the data path is bilateral. Emergence of post-Gap software instruction or hardware primitive is a function of instruction origination and direction.","As shown in , the fully collapsed data at the point value  (see ) of the quantum gap  is defined in the n-qubit and n-quantum memory cell case by:\n\n[(>=|0 . . . 0>+|1 . . . 1>\/\u221a2)]\u2003\u2003(Formula 21 )\n\nPost-gap structuring (i.e., de-collapsing) dynamics are governed by a summation of eight gap factors given by:\n",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0103","num":"0109"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00021","num":"00021"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mfrac":[{"mrow":[{"munder":{"mover":{"mo":"\u2211","mrow":{"mo":["\uf603","\u232a"],"msub":{"mi":"Q","mrow":{"mi":["n","n"],"mo":"-"}}}},"mrow":{"mo":["\uf603","\u232a"],"msub":{"mi":["Q","n"]}}},"mo":"\u2062","mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}},{"mn":"2","mo":"\u2062","msqrt":{"mn":"2"}}]},{"mrow":[{"munder":{"mover":{"mo":"\u2211","mrow":{"mo":["\uf603","\u232a"],"msub":{"mi":"Q","mrow":{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":["n","n"],"mo":"-"}},"mo":"-","mi":"n"}}}},"mrow":{"mo":["\uf603","\u232a"],"mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":["Q","n"]},{"mi":"Q","mrow":{"mi":["n","n"],"mo":"-"}}],"mo":[",","\u2062",","],"mi":"\u2026","mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.6em","height":"0.6ex"}}}}}},"mo":"\u2062","mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}},{"mi":"n","mo":"\u2062","msqrt":{"mn":"2"}}]}],"mo":"\u27f6"},"mo":"."}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":"Formula","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},"mn":"22"}}}]}}}}},"The eight gap factors determine the accuracy and completeness of collapse. The integrity of these eight gap factors is crucial to ensure the precise and orderly progression of both classical and quantum intra-computer or inter-computer (network) information, as well as to the quality and wholeness of the emerging network computational step on the egress side of a particular gap. Otherwise, the software instruction or hardware primitive could be distorted and result in an inappropriate and partial experience of the signal, diminishing or preventing proper network computational flow. The eight gap factors are:\n\n",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0105","num":"0119"},"figref":["FIGS. 8 through 11","FIG. 7"],"b":"100"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0106","num":"0120"},"figref":["FIG. 8","FIG. 7"],"b":"100","ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0007","list-style":"none"},"li":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0007-0001","num":"0000"},"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0008","list-style":"none"},"li":["Compiler Gap , between instances of a C program  and assembly language program ;","Assembler Gap , between instances of an assembly language program  and objects  (e.g., machine language module, library routine);","Linker Gap , between instances of machine language module  or library routine, and an executable  (machine language program); and","Loader Gap , between instances of a machine language program executable  and memory ."]}}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0107","num":"0125"},"figref":"FIGS. 9A and 9B","b":["120","121","120","122","123","122","124"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0108","num":"0126"},"figref":"FIG. 10","b":["146","141","140","142","143","142","144"],"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0009","list-style":"none"},"li":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0009-0001","num":"0000"},"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0010","list-style":"none"},"li":["Arises from the nonlinear optical response of a medium when multiple waves are present;","Preserves both phase and amplitude information;","Enables simultaneous conversion of a set of multiple input wavelengths to a different set of multiple output wavelengths;","Provides complete transparency; and","Accommodates signals exceeding 100 Gbps."]}}}},"Optical wavelength-routed networks partition and greatly enhance the bandwidth-carrying efficiency of the optical spectrum using wavelength division multiplexing (WDM) algorithms. The general technique is to first divide the optical spectrum into wavebands, and then to subdivide the wavebands into wavelength-specific channels (\u03bb-channels). The assigned wavelengths of the \u03bb-channels must be spaced sufficiently far apart to prevent overlap and interchannel cross-talk of neighboring spectra.","Optical wavelength \u03bb and frequency f are related by f \u03bb=c, where c is the velocity of light in the transmission medium, yielding the relation",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0111","num":"0134"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00022","num":"00022"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mi":["\u0394","f"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}},{"mo":"-","mfrac":{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":["c","\u0394\u03bb"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}}},"msup":{"mi":"\u03bb","mn":"2"}}}],"mo":"\u2248"}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":"Formula","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},"mn":"23"}}}]}}}},"br":{}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0112","num":"0135"},"figref":"FIG. 11","b":["131","130","132"]},"All \u03bb-channels share a single copy of the resulting network topology;\n\n","The figure gap output expresses the third alternative as a waveband-routed multi-tier topology, the highest throughput compromise between exclusive and no wavelength switching\/routing.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0115","num":"0140"},"figref":["FIG. 12","FIGS. 13 and 14","FIGS. 12"],"b":["136","137","138","139","200","100","14","14","13","14"],"i":["a","b","c"]},"The preferred embodiment incorporates input\/output, ingress\/egress, and encoding\/decoding operations that are quantum-mechanically inversely related based on calculations herein indicating magnitude density-based reciprocals of the Planck time scale (10second) at each of the Angstrom\u2014(atomic, 10m), pico\u2014(photonic\/electronic, 10m), and superstring\u2014(10m) scales.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0117","num":"0142"},"figref":["FIG. 13","FIGS. 14A-C"],"b":["200","202","200","202","204","206","202","206","208","208","208"],"sup":"n\/2 ","i":["a","b "]},"Each switch adjacent the memory  can transfer data to one of two cells across a quantum gap  as described in . The remaining switches are logically associated in same-plane pair mapping, and n-plane, n-wise mapping. The n-plane, n-wise mapping is represented by lines  and the same-plane pair mapping is represented by lines . The n-plane, n-wise mapping as well as the same-plane pair mapping is governed by formulas  and .","Still referring to , each line ,  also represents a quantum gap  as described in . If a qubit  is in a |0> state, data input thereto is routed into an adjacent qubit  on a path to a lower numbered cell  within the memory . If a qubit  is in a |1> state, data input thereto is routed on a path to a higher numbered cell  within the memory . If a qubit  is in a superposition or (|0>+|1>\/\u221a2) state, data input thereto is routed to adjacent qubits  on both paths to the higher and lower numbered cells . Since the qubits are logically associated with adjacent qubits in a same-plane manner (e.g., (Q\u2192Q)] as Bell states [EPR pairs (|00>+|11>)\/\u221a2)), as well as across a plane in n-wise manner, the data is also transmitted to the qubit  coupled to the receiving qubit by line . As a result, the quantum memory gate  is universally unitary, measurable, and logically reversible.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0120","num":"0145"},"figref":"FIG. 13","b":"200","ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0013","list-style":"none"},"li":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0013-0001","num":"0000"},"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0014","list-style":"none"},"li":["The quantum gate computational network system is an n-quantum bit (n-qubit) quantum computational gate that is extensible to \u2266[(natoms\u00d7nelectrons and photons\u00d7nsuperstrings)\u2266[(10\u00d710)\u00d7(10\u00d710)\u00d7(10\u00d710)]\u2266(10)\u226610memory cells and \u22662switching cells].","Less than or equal to 10memory cells are addressable through a\u22663548-qubit quantum (2-qubit) switching address structure.","The quantum gate  preferably operates in a 2dimensional complex Hilbert space.","Each quantum switching, quantum routing, and quantum memory register decision point in  proceeds by reference to the quantum gap described hereinabove.","Each circle within  represents a quantum switch, addressable by the qubit inscribed within. If a given qubit |Q>=|0>, the corresponding quantum switch routes the input qubit toward a lower numbered cell within the quantum memory register. If|Q>=|1>), it is routed toward a higher numbered cell within the quantum memory register. If a given qubit |Q>=(|0>+|1>\/\u221a2), then an equal superposition of both routes is taken within the quantum switch.","Dual-qubit superpositions are logically associated in pair-wise fashion \u201cvertically\u201d within any given n-plane (Q\u2192Q) of the quantum switch\/quantum router as Bell states, or Einstein, Podolsky, Rosen (EPR) pairs (|00>+|11>)\/\u221a2).","Multiple (n)-qubit superpositions are logically associated in n-wise fashion \u201cvertically\u201d throughout any given n-plane, and\/or in full or partial combination and permutation, \u201cvertically\u201d and\/or \u201chorizontally\u201d of n-planes of the quantum switch as (|0 . . . 0>+|1 . . . 1>)\/\u221a2), providing the unitary and universal basis for massively parallel, massively distributed, superdense quantum database computing (see )."]}}}},"The quantum gate  may logically associate dual-to-n-qubit superpositionalities over quantum teleportation links (see ).","Any unitary operation can be approximated to arbitrary accuracy by a quantum circuit (including quantum teleportation circuit) and is therefore a universal quantum network computational gate; that is, it is universally unitary, measurable, and logically reversible.","The quantum gate  employs massive quantum parallelism intrinsic to processing quantum algorithms, enabling, for example, simultaneous evaluation of a function, \u0192(x), for n different values of x.","Each calculation step within the quantum switch contains complete knowledge\/memory of all previous steps and its computational relationship to the quantum memory register.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0125","num":"0157"},"figref":["FIG. 14A","FIG. 14B","FIG. 13","FIG. 14C","FIG. 13"],"b":["200","280","282","284"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0126","num":"0158"},"figref":"FIG. 15","b":["300","301","300","300"]},"In the quantum computer network , a plurality of quantum database servers  are running a networked quantum database search application , a quantum fast fourier transform (hereinafter \u201cQFFT\u201d) application , and a quantum simulation application . The applications , ,  are invoked by servers and clients through quantum application programming interface (hereinafter \u201cQAPI\u201d)  within an operating system. The quantum application programming interface  sends and receives interprogram requests, replies, data, control codes and error codes based on the combined result of superposed data collapse (Formula 21) and attainment of de-collapsed quantum information state threshold (Formula 22). In the preferred embodiment, the QAPI states and state changes are governed by quantum finite state machines  that operate according to the combined result of superposed data collapse (Formula 21) and attainment of decollapsed quantum state thresholds (Formula 22).","A preferred interconnection approach is via quantum teleportation circuits . The quantum teleportation circuits  are logical interconnections structured atop quantum cryptographic and authentication, authorization and auditing\/accounting (hereinafter \u201cAAA\u201d) servers , which exchange quantum keys and authentication logic. Preferably, the AAA servers  are QKD servers. It is also envisioned that the quantum teleportation circuits  could be substituted with classical links. The quantum cryptographic and AAA servers , in turn, are interfaced via quantum extensions  to Internet Protocol Security (IPsec) protocols, and interconnected through photonic networks. The servers ,  preferred runtime platform would be an optical computer with SFET MRAM and each server ,  runs a multi-layer computer network environment such as shown in reference box .","Hence, the network  is a comprehensive quantum computer network realization; and a comprehensive portrayal of a distributed quantum computer network applications including, but not limited to, quantum network database, quantum cryptography, quantum AAA, quantum computer and network clocking and synchronization.","The preferred embodiment  may include a Cosmic Clock server  to ensure flawless temporal operation and cycle governance in Planck (10second) and sub-Planck (<10second) time scales. At the Angstrom-(atomic, 10m) and pico- (photonic\/electronic, 10m) quantum computational and quantum networking scales, there is no method to quantum-mechanically distinguish between two atoms; therefore, clocks based upon atomic resonators keep the same time. Terrestrial and celestial (i.e., Global Positioning System [GPS]) computer clocks and computer network clocks have switched from quartz to Cesium-133 (Cs), with the latter generating a frequency of transition of v=9,192,631,770 Hz (approximately equal to 9.19\u00d710Hz, or 9.19 GHz) that has become the standard definition of a second. The output of atomic oscillators, whose drift rate is approximately one part in 10, is used as the standard for elapsed real time, known as International Atomic Time. The standard second has been defined since 1967 as 9,192,631,770 periods of transition between the two hyperfine levels of the ground state of Cesium-133 (Cs).","The Cs stable isotope of Cesium has a nuclear spin of I=7\/2 and a single outer electron that in its ground state is in an s orbital with angular momentum of L=0. Since the electron spin is S=1\/2, the total angular momentum J=L+S can be + or \u22121\/2. When the electron is parallel to the nucleus, the angular momentum of both together is F=I+J=4, and when they are anti-parallel, F=3.","The switch in computer networks from quartz to a cesium beam reduced the relative time uncertainties to approximately 10. Relative time uncertainties are further diminished to approximately 10when lasers are used to perform state selection and to cool the atoms, enabling them to be dropped into a gravitational fountain.","While these triple-magnitude relative time uncertainty reductions are significant, they are nonetheless insufficient to provide the clock precision required for a Cosmic Clock server  to temporally modulate quantum computation and quantum networking spatial scales of less than 10m.","The spatial density magnitude-based reciprocity calculated herein to exist from the perspectives of each of the Angstrom (atomic, 10m), pico (photonic\/electronic, 10m), and superstring (10m, 10cm) scales, to the Planck time scale (10second), indicates a massive and mutually-predictive interrelationship between time and space at each of these quantum computing and quantum networking scales and is reflected by an n-based temporal factor applied to the three-way, n-meshed virtual associations among atomic, electronic\/photonic, and superstring quantum network computational tiers. Three-way, n-meshed virtual associations among the Angstrom (atomic, 10m), pico (photonic\/electronic, 10m) and superstring (10m, 10cm) computational and networking tiers account for the necessary spatial resolutions within the quantum gate . This is not surprising, since the seeds of quantum mechanics were apparent in the invariance of the speed of light in Einstein's special relativity; the apparent passage of time was found to depend upon motion and gravity, at least as long as gravity itself defied quantum explanation.","The scalar range from the spectrum of the observable universe (10m) to the atomic scale (10m) is 10, suggesting an order of 10atoms (calculated as 10atoms\/10cosmological-to-atomic scalar range=10atoms) on average per magnitude of distance scale (a magnitude density-based reciprocal of the Planck time scale of 10second).","The picoscale (10m) is completely intrinsic to quantum network computation due to the quantum properties of superposition and to quantum entanglement (the latter, where the spins of particles polarized together remain correlated, even if spatially separated).","The estimated number of electrons and photons within the observable universe is 10, calculated as follows: 10atoms within the observable universe\u00d710magnitudes between the atomic and electronic and photonic scales=10. The spectral range of the observable universe (10m) to the electronic and photonic scale (10m) is 10, suggesting an order of 10electrons and photons on average per magnitude of distance scale (calculated as follows: 10electrons and photons\/10cosmologic to electronic scalar range=10electrons and photons). Again, a magnitude density-based reciprocal of the Planck time scale of 10second is calculated.","The estimated number of superstrings within the observable universe is 10, calculated as follows: 10atoms within the observable universe\u00d710magnitudes between the atomic (10m) and Planck (10m) scales=10superstrings. The spectral range of the observable universe (10m) to the Planck scale (10m) is 10, suggesting an order of 10superstrings divided by 10cosmologic-to-Planck scalar range, equaling 10superstrings on average per magnitude of distance scale. Once again, a magnitude density-based reciprocal of the Planck time scale of 10second is calculated.","Increasingly dense and scalable interconnection calculations are achievable at n(\u0192+1)\/2, where, for any combination of node count, n, and fault tolerance, \u0192, (n\u22121)>\u0192>0, a K-cube-connected cycle is approached where, to ensure a truly scalable network, the minimum node degree, \u0192+1, grows in proportion, \u03c1, to the total number of nodes, n.","The quantum gate  enables interlinking within a multi-tier full-mesh fashion, where the full-mesh nodal (n) topology is defined as n(n\u22121)\/2 on each of at least three quantum network computational tiers\u2014atomic, electronic\/photonic, and superstring\u2014and where meshed virtual associations among these three network computational tiers presume connectivity at [n(n\u22121)\/2]\u2192(n\/2)\u2192n.","As calculated above, there exists an average magnitude density-based reciprocal of the Planck time scale of 10second from the perspectives of each of the atomic, electronic, photonic, and superstring spatial scales. This reciprocity indicates a massive and mutually-predictive interrelationship between space and time at each of these scales and is reflected by an n-based temporal factor applied to the three-way, n-meshed virtual associations among atomic, electronic\/photonic, and superstring quantum network computational tiers.","Quantum gate  computational and connection basis states exist as a quantum computational network system of the form, |\u03c7, \u03c7, . . . , \u03c7>. Therefore, a quantum state of this system is specified by 2amplitudes as follows:\n\n=(atoms\u00d7electrons\/photons\u00d7superstrings)connections\n\n=[TierAtoms (10\u00d710)\u00d7TierElectrons and Photons (10\u00d710)\u00d7TierSuperstrings (10\u00d710)]connections\n\n=10connections\n\n=10(Quantum Gate ) memory cells\n\n=2(Quantum Gate ) switch cells\n\nWhere:\n\n","Quantum gate  quantum network computational density is therefore calculated to be on the order of less than or equal to (\u2266) 10memory cells, and \u22662switch cells.","Referring now to , a process flow diagram  in accordance with the subject disclosure is shown. Dashed \u201c\u00d7\u201d depicts where quantum gaps  may occur. Client process\/server process area  contains the program-to-program interface  across which clients issue requests for data and servers exchange data, return codes, error codes, quantum states, quantum constants, quantum variables, and quantum data. Client process\/server process area  also contains a quantum application program  for executing quantum algorithms such as the QFFT, quantum database search, quantum simulation as shown in . Other algorithms could be quantum counting, quantum cryptography, quantum factoring and the like.","Server process area  also contains the quantum application program interface  as well as a quantum database . The quantum database  stores target data for access by a requesting client process. The server process area extends to quantum databases as represented by server process area  having quantum database  therein.","When a client server  issues a program call by a user requesting access to data in the quantum databases -, a server  receives the program call and initializes a local QSearch. An arrow  denotes this call that results in a quantum gap  as shown. The QTransaction_ID with a Return_Code is returned locally from the QAPI  to the quantum application program  as denoted by arrow .","Upon receipt of the QTransaction_ID, the requesting quantum application program (\u201cQAP\u201d)  issues a target quantum database QAllocate_QSearch_QRetrieve request as denoted by arrow . This request includes QTransation_ID, quantum state, symbolic destination name. In response to the Qallocate_Qsearch_QRetreive request, bi-directional inter-QAPI flows occur and the request is passed to the server process area  and bilateral communication ensues between the QAPI  in  and the QAPI  in  as denoted by the double-headed arrow . The bilateral communication includes a plurality of quantum network exchanges. For example, the Inter-QAPI data exchanged may encompass local\/remote quantum session activation and flows, local\/remote quantum transport activation and flows, local\/remote quantum network activation and flows, and local\/remote quantum or classical link activation and flows.","After this data exchange, the requesting QAPI  in server process area  issues a target quantum database QAllocate_QSearch_QRetrieve request as denoted by arrow . Typically, the data transferred along arrow  is the QTransaction_ID, a quantum state and a symbolic destination name. In particular, the symbolic destination name is representative of the actual location of the target data. If the target data is not found in quantum database , the response propagates to subsequent quantum databases  until the target data is located as denoted by arrow .","At arrow , a QAllocate_QSearch_QRetrieve request passes from quantum database to quantum databases. QTransaction_ID, quantum state and symbolic destination name are passed along arrow .","In response, a QUpdate_QData response passes from the quantum database to the quantum databases  as denoted by arrow . The QUpdate_QData response typically includes the target data, destination address for the requesting process, quantum constants and variables. In response to the QUpdate_Qdata being received at quantum database, the QUpdate_QData response is passed along to QAPI  in server processarea  as denoted by arrow . At this point, the QUpdate_QData response includes the requested data, QTransaction_ID, quantum state, and destination address.","Now that this QUpdate_QData response is at QAPI  in area , the QInter-QAPI flows that are continuing as denoted by arrows  provide data to QAPI  in area . The process terminates by QAPI  in  passing along this QUpdate_QData response to the quantum application program where the target data can be ultimately accessed by the user through suitable graphical user interface.","Referring to , the network  can implement an optical photon quantum computer. Optical photons are chargeless particles and do not interact very strongly with each other or with other particles, and are therefore strong candidates for representing qubits. Single photons can be generated for example, by attenuating the output of a laser where the coherent state, |\u03c6>, is defined as",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0153","num":"0189"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00023","num":"00023"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mo":["\uf603","\u232a"],"mi":"\u03b1"},{"msup":{"mi":"\u2147","mrow":{"mrow":{"mo":"-","msup":{"mrow":{"mo":["\uf603","\uf604"],"mi":"\u03b1"},"mn":"2"}},"mo":"\/","mn":"2"}},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"munderover":{"mo":"\u2211","mrow":{"mi":"n","mo":"=","mn":"0"},"mi":"\u221e"},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mrow":{"mfrac":{"msup":{"mi":["\u03b1","n"]},"msqrt":{"mrow":{"mi":"n","mo":"!"}}},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mo":["\uf603","\u232a"],"mi":"n"}}}}],"mo":"="},"mo":","}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":"Formula","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},"mn":"23"}}}]}}}},"br":{},"img":[{"@attributes":{"id":"CUSTOM-CHARACTER-00002","he":"2.46mm","wi":"2.12mm","file":"US07451292-20081111-P00002.TIF","alt":"custom character","img-content":"character","img-format":"tif"}},{"@attributes":{"id":"CUSTOM-CHARACTER-00003","he":"2.46mm","wi":"2.12mm","file":"US07451292-20081111-P00002.TIF","alt":"custom character","img-content":"character","img-format":"tif"}}]},"Referring to , the network  can implement an optical cavity quantum electrodynamics. Cavity quantum electrodynamics (QED), especially the single-atom cavity, provides a potential solution to single drawback experience in an optical photon quantum computer because well-isolated single atoms do not experience the same degree of decoherence effects, and could also provide cross phase modulation between photons. However, the coupling of a photon pair is mediated by an atom and coupling a photon into and out of the cavity becomes difficult, limiting cascadibility and scalability.","Referring to , the network  can implement a nuclear magnetic resonance. Nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) directly manipulates and detects nuclear spin states using radio frequency (RF) waves. Two major issues inherent in using NMR to realize a quantum computer are: (1) Approximately 10molecules must be present in order to produce a measurable induction signal, and (2) NMR is generally applied to systems in equilibrium at ambient room temperature, meaning that the initial state of the spins is nearly completely random. However, one of the greatest strengths of realizing a quantum computer through NMR is that NMR realizes arbitrary unitary transforms on a spin system to small granularity using radio frequency (RF) pulses.","Referring to , the network  can implement an ion trap. The main components of an ion trap quantum computer are an electromagnetic trap with lasers, photodetectors and ions. Ion traps are used to tune incident monochromatic light to selectively cause transitions that change certain atomic and nuclear spin states depending upon other spin states. A particle has spin when it possesses a magnetic moment as if it were a composite particle with current running in a loop. Bosons\u2014including photons\u2014are integer spin particles, are massless, and have spin \u00b11 (corresponding to orthogonal polarization states) with no spin 0 components.","Fermions\u2014including electrons, protons and neutrons \u2014are spin-1\/2 particles, meaning that their spin component is either +1\/2 spin (spin-up) or \u22121\/2 spin (spin-down). Generally, \u2018spin\u2019 refers to a spin \u22121\/2 particle. In general, spin states provide good representations for quantum computation and information because they live in an inherently finite state space, where quantum computation with trapped ions is predicated on the ability to construct arbitrary unitary transforms on the internal states of the atoms. The greatest drawback to realization of an ion trap quantum computer is the weakness of the phonon-mediated spin-spin coupling technique and its decoherence susceptibility.","Referring to , the network  can implement a harmonic oscillator. A harmonic oscillator is a particle in a parabolic potential well, V(x)=mwx2\/2. Quantum computation is enabled by taking a finite subset of discrete energy eigenstates of a simple harmonic oscillator |n> where n=0, 1, . . . , \u221e, and the qubits have lifetimes determined by physical parameters such as the cavity factor Q, and unitary transforms can be applied by allowing the quantum system to evolve over time. In this system, n qubits are provided via energy levels |0>, |1>, . . . , |2>. Unfortunately, a single harmonic oscillator does not currently enable digital information representation.","Still referring to , the network  can implement a square well. A square well or a particle within a one-dimensional box is a prototypical quantum system and behaves according to Schr\u00f6dinger's equation,",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0160","num":"0196"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00024","num":"00024"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mi":["i","\u210f"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mfrac":{"mrow":[{"mo":"\u2146","mrow":{"mo":["\uf603","\u232a"],"mi":"\u03c8"}},{"mo":"\u2146","mi":"t"}]}},{"mi":"H","mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mo":["\uf603","\u232a"],"mi":"\u03c8"}}],"mo":"="},"mo":","}}},"br":{}},"Atomic, molecular and optical quantum computing realizations for quantum computers are under increasing development focus. It is also quite likely that we will see quarks, mesons and gluons investigated as implementation platforms. It is also the case that greater than US$1 trillion is estimated to have been invested in silicon technology since the invention of the transistor in the late 1940s; therefore, the impetus to perfect a solid state quantum computer is also quite significant.","While the invention has been described with respect to preferred embodiments, those skilled in the art will readily appreciate that various changes and\/or modifications can be made to the invention without departing from the spirit or scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["So that those having ordinary skill in the art to which the disclosed system appertains will more readily understand how to make and use the same, reference may be had to the drawings wherein:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0076","num":"0082"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0077","num":"0083"},"figref":"FIG. 2A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0078","num":"0084"},"figref":"FIG. 2B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0079","num":"0085"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0080","num":"0086"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0081","num":"0087"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0082","num":"0088"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0083","num":"0089"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0084","num":"0090"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0085","num":"0091"},"figref":"FIGS. 9A and 9B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0086","num":"0092"},"figref":"FIG. 10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0087","num":"0093"},"figref":"FIG. 11"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0088","num":"0094"},"figref":"FIG. 12"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0089","num":"0095"},"figref":["FIG. 13","FIG. 7"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0090","num":"0096"},"figref":["FIG. 14A","FIG. 13"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0091","num":"0097"},"figref":["FIG. 14B","FIG. 13"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0092","num":"0098"},"figref":["FIG. 14C","FIG. 13"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0093","num":"0099"},"figref":["FIG. 15","FIG. 13"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0094","num":"0100"},"figref":["FIG. 16","FIG. 15"]}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
