---
title: Vortex-assisted pressure control at inlet of underwater launch system
abstract: A vortex-assisted pressure control system is provided for controlling fluid flow into an inlet formed in a vehicle where such fluid flow into the inlet occurs during vehicle movement. Vortex generator(s) is (are) positioned forward of the inlet with respect to forward movement of the vehicle to generate streamwise vortices in the fluid as the vehicle moves through the fluid. Each vortex generator is controllable to adjust strength of the streamwise vortices and a lateral position of the streamwise vortices relative to the inlet. Sensors are used to i) detect the lateral position of the streamwise vortices relative to the inlet, and ii) pressure of the fluid that has entered the inlet. A controller adjusts the vortex generator(s) based on sensor measurements in order to control the lateral position of the streamwise vortices and the pressure of the fluid entering the vehicle via the inlet.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=06932016&OS=06932016&RS=06932016
owner: 
number: 06932016
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20031029
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"GOVINT":[{},{}],"heading":["STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENT INTEREST","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENT(S)"],"p":["The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for Governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.","(1) Field of the Invention","The present invention relates generally to controlling the flow of a surrounding environmental fluid into an inlet formed in a moving vehicle, and more particularly to a system that uses vortices to control such a flow at the inlet of, for example, an underwater vehicle's underwater launch system.","(2) Description of the Prior Art","Many underwater launch systems used by underwater vehicles utilize the forward motion of the vehicle and underwater pressure to develop a dynamic pressure head for launch initiation. Briefly, an inlet formed in the vehicle's hull admits water as the vehicle moves forward. A launch pressurization system coupled to the inlet pressurizes and directs the water flow to a launch tube. The inlet can be open at all times or fitted with a door that is kept closed and flush with the vehicle's hull until a launch is required. For hydrodynamic reasons, the inlet door (if present) opens into the vehicle. However, an inlet that is open at all times or one having an inward-opening inlet door does not effectively direct the dynamic pressure of the moving water into the inlet. To increase the mass flow of fluid into such an inlet, the prior art has attempted to modify the door design or has positioned protuberances on the door or forward of the door.","Mohn (U.S. Pat. No. 4,174,083) discloses an ogee-shaped platform mounted on an air inlet door of an aircraft fuselage for generating a downwash of air into the inlet as the aircraft flies. In each embodiment, the platform remains in the airflow even when the inlet door is closed.","Mazzitelli (U.S. Pat. No. 4,696,442) discloses the use of two fixed-position vortex generators mounted forward of an aircraft's air inlet to generate a downwash of air into the inlet. The vortex generators remain in the airflow at all times.","The above-described prior art protuberance\/vortex generator concepts are not suitable for an underwater vehicle as they generate hydrodynamic inefficiencies, an unwanted acoustic signature, and may not properly position the generated vortex relative to the inlet due to vehicle side slip motion and\/or underwater currents.","Accordingly, it is an object of the present invention to provide a system that, as a vehicle moves through a fluid, improves the flow of the fluid into an inlet formed in the vehicle's body.","Another object of the present invention is to provide a system that, as a vehicle moves through a fluid, can adjust to varying vehicle speeds and fluid flow conditions to maximize the flow of a fluid into an inlet formed in the vehicle's body.","Still another object of the present invention is to provide a vortex generating system for a vehicle that minimizes an acoustic signature associated therewith when the system is not in use.","Other objects and advantages of the present invention will become more obvious hereinafter in the specification and drawings.","In accordance with the present invention, a system is provided for controlling fluid flow into an inlet formed in a vehicle where such fluid flow into the inlet occurs as the vehicle moves through a fluid. At least one vortex generator is coupled to the vehicle and is positioned forward of the inlet with respect to forward movement of the vehicle. The vortex generator generates streamwise vortices in the fluid as the vehicle moves through the fluid. The vortex generator is controllable to adjust strength of the streamwise vortices and a lateral position of the streamwise vortices relative to the inlet. Detectors are coupled to the vehicle for detecting the lateral position of the streamwise vortices. Pressure of the fluid that has entered the inlet is also measured. A controller adjusts the vortex generator based on the lateral position of the streamwise vortices and the pressure of the fluid that entered the vehicle via the inlet.","Referring now to the drawings, and more particularly to , a portion of the hull of an underwater vehicle is referenced by numeral  and the direction of forward movement of hull  is referenced by directional arrow . Formed in hull  is an inlet  for admitting a fluid flow (e.g., water) as hull  moves along direction . The specific design of inlet  is not a limitation of the present invention. That is, the inlet can be any type ranging from a simple flush mounted inlet to a scooped inlet. In general, inlet  provides an entry point for a flow of fluid to some onboard system  coupled to inlet  via conduits\/ducts .","To control the fluid flow entering inlet , the present invention uses the following: an adjustable vortex generator  that is placed forward of inlet  (relative to direction ; one or more sensors  positioned in and\/or around inlet , along ducts , and\/or in onboard system ; and a controller  receiving outputs from sensors  and supplying control inputs to adjustable vortex generator .","Regardless of its specific design, vortex generator  generates one or more vortices  that extend in a streamwise direction aft from the vortex generator . As is known in the art, the vortices  modify the flow field adjacent to hull  to create a downwash that can be used to increase the mass flow into inlet  and, therefore, the pressure of fluid available for use by the onboard system . In perfect or steady-state conditions (i.e., constant speed and direction of movement of the hull , steady-state currents in the fluid surrounding the hull , etc.), the vortex generator  could be fixed in its position. However, when the hull  is part of an underwater vehicle, such steady-state conditions rarely exist. Accordingly, the present invention provides the means to control the vortex generator  so that the strength and\/or position of the vortices  can be adjusted for changing conditions. The sensor(s)  provide signals indicative of changing conditions at their various locations and the controller  utilizes the signals to develop a control signal supplied to the adjustable vortex generator  for the purpose of adjusting the strength and\/or position of the vortices .","The adjustable vortex generator  can be realized by one or more vortex generating devices that are controllable to adjust the strength and\/or position of the vortex generated thereby. For example, as shown in , one such vortex generator  can be a mechanically manipulated wing  (e.g., a delta wing, an ogee-shaped wing, etc.) that can be moved into and out of the flow field moving over hull  by means of an actuator  and hinging linkage . A single actuator  and hinging linkage  could be used to provide for simple angle-of-attack adjustments. However, if additional actuators\/hinging linkages are coupled to the wing , the wing's angle-of-attack and yaw could be adjusted to thereby provide for both strength and lateral position adjustment of the vortices produced by the wing. When no vortex generation is required, the wing  is manipulated to fit within a recess  of hull  so that the wing is flush therewith.","Another type of vortex generator is illustrated in  where a pressurized fluid source  provides fluid  (such as air) under pressure to one (or more) nozzles  having the output flush with hull . The nozzle(s)  is (are) positioned such that the fluid  is ejected into the surrounding fluid environments in a direction that is normal to hull . The advantage of this design is that no mechanical systems need by deployed outside of the hull .","By way of illustrative example, the present invention will be explained for its use with an underwater launch system of an underwater vehicle. However, it is to be understood that the present invention can also be used with any surface vehicle or aircraft moving through the air. Referring now to , the basic elements of an underwater vehicle's underwater launch system include: inlet  coupled to inlet duct  that leads to a slide valve , a tube  housing a payload  that is to be ejected therefrom; an impulse tank  coupled to the aft or breech end of tube  via slide valve ; and a turbine pump . The above elements are well known components of an underwater launch system and should not be considered as part of the present invention or limitations of the present invention.","Cooperating with the launch system are the present invention's vortex generator , sensors  and controller  with sensors  being distributed to assure proper positioning of vortices  relative to inlet  and to assure proper strength of vortices  to maintain the proper pressure balance in tube  prior to the launch of payload . Accordingly, sensors  placed around or in inlet  need only detect the presence of vortices  whereas sensors  placed fore and aft of payload  should be capable of measuring a fluid pressure. However, for simplicity, each of sensors  can be a pressure sensor. While each of sensors  will be coupled to controller , only some of sensors  in  are shown as being coupled to controller  for clarity of illustration.","Just prior to launching the payload , the inlet  and\/or duct  are opened to admit water therein as the hull  moves through the water. The vortex generator  is activated with the sensors  around the inlet  providing (pressure) readings to the controller . At a minimum, at least one of the sensors  is placed on each side of the inlet  in order to detect any higher pressure (due to the vortices ) if the vortices are laterally misaligned with the inlet. However, for more positive feedback with respect to the lateral position of the vortices , additional sensors  can be aligned with (e.g., fore and aft) and\/or placed just inside the inlet  as shown. The various high\/low pressure readings of the sensors  around and\/or in the inlet  are utilized by the controller  to establish control signals for the vortex generator .","Sensors  positioned fore and aft of payload  measure any imbalance in the dynamic head in tube . This is critical in an underwater launch system as any pressure imbalance could cause movement of payload  in tube . Thus, the controller  uses pressure readings from the sensors  positioned fore and aft of payload  to increase\/decrease the strength of the vortices  in order to maintain the proper pressure balance.","The advantages of the present invention are numerous. The vortex-assisted pressure control system can maintain a critical pressure balance in an underwater launch system. However, the present invention is not so limited as the teachings herein can be applied equally as well to an airborne vehicle having an inlet formed in the body thereof.","Therefore, it will be understood that many additional changes in the details, materials, steps and arrangement of parts, which have been herein described and illustrated in order to explain the nature of the invention, may be made by those skilled in the art within the principle and scope of the invention as expressed in the appended claims."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["Other objects, features and advantages of the present invention will become apparent upon reference to the following description of the preferred embodiments and to the drawings, wherein corresponding reference characters indicate corresponding parts throughout the several views of the drawings and wherein:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 4"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
