---
title: Airfoil surface impedance modification for noise reduction in turbofan engines
abstract: In accordance with the present invention, an aircraft engine is provided with a component which helps reduce the noise generated by the engine. The component has a first aerodynamic surface, a second aerodynamic surface, and a system for reducing noise without altering a pressure differential between the first aerodynamic surface and the second aerodynamic surface.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07018172&OS=07018172&RS=07018172
owner: United Technologies Corporation
number: 07018172
owner_city: Hartford
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20031222
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"GOVINT":[{},{}],"heading":["STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENT INTEREST","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENT(S)"],"p":["The Government of the United States of America may have rights in the present invention as a result of Contract No. NAS3-98005 awarded by the National Aeronautics and Space Administration.","(a) Field of the Invention","The present invention relates to a component for use in a gas turbine engine, particularly turbofan engines, which component is provided with means for reducing noise generated by said engine.","(b) Prior Art","The noise generated by contemporary turbofan engines has a significant economic impact. This is because aircraft operations are restricted to specific times during the day which prevents, for instance, 24-hour use of freight carriers. A sizeable portion of this noise is tonal in nature and can be partially attributed to the unsteady aerodynamic interaction between the stator and wakes shed from the upstream rotor. As one increases bypass ratio, fan noise is likely to be the dominant source.","Past methods for the reduction of fan tone noise have included choosing blade\/vane counts such that the fundamental mode is cut off, increasing rotor-stator spacing, and the use of acoustic linings in the inlet and exit fan ducts. Some of these techniques however may not always be applicable. Duct liners suffer from the drawback that the thickness required to provide significant noise attenuation may be quite large, resulting in large weight increase at high bypass ratios.","In the quest for techniques aimed towards tone noise reduction, it is crucially important that their effect on the mean flow be minimal. In particular, the amount of flow turning in the exit guide vane should not be affected, nor the flow losses enhanced to any significant extent, for this would result in degraded performance. Thus, the system shown in U.S. Pat. No. 6,139,259 to Ho et al., wherein the pressure and suction surfaces of the exit guide vane (or strut) communicate through small channels over the entire leading edge surface of the airfoil, is not feasible since it would alter both the mean and unsteady loading.","It is desirable to develop a system capable of producing large (predictable) changes in the unsteady loading, while having little effect on the steady loading.","Accordingly, it is an object of the present invention to provide an aircraft engine component which reduces noise in gas turbine engines.","It is a further object of the present invention to provide an aircraft engine component wherein the noise reduction means produces large (predictable) changes in the unsteady loading, while having little effect on the steady loading.","The foregoing objects are attained by the aircraft engine components in accordance with the present invention.","In accordance with the present invention, an aircraft engine component is provided which reduces noise in turbofan engines. The aircraft engine component broadly comprises having a first aerodynamic surface, a second aerodynamic surface, and means for reducing noise without altering a pressure differential between the first aerodynamic surface and the second aerodynamic surface.","Other details of the acoustic impedance modification for noise reduction in turbofan engines, as well as other objects and advantages attendant thereto, are set forth in the following detailed description and the accompanying drawings wherein like reference numerals depict like elements.","The present invention is directed to the reduction of noise generated by gas turbine engine components. For example, the noise may be generated by the interaction of a rotor wake with a fan exit guide vane. The noise may also be generated by the interaction of potential fields, such as acoustic waves, with solid objects in the flow path. These solid objects include guide vanes, struts, and bifurcators.","Referring now to the drawings,  illustrates a first embodiment of an engine component  having a means for reducing the noise generated by a gas turbine engine. The component  may be a vane or a blade used in the engine. As can be seen from , the component  has a leading edge , a trailing edge , and a first surface  and a second surface  which extend from the leading edge  to the trailing edge . Each of the surfaces  and  has a plurality of perforations or apertures . The component  is divided into a plurality of cells  by transverse elements  and a contoured backing . The contoured backing  may be an acoustic liner formed from any suitable metallic or non-metallic material known in the art. The depth of each cell  is varied by the shape of the backing  which varies in the chordwise direction.","In operation, a fluid, such as air, flows over the surfaces  and  and enters the cells . The presence of the backing  prevents the air from passing through the component  from one of the surfaces  and  to the other of the surfaces  and . As a result, the pressure differential which is created over the component  is not altered. The backing surface , which is comprised of compliance, resistance and inertance components, alters the unsteady response of the component  to impinging disturbances. Thus, by appropriately tuning the dimensions of the backing , the unsteady response can be so chosen as to reduce the amplitude of the acoustic waves scattered by the component .","While the backing  has been described as being variable in a chordwise direction, it should be noted that the backing  could also be varied in a spanwise direction. Furthermore, the chordwise and spanwise dependence of the perforated surface thickness and hole density\/shape can also be used to control the surface impedance.","Referring now to , when the component is a thin airfoil, such as in the case of a fan exit guide vane, the use of an acoustic liner or backing such as that shown in  may not be feasible. Under these conditions, it is desirable to decouple the compliance from the resistance and inertance.  illustrates a fan exit guide vane  having an internal plenum  which provides the compliance. Holes  may be provided on the airfoil pressure surface  and\/or the airfoil suction surface . Each of the holes  is connected to the plenum  by a series of discrete fluid passageways . As suggested in , the perforations may be confined to small portions of the airfoil surface  and\/or . The optimum locations of these regions can be determined from the unsteady aerodynamic response of the blade row. Since there are no fluid passageways extending through the vane  from the surface  to the surface , the pressure differential over the surfaces  and  is not altered in any way. By providing the necessary compliance via the plenum , engine noise is reduced.","A third embodiment of a noise reduction technique is illustrated in . In this embodiment, a short length plate  of uncambered, porous material is attached to the leading edge  of an airfoil portion  of an engine component. The plate  is oriented parallel to the mean flow direction . Unlike the previous embodiments, the flows streams on either side of the plate  now communicate with each other. However, because of the orientation of the plate  along the inflow direction, its impact on the steady loading is minimal. Unsteady disturbance such as those induced by incoming rotor wakes will however be significantly affected by the impedance of the plate . This will have an effect on the unsteady airfoil loading and thus the noise that is generated. Despite a superficial resemblance to the device shown in U.S. Pat. No. 6,139,259 to Ho et al., the fundamental difference here is that the resistive element is not contained within the working portion of the airfoil, i.e. within the zone where flow turning occurs. As a result, the pressure differential over the airfoil portion of the component is maintained.","The three embodiments described herein illustrate the novel feature of the present invention, wherein the component surface impedance is tailored so as to alter the unsteady response of the airfoil to incident disturbances in such a manner that the scattered acoustic energy is lower than would be generated by the interaction of the same disturbance with an analogous impervious component.","It is apparent that there has been provided in accordance with the present invention an acoustic impedance modification for noise reduction in turbofan engines which fully satisfies the objects, means, and advantages set forth hereinbefore. While the present invention has been described in accordance with specific embodiments thereof, it should be apparent that alternatives, modifications and variations will become apparent to those skilled in the art having read the foregoing description. Accordingly, it is intended to embrace those alternatives, modifications, and variations as fall within the broad scope of the appended claims."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 3"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
