---
title: System and method for scheduling a fabrication process
abstract: The present invention is a job scheduling system and method that provides enhanced on-time delivery (OTD) of a fabrication process. The present invention provides on-time delivery (OTD) of a fabrication process. A scheduling heuristic, referred to as Weighted Forward Algorithm (WFA), is applied to a set of fabrication jobs to reduce the weighted number of late delivery of a single machine with a setup. Certain exemplary embodiments can provide a system and method for scheduling a fabrication process, comprising the activities of: initializing a set of fabrication jobs to create a set of on time jobs, a set of late jobs and a set of jobs to be scheduled; normalizing job set by due date order and processing requirements; and determining if the set of on time jobs will meet scheduled due dates, and if not, then determining which job to move from the set of on time jobs and moving that job from the set of on time jobs to the set of late jobs.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07130706&OS=07130706&RS=07130706
owner: Siemens Energy & Automation, Inc.
number: 07130706
owner_city: Alpharetta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20030918
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATION","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DEFINITIONS","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["This application claims priority to, and incorporates by reference herein in its entirety, pending U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60\/412,305, filed Sep. 20, 2002.","An entire fabrication process, for example the fabrication of sheet metal, consists of many machines and is considered as having a job-shop environment, where jobs have their own process routings visiting these machines. However, the decision as to which jobs are to be processed on which individual machine is made via the company's production routings. Setups on machines incur when machines change from processing one job to another. Thus, the problem is defined here as a single machine-scheduling problem with setup. Moreover, jobs often have different levels of importance (priorities). The levels of importance are assigned by weight numbers, the higher the weights, the more important the jobs are. The company measures its performance by means of weighted number of late delivery. Currently, the Weighted Shortest Processing Time (WSPT) heuristic is used by conventional fabrication scheduling systems to address this fabrication problem. However, these conventional fabrication systems yield poor or inconsistent results","The present invention is a job scheduling system and method that provides enhanced on-time delivery (OTD) of a fabrication process. A scheduling heuristic, referred to as Weighted Forward Algorithm (WFA), is applied to a set of fabrication jobs to reduce the weighted number of late delivery of a single machine with a setup.","Certain exemplary embodiments can provide a system and method for scheduling a fabrication process, comprising the activities of: initializing a set of fabrication jobs to create a set of on time jobs, a set of late jobs and a set of jobs to be scheduled; normalizing job set by due date order and processing requirements; and determining if the set of on time jobs will meet scheduled due dates, and if not, then determining which job to move from the set of on time jobs and moving that job from the set of on time jobs to the set of late jobs. It will be appreciated that the fabrication system and method continues until all jobs are scheduled.","When the following terms and\/or notations are used herein, the accompanying definitions apply:\n\n",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0028"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00001","num":"00001"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["U","j"]},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mo":"{","mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":[{"mn":"1"},{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mi":"if","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},"msub":{"mi":["C","j"]}},"mo":">","msub":{"mi":["d","j"]}}}]},{"mtd":[{"mn":"0"},{"mi":"otherwise"}]}]}}}}}},"Certain exemplary embodiments provide a system and method for scheduling a fabrication process, comprising the activities of: initializing a set of fabrication jobs to create a set of on time jobs, set of late jobs and a set of jobs to be scheduled; normalizing job set by due date order and processing requirements; and determining if the set of on time jobs will meet scheduled due dates, and if not, then determining which job to move from the set of on time jobs and moving that job from the set of on time jobs to the set of late jobs. It will be appreciated that the fabrication system and method continues until all of the jobs are scheduled.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0030"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["1000","1105","1110","1110","1120","1130","1140","1160","1170"]},"HMI , HMI navigation engine , user interface , and\/or HMI user screen  can be based on one or more proprietary and\/or non-Web-based protocols, that is one or more protocols other than a standard or Web protocol such as HTML, SGML, XML, XSL, etc.","As used herein, the term \u201cengine\u201d means a hardware, firmware, and\/or software-based device adaptable to process machine-readable instructions to perform a specific task. An engine can act upon information by manipulating, analyzing, modifying, and\/or converting information. An engine can communicate with an HMI, another engine, a processor, a memory, and\/or an I\/O device. It will be appreciated that fabrication scheduler engine  performs the specific task of scheduling fabrication jobs. These fabrication jobs can include but are not limited to jobs for development, manufacturing and\/or assembly applications.","Fabrication scheduler engine  can provide a user screen or its output can be displayed by one of many HMI user screens . Rendering  can be one of many renderings. For example, via information device  and\/or an additional information device , the same or a different user can perceive a different rendering  of HMI  and\/or any of its components. Fabrication scheduler engine , HMI , HMI navigation engine  can run locally on information device , and\/or can be provided via a network  from a server . Via a direct connection, or via a network , server  can obtain information from process devices ,, ,, such as one or more sensors, actuators, data acquisition devices, control devices, automation devices, information devices, etc. Server  can also provide commands and\/or information such as a fabrication schedule to process devices ,,,.","Via network , information devices ,, and\/or server  can communicate information with information servers , , to which any number of information stores , (e.g., archives, databases, memory devices, etc.) can be connected. Information servers , can serve any of internal information, external information, pictures, graphics, video, animation, alarms, archived information, web information, process information, application programming interfaces (\u201cAPI's\u201d), supervisory control and data acquisition (\u201cSCADA\u201d) extensions, configuration tools, software, databases, and\/or specifications, etc.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0035"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1"],"b":["2000","1170","1180","1400","1710","1720"]},"Information device  can include well-known components such as one or more network interfaces , one or more processors , one or more memories  containing instructions and data, and\/or one or more input\/output (I\/O) devices , etc. Via one or more I\/O devices , a user interface  can be provided.","Instructions and memories  include a fabrication scheduler engine , and data including a Set of On Time Jobs , a Set of Late Jobs  and a Set of Jobs To Be Scheduled .","As used herein, the term \u201cinformation device\u201d means any device capable of processing information, such as any general purpose and\/or special purpose computer, such as a personal computer, workstation, server, minicomputer, mainframe, supercomputer, computer terminal, laptop, wearable computer, and\/or Personal Digital Assistant (PDA), mobile terminal, Bluetooth device, communicator, \u201csmart\u201d phone (such as a Handspring Treo-like device), messaging service (e.g., Blackberry) receiver, pager, facsimile, cellular telephone, a traditional telephone, telephonic device, a programmed microprocessor or microcontroller and\/or peripheral integrated circuit elements, an ASIC or other integrated circuit, a hardware electronic logic circuit such as a discrete element circuit, and\/or a programmable logic device such as a PLD, PLA, FPGA, or PAL, or the like, etc. In general any device on which resides a finite state machine capable of implementing at least a portion of a method, structure, and\/or or graphical user interface described herein may be used as an information device. An information device can include well-known components such as one or more network interfaces, one or more processors, one or more memories containing instructions, and\/or one or more input\/output (I\/O) devices, one or more user interfaces, etc.","As used herein, the term \u201cnetwork interface\u201d means any device, system, or subsystem capable of coupling an information device to a network. For example, a network interface can be a telephone, cellular phone, cellular modem, telephone data modem, fax modem, wireless transceiver, ethernet card, cable modem, digital subscriber line interface, bridge, hub, router, or other similar device.","As used herein, the term \u201cprocessor\u201d means a device for processing machine-readable instruction. A processor can be a central processing unit, a local processor, a remote processor, parallel processors, and\/or distributed processors, etc. The processor can be a general-purpose microprocessor, such the Pentium III series of microprocessors manufactured by the Intel Corporation of Santa Clara, Calif. In another embodiment, the processor can be an Application Specific Integrated Circuit (ASIC) or a Field Programmable Gate Array (FPGA) that has been designed to implement in its hardware and\/or firmware at least a part of an embodiment disclosed herein.","As used herein, a \u201cmemory device\u201d means any hardware element capable of data storage. Memory devices can comprise non-volatile memory, volatile memory, Random Access Memory, RAM, Read Only Memory, ROM, flash memory, magnetic media, a hard disk, a floppy disk, a magnetic tape, an optical media, an optical disk, a compact disk, a CD, a digital versatile disk, a DVD, and\/or a raid array, etc.","As used herein, the term \u201cfirmware\u201d means machine-readable instructions that are stored in a read-only memory (ROM). ROM's can comprise PROMs and EPROMs.","As used herein, the term \u201cI\/O device\u201d means any sensory-oriented input and\/or output device, such as an audio, visual, haptic, olfactory, and\/or taste-oriented device, including, for example, a monitor, display, projector, overhead display, keyboard, keypad, mouse, trackball, joystick, gamepad, wheel, touchpad, touch panel, pointing device, microphone, speaker, video camera, camera, scanner, printer, haptic device, vibrator, tactile simulator, and\/or tactile pad, potentially including a port to which an I\/O device can be attached or connected.","As used herein, the term \u201chaptic\u201d means both the human sense of kinesthetic movement and the human sense of touch. Among the many potential haptic experiences are numerous sensations, body-positional differences in sensations, and time-based changes in sensations that are perceived at least partially in non-visual, non-audible, and non-olfactory manners, including the experiences of tactile touch (being touched), active touch, grasping, pressure, friction, traction, slip, stretch, force, torque, impact, puncture, vibration, motion, acceleration, jerk, pulse, orientation, limb position, gravity, texture, gap, recess, viscosity, pain, itch, moisture, temperature, thermal conductivity, and thermal capacity.","As used herein, the term \u201cuser interface\u201d means any device for rendering information to a user and\/or requesting information from the user. A user interface can include textual, graphical, audio, video, animation, and\/or haptic elements. A textual element can be provided, for example, by a printer, monitor, display, projector, etc. A graphical element can be provided, for example, via a monitor, display, projector, and\/or visual indication device, such as a light, flag, beacon, etc. An audio element can be provided, for example, via a speaker, microphone, and\/or other sound generating and\/or receiving device. A video element or animation element can be provided, for example, via a monitor, display, projector, and\/or other visual device. A haptic element can be provided, for example, via a very low frequency speaker, vibrator, tactile stimulator, tactile pad, simulator, keyboard, keypad, mouse, trackball, joystick, gamepad, wheel, touchpad, touch panel, pointing device, and\/or other haptic device, etc.","A user interface can include one or more textual elements such as, for example, one or more letters, number, symbols, etc. A user interface can include one or more graphical elements such as, for example, an image, photograph, drawing, icon, window, title bar, panel, sheet, tab, drawer, matrix, table, form, calendar, outline view, frame, dialog box, static text, text box, list, pick list, pop-up list, pull-down list, menu, tool bar, dock, check box, radio button, hyperlink, browser, button, control, palette, preview panel, color wheel, dial, slider, scroll bar, cursor, status bar, stepper, and\/or progress indicator, etc. A textual and\/or graphical element can be used for selecting, programming, adjusting, changing, specifying, etc. an appearance, background color, background style, border style, border thickness, foreground color, font, font style, font size, alignment, line spacing, indent, maximum data length, validation, query, cursor type, pointer type, autosizing, position, and\/or dimension, etc. A user interface can include one or more audio elements such as, for example, a volume control, pitch control, speed control, voice selector, and\/or one or more elements for controlling audio play, speed, pause, fast forward, reverse, etc. A user interface can include one or more video elements such as, for example, elements controlling video play, speed, pause, fast forward, reverse, zoom-in, zoom-out, rotate, and\/or tilt, etc. A user interface can include one or more animation elements such as, for example, elements controlling animation play, pause, fast forward, reverse, zoom-in, zoom-out, rotate, tilt, color, intensity, speed, frequency, appearance, etc. A user interface can include one or more haptic elements such as, for example, elements utilizing tactile stimulus, force, pressure, vibration, motion, displacement, temperature, etc.","In certain exemplary embodiments, via one or more user interfaces , fabrication scheduler engine  can create, request, provide, receive, revise, and\/or delete one or more job fabrication schedules. In certain exemplary embodiments, fabrication scheduler engine  communicates with HMI  where one or more HMI user screens can be created, requested, received, rendered, viewed, revised, and\/or deleted. In certain exemplary embodiments, an HMI navigation engine, running on and\/or via an information device , can provide any or all of these functions.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0048"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":["3000","3100","1105","1110","3200","1160","1105"]},"At activity , job scheduler engine  initializes a job set to create a set of on time jobs , a set of late jobs  and a set of jobs to be scheduled . Activity  can be expressed as follows:\n\n","At activity , job scheduler engine  normalizes the jobs according to jobs due and processing requirements. A job is selected that has the lowest value based a due date of job and order size. Activity  can be expressed as follows:\n\n","At activity , job scheduler engine  determines if the Set of On Time Jobs  will meet scheduled due dates. If not, at activity , job scheduler engine  determines which job to move from the Set of On Time Jobs  and at activity  moves the determined job from the Set of On Time Jobs  to the Set of Late Jobs . If the Set of On Time Jobs  will meet the scheduled due dates then activity  is performed. Activity ,  and  can be expressed as follows:\n\n",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0037","num":"0058"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00002","num":"00002"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mrow":{"mrow":{"munderover":{"mo":"\u2211","mrow":{"mi":"j","mo":"\u2208","msup":{"mi":"S","mn":"0"}},"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"msub":{"mi":"p","mrow":{"mi":["eff","j"],"mo":","}}},"mo":"<","msub":{"mi":"d","msup":{"mi":"j","mo":"*"}}},"mo":","}}},"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0010","list-style":"none"},"li":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0010-0001","num":"0000"},"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0011","list-style":"none"},"li":"\u2003go to activity ; otherwise let k* denote the job that satisfies p=max{(p\/os)+(s\/os)+(rmos)}. When k* is found, remove it from Sand add it to S."}}}},"It will be appreciated that in an alternative embodiment, activity  and activity  can be expressed as follows:","Activity ",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0039","num":"0000"},"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0012","list-style":"none"},"li":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0012-0001","num":"0000"},"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0013","list-style":"none"},"li":["Let j* denote the job that satisfies d=min(d\u2212os)\n        \n        ","If"]}}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0040","num":"0066"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00003","num":"00003"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mrow":{"mrow":{"munderover":{"mo":"\u2211","mrow":{"mi":"j","mo":"\u2208","msup":{"mi":"S","mn":"0"}},"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"msub":{"mi":"p","mrow":{"mi":["eff","j"],"mo":","}}},"mo":"<","msub":{"mi":"d","msup":{"mi":"j","mo":"*"}}},"mo":","}}},"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0015","list-style":"none"},"li":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0015-0001","num":"0000"},"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0016","list-style":"none"},"li":"\u2003go to activity ; otherwise let k* denote the job that satisfies p=max{(p\u2212os)+(s\/os)+(rm\/os)}. When k* is found, remove it from Sand add it to S."}}}},"It will be appreciated that in Activity  term",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0042","num":"0069"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00004","num":"00004"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mrow":{"munderover":{"mo":"\u2211","mrow":{"mi":"j","mo":"\u2208","msup":{"mi":"S","mn":"0"}},"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"msub":{"mi":"p","mrow":{"mi":["eff","j"],"mo":","}}},"mo":"<","msub":{"mi":"d","msup":{"mi":"j","mo":"*"}}}}},"br":{}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0043","num":"0070"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00005","num":"00005"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mrow":{"mi":"where","mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"munderover":{"mo":"\u2211","mrow":{"mi":"j","mo":"\u2208","msup":{"mi":"S","mn":"0"}},"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"msub":{"mi":"p","mrow":{"mi":["eff","j"],"mo":","}}}},"mo":">","msub":{"mi":"d","msup":{"mi":"j","mo":"*"}}}},"mo":","}}},"br":{},"b":["3510","2320","3520","2330","2320","3510"],"sub":["j","j ","j","j "]},"It will be appreciated that (s\/os) and (rm\/os) represents the setup and remove times per piece for each job. The setup and remove times are not included into the actual processing time because these two time components fluctuate more than the actual processing time. Consequently, they can be updated more conveniently if they are defined separately from the actual processing time.","At activity , job scheduler engine  determines if there are jobs in the Set of Jobs To Be Scheduled . If there are jobs, then job scheduler engine  performs activity . If there are no jobs, then job scheduler engine  ends the scheduling process. Activity  can be expressed as follows:\n\n","It will be appreciated that the order sizes are directly used in lieu of the weights in the expression and calculation of the objective value of activities  and . It will further be appreciated that the direct use of the order sizes can increase the accuracy of results in regards to the objective values. In certain embodiments, jobs with larger order sizes (higher weights) and earlier due dates should be processed first in order to reduce the weighted number of late jobs. This is provided by selecting the job with the lowest d\/osratio and lowest difference d\u2212osto be processed next as in activity .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0047","num":"0075"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":["4000","3400","4100","4200","4300"],"sub":["j","j ","j","j ","j "]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0048","num":"0076"},"figref":"FIG. 5","b":["5000","4500","5100","2330","5200","2330","5300"],"sub":["j","j","j","j","j","j","j","j","j","j","j","j","j "]}],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["A wide array of potential embodiments can be better understood through the following detailed description and the accompanying drawings in which:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0007","num":"0006"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":"1000"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0008","num":"0007"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":"2000"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":"3000"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":"4000"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 5","b":"5000"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
