---
title: Method for enabling a location service client to contact a user of a mobile device
abstract: A method for sending () information enabling a contacting of a user of a mobile device (MS) to at least one location service client (CL,CL) is disclosed. The method comprises the steps of selection () of a type of location service clients on the mobile device (MS), transmission () of a type identifier from the mobile device (MS) to a server (NS) in a telecommunication system, the type identifier identifying the selected type of location service clients, analysis () of the type identifier for a determination () of one or more location service clients (CL,CL) associated () with the selected type of location service clients, determination () of at least one address of the one or more determined location service clients (CL,CL) according to a result of the analysis (), and sending () information enabling the contacting of the user to the one or more location service clients (CL,CL) whose addresses are determined.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07711357&OS=07711357&RS=07711357
owner: Telefonaktiebolaget LM Ericsson (publ)
number: 07711357
owner_city: Stockholm
owner_country: SE
publication_date: 20030718
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["TECHNICAL FIELD OF THE INVENTION","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION"],"p":["The present invention relates to the field of telecommunication systems, especially to a method for sending information enabling a contacting of a user of a mobile device to at least one location service client.","Obtaining the location of a user of a mobile device in a mobile telecommunication system via a LCS (LoCation Service) is possible e.g. according to 3Generation Partnership Project (3GPP) Technical Specification (TS) 23.272 Version (V)5.3.0, Release 5, published June 2002 (2002-06). In a GSM (Global System for Mobile Communication) or UMTS (Universal Mobile Telecommunication System) system, the location of the user can be determined using accurate radio signal measurements and a position estimate computation based on the measurements. The location of the user may be indicated by a geographical coordinate with the accuracy of a few meters.","The mobile device can request its own location and can send its location via a GMLC (Gateway Mobile Location Center) to a LCS client, e.g. for using a LBS (Location Based Service). A location request initiated by the mobile device is also named MO-LR (Mobile Originating Location Request) and can be carried out in the CS (Circuit Switched) domain, i.e. CS-MO-LR, as well as in the PS (Packet Switched) domain, i.e. PS-MO-LR.","If the mobile device is requesting that its own location is to be sent to a LCS client, the mobile device can send a service invoke message to a VMSC\/MSC (Visited Mobile services Switching Center\/Mobile services Switching Center) for a CS-MO-LR or to a SGSN (Serving General packet radio service Support Node) for PS-MO-LR or to both. The service invoke message includes the identity of the LCS client and optionally the address of the GMLC. If the GMLC address is not included, the VMSC\/MSC or the SGSN, respectively, may assign its own GMLC address and may verify that the identified LCS client is supported by this GMLC. If a GMLC address is not available for this case, the VMSC\/MSC or the SGSN, respectively, can reject the MO-LR. Else, the VMSC\/MSC or the SGSN sends a MAP (Mobile Application Part) subscriber location report or subscriber LCS report message, respectively, comprising the MSISDN (Mobile Station Integrated Services Digital Network Number) or PDP (Packet Data Protocol) address of the mobile device, the identity of the LCS client and further information like a location estimate of the mobile device, the event causing the location estimate and the age of the location estimate. On receipt of the subscriber LCS report message, the GMLC sends the location of the mobile device to the LCS client.","MO-LR mechanisms as described so far are capable to address only one LCS client for one MO-LR. Addressing of multiple LCS clients requires multiple MO-LRs, which is time and resource consuming. Furthermore, an identity of the LCS client must be known to the mobile device to be included in the service invoke message. This strongly limits the application of the present MO-LR mechanisms to known LCS clients. In addition, the present MO-LR mechanisms only allow to send the location of a mobile device to a LCS client preventing the LCS client to provide service information to the user of the mobile device in response to the receipt of the location information.","It is therefore an object of the present invention to provide methods, devices and computer programs that allow a sending of information to multiple and\/or unknown location service clients with said information enabling a contacting of a user of a mobile device.","This object is achieved by the methods as described in claims , , and . Furthermore, the invention is embodied in devices as described in claims  and  and in computer programs as described in claims  and . Advantageous embodiments are described in the further claims.","For sending information enabling a contacting of a user of a mobile device to at least one location service client the following steps are performed. First, a selection of a type of location service clients is executed on the mobile device. The selection is preferably controlled by the user and can be achieved by scrolling a list of types of location service clients from that a type of location service clients is selected. The list may be loaded from an entity of the telecommunication system prior to the selection of the type of location service clients. Alternatively, the user may enter the selected type of location service clients into the mobile device, e.g. by entering a name for the type of location service clients.","After the selection of the type of location service clients, a transmission of a type identifier from the mobile device to a server in a telecommunication system is performed. The type identifier identifies the selected type of location service clients. The relation between the selected type of location service clients and the transmitted type identifier must be unique for the mobile device and the server for identifying the selected type of location service clients from the mobile device to the server. The type identifier may be loaded to a storage of the mobile device, e.g. it can be downloaded in conjunction with a list of types of location service clients. Triggered by the selection of the type of location service clients, the corresponding type identifier can be retrieved from the storage for transmission. Alternatively, the type identifier may be entered by the user to the mobile device. The transmission of the type identifier may be accompanied by a request for sending information enabling the contacting the user to one or more location service clients according to the type identifier. Furthermore, the information enabling the contacting of the user or an indication for the server where to find the information enabling the contacting of the user and\/or which information enabling the contacting of the user can be sent in conjunction with the transmission of the type identifier. Information for a location service client of the selected type of location service clients may be sent or indicated from the mobile device to the server in parallel to the transmission of the type identifier.","An analysis of the type identifier for a determination of one or more location service clients associated with the selected type of location service clients is executed. The analysis can be triggered by the receipt of the type identifier or by a corresponding request accompanying the type identifier as mentioned before. In the proposed method, one or more location service clients can be associated with one or more types of location service clients. A type of location service clients may be associated with a common attribute of one or more location service clients in order to distinguish the one or more location service clients of said type from further location service clients. For example, a type of location service clients may represent the type RESTAURANT or TRANSPORTATION. The association of a location service client to multiple types of location service clients is possible. From the knowledge of the type identifier, the server can identify the selected type of location service clients and can thus determine the one or more location service clients being associated with the selected type. This determination may be achieved by searching a database comprising at least the selected type identifier linked to the one or more location service clients that are associated with the selected type of location service clients.","Based on a result of the previous analysis, a determination of at least one address of the one or more determined location service clients is executed. An address may be derived from a profile of a location service client comprising e.g. the identity or name of the location service client, an address enabling the contacting of the location service client, one or more types of location service clients said location service client is associated to, and one or more corresponding type identifiers. If multiple addresses are comprised in a profile of a location service client, all addresses may be determined or a selection of one or more of the addresses may be performed, e.g. based on preferences by the location service client or the server. Profiles of location service clients are preferably stored at the server or are at least accessible by the server.","Finally, the sending of information enabling the contacting of the user to the one or more location service clients whose addresses are determined is executed. The information enabling the contacting of the user can be used by a location service client that received this information to contact the user and can comprise a user identity identifying the user to the location service client or an address of the user or both. Multiple user identities or addresses or both are possible and the information enabling the contacting of the user can be different for different location service clients. Examples for information enabling the contacting of the user are a MSISDN number, an IMSI (International Mobile Subscriber Identity) of the user, or a name or alias of the user combined with an address like a postal address. Also email, fixed phone, fax, or post box addresses can be used. Information enabling the contacting of the user can be stored on the server or can be provided to the server, e.g. in conjunction with the transmission of the type identifier. For example, the information enabling the contacting of the user can origin from the mobile device or a different entity of the telecommunication system like a HSS (Home Subscriber Server), a HLR (Home Location Register), an AAA (Authentication, Authorization and Accounting) server, a MSC (Mobile services Switching Center) or a SGSN. The contacting of the user from a location service client that received the information enabling the contacting of the user can be achieved in a way that service information is sent from said location service client to a user accessible receiving entity where the user can obtain said service information.","The proposed method solves the problem of sending information enabling a contacting of a user of a mobile device to multiple and\/or unknown location service clients. A conceptual change from the knowledge, transmission and analysis of individual identities of location service clients to the knowledge of types of location service clients with the transmission and analysis of type identifiers is introduced by the invention. For sending of information enabling the contacting of the user to location service clients, the user or the mobile device for the user do not necessarily have to know about the existence of one or more particular location service clients or to know the number of location service clients or their corresponding individual identities as it is in prior art. Instead, the user or the mobile device for the user must be aware about at least one type of location service clients that is to be selected and indicated to the server for sending information enabling the contacting of the user to the user. Also the transmission effort and processing effort for the generation and the processing of involved messages and related information can be reduced by the proposed method. Instead of sending multiple identities of location service clients as it is in prior art, a type identifier corresponding to the selected type of location service clients is transmitted. The transmission of the type identifier can be achieved in a single message instead of multiple messages necessary for the transmission of multiple identities of location service clients according to prior art. Thus, multiple location service clients of the selected type of location service clients and their respective addresses can be determined based on a single message. In addition, the one or more location service clients whose addresses are determined can be notified with information enabling the contacting of the user thus providing a notified location service client, i.e. a location service client of the selected type of location service clients to whom information enabling the contacting of the user is sent from the server, with the possibility to contact the user to provide adequate service to the user.","Furthermore, the proposed method is very flexible and convenient especially for a notified location service client and the user. Depending on the information enabling the contacting of the user provided to the notified location service client and its ability for making the contact to the user, the user can be contacted by a notified location service client in many ways. Typically, the user can access a large variety of user accessible receiving entities that can be offered to a notified location service client for the contacting of the user. In general, a user accessible receiving entity can be any device or institution or address identifiable and contactable by a notified location service client based on the information enabling a contacting of the user for contacting the user. Preferably, the user is provided with service information sent from a notified location service client to the user accessible receiving entity where the user can access the service information. Examples for a user accessible receiving entity are a mobile device either being the initial mobile device, i.e. the mobile device triggering the sending of information enabling the contacting of the user to the one or more location service clients of the selected type of location service clients or a different mobile device accessible by the user. Other devices allowing the contacting of the user by a notified location service client are possible, e.g. a computer that enables a user to access an email sent from a notified location service client, or a pager. In addition or alternatively, a user accessible receiving entity may be a company or a place of living of the user, or a post office. Depending on the information enabling the contacting of the user, a notified location service client may also contact more than one user accessible receiving entities for contacting the user. Different location service clients may contact different user accessible receiving entities.","It is preferable to execute a part of the steps of the previously described method on the server as described in the following. A method for sending information enabling a contacting of a user of a mobile device to at least one location service client wherein the following steps are performed by a server of a telecommunication system. These steps are receiving from the mobile device a type identifier identifying a selected type of location service clients, analysis of the type identifier for a determination of one or more location service clients associated with the selected type of location service clients, determination of at least one address of the one or more determined location service clients according to a result of the analysis, and sending information enabling the contacting of the user to the one or more location service clients whose addresses are determined.","For offering a location based service that takes into account location information associated with the user it is especially advantageous to provide a notified location service client with location information associated with the user. This can be achieved by sending location information associated with the user to the one or more location service clients whose addresses are determined. The location information associated with the user can be a location or an area or both, e.g. an area surrounding a location. The location\/area may be a current location\/area of the user or a location\/area different from the current location\/area. Location information associated with the user can be represented by geographical coordinates for specifying a location or an area. A radius can be used to indicate an area surrounding a location. Alternatively or in addition, predetermined areas like countries or districts of towns or areas relating to the mobile telecommunication system the mobile device of the user is attached to can be used, e.g. location information associated to the user may be based on a PLMN (Public Land Mobile Network) area, a LA (location area), a SA (service area), or a RA (routing area). The location information associated with the user can be entered into the mobile device for transmission to the server or may be determined by one or more entities of the mobile telecommunication system the mobile device of the user is attached to. The server can receive this location information associated with the user from the mobile device of the user, e.g. in combination or in parallel with the transmission of the type identifier, or from other entities of the telecommunication system. The location information associated with the user enables a notified location service client to offer a location based service that takes into account the location information associated with the user, e.g. for providing the user with a way description from the location as given in the location information associated with the user to the location of the location service client or for charging purposes depending on the distance of the location associated with the location service client and the location associated with the user. A notified location service client may use received location information associated with the user for checking purposes, e.g. the notified location service client may verify if a location or area given by the location information associated with the user is served by the notified location service client. If it is not served, a contacting of the user may not be executed.","According to a preferred embodiment, a threshold number is received that indicates a limit for a number of location service clients. The threshold number can be received by the server in a sense that an operator or the user sets the threshold number. Furthermore, a determination that the threshold number is reached can be executed and the number of the one or more location service clients to those information enabling the contacting of the user is to be sent to can be limited to the threshold number. In combination with the determination of the one or more location service clients of the selected type of location service clients it can be checked if the threshold number is reached. If it is determined that the threshold number is reached, the number of the determined one or more location service clients can be limited to the threshold number, i.e. the determination of location service clients of the selected type of location service clients is terminated when the threshold value is reached. The limitation has especially the advantage to avoid that the user selects unintentionally a type of location service clients wherein more location service clients than expected by the user are associated to. The threshold value can set a reasonable limit and avoids that to all location service clients of the selected type information enabling the contacting of the user is sent. Instead of terminating the determination of location service clients of the selected type of location service clients when the threshold value is reached as explained before, the server may continue with the determination and determine also one or more location service clients of the selected type of location service clients exceeding the threshold value. Preferably, the server indicates those one or more location service clients exceeding the threshold value for distinguishing them from the one or more location service clients that are determined up to the threshold value. This alternative procedure allows a more flexible processing of the one or more location service clients that are associated to the selected type of location service clients and may especially be interesting for charging purposes. For example, the sending of information enabling the contacting of the user to one or more location service clients of the selected type of location service clients up to the threshold value may be charged differently than for one or more location service clients of the selected type of location service clients exceeding the threshold value. Of course, the alternative procedure can be implemented such that only those of the one or more location service clients of the selected type of location service clients up to the threshold value are notified with information enabling the contacting of the user.","According to another preferred embodiment, location information associated with the user of the mobile device and location information associated with the one or more location service clients of the selected type of location service clients are considered such that the sending of information enabling the contacting of the user is restricted to those of the one or more location service clients whose location information matches the location information associated with the user. The location information associated with the user that is used for restriction can be identical or can be different from the location information associated with the user that can be used for sending to the one or more location service clients. In general, location information used for restriction may be a location or an area or both, e.g. an area surrounding a location. The location may be a current location\/area of the user or of a location service client of the selected type of location service clients or a location\/area different from the respective current location\/area. The location information associated with the user may be received from the mobile device, e.g. in combination with the transmission of the type identifier, may be provided from other entities of the telecommunication system, or may be stored at the server. Especially if the location service clients have a fixed or predictable location, location information associated with the one or more location service clients is preferably stored at the server. The location information associated with a location service client can be collected when associating the location service client to a type of location service clients. The location information associated with a location service client can be added to a profile of the location service client. The restriction of the one or more location service clients of the selected type of location service clients may be achieved by retrieving the location information associated with the one or more location service clients from the respective profiles and checking the retrieved location information versus the location information associated with the user in such a way that only those location service clients of the selected type are notified with information enabling the contacting of the user that are located in an area associated with the user. Other procedures or requirements for achieving the restriction are possible. Depending on the location information associated with the user and the location information associated with the one or more location service clients and the way of processing the respective location information, the number of location service clients that are to be notified with information enabling the contacting of the user can range from zero to all location service clients associated with the selected type of location service clients. The restriction is especially useful for both, the user and a location service client of a selected type of location service clients, as it introduces a procedure to satisfy location requirements of the user and location requirements of the location service client. It is especially advantageous to implement the restriction functionality in the server to avoid the notification of a location service client of the selected type of location service clients whose location requirement does not fulfill the location requirement of the user or vice versa.","It is especially helpful for the user if the current location of the mobile device is used for the location information associated with the user. The current location of a mobile device can be determined by the mobile telecommunication system. Improved convenience and security can be the consequence as the user does not have to know and\/or enter his current location.","It is preferable to execute a part of the steps of the previously described method on the mobile device of the user as described in the following. A method for sending information enabling a contacting of a user of a mobile device to at least one location service client wherein the following steps are performed by the mobile device. These steps are selection of a type of location service clients on the mobile device and sending of a type identifier to a server in a telecommunication system, the type identifier identifying the selected type of location service clients. Correspondingly, the mobile device can request the server to send information enabling the contacting of the user to one or more location service clients that are associated with the selected type of location service clients.","According to a preferred embodiment, multiple types of location service clients exist and the selected first type of location service clients is composed of at least two of the multiple types of location service clients. The introduction of multiple types of location service clients makes the method more versatile as it allows an association of location service clients to multiple types, e.g. RESTAURANT, TRANSPORTATION, BUSINESS, etc. providing more choices for the user. For providing a finer selection, it is advantageous to compose types, e.g. to combine type RESTAURANT with type CHINESE to compose the type CHINESE RESTAURANT. The composing can be executed during the selection of the type of location service clients. It depends on the implementation whether a type identifier representing the composed type of location service clients is sent to the server or multiple type identifiers. In the latter case, the mobile device sends a list of type identifiers that represents the composed type of location service clients that is selected to the server. The server can recognize the composed type of location service clients from an analysis of the multiple type identifiers and can thus determine the corresponding location service clients.","In order to give a feedback to the user on the one or more location service clients whose addresses are determined on the server, another preferred embodiment provides that the one or more location service clients whose addresses are determined are indicated on the mobile device of the user. A message comprising an indication of the one or more location service clients whose addresses are determined can be sent to the mobile device providing the user with information on said location service clients of the selected type of location service clients. In parallel, charging information may be provided to the user, e.g. for informing the user about the cost of the notification per location service client whose address is determined. The message mentioned before may be sent prior to the sending of information enabling the contacting of the user e.g. in order to provide the user with an option for a selection of the one or more location service clients that are to be notified with information enabling the contacting of the user. This selection has the advantage that the user can control which of the one or more location service clients whose addresses are determined is notified and\/or which is not notified. Alternatively, the message may be sent in parallel with or after the sending of information enabling the contacting of the user e.g. for providing the user with a report on the notified location service clients.","In order to keep the implementation effort low for the proposed method, at least the transmission of the type identifier can be executed in a mobile originated location request. Consequently, the type identifier of the selected type of location service clients can replace the identity of the location service client in the service invoke message sent from the mobile device via a VMSC\/MSC or a SGSN for a CS-MO-LR or PS-MO-LR, respectively, to a gateway mobile location center. Information related to the user like location information associated with the user or a user identity may be also transmitted or determined via the mobile originated location request that is also preferably adapted to trigger the sending of information enabling the contacting of the user. In a corresponding manner, the implementation effort may be further lowered if an existing gateway mobile location center is modified in order to provide functionality associated with the server, e.g. to receive the type identifier, to execute the analysis of the received type identifier for the determination of one or more location service clients associated with the selected type of location service clients, the determination of the at least one address of the one or more determined location service clients, the optional execution of the limitation or restriction, and the sending of information enabling the contacting of the user optionally supplemented by location information associated with the user.","For charging the one or more location service clients to those the information enabling the contacting of the user is sent, a charging data record can be created. The charging data record can be created by the server, e.g. gateway mobile location center, and can be sent to a charging server. The charging server can provide a location service client with an invoice based on a received charging data record. A corresponding address of the notified location service client to which the invoice is sent can be provided to the charging server. Preferably, the charging server collects multiple charging data records for a location service client and provides said location service client with invoices related to time periods, e.g. monthly invoices.","The present invention also concerns devices order to implement the method as described above. A server of a telecommunication system is described first and than a mobile device.","The server comprises a receiving unit for receiving messages, a transmitting unit for sending messages, and a processing unit for processing messages and information. The receiving unit is adapted to receive a type identifier from a mobile device of a user. The type identifier identifies a selected type of location service clients. The processing unit is adapted to execute an analysis of the type identifier for a determination of one or more location service clients associated with the selected type of location service clients and to execute a determination of at least one address of the one or more determined location service clients according to a result of the analysis. The transmitting unit is adapted to execute a sending of information enabling the contacting of the user to the one or more location service clients whose addresses are determined.","According to a preferred embodiment, the receiving unit of the aforementioned server is adapted to receive location information associated with the user and the transmitting unit of the aforementioned server is adapted to send the location information associated with the user to the one or more location service clients whose addresses are determined.","According to another preferred embodiment of the server, the receiving unit is adapted to receive a threshold number. The threshold number indicates a limit for a number of location service clients and can be entered into the server, e.g. by an operator or remotely by the user. The processing unit is adapted to execute a determination that the threshold number is reached and to limit to the threshold number the number of the one or more location service clients to those information enabling the contacting of the user is to be sent to.","According to another preferred embodiment of the server, the receiving unit is adapted to receive location information associated with the user and location information associated with the one or more location service clients of the selected type of location service clients. The processing unit is adapted to consider both location information such that only those of the one or more location service clients of the selected type of location service clients are determined whose location information match the location information associated with the user.","According to another preferred embodiment of the server, the server is adapted to perform gateway mobile location center related processes and messages in a mobile originated location request.","According to another preferred embodiment of the server, the processing unit is adapted to generate a charging data record to charge the one or more location service clients to those the information enabling the contacting of the user is sent and the transmitting unit is adapted to send the charging data record to a charging server for charging said one or more location service clients.","Preferably, the processing unit of the server is adapted to identify the selected type of location service clients being composed of at least two types of location service clients. In addition or alternatively, the transmitting unit of the server can be adapted to send an indication of the one or more location service clients whose addresses are determined to the mobile device.","In the following, a mobile device is described. The mobile device comprises a receiving unit for receiving messages, a transmitting unit for sending messages, and a processing unit for processing messages and information. The processing unit is adapted to execute a selection of a type of location service clients on the mobile device. The transmitting unit is adapted to execute a sending of a type identifier to a server in a telecommunication system. The type identifier identifies the selected type of location service clients.","According to a preferred embodiment of the mobile device, the receiving unit is adapted to receive location information associated with a user of the mobile device. The receiving unit can be for example a keyboard or microphone that is used by the user to enter the location information associated with the user to the mobile device. Other receiving units are possible. The transmitting unit is adapted to send the location information associated with the user to the server.","Preferably, the receiving unit of the mobile device is adapted to receive an indication of one or more location service clients whose addresses are determined on the server as a result of the sending of the type identifier and the processing unit of the mobile device is adapted to process the received indication for an indication of the one or more service clients whose addresses are determined on an output unit, a display or a loadspeaker, accessible by the user. Alternatively or in addition, the mobile device can be adapted to perform mobile device related processes and messages in a mobile originated location request.","The present invention also concerns computer programs comprising portions of software codes in order to implement the method as described above when operated on the server or the mobile device. The computer programs can be stored on a computer readable medium. The computer-readable medium can be a permanent or rewritable memory within the server or the mobile device or located externally. The respective computer program can be also transferred to the server or the mobile device center for example via a cable or a wireless link as a sequence of signals.","A computer program loadable into a processing unit of a server of a telecommunication system is described. The computer program loadable into a processing unit of a server of a telecommunication system comprises code adapted to execute an analysis of a type identifier identifying a selected type of location service clients for a determination of one or more location service clients associated with the selected type of location service clients and to execute a determination of at least one address of the one or more determined location service clients according to a result of the analysis, and to trigger a sending of information enabling the contacting of a user of a mobile device from which the type identifier originates to the one or more location service clients whose addresses are determined.","A computer program loadable into a processing unit of a mobile device is described. The computer program loadable into a processing unit of a mobile device comprises code adapted to execute a selection of a type of location service clients and to trigger a sending of a type identifier to a server in a telecommunication system. The type identifier identifies the selected type of location service clients.","In the following, detailed embodiments of the present invention shall be described in order to give the skilled person a full and complete understanding. However, these embodiments are illustrative and not intended to be limiting, as the scope of the invention is defined by the appended claims.","The following description focuses on the steps associated with messages or processes for carrying out the invented method. Depending on the implementation or case, it may be advantageous to integrate additional steps like a confirmation of a step before the next step is carried out. One or more pre-initialization steps can ensure the inter-operability of the respective devices involved in the method.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0049","num":"0048"},"figref":["FIG. 1","FIG. 1"],"i":["a ","b ","s","s","s ","s","s ","s "],"b":["1","2","3","1","2","3","100","101","102","103","1","2","3","1","2","3","101","102","103","100","1","2","3","100","1","2","101","102","3","103","200","200","300"]},"Next, the transmission  of the corresponding type identifier for identifying the selected first type of location service clients to the server NS is executed from the mobile device MS to the server NS. Depending on the implementation, the transmission  of the type identifier may be executed within the frame of an explicit request for service to the server NS, i.e. to determine location service clients according to the selected first type of location service clients and to send information enabling the contacting of the user and optionally location information associated with the user to the determined location service clients. Location information associated with the user may be provided to the server NS from the mobile device MS, e.g. within the transmission  of the type identifier, or from further entities of the telecommunication system. Alternatively to the explicit request mentioned before, the reception of the type identifier identifying the selected first type of location service clients may trigger the server NS to proceed according to the proposed method.","The server NS executes an analysis  of the received type identifier for a determination  of the location service clients CL,CL associated with the selected first type of location service clients. If the type identifier is not known to the server NS or is invalid, the determination  may be aborted. Alternatively or in addition, the mobile device MS can be informed about the unknown or invalid type identifier or the abortion of the determination . Else, the server NS proceeds with the determination  of the addresses of the location service clients CL,CL associated with the selected first type of location service clients. Furthermore, the server NS can check for limitations or restrictions, e.g. if the number of location service clients is to be limited according to a threshold number or whether location information associated with the user matches location information associated with the location service clients CL,CL of the selected first type of location service clients. For the determination  of the addresses of the location service clients of the selected first type on the server NS, the server NS can search in a database for the addresses of the location service clients that match the selected first type and fulfill requirements according to possible limitations and\/or restrictions if applicable. According to the present example, the address of the first location service client CL and the address of the second location service client CL are determined on the server NS. The mobile device MS may receive an information on the determination  supplemented with a number or names of location service clients whose addresses are indicated (messages and processes related to the information on the determination  are not shown in ). Depending on the implementation, the user may confirm the determined location service clients as indicated to him by the received information and send corresponding confirmation to the server (messages and processes related to the confirmation are not shown in ). However, in order to save transmission effort, the transmission of information on the determined location service clients and the subsequent confirmation may be skipped. The server NS may check for further service requested by the user. Following the present example of , the server NS executes the sending  of information enabling the contacting of the user to the location service clients CL,CL. The server NS sends , the MSISDN number of the mobile device MS to the location service clients CL,CL with the MISDN number serving as information enabling the contacting of the user. Further information may be sent also to the location service clients CL,CL, e.g. location information associated with the user. The notified location service clients CL,CL may execute a contacting  of the user in response to the receipt of the MSISDN number of the mobile device MS.","According to the present example, the notified location service clients CL,CL send , service information to the mobile device MS. For a location based service, location information associated with the location service clients CL,CL and an indication for services offered by the location service clients CL,CL may be sent ,. For example if the user selects the type of location service clients \u201cRESTAURANT\u201d, the location service clients CL,CL being associated to that type \u201cRESTAURANT\u201d, send , service information comprising e.g. a menu card, special offers, and the location of the location service clients CL,CL to the mobile device MS of the user. The service information may comprise a description of a way from the location associated with the user to a location associated with a location service client if both location information are known to said location service client.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0053","num":"0052"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 2","FIG. 2","FIG. 2","FIGS. 3 and 4"],"sup":["rd ","rd "],"b":["2","201","2","2","2","2","201","202","203","2","2","2","204","2","2","204","2","204","2","205","206","2","207","2","2","2","205","206","207","2","2","2","2","2","2","2","2","2","2","2","204","205","206","207","2","2","208","2","204","208","208","2","2"]},"The GMLC NS obtains the type identifier from the modified subscriber LCS report . The type identifier identifies the selected type of location service clients to the GMLC NS and the location service clients that are associated to the selected type of location service clients and their corresponding addresses can be determined, e.g. obtained from a database of the GMLC NS. Furthermore, the GMLC NS can make use of the user identity mentioned before to determine the information enabling the contacting of the user. For example the GMLC NS searches its database for user accessible receiving entities like addresses of devices or email addresses related to said user identity. Alternatively or in addition, the GMLC NS can use the MSISDN number of the mobile device MS as user identity or as information enabling the contacting of the user or for both. Further checks may be executed, e.g. if location information associated with the user matches with location information associated with the location service clients of the selected type. Location information associated with the user may be obtained from the modified subscriber LCS report . Alternatively or in addition, location information associated with the user or location information associated with the location service clients or both can be stored on a database of the GMLC NS that can access the respective information based on the knowledge of the user identity and received type identifier, respectively. Subsequently, the addresses of the location service clients that are associated with the selected type of location service clients and optionally fulfill the requirements of further checks for limitation or restriction are determined on the GMLC NS, i.e. the addresses of a first location service client LC and a second location service client LC according to the present example. A further check may also be a check for a time, e.g. the time when the service invoke message  is sent or a time entered by the user to the service invoke message  for further restriction of the location service clients to be notified. As an example, if the user requests that location service clients of the selected type of location service clients are to be notified for an offer of service to the user and the service invoke message  has been sent at a time T, location service clients of the selected type offering no service at or after T are preferably not notified with information enabling the contacting of the user in order to save transmission and processing effort and in order to avoid that location service clients that do not want to be notified at or after T are annoyed by unwanted notifications. Correspondingly, the user is not annoyed by service information from one or more location service clients of the selected type of location service clients that do not offer service at or after the specified time T. The GMLC NS can send a message  according to a subscriber LCS report ack(nowledgement) stating the number or names or both of the determined location service clients to the SGSN NSB. Said number or names or both may be further sent, e.g. via message , to the mobile device MS, for an indication on the mobile device. The user may confirm to the GMLC NS the determined location service clients that are indicated to him or may perform a selection of the determined location service clients that are indicated to him and inform the GMLC NS about his selection. Processes and messages that are used to execute the confirmation of the determined location service clients or the selection of the determined location service clients and the related information for the GMLC NS are not depicted in . The GMLC NS may wait for the confirmation before sending the information enabling the contacting of the user to the location service clients whose addresses are determined. If a selection on the determined location service clients has been made on the mobile device MS, e.g. in the sense that the user sends a reply that he does not want that a subset of the one or more location service clients whose addresses are determined are notified with information enabling the contacting of the user, the GMLC NS can react accordingly by sending information enabling the contacting of the user to only those of the one or more location service clients whose addresses are determined that do not belong to the unwanted subset. If the aforementioned confirmation or information on selection is not received by the GMLC NS e.g. in a given time period, the GMLC may terminate the procedure after the time period expires such that the determined location service clients are not notified with information enabling the contacting of the user. Alternatively, the GMLC can send the information enabling the contacting of the user to all of the one or more location service clients whose addresses are determined. According to the example of , a confirmation on the determined location service clients by the user or a selection of the determined location service clients by the user is not depicted and the GMLC NS proceeds with the sending of messages , to the location service clients LC ,LC with the messages , comprising information enabling the contacting of the user. The messages , can comprise also further information like location information associated with the user, a time, or a service request.","Based on the knowledge of the received information enabling the contacting of the user, the notified location service clients LC,LC can contact the user, e.g. by a separate call, by SMS (Short Message Service) or MMS (Multimedia Messaging Service) or email or further ways depending on the information for contacting of the user provided to the notified location service clients LC,LC. Also other devices than the mobile device MS may be used for contacting the user by the location service clients LC,LC. Messages for contacting the user are not shown in ; For a CS-MO-LR, a corresponding procedure as described in conjunction with  for a PS-MO-LR can be used.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0056","num":"0055"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 3"],"b":["1","2","3","3"]},"The area AU may be set by the user for the restriction of location service clients associated with the selected type of location service clients to location service clients associated with the selected type of location service clients that fit to personal needs of the user If the user is looking for a restaurant in walking-distance from its current position, the user may not like to receive offers from restaurants exceeding walking distance. According to this example, the user may define a radius according to his personal walking behavior for setting up the area AU. The radius can be sent via the modified service invoke message and the modified subscriber LCS report to the GMLC according to . The current location of the user may be derived from a location estimation provided to the GMLC via the modified subscriber LCS report. Alternatively, the area AU may represent a predefined area like a district of a town. If the user wants to receive service information from location service clients of a selected type of location service clients located in a predefined area, e.g. Berlin Downtown, an indication of the predefined area can be sent to the server for restriction purpose (server not shown in ).","Location information associated with a location service client to be matched by a location associated with a user is a further requirement for a restriction of the location service clients that are to be notified. If the location associated with a user is outside an area associated with a location service client, said location service client may not have interest to be notified or that its name is indicated to the user or both. According to this restriction requirement, the sending of information enabling the contacting of the user to the one or more location service clients or the indication of the location service clients to the user or both can be restricted to those of the location service clients of the selected type of location service clients whose location information is matched by the location associated with the user.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0059","num":"0058"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":["1","2","3","1","2","3","1","2","3","1","2","3","1","2","3"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0060","num":"0059"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 5","FIG. 5"],"b":["1","2","1","2","1","2","1","2","1","2"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0061","num":"0060"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 6","FIG. 1"],"i":"b ","b":["01","02","300","1","2","3","701","702","703","701","1","801","802","803","300","701","702","703","801","802","803","2","2","802","2","2","802","2"]},"The exemplary devices described in conjunction with  can be used in a MO-LR triggered by the mobile device MS of the user. For a PS-MO-LR a RAN, a SGSN, and a HLR\/HSS have to be added in correspondence with the description given in conjunction with . Corresponding messages between the respective devices have to be added or modified appropriately. The aforementioned exemplary devices can be used also in a CS-MO-LR."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0041","num":"0040"},"figref":"FIG. 1","i":"a "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0042","num":"0041"},"figref":"FIG. 1","i":"b "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0043","num":"0042"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0044","num":"0043"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0045","num":"0044"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0046","num":"0045"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0047","num":"0046"},"figref":"FIG. 6"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
