---
title: Piecewise uniform conduction-like flow channels and method therefor
abstract: A low-dispersion methodology for designing microfabricated conduction channels for on-chip electrokinetic-based systems is presented. The technique relies on trigonometric relations that apply for ideal electrokinetic flows, allowing faceted channels to be designed on chips using common drafting software and a hand calculator. Flows are rotated and stretched along the abrupt interface between adjacent regions with differing permeability. Regions bounded by interfaces form flow “prisms” that can be combined with other designed prisms to obtain a wide range of turning angles and expansion ratios while minimizing dispersion. Designs are demonstrated using two-dimensional numerical solutions of the Laplace equation.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07005301&OS=07005301&RS=07005301
owner: Sandia National Laboratories
number: 07005301
owner_city: Livermore
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20030606
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS","STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENT INTEREST","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION","BEST MODE"],"p":["This application claims priority to, prior co-pending provisional U.S. Patent Application Ser. No. 60\/387,684 originally filed Jun. 10, 2002 entitled \u201cMETHOD FOR PROVIDING CONDUCTION-LIKE FLOW CHANNELS AND APPLICATION THEREFOR\u201d from which benefit is claimed.","This invention was made with Government support under government contract no. DE-AC04-94AL85000 awarded by the U.S. Department of Energy to Sandia Corporation. The Government has certain rights in the invention, including a paid-up license and the right, in limited circumstances, to require the owner of any patent issuing in this invention to license others on reasonable terms.","Many engineering functions and\/or analytical processes require moving a fluid. These tasks are increasingly utilizing systems that rely on one or more fluid channels having cross-sectional dimensions ranging from a few thousand to a few tens of microns across. Moreover, there is a drive to provide large-scale integration of multiple fluid handling features on a single substrate (\u201cchip\u201d) in a manner analogous to that in microelectronics.","Most, if not all, of these applications seek to minimize the non-uniformity present to a greater or lesser extent in all fluid handling systems. This non-uniformity results in unintended and undesirable hydrodynamic dispersion and stagnation.","A primary source of non-uniform fluid flow derives from the drag imposed on the fluid at fluid\/channel interfaces, and by secondary effects such as eddying. The use of electrokinetics to transport liquids mitigates these sources of dispersion, but non-uniform flow persists even when using electrokinetic transport due to non-uniform electric fields that arise in the fluid where the flow changes direction, or \u201cturns,\u201d at corners or junctions in a channel manifold. Furthermore, these effects are exaggerated as the aspect ratio of the flow channel decreases such that shallow and wide flow channels, which are the most readily fabricated, are the most affected.","What is needed, therefore, is a method for controlling or eliminating non-uniform fluid flow in flow channels, especially in microchannel systems. For example, a method for reducing or eliminating hydrodynamic dispersion in flow channels is sought. Moreover, there is a need for controlling hydrodynamic dispersion in fluids moving in a fluid system as the flow is turned, split, combined, and\/or expanded at junctions, corners, \u201ctees,\u201d or branches in a system manifold.","Two different approaches have been used in previous efforts to minimize the dispersion induced by turns and by contractions at the ends of separation channels. Kopf-Sill, et al., and Parce (U.S. Pat. Nos. 5,842,787 and 5,852,495) teach to reduce dispersion by the use of specific channel geometries. In particular, they recommend channels having large aspect ratios such that the channel depths are much greater than their widths. The smaller channel width helps to reduce the difference in transit time along the inner and outer walls of a turn, thereby reducing dispersion. It is also suggested that dispersion can be reduced by fabrication of turns having a depth along the inner radius that is greater than that along the outer radius, thereby reducing the fluid speed along the inner radius. Griffiths, et al., (U.S. Pat. No. 6,270,641) teach the use of geometry to reduce dispersion, particularly by providing contraction and expansion regions at junctions and corners that reduce the cross-sectional area over some portion of the turn or junction. By carefully designing the geometries of these regions, sample dispersion in turns and junctions is reduced to levels comparable to the effects of ordinary diffusion.","The present invention improves the performance of microchannel systems by changing the conductance or permeability, and the size and shape of the channel in the region of the desired junctions so that the flow is piece-wise uniform. By carefully designing the geometries of low and high permeability regions in the channel, dispersion produced by the junctions is essentially eliminated. Embodiments of the invention include: turns of any angle, splitters, combiners, and expanders.","For the purposes of the present invention, flow channels are defined as structures comprising substantially parallel top and bottom interior surfaces and interior side walls separating the top and bottom surfaces and generally parallel to a longitudinal axis running the length of the channel. Moreover, the present invention comprehends a design methodology for assembling structures comprising two or more channel lengths which intersect to form a segmented group, or \u201cchain\u201d of channels, wherein corresponding side walls of adjacent channels meet at the intersection plane, and wherein these intersecting channel lengths are aligned to rotate a fluid through a predetermined turn angle. This design methodology will also show that any or all of the intersecting channel lengths may also comprise a side wall that has been reduced to an infinitesimal length to provide for an intermediate channel segments having the shape of a faceted triangle.","This invention is applicable to pressure-driven chromatographic separations, electrochromatographic separations and electrophoretic separations, as well as many microfluidic processes such as routine sample transport, sample mixing, sample reaction and species synthesis. It is also applicable to channels and junctions that are open, filled with a gel, or filled with a porous or granular material. Moreover, the technique is applicable to designs of piece-wise uniform electrical and thermal conduction channels.","In one embodiment, the improved turns and junctions consist of channel regions having piece-wise uniform depths, permitting straightforward fabrication by conventional etching, molding and embossing techniques. Further, because the turns and junctions are only moderately constricted over relatively short distances, they do not lead to excessive increases in Joule heating.","The invention can be best understood by considering the mathematics of conduction, which appear in many physical contexts, and is among the simplest and most thoroughly studied of any physical process. A new general method for designing fluid conduction channels is outlined as below and the resulting channels can, in turn, be applied to provide channel segments which will function as turns, splitters, combiners, manifolds, and expanders for electrokinetic or pressure driven flows.","Consideration is given to the depth-averaged properties of the fluid flow in three-dimensional fluid systems. For this reason, variations in the third dimension (depth) do not appear explicitly in the following discussion. This consideration is appropriate for channels having the planar properties outlined the Summary of Invention above. For clarity, we define the mathematical relations and apply semantics that are relevant to ideal electrokinesis. However, this semantic bias does not exclude the use of the methodology for other conduction-like transport. The velocity u of the conduction fluid is everywhere proportional to the driving force E:\n\nu=\u03bcE, \u2003\u2003(1)\n\nwhere the coefficient \u03bc is the mobility of the fluid. In this analysis the mobility and the fluid conductivity are constant everywhere. The fluid flux per unit width j is proportional to the conduction velocity by:\n\nj=\u03c3u, \u2003\u2003(2)\n\nwhere \u03c3 is defined as the \u201cconductance\u201d or \u201cpermeability\u201d of the conduction channel, which is permitted to vary across a straight interface in this analysis. While the terms \u201cconductance\u201d and \u201cpermeability\u201d are intended herein to have the same meaning and may be used, therefore, interchangeably, this property will be referred to hereinafter as the \u201cpermeability\u201d of the conduction channel. These semantics are correct physically for ideal electrokinesis and other forms of conduction in which the local flow velocity is independent of medium permeability.\n","Permeation is usually treated as a continuous subscale phenomenon whose constitutive coefficient is the permeability. Normally a large separation in length scales is needed to support this subscale notion because fluctuations from the randomness of the permeable medium must average to insignificance over the larger scales. In contrast, the separation in length scales required to attach a meaningful permeability to an orderly medium such as a uniform patterned array is surprisingly small: roughly an order of magnitude.","FIG. A\u2013 shows several examples of subscale designs that modify the permeability of a channel. In a quasi-planar microsystem, the permeability of a channel, as defined in Eq. 2, is proportional to the channel depth. A two or more level etched microsystem, for example, can be used to implement these designs as in . Alternatively, the effective permeability of a channel can be lowered with respect to an open channel by blocking part of the channel; for example by filing the channel with array of posts () or channel-aligned parallel columns (). Another technique is to fill the channel with a porous media, such as with various particles of various insulating materials such as high dielectric micro- or nanoparticulate materials; packed beads such as polymer, glass, silica, or ceramic, or of any other insulating material; glass, ceramic, or other porous insulating frits; porous monolithic media such as porous polymers, porous sol-gels; and glass wool or polymer yarns, or the like, and combination thereof (). These methods generate varying amounts of hydrodynamic dispersion at the interface and throughout the conduction channel and can be used separately or in combination.","To analyze steady fluid conduction past a permeability change, we consider first the infinite one-dimensional conduction channel sketched in , having a uniform permeability \u03c3=\u03c3, in region , left of a finite transition region, and a uniform permeability \u03c3=\u03c3in region , right of a transition region. Inside the transition region, the permeability variation is unspecified but bounded so that 0<\u03c3<\u221e everywhere in the conduction channel.","Continuity requires a constant fluid flux per unit width j throughout the channel, such that:\n\nj=j\u2192\u03c3u=\u03c3u, \u2003\u2003(3a)\n\nor\n\n\u03c3\u03bcE=\u03c3\u03bcE. \u2003\u2003(3b)\n","This simple one-dimensional consequence of continuity will be used in the next section to establish a compatibility relation for low-dispersion, quasi-two dimensional flow-channel design.","A Special Case of Two-Dimensional Conduction Across a Permeability Change",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0047","num":"0046"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 2"],"sub":["o ","o","1","1o","2","2o","o","1o","1o","2o","2o"],"br":[{},{},{},{},{}],"in-line-formulae":[{},{},{},{}],"i":["u","\u00b7{circumflex over (n)}=\u03c3","u","\u00b7{circumflex over (n)}, ","u","=u","\u2212u","\u00b7{circumflex over (n)}=","u","\u2212u","\u00b7{circumflex over (n)}, "],"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00001","num":"00001"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mover":{"mi":"n","mo":"^"},"mo":"\u2261","mfrac":{"mrow":[{"mo":"\u2207","mi":"\u03c3"},{"mo":["\uf605","\uf606"],"mrow":{"mo":"\u2207","mi":"\u03c3"}}]}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"6"}}]}}}}},"In variables that are more suitable for design, these simultaneous equations can be rearranged to yield: \n\n\nand\n\nusin \u03b8=usin \u03b8\u2003\u2003(8)\n\nwhere u\u2261\u2225u\u2225 and \u03b8and \u03b8are the flow angles shown in . Eq. 7 resembles Snell's law of refraction, except tangents of the propagation angles are matched instead of sines. Eq. 8 describes how the speed varies across the interface.\n","Eqs. 7 or 8 can be considered \u201ccompatibility\u201d conditions for locally one-dimensional flow in regions  and . In other words, if a conduction channel interface is designed to satisfy Eq. 7, the flow everywhere in region  will have a uniform velocity uregion  will have a uniform flow velocity u.","In order to describe the motion of flow through a conduction channel of interest it is often useful to visualize the motion of so-called \u201cmaterial lines\u201d through the channel. Material lines are understood by those with skill in these arts to mean a locus of points propagating from initially linear sets of points representing the fluid, as these points track the distortions the fluid undergoes as it propagates through a flow channel. For the present purpose these lines are visualized in two-dimensions as the set of parallel linear lines shown as elements through in .","In the case of flows satisfying the compatibility condition of Eqs. 7 or 8, the only place where the material lines are distorted or rotated is at the interface.  shows an idealization of the system in which the interface is abrupt compared to the length of the initial material line (represented by the vector r). This vector is drawn in  as one end reaches the interface. The other end reaches the interface after a time t having propagated through the vector ut. During this period, the other end propagates through region  by the vector ut, consequently:\n\n\u2003\u2003(9)\n\nbut, \n\n\nso\n","Eq. 2 is an explicit equation for the distorted material line represented by rin terms of the undistorted material line, r, and the velocities on both sides of the interface, uand u. The simplest implementation of such a design is a flow channel having a single internal interface whose side-walls are oriented according to Eq. 7, as shown in . The widths wand wof the conduction channels in regions  and  in  obey the relation: \n\n","The inclined interface between channels having dissimilar permeabilities can be viewed as a device primitive that:\n\n","So far, issues of the entry and exit boundary conditions have been avoided by assuming an infinite domain. The domain can be truncated provided the entry- and exit-flow conditions are compatible with the uniform flow in the respective regions, i.e.,\n\nu=u, \u2003\u2003(13a)\n\nand\n\n\u2207u=0, \u2003\u2003(13b)\n\non the entrance to region i=1 or 2. To illustrate the effect the compatibility condition of Eq. 2,  show numerical simulations of the speed field and flow streaklines within three instances of a system of two interfaces. The gray-scale map depicts the speed field: white and black are respectively the highest and lowest speeds. In , compatibility is not satisfied for either interface because the permeability ratio \u03c3\/\u03c3is half that required by Eq. 2. Consequently, the speed field is not uniform within each region, streaklines are curved, and material lines are curved, as evidenced by the curved front of the streaklines. In , compatibility is satisfied. In , compatibility is not satisfied because the permeability ratio is twice that required by Eq. 2. Streamlines and material lines are curved in the opposite direction and the speed field variation is the opposite of those in . Designs satisfying the compatibility conditions navigate an algebraically tractable subset of general conduction. However,  and C, also show that even relatively large deviations from the compatibility condition produce relatively small amount of degradation in the velocity flow-field. Therefore, the amount of flow degradation which is acceptable in a \u201creal\u201d system is controlled by controlling the amount of deviation permitted from ideal compatibility, leading to practical tolerance limits with which to design these systems.\n\nCritical Turning Angle Interfaces\n",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0055","num":"0058"},"figref":"FIG. 9","sub":["1\u2212\u03b8","2","1","2","c"],"b":["1","1","2","2"],"maths":[{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00005","num":"00005"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":["\u03b8","c"]},"mo":"\u2261","mrow":{"mi":"max","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":"\u03b8","mn":"1"},{"mi":"\u03b8","mn":"2"}],"mo":"-"}}}},{"mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mrow":{"msup":{"mi":"tan","mrow":{"mo":"-","mn":"1"}},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"msqrt":{"mfrac":{"msub":[{"mi":"\u03c3","mn":"1"},{"mi":"\u03c3","mn":"2"}]}}}}},"mo":"-","mfrac":{"mi":"\u03c0","mn":"2"}}],"mo":"="}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"14"}}]}}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00006","num":"00006"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"\u03b8","mn":"1"},"mo":"=","mrow":{"msup":{"mi":"tan","mrow":{"mo":"-","mn":"1"}},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"msqrt":{"mfrac":{"msub":[{"mi":"\u03c3","mn":"1"},{"mi":"\u03c3","mn":"2"}]}}}}},"mo":","}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mn":"15","mo":"\u2062","mi":"a"}}}]}}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00007","num":"00007"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"\u03b8","mn":"2"},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mrow":{"msup":{"mi":"tan","mrow":{"mo":"-","mn":"1"}},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"msqrt":{"mfrac":{"msub":[{"mi":"\u03c3","mn":"2"},{"mi":"\u03c3","mn":"1"}]}}}},"mo":"."}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mn":"15","mo":"\u2062","mi":"b"}}}]}}}}],"br":[{},{}]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0056","num":"0059"},"figref":"FIG. 10","sub":"c","maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00008","num":"00008"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mfrac":{"msub":[{"mi":"\u03c3","mn":"1"},{"mi":"\u03c3","mn":"2"}]},"mo":"\u2062","msub":{"mo":"|","mi":"c"}},{"mrow":{"msup":{"mi":"tan","mn":"2"},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mfrac":[{"mi":"\u03c0","mn":"4"},{"msub":{"mi":["\u03b8","c"]},"mn":"2"}],"mo":"+"}}},"mo":"."}],"mo":"="}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"16"}}]}}}}},"For example, to achieve turning angles of 30\u00b0, 45\u00b0, and 60\u00b0 across a single interface, the permeability ratio \u03c3\/\u03c3must respectively be at least 3, \u02dc5.828427, and \u02dc13.92820. The maximum turning angle asymptotes to 90\u00b0 as \u03c3\/\u03c3\u2192\u221e.  shows a design and simulation of the flow at an inclined interface designed to produce a 45\u00b0 turn in the flow velocity angle at this maximum turning angle condition. A 90\u00b0 turn can be constructed by a sequence of two such turns \u201cback-to-back,\u201d as shown in  or a channel offset with no turning can be constructed by sequencing the turns in the alternate arrangement shown in .","The use of maximum turning interfaces is advantageous because they minimize the sensitivity of the interface operation to angular or permeability-ratio errors and minimize the required permeability ratio. However, sequences of interfaces designed at the maximum turning angle in a bi-permeability system cannot change the flow-channel width at either permeability and cannot generally compensate for rotation of material lines across the interface, related to hydrodynamic dispersion. Subcritical turning interfaces provide the design flexibility lacked by the critical interfaces at the cost of additional sensitivity to fabrication errors.","Subcritical Turning Angle Interfaces","Any turning angle less than the maximum turning angle can be obtained at two different incidence-angles. One may use this additional freedom to design interfaces to widen flow-channels with or without rotation or to design interfaces which do not rotate material lines with respect to the flow.  compares designs of two subcritical interfaces ( and .) that turn the flow by 10\u00b0 to the critical design () that turns the flow by 45\u00b0. The ratios of the channel widths across the interfaces are different for the two angles. Thus, one may construct a device to widen or narrow a flow-channel without rotation by sequencing these two interfaces back-to-back, as shown in .  shows the variation in the channel width ratio across an interface, w\/w, with the incidence-angle, \u03b8, at various permeability ratios. The width ratio is larger for the high-\u03b8interface than the low-\u03b8interface, especially at large permeability ratio. The width ratio asymptotes to unity as \u03b8\u21920 and \u03c3\/\u03c3as \u03b8\u219290\u00b0. The expansion or contraction ratio of a device having back-to-back interfaces is equal to the quotient of the width ratios at the larger and smaller incidence-angles, thus the channel expansion ratio for a bi-permeability, two-interface device is bounded by the permeability ratio.  shows a parametric plot of the turning angle versus the channel width ratio at various permeability ratios, an alternative view of the curves shown in  that is useful for device design. Multiple devices can be staged to produce any desired expansion ratio and\/or turning angle.","Skew-Compensated Interface Pairs","The use of subcritical interfaces likewise permits the design of interface sequences that rotate and stretch material lines by a prescribed amount. A common design goal is a device that produces no net rotation, or \u201cskew,\u201d of material lines with respect to the flow direction.","The angles \u03c8and \u03c8between the normal to a material line and the flow direction in the regions  and  before and after an interface, respectively, are related by: \n\n","If the material line is initially perpendicular to the flow direction, \u03c8=0 and Eq. 5 simplifies to: \n\n\nwhich is plotted in .\n","Eq. 18 and  indicate any single, non-trivial interface having a non-zero incidence-angle skews material lines with respect to the flow. The critical incidence-angle for rotating initially normal material lines is 45\u00b0 regardless of the permeability ratio. Eq. 18 is symmetrical about this critical angle, so back-to-back interfaces having incidence-angles that sum to 90\u00b0 can be used to compensate for interface-induced skew or rotation of material lines. The turning angle \u03b8 of such a skew-compensated turn is: \n\n","The geometric layout used to obtain Eq. 19 is considered further in the discussion of the Best Mode for computing the layout.  shows a plot of Eq. 19, the turning angle versus incidence-angle for skew-compensated interface pairs at various permeability ratios. The peak of these curves is the maximum, skew-compensated turning angle possible with two back-to-back interfaces. Again, designing for this peak is desirable for minimizing sensitivity to fabrication problems, and minimizing the permeability ratio. Note that the permeability ratio to achieve a desired no-skew turn is twice that needed to achieve an uncompensated turn.  shows the expansion factor for a skew-compensated interface pair.","For example,  shows a simulation of a skew-compensated interface pair. The material front, as indicated by the black streaklines returns to perpendicular to the flow velocity after passing the second interface. This skew-compensated \u201cprism\u201d design expands or narrows the channel by a factor of \u02dc4.6 as it turns the flow velocity 45\u00b0. The permeability ratio required for this prism is \u02dc11.66, or about twice that for the critical interface shown in . Because this prism changes the width and direction of the flow, sequences of this prism design can be plumbed to make both skew-compensated turns, as shown in ,  and , expansions as shown in , and expanding turns, as shown in .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0066","num":"0069"},"figref":["FIG. 18B","FIG. 18A","FIG. 18C","FIG. 19A","FIG. 19B","FIG. 19A","FIG. 19B","FIG. 20","FIG. 21","FIG. 20"]},"Applications","This general design methodology supports a wide variety of practical applications. It is a methodology that allows a designer to plumb together complicated microsystems with turns, expansions, and offsets. It allows a designer to skew and stretch material lines as needed. Several specific applications of these capabilities arise immediately.","Low-Dispersion Turns and Displacers:","The insertion of turns into conduction channels can introduce large amounts of dispersion. The skew-compensated turns and channel expanders described in this document can be used directly as low-dispersion turns. A methodology has been developed to create low-dispersion turns of any angle having arbitrary expansion. The limitation of these devices is the dispersion associated with the interfaces or propagation through the low-permeability medium. The relative importance of the interface dispersion diminishes for channels that are much wider than they are deep.","Low-Dispersion Splitters and Manifolds:","It is also possible to divide flow into multiple conduction channels with full skew compensation. This will be beneficial for dividing a sample and sending it to numerous separation channels (e.g., for two dimensional separation techniques). A channel of single etch depth can be used to split flow, but this generally produces considerable dispersion. Fortunately, combinations of low-dispersion turns and displacers can be used to construct simple flow splitters and manifolds. This is done by noting that any streamline can be treated as a wall forming one side of a channel in a potential flow such as electrokinesis. Placing a flow displacer against its mirror image at the location of this streamline forms a flow divider. Further details of the splitter designs are elucidated in the Best Mode discussion which follows.","By splitting the flow in this manner, any number of exit channels can be split from a single inlet channel. Splitters with 3 and 5 exit channels have been demonstrated through numerical simulation. The design method for these splitters is given in the discussion of the Best Mode for laying out these articles. With this specific construction technique, the central exit channels are wider than the edge channels, however, using the faceted design methodology it is possible to obtain exit channels having nearly any width.","Low-Dispersion Medians:","When operated in reverse, flow splitters and manifolds become low-dispersion flow combiners. Therefore, by placing splitters back-to-back, the narrow inlet can be split into multiple channels, then recombined into a narrow outlet. Here, medians formed between the flow-channels do not perturb the flow-field. Moreover, these medians can be extended to the length of the wide channel to provide structural support for wide channels. Such support is important for channels that are extremely wide and shallow (for example, 10,000-\u03bcm wide by 1-\u03bcm deep), in which warping and sagging of the structural material can change the value of the channel depth from the intended design by a significant percentage. The number of medians is one fewer than the number of manifold channels.","Skew-compensated medians can be designed using back-to-back flow splitters that expand the flow. Here, a single median results, separating two channels that are each twice as wide as the incident flow-channel. The overall expansion ratio of 64:1 is distributed between eight internal channels that are eight times wider than the inlet and exit conduction channels. Indeed, tremendous amounts of conduction channel expansion are possible using this design methodology. Further construction details are given in the discussion of the Best Mode.","It is also possible to place medians for structural support within a wide, shallow channel with little design effort if their width is comparatively small. Medians can also be added to change the permeability of a conduction channel deliberately.","Heat-Transfer Based Design Principles:","Electrokinetic flows enable the transport of fluid in small spaces using electrically-driven systems, thereby eliminating the need for pumps in a typical pressure-driven device. This can be advantageous for removing heat from microdevices, such as microchips and computer processors. Here, heat transfer can be enhanced by using shallow channels to minimize the diffusion of heat to the fluid. In addition, a shallow and wide channel increases the surface-to-volume ratio which maximizes the removal of heat to a flow. Moreover, the wide, shallow conduction channels featured in this document mate well to the planar construction of microelectronics. The flexibility of the dispersion-compensated design principles outlined in this document enable the expansion of input conduction channels to shallow and wide channels to match the geometry of the heat generation source. Most importantly, the velocity field remains constant in the flow sections, simplifying greatly the design of such systems and eliminating the presence of unintended stagnation regions that will result from attempts at expansion of electrokinetic flow-channels by other means.","Heat generation and removal are important considerations for electrochromatographic separation techniques, where the maximum driving current results in the minimum time to perform the desired separation. The current is limited by joule heating that causes boiling of the channel fluid. The dispersion-compensating design techniques provide considerable design flexibility when considering the construction of turns, splitters and expansions for electrochromatography.","Enhanced Line-of-Sight Absorption Cell Design:","The use of line-of-sight optical absorption in microsystems has advantages over techniques such as fluorescence detection. For example, absorption is quantitative and does not require the use of molecular fluorescence labeling to obtain a signal\u2014a major drawback for fluorescence-based detectors. Nevertheless, optical absorption-based detection is unfavorable in many microsystems because of the short path lengths over which absorption occurs, with pathlengths as short as tens of microns. The design methodology described in this document allows one to stretch material lines of the fluid by orders of magnitude by flowing across one or more interfaces. The material lines remain linear so sighting an illumination source and light collector\/detector directly along the stretched material line provides a dramatic enhancement of the absorption effect, with attendant increase in sensitivity. The amount of stretching can be increased further by intentionally skewing material lines. The channel design will work well with technology to deliver light on a chip, including on-chip waveguides, optical fibers, and cavity ringdown techniques.","Evanescent Optical Excitation and Detection Designs:","The use of evanescent delivery of light to a channel for optical detection is an attractive option for chip-based systems. The low-dispersion interface design principles are ideal for evanescent techniques because the possibility of achieving extremely wide, narrow channels. In conventional conduction channels with aspect ratios near unity, most of the sample would pass undetected beneath the evanescent waves. The use of low-dispersion turns enables practical design of shallow channels that distributes analytes close to the interface where evanescent light delivery takes place. Evanescent methods will work for many techniques, such as fluorescence, absorption, and cavity-ringdown based detection. Moreover, because the analyte is delivered near the walls of the channel, any technique for optical detection in which light is propagated along a surface will be appropriate, such as the use of surface plasmon techniques.","Open-Channel Capillary CEC or HPLCC:","Capillary electrochromatographic (CEC) and high-pressure liquid chromatographic (HPLC) separations require analytes to approach an equilibrium partitioning between the mobile and stationary phase. The time to diffuse between these phases limits the approach to equilibrium and consequently the separation performance. Moreover, the analyte capacity of the system is a function of the surface-to-volume ratio. A wide, shallow, unpacked rectangular channel is an optimal configuration for such a separation system, but has not been employed in part because of the difficulty of handling injection into such a channel and detection following such a channel. The design methodology presented here provides a direct method of converting between narrow channels suitable for injection and fluorescence detection and the wide channels suitable for separation.","The simplest arrangement for this application could be a single interface pair. The first interface is operated at a large incidence-angle and expands the flow directly into the separation column. Material lines are stretched and skewed, but diffusion across the channel is relatively slow, limiting the impact on separation efficiency. At the end of the separation column, the interface is repeated, rotated by 180\u00b0. This interface removes the stretch and skew and reduces the channel width to support, for example, fluorescence detection. This arrangement has the advantage of simplicity and minimal dispersion caused by the interfaces.","An alternative arrangement could employ additional interfaces to remove the skew, increase the channel width more than is practical with a single interface, and\/or reduce the sensitivity to fabrication tolerances. The cost of these extra interfaces is additional hydrodynamic dispersion at the interfaces.","A novel design methodology has been developed for flows that satisfy or approximately satisfy the Laplace equation and can therefore be viewed mathematically like conduction. Most of the emphasis in this disclosure is oriented toward microfluidic design, particularly for electrokinetic systems. For example, the emphasis on compensating for skew of material lines is intended to extend the utility of the methodology to systems that must transport analytes with minimal hydrodynamic dispersion. The same methodology can be used for electrical and thermal conductor and Darcy's law flow system design.","The methodology permits one to design these devices using a calculator rather than a simulation code. Moreover, the designs are completely uncoupled: the interfaces are immune to the details of what passes before or after, so long as their compatibility conditions are locally satisfied. This allows complex systems to be plumbed together from simpler subsystems, e.g., a 256:1 low-dispersion channel expander can be pieced together simply once a 4:1 low-dispersion prism is designed.","Design Method for Providing Flow Channels with Low Dispersion Turns","To obtain the result of Eq. 7, consider the geometry given in , which is similar to the diagram of . In , channel walls  and  are drawn using heavy dark lines, while lighter dashed lines denote construction lines and , which are drawn parallel to, and extend each of the channel wall. Construction line  is drawn parallel to interface h, and lines , , and  are drawn perpendicular to interface h, and channel walls  and , respectively. One can see immediately that construction lines  and  form a cross, which is rotated by both \u03b8and \u03b8with respect to the interface, h. The resulting rotated constructions lines form a set of triangles defined by the intersection of lines , , and , and by the intersection of lines , , and . These triangles are expanded and shown in , to show the length of the interface, h, the widths of the channels, w, and w, and the angles \u03b8, and \u03b8. Since both triangles share a common length h as their hypotenuse, the formula of Eq. 7 follows directly.","The geometry of  is useful in helping to illustrate the derivation of Eq. 17. Here, channel walls  and  are again given as solid lines, while dashed lines represent a set of material lines propagating through the channel sections and which have a steeper angle in the second section, corresponding to a region of lower permeability, \u03c3, with respect to that of the inlet region, \u03c3. The material angles, \u03c8, and \u03c8, are given as the angle between the normal to the material line and the respective channel walls. If a material line is monitored as is passes through a distance Zbefore the interface, h, and a distance Zafter the interface, the two triangles shown in  are obtained. Since the triangles share the channel interface, h, as their common side, it follows that\n\n\u03b1=\u03c8+\u03b8\u2003\u2003(28a)\n\nand,\n\n\u03b1=\u03c8+\u03b8\u2003\u2003(28b)\n\nleading indirectly to the result of Eq. 17.\n","The concept of the overall flow-turning angle for a two-interface turn is illustrated in . The channel walls \u2013, and interfaces  and  are shown as solid lines. Lighter dashed construction lines , , and  are drawn parallel to the upper channel walls for each of the three sections  through . The turning angle for an interface is defined as the angle from the extension of a channel to the wall of the following channel, denoted by \u03b8for the turning angle of the interface between sections  and  and \u03b8for the turning angle of the interface between sections  and . Similarly, the overall turning angle can be defined as the angle from the extension of the first section wall to the extension of the last section, \u03b8. Note that this definition can be applied for a system with more than two interfaces. With these definitions, it is trivial to show that the turning angles between individual sections are given by:\n\n\u03b8=\u03b8\u2212\u03b8, \u2003\u2003(29)\n\nand,\n\n\u03b8=\u03b8\u2212\u03b8, \u2003\u2003(30)\n\nwhere, in generalized notation, \u03b8and \u03b8are the respective incident and exit angles for the ninterface. The triangle shown in  is formed by the intersection of the three light construction lines , , and  shown in . Here, it is clear that the overall turning angle is given by:\n\n\u03b8=\u03b8+\u03b8, \u2003\u2003(31)\n\nand the application of Eqs. 29\u201331 above, result directly in Eq. 19.\n","The construction of skew-compensated interfaces using the methodology described in this document is surprisingly simple using popular CAD software. This is demonstrated in , wherein a three-interface expander with a permeability ratio of 10 and an incidence-angle of 85\u00b0 is designed.","In  two parallel construction lines  and  are drawn and in  a third construction line  is drawn perpendicular to the lines of . As shown in , line  is rotated by the incident angle \u03b8for a first interface. In , a solid closed polyline  is used to construct an irregular trapezoidal first region i, bounded by lines , , and , and which will have a permeability, \u03c3.","In , line  is now deleted and lines  and  rotated by the desired turning angle \u03b8, for the first interface. Construction line  is then drawn perpendicular to lines  and , as shown in . This step is followed by rotating line  by the incident angle \u03b8, for a second interface, as shown in . In , a second solid closed polyline  is now used to construct a second irregular trapezoidal region ii, bounded by rotated lines , , and by the side of region i corresponding to deleted line . This region of the device will have a permeability, \u03c3.","As shown in , line  is now deleted, just as line  was in , and rotated lines  and  are rotated a second time by the turning angle \u03b8, for the second interface. Construction line  is drawn perpendicular to lines  and , as shown in , and in  line  is rotated by the incidence-angle \u03b8, of a third interface. A third region iii, is constructed, as shown in , by closing the region bounded by lines ,  and  and the side of region ii corresponding to deleted line , with a third solid closed polyline  forming a third irregular trapezoidal region.","Lines  and  are now rotated a third time by the turning angle \u03b8, for the third interface as shown in . If a three-interface expansion to a shallow and wide channel is desired, then lines  and  will form the walls of that channel, and the design is essentially complete.","If it is desirable to shrink the channel back to the original width of the incident conduction channel, however, the design is continued as shown in  by simply copying the structure shown in ; i.e., regions i, ii, and iii, to a location along the wide channel formed by lines  and , and rotating the structure by 180\u00b0. The resulting midsection region vi, bounded by the thrice rotated lines  and  and by the normal and inverted regions iii is enclosed with a fourth solid closed polyline , connecting the two structures. The resulting finished design is shown in , where inverted regions i, ii, and iii, are renamed vii, vi, and v respectively, and where regions i, iii, v, and vii have a permeability of \u03c3, and regions ii, iv, and vi have a permeability of \u03c3.","It is important to note that the length of each region can be chosen to be any value so long as the resulting regions do not overlap. For separations, for example, region iv shown in  would likely be comparatively long. The length is adjusted by moving the interface along the walls formed by lines  and , in each respective region, as demonstrated in , which is taken from  with the corresponding location of the second interface represented by a line parallel to line . In , line  is shifted to the apex of region i to shrink the second region ii, such that it now forms a triangular section of minimum length. It is not possible to design a relative length for the second region ii that is shorter.","If this process is repeated for each of  then the lower finalized design of  is obtained. Sections ii, iii, v and vi have each been reduced in length to their minimum relative values. Note that the length of section iv has no such minimum value, although here, for illustrative purposes, the length has been reduced substantially from that for .","Construction of flow splitters is also remarkably simple. As illustrated in  a two-way splitter and then a three-way splitter are designed based on the displacer shown in . Regions i and iii represent regions of permeability \u03c3while region ii represents a region of permeability \u03c3. In , the displacer is copied and pasted, and then mirrored (also called \u201cflipped\u201d in some common drawing software). The original and mirrored displacers are aligned as shown in . The two regions labeled \u201ciii\u201d are then merged within a single closed region as shown in  to provide the final design for a two-way splitter.","To obtain a three-way flow splitter, the design shown in  is copied and pasted as shown in , resulting in two neighboring central regions labeled \u201ci.\u201d These neighboring regions are again merged to form a single closed region as shown in . The structure of  is again copied and pasted as shown in . Unfortunately, the relative proportions of the structure  do not match the proportions of the structure of , and some modification of the resultant structure is required.","As shown in , the two exit regions of the  structure (labeled \u201ci\u201d) are aligned with the two regions labeled \u201ciii\u201d on the structure of . As is readily apparent, the two regions of the  structure labeled \u201cii\u201d are, consequently, too large and overlap region iii of that structure. These regions are therefore \u201cshrunk-to-fit\u201d by reducing the width of each resulting in the structure shown in . Lastly, the neighboring regions iii and i are combined to provide individual closed regions resulting in the three-way flow splitter shown in ."],"GOVINT":[{},{}],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF TALE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIGS. 1A\u2013D"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":["1","2"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 3","sub":["o ","1o ","2o "]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 4","sub":["1 ","2"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 5","sub":["1 ","2"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIGS. 6A\u2013C"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIGS. 7A\u2013C"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":["FIG. 8A","FIG. 8B","FIG. 6","FIG. 7"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 9","sub":["1","2 ","1 "]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 10","sub":["1","2","1","2 "]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":["FIGS. 11A\u2013C","FIG. 11A","FIG. 11B","FIG. 11C"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":["FIGS. 12A\u2013E","FIG. 12A","FIG. 12B","FIG. 12C","FIG. 12D","FIG. 12E"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 13"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":"FIG. 14"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":"FIG. 15"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIG. 16","sub":"1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":"FIG. 17","sub":"1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":["FIGS. 18A\u2013C","FIG. 18A","FIG. 18B","FIG. 18A","FIG. 18C"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":["FIGS. 19A and 19B","FIG. 18"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":["FIG. 20","FIG. 18A"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":["FIG. 21","FIG. 19"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"figref":["FIG. 22A","FIG. 22B","FIG. 22A","FIG. 5","FIG. 22B","FIG. 22A"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0034"},"figref":["FIG. 23A","FIG. 23B","FIG. 23A","FIG. 5","FIG. 23B","FIG. 23A"],"sub":"1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"figref":["FIG. 24A","FIG. 24B","FIG. 24A","FIG. 24B"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0037","num":"0036"},"figref":"FIGS. 25A\u2013O"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0037"},"figref":["FIG. 26","FIG. 25"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0039","num":"0038"},"figref":"FIGS. 27A\u2013I"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
