---
title: Hierarchical in-place menus
abstract: A hierarchical menu system displays submenus in place of parent menus, and vice versa, when appropriate menu items are selected from within parent menus and submenus. Parent menu items selected from within parent menus are displayed within submenus as links back to previous parent menus. Benefits of the disclosed hierarchical menu system include the ability to implement a hierarchical menu on devices having varying screen sizes, including small-screen devices, while maintaining a history of previously selected menu items that enable a user to navigate within the hierarchical menu to any previously displayed menu.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07418670&OS=07418670&RS=07418670
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 07418670
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20031003
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["TECHNICAL FIELD","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION","CONCLUSION"],"p":["The present disclosure generally relates to menus, and more particularly, to a hierarchical in-place menu that replaces parent menus with submenus.","Most conventional application programs are menu-driven as opposed to being command-driven. Menu-driven applications provide a list of possible commands or options from which a user may choose, while command-driven applications require users to enter explicit commands. Thus, menu-driven applications are generally easier for the average user to learn than are command-driven applications. Menus are typically implemented as a list of textual or graphical choices (i.e., menu items) from which a user can choose. Thus, menus allow a user to select a menu item, for example, by pointing to the item with a mouse and then clicking on the item. Examples of other methods of selecting menu items include highlighting an item and then hitting the \u2018return\u2019 key or \u2018enter\u2019 key, and pressing on a menu item through a touch-sensitive screen.","One particularly useful type of menu is a hierarchical menu. An example of a conventional hierarchical menu  is shown in . As shown in , hierarchical menus  typically present a parent menu  that has selectable menu items. The selection of each menu item normally causes another menu, or submenu  to be displayed next to the currently displayed menu. A submenu  has additional menu choices that are related to the selected parent menu item which results in the display of the submenu. The depth of a hierarchical menu can extend in this manner to many levels of submenus.","The example menu shown in  illustrates how conventional hierarchical menus  generally lay out from left to right across a display screen as menu choices are selected. This menu format provides various advantages such as retaining previous and current menus on the display screen at the same time. This provides a historical menu map as menu selections are made and their corresponding submenus are displayed across the screen. Users can therefore review previous menu selections that have been made while progressing to the most recently displayed menu, making it easier to move between different menu items and different menu levels.","Although such hierarchical menus provide useful advantages, there are scenarios in which their use is impracticable. One such scenario is when hierarchical menus are used on devices having small display screens. The problems presented when attempting to implement conventional hierarchical menus on small-screen devices have generally discouraged the use of hierarchical menus with such devices.  illustrates an example of how the hierarchical menu  of  might appear on the display screen of a small-screen device.","As indicated above, hierarchical menus generally lay out across the display screen from left to right. On small-screen devices where the room on the screen is not wide enough to accommodate all of the menus, the menus lay out across the screen in both directions, from left to right and back again. In this scenario, the menus typically begin to overlap one another, creating various problems. One problem is that the overlapping menus can be confusing to the user, as  is intended to illustrate. Overlapping menus can make it difficult for a user to discern previous menu selections which can, in turn, make it difficult to determine how to return to previous menus to make different menu selections. Thus, one of the intended benefits of a hierarchical menu can be undermined when the hierarchical menu is implemented on a small-screen device.","Overlapping menus can also create problems with small-screen devices (and other devices) that employ pen-based or stylus-based touch-sensitive screens. With such devices, it is often difficult to maintain contact continuity between menus on the screen when the menus are overlapping. In other words, it is easy to move off of menus with small-screen, touch-based devices. If continuity is lost when moving from one menu to another, menus will often disappear from the screen, causing the user to have to go back and reactivate the menu from a prior menu. This problem becomes worse when using pen-based devices that \u201ctrack\u201d. \u201cTracking\u201d is where a cursor on the screen follows (tracks) the movement of the pen as the pen moves over the screen even though the pen is not touching the screen. Tracking is lost if the pen is pulled too far away from the screen. Thus, pen-based devices that \u201ctrack\u201d tend to lose more menus when hierarchical menus are employed.","Accordingly, as the demand for small-screen devices capable of running increasingly complex applications continues to grow, the need exists for a way to implement hierarchical menus that overcomes various disadvantages with conventional hierarchical menus.","An \u201cin-place\u201d hierarchical menu displays parent menus and submenus alternately. Selecting a parent menu option from within a parent menu, replaces the parent menu with a submenu. The submenu includes submenu options in addition to the previously selected parent menu option. The parent menu option can be selected from within the submenu to return to the parent.","In accordance with one implementation, the parent menu includes a forward pointer associated with the parent menu option indicating that a selection of the parent menu option from the parent menu will replace the parent menu with a submenu.","In accordance with another implementation, the submenu includes a backward pointer associated with the parent menu option indicating that a selection of the parent menu option from the submenu will replace the submenu with the parent menu.","Overview","The following discussion is directed to a hierarchical menu system that displays submenus in place of parent menus, and vice versa, when appropriate menu items are selected from within parent menus and submenus. Thus, parent menus and submenus are displayed individually and alternately, providing an \u201cin-place\u201d hierarchical menu. Parent menu items selected from within parent menus are displayed within submenus above submenu items. Previously selected parent menu items are displayed within submenus with a backward pointer indicating that a selection of the parent menu item from within the submenu will replace the currently displayed submenu with the corresponding parent menu. Parent menu items within parent menus may be displayed with a forward pointer indicating that a selection of the parent menu item from within the parent menu will replace the parent menu with a corresponding submenu.","Benefits of the disclosed hierarchical menu system include the ability to implement a hierarchical menu on devices having varying screen sizes, including small-screen devices. The disclosed hierarchical in-place menu permits the display of one hierarchical menu at a time, while still maintaining a history of previously selected menu items that enable a user to navigate within the hierarchical menu to any previously displayed menu. The disclosed hierarchical menu system permits application developers to design application menus in a typical hierarchical fashion while requiring at most, a simple operating system call to have their hierarchical menu implemented as a hierarchical in-place menu.","Exemplary Environment",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 9"],"b":["300","300","300","300","300"]},"In the embodiments described below, computer  is generally discussed as being implemented as a small-screen, hand-held device such as, for example, a cell phone or a PDA (personal digital assistant; e.g., devices running Microsoft\u00ae's PocketPC, Hewlett-Packard's Palmtop, 3Com's PalmPilot, etc.). Such devices generally provide more limited computing capabilities than a typical personal computer, such as information storage and retrieval capabilities for personal or business use, including keeping schedule calendars and address book information. Such devices usually offer some version of an operating system such as Windows CE, while various applications are generally available that provide limited functionality compared to full-fledged versions available for typical personal computers. Thus, a computer  implemented as a small-screen, hand-held mobile computer may include limited versions of email, phone, SMS (short message service), organizer and Web applications.","Exemplary Embodiments",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 4"],"b":["300","300","300"]},"PDA  includes a processor , a volatile memory  (i.e., RAM), and a nonvolatile memory  (e.g., ROM, hard disk, floppy disk, CD-ROM, etc.). Nonvolatile memory  generally provides storage of computer\/processor-readable instructions, data structures, program modules and other data for PDA . PDA  may also include various input\/output  devices. Input device  examples (not shown) can include a mouse or track ball for moving a cursor and making selections, a touch-sensitive display screen, a stylus pen for making menu input selections on a touch-sensitive display screen displaying menu options and\/or soft buttons of a GUI (graphical user interface), hard buttons on the PDA  structure, and so on. Output device  examples (not shown) can include a display screen, a touch-sensitive display screen, an audio speaker, and so on. One exemplary implementation of a PDA  is described in more detail below with reference to .","PDA  implements an operating system (OS)  on processor  from volatile memory . The OS  is stored in memory  and initially loaded from memory  into volatile memory  by a boot program (not shown). The OS  is generally configured to manage other application programs  that are also stored in memory  and executable on processor  from volatile memory . The OS  honors requests for services made by application programs  through predefined application program interfaces (APIs). More specifically, the OS  typically determines the order in which multiple applications  execute on processor  and the execution time allotted for each application , manages the sharing of memory  among multiple applications , handles input and output to and from attached hardware devices (e.g., hard disks, printers, dial-up ports), and so on. In addition, users can typically interact directly with the OS  through a user interface such as a command language or graphical user interface.","PDA  typically implements various application programs  stored in memory  and executable on processor . Such applications  might include software programs implementing, for example, word processors, spread sheets, browsers, file share programs, database management systems (DBMS), peer-to-peer applications, multimedia players, computer-aided design tools and the like. Most applications  are menu-driven programs that provide a list of possible commands or options from which a user may choose in order to implement various application functions on the PDA .","The manner in which menu selections are made often depends upon the particular type of computer device  running an application . For example, entering a menu selection on a desktop computer  that has a mouse as an input device  may occur by pointing to a menu item with a mouse and then clicking on the item. Many small-screen computing devices , such as PDA  of , implement GUIs (graphical user interfaces) on touch-sensitive screens through which menu selections can be made by pressing a pen or stylus to desired menu choices. Other methods of selecting menu items include, for example, highlighting menu items and then hitting the \u2018return\u2019 key or \u2018enter\u2019 key.","The menuing task is generally performed by a menuing subsystem of an operating system executing on a computer . Accordingly, as illustrated in PDA  of the  embodiment, a \u2018hierarchical in-place menu module\u2019  is implemented as part of operating system . In general, the menu module  is configured to receive menu calls from various applications  and to service those calls by displaying a menu on a display screen according to the parameters provided by the application  making the menu call. The menu module  also manages menu selections made under a GUI  supported by operating system . Although modules  and  are illustrated as being part of operating system , it is noted that such modules might also function as stand-alone modules stored in memory  and executable on processor . In general, although the functioning of modules  and  as part of operating system  is preferred, it is not intended as a limitation regarding their implementation by a computer .","In addition to managing typical menuing functions, the \u2018hierarchical in-place menu module\u2019  implements a hierarchical \u2018in-place\u2019 menu in accordance with application programs  that support hierarchical menus. Thus, for applications  designed to provide hierarchical menus, menu module  is configured to implement those hierarchical menus as hierarchical \u2018in-place\u2019 menus. The implementation of a hierarchical menu as a hierarchical in-place menu can occur automatically for any application making a hierarchical menu call to operating system , or it can occur based on a specific request from an application  to implement the hierarchical menu as a hierarchical in-place menu. Thus, small-screen computer device manufacturers can configure devices to automatically provide hierarchical in-place menus for application developers. This enables application developers to design hierarchical menus in a typical manner without making any changes to their application source code. Alternatively, small-screen computer device manufacturers can configure devices to provide hierarchical in-place menus by default, or upon request for application developers. This enables application developers to design hierarchical menus in a typical manner and further allows them to determine if application menus will be implemented as hierarchical in-place menus by making a simple selection through their application source code.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 4","FIG. 5","FIG. 1"],"b":["500","300","300","500","502","504","500","100","500","504","502","500","502","504"]},"The dashed lines  of  are intended to indicate that each of the menus of the hierarchical in-place menu  are displayed separately from one another. Menus in a hierarchical in-place menu  are not displayed at the same time on the same computer display screen. Instead, menus in a hierarchical in-place menu  replace one another on a computer display screen as menu items are selected. Accordingly, menu items in a parent menu (e.g., ) can have associated forward pointers (e.g., arrows) that indicate that the selection of the menu item will result in the display of a submenu containing additional menu choices related to the menu item. For example, parent menu item \u201cLaunch App\u201d shown in parent menu  includes a forward pointer  that indicates a submenu will replace parent menu  upon selection of \u201cLaunch App\u201d from within parent menu . It is instructive to note, that depending on which menu is currently being displayed, a menu can be both a parent menu and a submenu. This notion is generally applicable throughout this discussion.","Submenu  is an example of a submenu that might replace parent menu  upon selection of \u201cLaunch App\u201d from within parent menu . Submenu  additionally illustrates how a hierarchical in-place menu  retains previously selected parent menu items (e.g., \u201cLaunch App\u201d) and displays them within currently displayed menus (e.g., submenu ) that result from the previously selected menu items. Previously selected parent menu items (e.g., \u201cLaunch App\u201d in submenu , \u201cLaunch App\u201d and \u201cMultimedia\u201d in submenu , \u201cLaunch App\u201d, \u201cMultimedia\u201d and \u201cCamera Tools\u201d in submenu ) are displayed within submenus (e.g., , , ) above currently displayed submenu items. Typically, there is a divider  such as a line dividing the previously selected parent items from the currently displayed submenu items. Furthermore, previously selected parent items displayed within submenus have associated backward pointers  indicating a parent menu will replace the currently displayed submenu upon selection of a previously selected parent item from within the submenu. For example, a selection of \u201cLaunch App\u201d within submenu  will result in the replacement of submenu  with previously displayed parent menu . Note that \u201cLaunch App\u201d within submenu  has an associated backward pointer (e.g., arrow) indicating that this selection will return the display back to the corresponding parent menu .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0039","num":"0038"},"figref":["FIGS. 6 and 7","FIG. 1"],"b":["500","100","500"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0040","num":"0039"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 4","FIG. 7","FIG. 7"],"b":["502","300","502","502","300","504","502","504","500"]},"Exemplary Methods","Example methods for implementing a hierarchical in-place menu will now be described with primary reference to the flow diagram of . The methods apply generally to the exemplary embodiments discussed above with respect to . The elements of the described methods may be performed by any appropriate means including, for example, by hardware logic blocks on an ASIC or by the execution of processor-readable instructions defined on a processor-readable medium.","A \u201cprocessor-readable medium,\u201d as used herein, can be any means that can contain, store, communicate, propagate, or transport instructions for use by or execution by a processor. A processor-readable medium can be, without limitation, an electronic, magnetic, optical, electromagnetic, infrared, or semiconductor system, apparatus, device, or propagation medium. More specific examples of a processor-readable medium include, among others, an electrical connection (electronic) having one or more wires, a portable computer diskette (magnetic), a random access memory (RAM) (magnetic), a read-only memory (ROM) (magnetic), an erasable programmable-read-only memory (EPROM or Flash memory), an optical fiber (optical), a rewritable compact disc (CD-RW) (optical), and a portable compact disc read-only memory (CDROM) (optical).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0044","num":"0043"},"figref":"FIG. 8","b":["800","300","800","800","800"]},"At block  of method , a top level menu is displayed on a display screen of a computer, such as a small-screen PDA . The top level menu is also a parent menu to one or more submenus which may both be configured as modal menus. The top level menu is typically initiated by a user input such as the click of a mouse or the pressing of a pen or stylus to a touch-sensitive display screen. At block , a first menu selection is received from the top (or parent) level menu. The selection is a top level menu item displayed in the top level menu.","At block , a second level menu (or submenu) is displayed in place of the top level menu in response to the first menu selection. The top level menu is no longer displayed on the display screen. However, the second level menu includes the top level menu item that was selected in order to initiate the second level menu. Therefore, the second level menu retains a link to the previous menu in the hierarchy of menus. The second level menu also includes second level menu items. One or more of the second level menu items are links to additional levels of submenus that contain further menu choices related to the items in the second level menu that link to the additional menu levels.","At block , a second selection of the top level menu item is received from the second level menu. This second selection of the top level menu item from within the second level menu is tantamount to a user wanting to jump back in the menu hierarchy to the top level menu. Thus, at block , the top level menu is displayed in place of the second level menu in response to the second selection.","At block , a second selection of a second level menu item is received from the second level menu. This second selection of the second level menu item from within the second level menu is tantamount to a user wanting to jump forward in the menu hierarchy to an additional submenu providing more choices related to the second level menu item. Accordingly, at block , a third level menu is displayed in place of the second level menu in response to this second selection. The third level menu includes the top level menu item, the second level menu item, and third level menu items. The top level menu item and second level menu item provide links back to previous menus in the hierarchy of menus, while one or more of the third level menu items provide a link forward to an additional related submenu.","At block , a third selection of the top level menu item is received from within the third level menu. This third selection of the top level menu item from within the third level menu is tantamount to a user wanting to jump back in the menu hierarchy to the top level menu. Therefore, at block , the top level menu is displayed in place of the third level menu in response to this third selection.","At block , a third selection of the second level menu item is received from within the third level menu. This third selection of the second level menu item from within the third level menu is tantamount to a user wanting to jump back in the menu hierarchy to the second level menu. Therefore, at block , the second level menu is displayed in place of the third level menu in response to this third selection.","At block , a third selection of a third level menu item is received from within the third level menu. This third selection of a third level menu item from within the third level menu is tantamount to a user wanting to jump forward in the menu hierarchy to a new submenu that provides additional menu choices. Therefore, at block , a fourth level menu is displayed in place of the third level menu in response to this third selection. The fourth level menu includes the top level menu item, the second level menu item, the third level menu item, and fourth level menu items.","While one or more methods have been disclosed by means of flow diagrams and text associated with the blocks of the flow diagrams, it is to be understood that the blocks do not necessarily have to be performed in the order in which they were presented, and that an alternative order(s) may result in similar advantages. Furthermore, the methods are not exclusive and can be performed alone or in combination with one another.","Exemplary Computer",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0054","num":"0053"},"figref":["FIG. 9","FIGS. 1-8","FIG. 9"],"b":["300","300"]},"The computing environment  includes a general-purpose computing system in the form of a computer . The components of computer  can include, but are not limited to, one or more processors or processing units , a system memory , and a system bus  that couples various system components including the processor  to the system memory .","The system bus  represents one or more of any of several types of bus structures, including a memory bus or memory controller, a peripheral bus, an accelerated graphics port, and a processor or local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. An example of a system bus  would be a Peripheral Component Interconnects (PCI) bus, also known as a Mezzanine bus.","Computer  typically includes a variety of computer-readable media. Such media can be any available media that is accessible by computer  and includes both volatile and non-volatile media, removable and non-removable media. The system memory  includes computer readable media in the form of volatile memory, such as random access memory (RAM) , and\/or non-volatile memory, such as read only memory (ROM) . A basic input\/output system (BIOS) , containing the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within computer , such as during start-up, is stored in ROM . RAM  typically contains data and\/or program modules that are immediately accessible to and\/or presently operated on by the processing unit .","Computer  can also include other removable\/non-removable, volatile\/non-volatile computer storage media. By way of example,  illustrates a bard disk drive  for reading from and writing to a non-removable, non-volatile magnetic media (not shown), a magnetic disk drive  for reading from and writing to a removable, non-volatile magnetic disk  (e.g., a \u201cfloppy disk\u201d), and an optical disk drive  for reading from and\/or writing to a removable, non-volatile optical disk  such as a CD-ROM, DVD-ROM, or other optical media. The hard disk drive , magnetic disk drive , and optical disk drive  are each connected to the system bus  by one or more data media interfaces . Alternatively, the hard disk drive , magnetic disk drive , and optical disk drive  can be connected to the system bus  by a SCSI interface (not shown).","The disk drives and their associated computer-readable media provide non-volatile storage of computer readable instructions, data structures, program modules, and other data for computer . Although the example illustrates a hard disk , a removable magnetic disk , and a removable optical disk , it is to be appreciated that other types of computer readable media which can store data that is accessible by a computer, such as magnetic cassettes or other magnetic storage devices, flash memory cards, CD-ROM, digital versatile disks (DVD) or other optical storage, random access memories (RAM), read only memories (ROM), electrically erasable programmable read-only memory (EEPROM), and the like, can also be utilized to implement the exemplary computing system and environment.","Any number of program modules can be stored on the hard disk , magnetic disk , optical disk , ROM , and\/or RAM , including by way of example, an operating system , one or more application programs , other program modules , and program data . Each of such operating system , one or more application programs , other program modules , and program data  (or some combination thereof) may include an embodiment of a caching scheme for user network access information.","Computer  can include a variety of computer\/processor readable media identified as communication media. Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions, data structures, program modules, or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term \u201cmodulated data signal\u201d means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example, and not limitation, communication media includes wired media such as a wired network or direct-wired connection, and wireless media such as acoustic, RF, infrared, and other wireless media. Combinations of any of the above are also included within the scope of computer readable media.","A user can enter commands and information into computer system  via input devices such as a keyboard  and a pointing device  (e.g., a \u201cmouse\u201d). Other input devices  (not shown specifically) may include a microphone, joystick, game pad, satellite dish, serial port, scanner, and\/or the like. These and other input devices are connected to the processing unit  via input\/output interfaces  that are coupled to the system bus , but may be connected by other interface and bus structures, such as a parallel port, game port, or a universal serial bus (USB).","A monitor  or other type of display device can also be connected to the system bus  via an interface, such as a video adapter . In addition to the monitor , other output peripheral devices can include components such as speakers (not shown) and a printer  which can be connected to computer  via the input\/output interfaces .","Computer  can operate in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers, such as a remote computing device . By way of example, the remote computing device  can be a personal computer, portable computer, a server, a router, a network computer, a peer device or other common network node, and the like. The remote computing device  is illustrated as a portable computer that can include many or all of the elements and features described herein relative to computer system .","Logical connections between computer  and the remote computer  are depicted as a local area network (LAN)  and a general wide area network (WAN) . Such networking environments are commonplace in offices, enterprise-wide computer networks, intranets, and the Internet. When implemented in a LAN networking environment, the computer  is connected to a local network  via a network interface or adapter . When implemented in a WAN networking environment, the computer  typically includes a modem  or other means for establishing communications over the wide network . The modem , which can be internal or external to computer , can be connected to the system bus  via the input\/output interfaces  or other appropriate mechanisms. It is to be appreciated that the illustrated network connections are exemplary and that other means of establishing communication link(s) between the computers  and  can be employed.","In a networked environment, such as that illustrated with computing environment , program modules depicted relative to the computer , or portions thereof, may be stored in a remote memory storage device. By way of example, remote application programs  reside on a memory device of remote computer . For purposes of illustration, application programs and other executable program components, such as the operating system, are illustrated herein as discrete blocks, although it is recognized that such programs and components reside at various times in different storage components of the computer system , and are executed by the data processor(s) of the computer.","Although the invention has been described in language specific to structural features and\/or methodological acts, it is to be understood that the invention defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described. Rather, the specific features and acts are disclosed as exemplary forms of implementing the claimed invention."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The same reference numerals are used throughout the drawings to reference like components and features.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 4"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":["FIGS. 6 and 7","FIG. 4"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":["FIG. 9","FIG. 3"]}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
