---
title: Multiple position press
abstract: A modular press assembly for performing multiple position pressing with a single press. The modular press assembly includes a floating mount attached to the upper platen of the press, a hydraulic cylinder, and a press ram coupled to the cylinder which automatically guides itself precisely into axial alignment with a die situated on a lower platen and containing material to be pressed. A plurality of such press assemblies are mounted on the upper platen and are connected through respective flow control valves to an independent hydraulic control system to allow adjustment of the travel of the multiple press rams. This configuration facilitates multiple position pressing and equally divides the total press force from the single hydraulic press, distributing it among each of the multiple positions independent of the final height of each pressed body.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07150617&OS=07150617&RS=07150617
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 07150617
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20031117
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENT INTEREST","BACKGROUND OF INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS"],"p":["The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.","a. Field of Invention","The present invention relates to hydraulic presses for compressing materials and, more particularly, to a modular press assembly which can be retrofit to an existing press or supplied as original equipment, in either case allowing multiple batches of material, of differing height, to be compressed with the same force, by the single press, in one operation.","b. Description of the Background","In various industries, it is necessary to prepare a mixture of ingredients in a compact solid body, having uniform size and shape. This is often the case where a measured amount of consumable material must be inserted into a chamber or other container, having a particular shape. Often, the ingredients are assembled in granular, powder and\/or liquid form, to facilitate mixing. A binder is added and the mixture is pressed in a mold to form a solid body, of uniform shape comprising a homogeneous mixture of the ingredients. Shaped bodies of compressed material are formed by a pair of opposing rams operating on the mixture of material disposed within a shaped die, which is typically cylindrical but which may produce other shapes. The rams are operated by a press and exert pressure from opposite open ends of the die. Pressed density and consistent dimensions depend not on directly controlling the mechanical displacement of the rams, but mostly on precise control of the pressing force and amount of ingredients; even so, the finished height of the shape will typically have tiny variations.","In processing, for example, explosive molding powders, a relatively high pressure is required to achieve the degree of compression necessary to produce a body of the desired density and size. A set of matched, mechanical tools is required to process pressed explosives from a free-flowing molding powder into a precision, high-density consolidated shape. In its most basic form, this tooling set consists of a thick-walled cylinder (die), and two closely fitting pistons (press ram and eject ram). Typically, the tooling is installed in a double-acting hydraulic press, which has two hydraulic cylinders and guided platens. Both the upper and lower platens are moved by their respective cylinders and guided by a set of columns. The hydraulic press also has a center platen that does not move. Prior to installation of the rams and die, all three platens must be adjusted to be parallel to each other within 0.001 to 002 inches to facilitate the best possible axial alignment between the rams and the die. The press ram is attached to the upper platen, and the eject ram is attached to the lower platen. The die is attached to the center platen and does not move. The molding powder is poured into the die, the press ram is pressed down using a precisely regulated force, consolidating the molding powder, the press ram is retracted, and the eject ram pushes the resulting charge up and out of the die.  illustrates this basic tooling arrangement. Variations in the powder weight loaded into each die are a normal consequence of a production weighing operation. These produce varying charge volumes which manifest themselves in variations in finished pressed height. It is standard practice to place one die in the press and to use the press to produce one body at a time. Placing more than one die, in the press, is known as multiple position pressing. In multiple position pressing, variations in height among the positions will cause immediate asymmetric distribution in the press forces unless there is some mechanism to equally divide the press forces that can also accommodate variations in the finished height of each pressed body. The need to precisely regulate the pressing force, in explosives production, currently requires that each body be pressed separately.","In addition, in the large scale presses necessary to produce the required pressing force, it is impossible to make the axes of the rams travel in perfect alignment with the axis of the die when the rams are rigidly bolted to the platens. Even when the platens are adjusted to near-perfect parallelism, attempts to do this inevitably result in destructive galling as the rams rub on or dig into the walls of the die, proportionate with the degree of misalignment between the platen guide columns and the axis of the die. If galling occurs with a charge of explosive molding powder, it is likely to initiate the explosive, producing a destructive accident. Therefore some degree of mechanical freedom must be devised for the rams to maintain alignment with the die in the horizontal plane as they engage the die in the vertical direction. This problem has already been addressed by prior tooling for single position pressing.  illustrates prior art for an existing press ram floating adaptor, which allows for automatic horizontal adjustment of the position of the ram.","The conventional method has always been to install and actuate a single set of tooling. The presses available to general industry (which have been adapted to explosives processing) are designed for single position tooling sets. They have no capability to exactly divide the pressing forces among multiple position tooling sets. The operation of compressing explosives to the desired size and density is time consuming and it would be an advantage to use multiple position tool sets to compress multiple bodies of explosives in a single operation of the press. There is a need for an improvement to the hydraulic press to accommodate multiple tool sets with control to exactly divide and distribute the press force exerted on each of the tool sets. There is also a need for an improvement to the hydraulic press to provide some degree of automatic axial adjustment of the ram positions, to compensate for minor misalignment of the ram and die's vertical axes and prevent destructive tool damage.","The innovation, of the present invention, is a modular press assembly for an existing hydraulic press that can either be retrofitted to the existing upper press platens or incorporated into new presses to make multiple position pressing possible. Each multiple press assembly is a combination of a compact hydraulic cylinder, having a hydraulic reservoir and a piston, with an adjustable connector for attaching the press rams to the upper platen. The adjustable connector attaches the press assembly to the platen while allowing it a horizontal degree of freedom that is greater than the expected misalignment of the press ram and die. Thus, the hydraulic reservoir and a communicating piston support the press ram and allow the vertical degree of freedom necessary for load sharing and height differential among tooling sets, by operation of the hydraulic cylinder. The degree of play in the mounting of the piston, within the hydraulic cylinder, provides an automatic compensation for a minor misalignment between the vertical axes of the press ram and the die.","To achieve multiple position pressing, several identical press assemblies are hydraulically connected to each other in parallel, to an independent hydraulic control system, and thereby remain completely isolated from the hydraulics that make the press move. The number of press assemblies that can be used at one time is limited only when the sum of the forces on each tooling set exceeds the total capacity of the main press ram.","During the process of multiple position pressing, the hydraulic pressure of each modular press assembly automatically equalizes to achieve the desired division of total press force into smaller but equal press forces on each pressed body, and to accommodate variations in finished pressed height of each body, independent of the operation of the press. The flow of hydraulic fluid between press assemblies may be adjusted by conventional hydraulic flow controls to allow each press ram to smoothly transition to its final press height. In addition, isolation valves may be used to inactivate individual press assemblies, leaving the remaining ones connected in parallel. In this manner, the overall hydraulic press may be used to press any number of positions simultaneously, from one to as many as the press is fitted for, as long as the active positions provide a balanced load on the press platens and the sum of the forces in all active positions does not exceed the total force capacity of the hydraulic press.","The modular press assembly according to the present invention is an improvement to a hydraulic press which, when incorporated in number, facilitates multiple position pressing. Each modular press assembly automatically aligns the axes of the press rams and the axes of the dies, and when two or more modular press assemblies are employed they automatically balance the pressing force at their respective press positions, without regard to variations in height of the pressed material. The modular press assemblies may be retrofit to an existing hydraulic press or can be incorporated into the original design of the hydraulic press.","A conventional hydraulic press is shown in  and has a movable upper platen , driven downward by a first hydraulic cylinder . The hydraulic press has a movable lower platen , driven by a second hydraulic cylinder . Four vertical columns  rest on a firm support surface and guide the movement of the upper platen  and the lower platen  along a vertical path of travel. By way of example, a 200 ton press is one of many possible sizes typically used in explosives processing. A press ram  is mounted on the underside of the upper platen  and extends downward. An eject ram  is mounted on a slider plate  and extends upward. The slider plate  has an oversized set of bolt holes. A set of bolts and washers loosely confine the eject ram  and slider plate  to the lower platen , allowing free lateral movement of the eject ram to maintain constant alignment with the die . The eject ram  is driven upward by the second hydraulic cylinder . A fixed center platen  is disposed between the upper platen  and the lower platen , and holds the die  in a non-adjustable position. The center platen  is provided with a central aperture through which the eject ram  passes. All three platens are effectively adjusted to be parallel to each other within 0.001 to 0.002 inches by means of intermediate plates  and shims  that are inserted between the intermediate plates  and their respective platens.  shows exemplary sets of shims , depicted in removed positions, with dotted lines indicating typical points of insertion around the periphery of the intermediate plates .","The press ram  is mounted as shown in . Said press ram  is attached to a collar , which at its upper end has a circular flange extending outward, perpendicular to the axis of the press ram . A circular clamp ring  and a bearing plate  are attached to the upper platen  (seen in ) by suitable means such as bolts. The clamp ring  has an inner flange sized to loosely confine the flange of the collar  vertically between the flange of the clamp ring  and the surface of the bearing plate . The circumference of the inner surface of the clamp ring  is sized so as to allow a narrow gap (shown by dotted lines, in ) between the clamp ring  and the collar , so that the collar  may be freely shifted slightly in any direction perpendicular to the axis of the die . Referring back to , the die  has a tapered upper entrance so that the position of the press ram , on the upper platen , does not need to be adjusted for exact alignment with the die  before being bolted in place. It will be appreciated that various means may be used to provide horizontal freedom of movement in the means for mounting the collar  to the upper platen , to allow for free-floating, automatic adjustment in obtaining exact alignment as the press ram  enters and is captured by the entrance taper of the die . An internal port  (shown in ) is used to apply vacuum to a matching port (not shown) in the press ram , as an aid to molding powder consolidation. A second internal port , is used to force lubricant between the collar  and the bearing plate  to promote free-floating action.","In operation, a die  (shown in ) is mounted on the center platen . The die  typically has a cylindrical shape and is positioned over the eject ram  which is withdrawn near the bottom of the die . Material to be compressed is loaded into the die . The upper platen  is advanced forcibly, by the first hydraulic cylinder . The press ram  engages the taper in the entrance of the die , which is always larger than the horizontal freedom of the press ram (to ensure capture), and is automatically guided into proper axial alignment as they mate and as the collar  shifts horizontally inside the clamp ring . The first hydraulic cylinder  is operably controlled to apply the desired amount of pressure to the material. The press ram  is withdrawn and the second hydraulic cylinder  is activated to push the eject ram  up, forcing the pressed body out of the die . The second hydraulic cylinder  and eject ram  are withdrawn, new material is placed in the die  and the operation is repeated to produce one compressed body of material per run of the press.","The improvement of the present invention is a modular press assembly comprising a slider plate , having a first set of bolt holes as shown in and , which is bolted to a hydraulic cylinder . The hydraulic cylinder  has a hydraulic reservoir  in communication with a piston , on which a press ram  (as in ) is mounted. While materials and dimensions may vary, it is generally preferred that the modular press assembly be properly designed to handle the actual forces placed on it and have a stroke greater than the maximum anticipated difference in pressed height among multiple pressed bodies. The hydraulic reservoir  is connected to an independent hydraulic control system, preferably through a conventional flow control valve  and a conventional isolation valve  to a common manifold (not shown). The independent hydraulic control system is separate from the system(s) which control the upper platen  and the lower platen . As seen in , the slider plate  can be mounted to the upper platen  in the same manner that the collar  (of ) is mounted to the upper platen , e.g., using an oversize clamp ring  that allows for horizontal adjustment (parallel to the planar surface of the platen) as needed to align the press ram  with the die . An alternate mounting is illustrated in and , where the slider plate  is simply provided with a second set of bolt holes. A second set of bolts and washers  loosely confine the slider plate  vertically to the surface of the upper platen . In this case, the second set of bolt holes in the slider plate  is preferably oversized to allow for some degree of movement, parallel to the planar surface of the upper platen , which gives the entire modular press assembly a horizontal degree of freedom, including the orientation of the press ram , which automatically accounts for any minor misalignment between the axes of the press ram  and the die  as they mate. This alternate mounting is the same scheme previously described to allow the eject ram  to float laterally as seen in .","In accordance with the present invention it is possible to install a plurality of modular press assemblies, on the upper platen  and a corresponding number of eject rams , in alignment with the modular press assemblies. Specifically, to achieve multiple position pressing, several identical press assemblies as seen in & are hydraulically connected to the same independent control system, in parallel, and thereby remain completely isolated from the hydraulics that make the press move. The common hydraulic system manifold leads to the flow control valve  and isolation valve  of each press assembly allowing isolation and individual control. Thus, with multiple press assemblies connected, the hydraulic cylinders  may extend or withdraw the press rams  toward or away from the center platen , independent of the position of the upper platen  as the press rams  consolidate the pressed bodies to slightly different heights and as hydraulic fluid redistributes itself hydrostatically throughout the common manifold. The horizontal degree of freedom of the modular press assemblies greatly reduces the tendency of the ram  to damage the die  by galling and reduces the chance of a destructive explosive accident when energetic molding powder is used.","The conventional press (of ) is provided with a single eject ram  passing through a single aperture in the center platen , and this singular eject configuration is modified for multiple ejection of the multiple press assemblies described above. This is readily accomplished as shown in  with a bridge plate  mounted on the eject ram  for receiving a plurality of eject rams  corresponding to the plurality of modular press assemblies. A die platen  is provided which is spaced apart from and attached to the center platen  by a plurality of struts comprising tubular legs  and long bolts  inserted therein. In practice, the long bolts  may consist of a length of threaded rod, a nut, and a washer. A plurality of tubular legs  and long bolts  (ten sets are suitable) are equally spaced around the perimeter of the die platen  and are attached to the underside thereof. The tubular legs  and long bolts  extend downward and attach to the center platen .  shows two exemplary tubular legs  and long bolts , depicted in a position removed from the press, with dotted lines indicating the points of attachment. The die platen  is provided with a plurality of axially-spaced apertures corresponding to the respective eject rams  to allow passage there through. The eject rams  may be physically similar to the existing eject ram , albeit smaller in size. This configuration allows a plurality of dies  to be positioned on the die platen , which is held firmly in place by the center platen , while all the eject rams ,  move in tandem with the movement of the lower platen  as shown in . Individual dies  may be mounted over each eject ram  and multiple bodies of material may be pressed during one operation. The desired press force may be obtained on each body by first adjusting the upper hydraulic cylinder of the hydraulic press  to generate the sum total of the press forces for all active modular press assemblies to be used at once. It is intended that the hydraulic systems of the modular press assemblies would be connected in parallel with simple tubing manifold for economy of system components while retaining the capability of hydraulic fluid to distribute to each of the press assemblies. As long as each piston  has the same area, the total press force of the upper hydraulic cylinder of the press  will be evenly divided among all the modular press assemblies, delivering the desired press force to each pressed body while at the same time allowing each pressed body to have a unique height within the limits of the stroke of the pistons . Although the modular press assemblies are intended to be installed on conventional presses, it will be appreciated that the press assemblies could be incorporated into the design of many types of presses, without departing from the inventive concept disclosed and claimed herein.","As a further safety measure, a post  and a stop  may be mounted on the upper platen  and on the eject ram , respectively, to limit the advance of both the upper platen  and lower platen  (as shown in ). This safety measure may be used to prevent the press rams  from contacting the eject rams , thereby preventing potential damage to the rams and a destructive explosive accident when energetic molding powder is used.","During the process of multiple position pressing, the hydraulic pressure of each modular press assembly automatically equalizes to achieve the desired division of total press force into smaller but equal press forces on each pressed body, and to accommodate variations in finished pressed height of each body, independent of the operation of the press. The flow of hydraulic fluid between the press assemblies may be adjusted by the flow control valves  to allow each press ram to smoothly transition to its final press height. In addition, isolation valves  may be used to inactivate individual press assemblies, leaving the remaining ones connected in parallel. In this manner, the overall hydraulic press may be used to press any number of positions simultaneously, from one to as many as the press is fitted for, as long as the active positions provide a balanced load on the press platens and as long as the sum total of the forces of the active positions does not exceed the force capacity of the hydraulic press. Whether retrofit to an existing press or supplied as original equipment with the press, the multiple press assemblies of the present invention allow multiple batches of material, of differing height, to be compressed with the same force, by the single press, in one efficient operation.","Having now fully set forth the preferred embodiments and certain modifications of the concept underlying the present invention, it is to be understood, therefore, that the invention may be practiced otherwise than as specifically set forth in the appended claims."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["Other objects, features and advantages of the present invention will become more apparent from the following detailed description of the preferred embodiment and certain modifications thereof when taken together with the accompanying drawings in which:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":["FIGS. 3","FIG. 3","FIG. 3"],"i":["a ","b ","a ","b. "],"b":"3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 1"]}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
