---
title: Systems and methods for diagnosing and predicting fluid flow systems using sensors
abstract: A fluid flow system for continuously monitoring the flow of fluid including fluid flow conduit with an upstream side and a downstream side, sensors and fluid flow elements, with the method for analyzing the operation of a fluid flow system by determining whether the fluid flow subsystem of the main system is operating properly, inputting a sensor reading of the parameter in the fluid flow of the main system and outputting an error indication of the main system.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=06917891&OS=06917891&RS=06917891
owner: Xerox Corporation
number: 06917891
owner_city: Stamford
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20030228
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF EXEMPLARY EMBODIMENTS"],"p":["1. Field of Invention","This invention is directed to systems and a methods for using sensors to determine problems that occur in fluid flow systems.","2. Description of Related Art","Conventionally, when determining problems in fluid flow systems, such as the remaining life of a filter through which the fluid flows, a discrete flow or pressure sensor is used to detect the end life for filters and time for filter replacement. These sensors are used to ensure that a minimum or maximum amount of fluid flow, such as fluid, is achieved for proper functioning. The proper flow or pressure may not be achieved because the filters may be clogged, or at least dirty enough to prevent proper functioning. At this point, service of the filters through which the fluid flows is required.","Normally, when the sensor value reaches a threshold value for a predetermined level of dirt accumulation in the filter, the machine in which that fluid flow is present will no longer function. Accordingly, a message is displayed for the user to contact service, to replace the filter or other components, or the like. Although sufficient to prevent the filters from accumulating additional dirt, which may cause damage to the machine, this approach results in unscheduled service and maintenance operations that often occur at very inopportune times.","One conventional way to avoid this result is to predetermine a sensor value, which is close to a failure value, but where the machine can continue to function. At that time, the user is notified that maintenance should be scheduled shortly, at a convenient time.","Setting a predetermined sensor value that indicates need for maintenance may alleviate unscheduled services and maintenance at inopportune time. However, this still requires a service call at a prearranged time and requires the service personnel to perform a battery of tests to determine the probable time for the next service call. This predetermined service most likely is too early for the service personnel to perform other work. This ineffective use of service personnel is but one problem not addressed by conventional systems and methods.","Accordingly, systems and methods for using the service personnel more effectively would be desirable.","This invention provide systems and methods that give warning of both the need to call a service personnel and the remaining time before the fluid flow system needs to be shutdown.","This invention separately provides systems and methods that continuously monitor sensors in fluid flow subsystems.","This invention separately provides systems and methods that continuously monitor pressure readings of fluid flow subsystems.","This invention separately provides systems and methods that continuously monitor volume flow readings of fluid flow subsystems.","This invention separately provides systems and methods that continuously use the sensor readings to diagnose fluid flow subsystems.","This invention separately provides systems and methods that continuously monitor several fluid flow subsystems.","This invention separately provides systems and methods that give warnings based on a diagnosis of a fluid flow subsystem.","This invention separately provides methods and systems that stop an apparatus based on a diagnosis of fluid flow subsystems.","In various exemplary embodiments of the systems and methods according to this invention, a warning before shutting down the fluid flow system may be given to call a service personnel by beeps and chimes, flashing displays, and\/or indications on a monitor, or other data communications devices, systems or structures, while the time remaining can be given by the intensity of the chimes, flashing displays, or by numerical estimates.","In various exemplary embodiments of the systems and methods according to this invention, the fluid flow subsystem may be continuously monitored or monitored at defined or determined intervals. In various exemplary embodiments of the systems and methods according to this invention, the pressure readings of fluid flow subsystems may be continuously monitored or monitored at defined or determined intervals. In various exemplary embodiments of the systems and methods according to this invention, the volume flow readings of fluid flow subsystems may be continuously monitored or monitored at defined or determined intervals.","In various exemplary embodiments of the systems and methods according to this invention, the sensor readings of fluid flow subsystems may be used to diagnose the fluid flow subsystem either continuously or at defined or determined intervals. In various exemplary embodiments of the systems and methods according to this invention, several fluid flow subsystems may be continuously monitored or monitored at defined or determined intervals. In various exemplary embodiments of the systems and methods according to this invention, warnings may be given based on the diagnosis of a fluid flow subsystems. The system may be monitored and\/or diagnosed directly or remotely. The system can be monitored or diagnosed manually or automatically. Multiple subsystems of a single device may be monitored and\/or diagnosed sequentially or simultaneously, and\/or separately or in tandem.","These and other features and advantages of this invention are described in, or are apparent from, the following detailed description of various exemplary embodiments of the apparatus and methods according to this invention.","Various exemplary embodiments of the systems and methods according to this invention enable the effective use of service personnel by giving warnings of the need to call service personnel and the remaining time before the fluid flow system needs to be shut down. In various exemplary embodiments of the systems and methods according to this invention, sensors in fluid flow systems are continuously monitored.","In various exemplary embodiments of the systems and methods according to this invention, the output sensor signal values from sensors in fluid flow systems are used to continuously diagnose the fluid flow system. In various exemplary embodiments of the systems and methods according to this invention, warning are output before shutting down the system.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":["FIGS. 1 and 2","FIG. 1"],"b":["100","110","112","114","120","122","130"]},"In the exemplary embodiment shown in , at least two sensors  and  sense one or more parameters associated with the fluid flow. The sensors  and  can measure one or more parameters of the fluid flow in the fluid flow subsystem . When a flow of fluid in the fluid flow subsystem  is unobstructed, or otherwise working normally, the sensors  and  generate sensor signal values which are in a normal operating range for the parameter being sensed. In particular, in the exemplary embodiment shown in , the sensors  and  measure an amount of change in one or more parameters as the flow of fluid passes through or by the one or more fluid flow element .","However, when the flow of fluid in the fluid flow subsystem  is obstructed or otherwise not working normally, the sensor signals generated by the sensors  and  may result in one or more readings for one or more parameters that are not within the corresponding expected ranges. In various exemplary embodiments, because the amount of change of the one or more parameters measured by the sensors  and  may be outside of the corresponding range, the one or more fluid flow elements  may not be working properly, such as being clogged, torn, missing, improperly installed, or the like. In various other exemplary embodiments, the measured amount of change may be outside the corresponding range because the fluid flow conduit  or one or more other fluid flow elements within the fluid flow conduit , upstream or downstream of the one or more fluid flow elements , are clogged, punctured, improperly installed, or the like.","Exemplary embodiments of the sensors  and  includes pressure sensors, volume flow sensors, or the like. Exemplary embodiments of the fluid flow element  includes filters, restrictors, valves, or the like.","One exemplary implementation of the exemplary embodiment shown in  is pressure sensors surrounding a filter. In such an exemplary implementation, the pressure sensors  and  may be used to monitor the dirt accumulation in the filter . For example, when a pressure reading in the downstream pressure sensor  is excessively lower than the upstream pressure sensor , that is, when the difference between the sensor pressure levels measured by the pressure sensors  and  is above or outside of a desired pressure difference range, the filter  may be blocked by an excessive accumulation of dirt. On the other hand, for example, when a pressure reading in the downstream pressure sensor  is substantially equal to the upstream pressure sensor , that is, when the difference is below or outside of the desired pressure difference range, the filter  may be torn, missing, or improperly installed.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0034"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 2","FIG. 2"],"b":["200","200","210","212","214","220","230","220","200","220","200","220","220","230","210","210"]},"In the exemplary embodiment shown in , the sensor  may be located within the fluid flow conduit  on the upstream side  or on the downstream side  of the one or more fluid flow element as desired. Exemplary embodiments of the sensor  includes pressure sensors, volume flow sensors, or the like. Exemplary embodiments of the one or more fluid flow element  include filters, restrictors, valves, or the like.","One exemplary implementation of the exemplary embodiment shown in  may be a volume flow sensor with a filter. In such an exemplary embodiment, the volume flow sensor  may be used to monitor the volume flow rate through the filter , which decreases as more dirt accumulates in the filter . For example, when the fluid flow rate drops below a first threshold, the filter has become sufficiently laden with accumulated dirt that the fluid no longer flows through the filter at a sufficient rate to ensure proper operation of the device containing the subsystem .","A variation that may be applied to each of the above described exemplary embodiment individually or in any combination thereof improves the continuous monitoring of the fluid flow subsystem  and\/or . The variation involves when the one or more sensors  and  in one exemplary fluid flow subsystem  and one or more sensors  in the exemplary fluid flow subsystem  are working improperly. The resulting one or more sensor values will suggest that a problem exists in the exemplary fluid flow subsystem  or  when there is actually no problem. Consequently, this indicates the need to replace one or more sensors rather than indicating that the fluid flow subsystem needs repair or the like.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0039","num":"0038"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 3"]},"As shown in , operation of the method begins in step S, and continues to step S, where the main system is turned on. Then, in step S, the fluid flow subsystem of the main system is turned on. Next, in step S, a sensor reading for the one or more sensors within the fluid flow subsystem  is made. Then, in step S, a determination is made, based on the one or more sensor readings, whether the fluid flow subsystem of the main system is operating properly. If the fluid flow subsystem is not operating properly, the operation continues to step S. Otherwise, the operation jumps to step S.","In step S, an error indication is output. Operation then jumps to step S. In contrast, in step S, the main system is operated. Next, in step S, a determination is made whether the one or more sensor readings are within a defined parameter value range for one or more sensed parameters. If the one or moresensor readings are within a corresponding defined parameter ranges for the one or more sensed parameters, the operation jumps to step S. Otherwise, the operation continues to step S.","In step S, a determination is made whether the one or more sensor readings indicates a low base fluid flow condition. If so, the operation continues to step S. Otherwise, the operation jumps to step S. In step S, an error indication of low base fluid condition is output. The operation then jumps to step S. In contrast, in step S, a determination is made whether the one or more sensor readings indicate that the fluid flow through the fluid flow subsystem is below a first value. If the one or more sensor readings do not indicate that the fluid flow is below the first value, operation continues to step S. Otherwise, operation jumps to step S.","In step S, a warning indicating an impending problem in the fluid flow subsystem is output. The operation then again jumps to step S. In contrast, in step S, an error indication of a flow element problem is output. Next, in step S, a determination is made whether to turn off the main system. If the main system is not to be turned off, the operation jumps back to step S. Otherwise, the operation continues to step S, where the main system is turned off. Then, in step S, operation of the method ends.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0044","num":"0043"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 4"]},"As shown in , operation of the method begins in step S, and continues to step S, where the main system is turned on. Next, in step , the fluid flow subsystem is turned on. Then, in step S, the main system is operated. Operation then continues to step S, where one or more sensor readings of the parameter of fluid flow of the main system sensed and input. Next, in step S, a determination is made whether the one or more sensor readings are within defined parameter value ranges. If so, the operation continues to step S. Otherwise, the operation jumps to step S.","In step S, a determination is made whether the one or more sensor readings are indicative of a low base fluid flow condition. If the one or more sensor readings are indicative of a low base fluid flow condition, operation continues to step S. Otherwise, the operation continues to step S. In step S, an error message indicating the low base fluid flow condition is output. Operation then jumps to step S. In contrast, in step S, a determination is made whether the one or sensor readings are indicative of a fluid flow rate above a first value. If so, operation again jumps to step S. Otherwise, operation continues to step S.","In step S, the use rate of the main system is determined. Next, in step S, a deterioration rate of the reading sensed by the one or more sensors is determined. Then to step S, the amount of remaining use of the main system before the sensor reading will drop below a first value is determined based on the determined use rate of the main system and the determined deterioration rate of the reading sensed by the one or more sensors. Operation then continues to step S.","In step S, an indication of remaining use for the main and subsystems until the fluid rate will drop sufficiently to require service is output. Then, in step S, a determination is made whether to turn off the main system. If so, operation continues to step S. Otherwise, operation jumps back to step S. In step S, the main system is turned off. Operation then continues to step S, where operation of the method ends.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0049","num":"0048"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 5"]},"As shown in , operation of the method begins in step S, and continues to step S, where the main system is turned on. Next, in step S, one or more sensor values are sensed. Then, in step S, one or more machine metrics are measured. Next, in step S, the sensed one or more sensor values and the measured one or more machine metrics are compared and analyzed. Then, in step S, a determination is made whether the polled sensor values and the polled machine metrics correlate. If so, the operation jumps back to step S. Otherwise, the operation continues to step S.","In step S, one or more sources of discrepancies between the sensed sensor values and the measured machine metrics are tracked down. Then, in step S, one or more solutions to fixing the one or more sources of discrepancies or any other measures are determined, suggested or output. Next, in step S, a determination is made whether the discrepancies are indicative of a critical problem. If the discrepancies are not indicative of a critical problem, operation again jumps back to step S. Otherwise, operation continues to step S, where the main system is turned off. Operation then continues to step S, where operation of the method ends.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0052","num":"0051"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 6"],"b":["400","305","300","310","400","305","300","300","320","400","400","322","310","322","305","320","400"]},"The fluid flow sensor analyzing system  includes one or more of an input\/output interface , a controller , a memory , a sensor reading analyzing circuit, routine or application , an indication determining circuit, routine or application , a main subsystem shutdown determining circuit, routine, application , each interconnected by one or more control and\/or data busses and\/or application programming interfaces .","The input\/output interface  is connected to the links  and  and thus connects the fluid flow sensor analyzing system  to the sensors  and the data sink . The controller  controls the input\/output interface , the memory , the sensor reading analyzing circuit, routine or application , the indication determining circuit, routine or application , and the main subsystem shutdown determining circuit, routine, application .","The controller  can be implemented using any appropriate device and exemplarily be implemented on a programmed general purpose computer, a special purpose computer, a programmed microprocessor or microcontroller and peripheral integrated circuit elements, an ASIC or other integrated circuit, a digital signal processor, a hardwired electronic or logic circuit such as a discrete element circuit, a programmable logic device such as a PLD, PLA, FPGA or PAL, or the like. In general, any device, capable of implementing a finite state machine, that is in turn capable of implementing the flowcharts shown in , can be used to implement the controller .","The memory  can be implemented using any appropriate combination of alterable, volatile or non-volatile memory or non-alterable, or fixed, memory. The alterable memory, whether volatile or non-volatile, can be implemented using any one or more of static or dynamic RAM, a floppy disk and disk drive, a writeable or a rewriteable optical disk and disk drive, a hard drive, flash memory or the like. Similarly, the non-alterable or fixed memory can be implemented using any one or more of ROM, PROM, EPROM, EEPROM, an optical ROM disk, such as a CD-ROM or DVD-ROM disk, and disk drive or the like.","The data regarding the main and any subsystem functions obtained by the fluid flow sensor analyzing system  from the one or more sensors  will be analyzed by the sensor reading analyzing circuit, routine or application . The indication determining circuit, routine or application  generates indications of the main and\/or any subsystem functions, especially any problems based on the analysis generated by the sensor reading analyzing circuit, routine or application . The analysis generated by the sensor reading analyzing circuit, routine or application  will also be used by the main subsystem shutdown determining circuit, routine or application  to determine whether to shut down the main system pending maintenance.","In operation of the fluid flow sensor analyzing system , one or more sensor values are received by the input\/output interface  in the fluid flow sensor analyzing system  from the one or more sensors . The one or more sensor values are, under the control of the controller , routed through the one or more control and\/or data busses and\/or application programming interfaces  to the sensor reading analyzing circuit, routine or application . The sensor reading analyzing circuit, routine or application  determines if the one or more sensor values are within defined parameter value ranges, if they are above or below a first given value, if they indicate a low base fluid flow condition, or the like. If so, the sensor reading analyzing circuit, routine or application  outputs a signal indicating this to the one or more control and\/or data busses and\/or application programming interfaces . Otherwise, the sensor reading analyzing circuit, routine or application  outputs a signal indicating that one or more sensor values are not within a defined parameter value range. This latter signal is sent, under control of the controller , to the indication determining circuit, routine or application . The indication determining circuit, routine or application  generates an indication of the main and\/or any subsystem functions based on the signal received from the sensor reading analyzing circuit, routine or application . The indication generated by the indication determining circuit, routine or application  can be to call a service personnel, or the like, and can comprise beeps, chimes, flashing displays and\/or indication on a monitor, or other data communications devices, systems or structures, or the like.","The signal from the sensor reading analyzing circuit, routine or application  is also sent, under control of the controller , to the main subsystem shutdown determining circuit, routine or application . The main subsystem shutdown determining circuit, routine or application  determines if the main subsystem should be shutdown in response to the signal received from the sensor reading analyzing circuit, routine or application . If so, the main subsystem shutdown determining circuit, routine or application  shuts down the main system and sends a separate signal, under control of the controller , to the indication determining circuit, routine or application . Upon receiving this second signal from the main subsystem shutdown determining circuit, routine or application , the indication determining circuit, routine or application  indicates the shutdown of the main subsystem accordingly. Each of the signals generated from the sensor reading analyzing circuit, routine or application , the indication determining circuit, routine or application , the main subsystem shutdown determining circuit, routine or application  may be stored in the memory . Further, any signal generated by the input\/output interface  or the controller  may also be stored in the memory .","While  shows a fluid flow sensor analyzing system  as a separate device from the fluid flow subsystem  and the data sink , the fluid flow sensor analyzing system  may be an integrated device. In an integrated configuration, the fluid flow subsystem , the data sink  and the fluid flow sensor analyzing system  may be contained in a single device.","Alternatively, the fluid flow sensor analyzing system  may be a separate device containing the input\/output interface , the controller , the memory , the indication determining circuit, routine or application , the sensor reading analyzing circuit, routine or application , the main subsystem shutdown determining circuit, routine, application . Furthermore, the indication determining circuit, routine or application , the sensor reading analyzing circuit, routine or application , the main subsystem shutdown determining circuit, routine, application  may be integrated.","As shown in , the fluid flow sensor analyzing system  is, in various exemplary embodiments, implemented on a programmed general purpose computer However, the fluid flow sensor analyzing system  can also be implemented on a special purpose computer, a programmed microprocessor or microcontroller and peripheral integrated circuit elements, an ASIC or other integrated circuit, a digital signal processor, a hardwired electronic or logic circuit such as a discrete element circuit, a programmable logic device such as a PLD, PLA, FPGA or PAL, or the like. In general, any device, capable of implementing a finite state machine that is in turn capable of implementing the flowcharts shown in , can be used to implement the fluid flow sensor analyzing system .","It should be understood that each of the circuits shown in  can be implemented as portions of a suitably programmed general purpose computer. Alternatively, each of the circuits shown in  can be implemented as physically distinct hardware circuits within an ASIC, or using a FPGA, a PLD, a PLA or a PAL, or using discrete logic elements or discrete circuit elements. The particular form each of the circuits shown in  will take is a design choice and will be obvious and predicable to those skilled in the art.","While particular embodiments have been described, alternatives, modifications, variations, improvements, and substantial equivalents that are or may be presently unforeseen may arise to applicants or others skilled in the art. Accordingly, the appended claims as filed and as they may be amended are intended to embrace all such alternatives, modifications variations, improvements, and substantial equivalents."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["Various exemplary embodiments of the methods and systems of this invention will be described in detail, with reference to the following figures, wherein:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIGS. 1 and 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":"FIG. 6"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
