---
title: System and method for concept based analysis of unstructured data
abstract: A computer implemented system and method automates analysis and mining of concepts from unstructured data. At least one concept within at least one object is analyzed. Analysis involves: selecting an object for inclusion in an initial set of objects to be analyzed; using an algorithm to extract a concept from the initial set of objects to create an initial set of concepts; refining the concept based upon relationships to other concepts; and performing multi-dimensional analysis on the concept in the initial set of objects to analyze the concept.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07627588&OS=07627588&RS=07627588
owner: Ixreveal, Inc.
number: 07627588
owner_city: Jacksonville
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20031003
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION","I. INVENTION OVERVIEW","II. OBJECT TYPES","Structured, Unstructured and Semi-Structured","III. OBJECTS COMPRISED OF OTHER OBJECTS","IV. EXTRACTING CONCEPTS","V. REFINING CONCEPTS","VI. MULTI-DIMENSIONAL ANALYSIS","VII. WORKING EXAMPLE OF THE PRESENT INVENTION","IX. CONCLUSION"],"p":["This application is a continuation-in-part of U.S. application Ser. No. 10\/087,053, filed Mar. 1, 2002, which claims priority to U.S. Prov. Appl. No. 60\/302,971, filed May 7, 2001, and of U.S. application Ser. No. 10\/393,677, filed Mar. 19, 2003, which claims priority to U.S. Prov. Appl. No. 60\/366,045, filed Mar. 19, 2002, all of which are incorporated herein by reference as if reproduced in full below.","1. Field of the Invention","This invention relates generally to the field of data processing and, more particularly, to the automated analysis and mining of concepts from unstructured data.","2. Related Art","Structured data or objects generally refer to data existing in an organized form, such as a relational database, that can be accessed and analyzed by conventional techniques (i.e. Standard Query Language, SQL). By contrast, so-called unstructured data or objects refer to objects in a textual format (i.e. faxes, e-mails, documents, voice converted to text) that do not necessarily share a common organization. Unstructured information often remains hidden and un-leveraged by an organization primarily because it is hard to access the right information at the right time or to integrate, analyze, or compare multiple items of information as a result of their unstructured nature. There exists a need for a system and method to provide structure for unstructured information such that the unstructured objects can be accessed with powerful conventional tools (such as, for example, SQL, or other information query and\/or analysis tools) and analyzed for hidden trends and patterns across a corpus of unstructured objects.","Conventional systems and methods for accessing unstructured objects have focused on tactical searches that seek to match keywords. These convention systems and methods have several shortcomings. For example, assume a tactical search engine accepts search text. For purposes of illustration, suppose information about insects is desired and the user-entered search text is \u2018bug\u2019. The search engine scans available unstructured objects, including individual objects: In this example, one unstructured object concerns the Volkswagen bug, one is about insects at night, one is about creepy-crawlies, one is about software bugs, and one is about garden bugs. The tactical search engine performs keyword matching, looking for the search text to appear in at least one of the unstructured objects. In this \u2018bug\u2019 example, only those objects about the Volkswagen bug, software bugs, and garden bugs actually contain the word \u2018bug\u2019 and will be returned. The objects about insects at night, and creepy-crawlies may have been relevant to the search but unfortunately were not identified by the conventional tactical search engine.","One conventional method of addressing this problem allows a user to enter detailed searches utilizing phrases or Boolean logic, but successful detailed tactical searches can be extremely difficult to formulate. The user must be sophisticated enough to express their search criteria in terms of Boolean logic. Furthermore, the user needs to know precisely what he or she is searching for, in the exact language that they expect to find it. Thus, there is a need for a search mechanism to more easily locate documents or other objects of interest, preferably searching with the user's own vocabulary. Further, such a mechanism should desirably enable automatically searching related words and phrases, without knowledge of advanced searching techniques.","In another conventional method, the search is done based on meaning, where each of the words or phrases typed is semantically analyzed, as if second guessing the user (for example, use of the term Juvenile picks up teenager). This increases the result set and thus makes analysis of search results even more important. Also, this technique can be inadequate and quite inaccurate when the user is looking for a concept like \u201cdefinition of terrorism\u201d or \u201cdefinition of knowledge management,\u201d where the \u201cconcept\u201d of the phrase is more important than the meaning of the individual words in the search term.","Even when tactical searches succeed in searching or finding information, the problem of analyzing unstructured information still remains. Analyzing unstructured information goes beyond the ability to locate information of interest. Analysis of unstructured information would allow a user to identify trends in unstructured objects as well as to quickly identify the meaning of an unstructured object, without first having to read or review the entire document. Thus, there further exists a need to provide a system and methodology for analyzing unstructured information.","Prior art classification systems exist that can organize unstructured objects in a hierarchical manner. However, utilizing these classification systems to locate an object of interest requires knowing what the high-level of interest would be, and following one path of inquiry often precludes looking at other options.","Some prior art technologies store data and information utilizing proprietary methods and\/or data structures. This prevents widespread or open access or analysis by keeping objects in a native non-standard proprietary format. Thus, there is a need to store captured information about unstructured objects in an open architecture and preferably in a readily accessible standard storage format.","This present invention provides a system and method for transforming an initial set of unstructured and\/or structured information objects into a knowledge discovery platform where actionable intelligence is elucidated and further discovery is made possible. Generally, the present invention provides the ability to link both structured and unstructured information for analysis in order to define new business rules and methods. The complex interactions of an organization at all levels with internal and external clients may be encapsulated for analysis using the methods of the present invention. The integration of all available information sources and business stakeholders results in a more comprehensive analysis of the information sources available to the organization; thus, enhancing decision making. A stakeholder is an entity that interacts with an organization. Stakeholders include people internal and external to the organization as well as electronic devices interacting with the organization.","The present invention transforms currently available unstructured or structured data into a knowledge discovery platform. For example, an important ingredient in capturing the essential information needs of an organization is ongoing feedback received from multiple stakeholders. The ongoing feedback refines concepts leading to improved analysis and output. The knowledge discovery component reveals information gaps that need to be filled as the organization evolves. These continual completions and refinements at multiple points using unbiased integrated structured and unstructured data analytics to reveal information gaps in the method lead to a positive cycle of enhancements.","More specifically, the present invention provides a system and method for transforming an initial set of unstructured and\/or structured information objects into a knowledge discovery platform for actionable intelligence. Furthermore, this knowledge discovery platform provides the architecture for discovering and refining current and novel information by synchronizing information needs with information collection and analysis using integrated unstructured and structured knowledge discovery analytics.","The method of the invention includes identifying an electronic path to at least one object for inclusion in an initial set of objects. This object can be, for example, an electronic file from one or more databases, text, graphic, voice, tactile or taste formats. The method uses at least one application\/algorithm to extract at least one concept in these various formats to form the initial set of objects to create an initial set of concepts. Relationships among these concepts may be determined, verified and refined using references such as thesauri, dictionaries or other industry specific references and by then applying standard natural language processing techniques.","A thorough understanding of a current set of initial concepts is derived using multidimensional analysis. This analysis permits all of the stakeholders to define the boundary of their information needs. Furthermore, multidimensional analysis may discover at least one additional concept to create a second set of concepts. The addition of this discovered concept alters the information needs boundary. The multidimensional analysis and discovery process is then repeated until no additional useful concepts either within or outside of the organization can be found. The method optionally deletes concepts based on multidimensional analysis and discovery.","The perpetual, cyclical feedback of multiple stakeholders interacting to refine concepts through multidimensional analysis and discovery redefines the information needs boundary leading to new and relevant information collection (and optional deletion) to converge on a dynamically changing information boundary as the interactions of the various stakeholders evolve within and outside the organization. It is this comprehensive and complete information collection that permits a comprehensive and complete analysis and output to fulfill the information needs of all stakeholders at all levels both within and outside an organization.","Further embodiments, features, and advantages of the present invention, as well as the structure and operation of the various embodiments of the present invention, are described below with reference to the accompanying drawings.","An advantage of the present invention is that it provides a system and method for tracking and optionally reporting the changing presence of words or phrases in a set of documents over time.","Another advantage of the invention is that it provides a system and method that can recognize relevant relationships between words and concepts, and can identify an object under more than one level of interest. The present invention scans objects for words or phrases and determines the presence of certain patterns that suggest the meaning or theme of a document, allowing for more accurate classification and retrieval.","Yet another advantage of the present invention is that it provides a relational database as a storage format, of which many types are known. Storage in a relational database keeps the information readily available for analysis by common tools. Where access protection is desired, various known security measures may be employed, as are known in the art. The present invention provides a theme or concept-based method and system to analyze, categorize and query unstructured information.","An embodiment of the present invention is now described with reference to the figures, where like reference numbers indicate identical or functionally similar elements. Also in the figures, the left-most digit of each reference number corresponds to the figure in which the reference number is first used. While specific configurations and arrangements are discussed, it should be understood that this is done for illustrative purposes only. A person skilled in the relevant art will recognize that other configurations and arrangements can be used without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. It will be apparent to a person skilled in the relevant art that this invention can also be employed in a variety of other devices and applications such as, but not limited to, financial services, wireless telecommunication services, insurance services, high technology, manufacturing, retail, and consumer products.","Table of Contents","I. Invention Overview","II. Object Types: Structured, Unstructured and Semi-Structured","III. Objects Comprised of Other Objects","IV. Extracting Concepts","V. Refining Concepts","VI. Multi-Dimensional Analysis","VII. Working Example of the Present Invention","VIII. Example Graphical User Interfaces of the Present Invention","IX. Conclusion",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0037","num":"0036"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["102","104","104","106"]},"In step , at least one application\/algorithm is used to extract the at least one concept from the initial set of objects to create an initial set of concepts. Step  is further described with reference to  below. Control then passes to step . In step , the at least one concept is refined based on its relationships to other concepts. Step  is further described with reference to  below. Control then passes to step .","The terms \u201capplication\u201d and \u201calgorithm\u201d are used herein to refer to a method or mathematical algorithm, typically implemented in computer software as a series of logical steps, that performs some function. These functions are generally associated herein with identifying concepts in objects. Example functions include performing speech recognition, identifying features in a graphical image, doing word look-ups in a dictionary or thesaurus, discovering embedded relationships in the words or phrases and the like.","In step , multi-dimensional analysis is performed on the at least one concept present in the initial set of objects. Step  is further described with reference to  below. Control then passes to step . In step , based on step , it is determined (i.e., discovered) whether at least one additional concept exists. Control then passes to step . In step , if an additional concept exists, then control passes back to step  for creation of a second set of concepts. Otherwise, control passes to step .","In step , it is determined (i.e., discovered) whether at least one additional object exists outside the initial set of objects. Here, a second set of objects will be created that includes the at least one additional object and the objects in the initial set of objects. Control then passes to step . In step , if one additional object exists then control passes back to step . Otherwise, control passes to step  where the flowchart in  ends.","As described above in step  of , multi-dimensional analysis is performed on the at least one concept present in the initial set of objects.  is a flowchart that starts from step  and shows the process of generating reports and presenting analysis according to an embodiment of the present invention. As illustrated in , control passes from step  to step . In step , reports are generated based on the multi-dimensional analysis. Control passes then to step . In step , the analysis is presented in a graphical or visual format. Control then passes to step  where the flowchart in  ends.","As described above, step  of  determines whether at least one additional concept exists to create a second set of concepts.  is a flowchart that starts from step  and shows the process of storing and sharing concepts according to an embodiment of the present invention. As illustrated in , control passes from step  to step . In step , the at least one concept is stored in a concept repository. Control then passes to step . In step , the stored concepts are shared with other users. Control then passes to step  where the flowchart in  ends.","Another embodiment of the present invention involving deletion of additional concepts is shown in the flowchart of . Referring to , control passes from step  of  to step . In step , based on step , it is determined whether at least one concept needs to be deleted from the initial set of concepts. Control then passes to step . In step , if at least one concept needs to be deleted, then the concept is deleted from the initial set of concepts to create a second set of concepts. Control then passes to step .","In step , if the at least one additional concept needs to be deleted, then control passes back to step  in . Otherwise, control passes to step . In step , it is determined whether the at least one additional object exists outside the initial set of objects. Here, a second set of objects will be created that includes the at least one additional object and the objects in the initial set of objects. Control then passes to step . In step , if at least one additional object exists, then control passes back to step  in  to include the additional object in the initial set of objects to create a second set of objects. Otherwise, control passes to step  where the flowchart in  ends.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0046","num":"0045"},"figref":["FIG. 10","FIG. 2","FIG. 10","FIG. 2","FIG. 10","FIG. 10"],"b":["210","1002","1002","1004"]},"As described above, an object may be a source of information, such as, for example, a single textual document, an email, a web page, a spreadsheet, or any other container (or containers) of information or concepts that may or may not be formatted. Objects may be classified as three different types including structured, unstructured and semi-structured types.","In an embodiment of the present invention, unstructured data is a collection of free form textual information that may or may not be formatted. This includes, but is not limited to, emails, web pages, documents, spreadsheets, and text columns in any type of database.","In an embodiment of the present invention, structured data is a collection of preclassified and presorted objects that have defined and usually unambiguous relationships to other data in the structured data collection. These objects are usually stored in databases such as relational databases of the type, for example, made by Oracle Corporation of Redwood City, Calif. or Microsoft Corporation of Redmond, Wash.","In an embodiment of the present invention, semi-structured data is either: (1) structured data containing unstructured information such as text columns in a structured data column to capture user comments (At some level these comment columns have a defined relationship to all other data objects. However, an analysis of the contents in this comments column may go through natural language processing techniques to yield relevant and actionable outputs.); or (2) unstructured data may have structured components embedded within it such as tables inside a Microsoft Word document or a largely unstructured object containing some structured components, such as the \u201cTo\u201d, \u201cFrom\u201d, and \u201cSubject\u201d fields of an email.","Objects of the present invention may be comprised of other objects. For example, a corpus may be defined as a collection of objects. The integration of all object types in all domains within varying levels of unstructured and structured components is through the extraction of concepts. An example of linking structured and unstructured components for textual data is to rename the unstructured file with a relevant primary key id (or a combination of relevant keys\/ids) of its corresponding structured component in the database. How the present invention extracts concepts is described next.","As described above in step  of , at least one application\/algorithm is used to extract the at least one concept from the initial set of objects to create an initial set of concepts. Step  is further described with reference to the flowchart in .  illustrates extraction of concepts from a variety of different object types. While the figure is presented in flowchart format, this is done only for convenience of explanation. The illustrated steps may be done in parallel or in any order. Furthermore, some steps may be omitted and\/or other steps added depending on the object types (e.g., textual, graphical, human tactile or other sensory objects) that are present for processing.","The flowchart in  starts at step  where control passes to step . In step , an application programming interface (API) is used to obtain a common format of the at least one object. Control then passes to step . In step , an extraction application\/algorithm is used to obtain a common format of the at least one object. There are commercially available extraction algorithms that operate on different domains that may be used to obtain concepts in a common and analyzable format. Control then passes to step .","In step , an application is used to determine image intensity of the at least one object. Although many other properties of an image may be determined, a common first step to concept extraction usually includes determining the pixel intensity in an image. The properties of a pixel intensity includes color. An example application that can be used to determine image intensity is Adobe Photoshop 7, available from Adobe Systems, Inc., San Jose, Calif. Control then passes to step .","In step , an application is used to determine at least one boundary (an atomic entity) within the at least one object. From this atomic entity, other features of an image may be determined that may lead to concepts such as boundaries among objects within the image as well as their identities. An example application that can be used to determine at least one boundary is MaskWarrior v1.0, available from Imagiam High Image Techs, SL,_Barcelona, Spain. Control then passes to step .","In step , an application is used to map audio waveforms within the at least one object to a text format. There are commercially available applications to record voices and transcribe them to text files for concept extraction. An example application that can be used to transcribe recorded voice information is AudioMining & XML Speech Indexing, available from Scansoft, Inc., Peabody, Mass. Control then passes to step .","In step , an application is used to convert non-textual information within the at least one object into text. An example application for tactile objects that can be used to convert non-textual information into text is ConTacts Discrete Tactile Sensors, available from Pressure Profile Systems, Inc. of Los Angeles, Calif. An example application for olfactory and\/or taste objects that can be used to convert non-textual information into text is AROMATRAX\u00ae, available from Microanalytics of Round Rock, Tex. Control then passes to step  where the flowchart in  ends.","A common theme to each of the applications discussed with respect to  is that the application input may or may not be textual, but the application outputs are in a textual format. Other technologies are available to record objects beyond human perception including, for example, an infra-red optoelectronics temperature sensor having temperature limits to 1100\u00b0 C. such as FiberView 12200 Series from the Williamson Corporation of Concord, Mass. How the present invention refines concepts is described next.","As described above in step  of , at least one concept is refined based on its relationships to other concepts.  each further described step .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0060","num":"0059"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 4"],"b":["402","404","404","406"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0061","num":"0060"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 5"],"b":["502","504","504","506"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0062","num":"0061"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 6"],"b":["602","604","604","606"]},"In step , a relationship of the at least one concept to another concept using a natural language processing (NLP) algorithm is determined. Control then passes to step . In step  a frequency of occurrence of the at least one concept within the initial set of objects is determined. Control then passes to step . In step , a frequency of occurrence of the at least one concept outside the initial set of objects is determined. Control then passes to step .","In step , a normalized frequency of occurrence of the at least one concept within the initial set of objects is determined. Control then passes to step . In step , a normalized frequency of occurrence of the at least one concept outside the initial set of objects is determined. Control then passes to step  where the flowchart in  ends. The multi-dimensional analysis of the present invention is described next.","As described above in step  of , multi-dimensional analysis is performed on the at least one concept present in the initial set of objects. This step includes slicing-and-dicing across at least one dimension of the initial set of objects. Examples of the one dimension include but are not limited to a time dimension, a geographical location dimension, an electronic location dimension, a person dimension, a multiple-person dimension, a business unit dimension, an organization dimension, a process dimension, a product dimension, a service dimension, a subject dimension, a category dimension, a concept dimension, a concept type dimension, a user viewpoint dimension, and an entity dimension in a structured database.","Step  is further described next with reference to .  illustrate steps of performing multi-dimensional analysis in accordance with the present invention. While the figure is presented in flowchart format, this is done only for convenience of explanation. The illustrated steps may be done in parallel or in any order. Furthermore, some steps may be omitted and\/or other steps added. Multi-dimensional analysis (also called on-line analytical processing or OLAP) generally involves drill down, slice and dice and graphical analysis. In drill down, for example, a user can explore a dimension hierarchically, moving from summary-level information to detailed information and back, to gain fast answers to critical business questions. In slice and dice, for example, a user can interactively explore corporate data in any combination of dimensions, from different angles or perspectives. In graphical analysis, for example, a user can choose from a variety of graphical displays\u2014crosstabs, pie charts and a variety of bar charts\u2014to visualize key factors that are driving a business. An embodiment of multi-dimensional analysis is described in further detail in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10\/393,677, filed Mar. 19, 2003, which is incorporated herein by reference as if reproduced in full below.","The flowchart in  starts at step  where control passes to step . In step , the number of objects within the initial set of objects is determined. Control then passes to step . In step , a frequency of occurrence of the at least one concept within the initial set of objects is determined. Control then passes to step . In step , a frequency of occurrence of the at least one concept within a subset of the initial set of objects is determined. Control then passes to step . In step , a frequency of occurrence of the at least one concept within a set outside of the initial set of objects is determined. Control then passes to step .","In step , a normalized frequency of occurrence of the at least one concept within the initial set of objects is determined. Control then passes to step  of . In step , a normalized frequency of occurrence of the at least one concept within a subset of the initial set of objects is determined. Control then passes to step . In step , a normalized frequency of occurrence of the at least one concept outside of the initial set of objects is determined. Control then passes to step .","In step , an electronic path to the location of the at least one object is determined. Control then passes to step . In step , at least one characteristic of the at least one object is determined. Control then passes to step . In step , at least one concept type for the at least one concept within the initial set of objects is determined. Control then passes to step . In step , a number of objects which contain a set of concepts within the initial set of objects is determined. Control then passes to step .","In step , a number of objects which contain a set of concepts within a set outside of the initial set of objects is determined. Control then passes to step . In step , a definition for the at least one concept is determined. Control then passes to step . In step , a position of the at least one concept within each object containing the at least one concept is determined. Control then passes to step  where the flowchart of  ends.","A working example of the present invention is described next. This working example is provided to facilitate the understanding of the present invention and is not meant to limit the scope of the invention.","Assume a Company XYZ manages credit card services for five national retail chains: Retailer A, Retailer B, Retailer C, Retailer D, and Retailer E. As part of this service, XYZ runs customer call centers that receive calls from customers, answer questions, and provide other services. Customer service representatives record the substance of each customer call. The customer call records are then stored as free-form text (a\/k\/a \u201cunstructured data\u201d) in a column in XYZ's customer relationship management database, which also tracks other information related to each call.","Assume XYZ wants to analyze 100,000 customer call records to find ways to improve its business processes. Previously, XYZ analysts had to manually read the records from a randomly selected sample of the calls. However, because of the tremendous volume of calls that its call centers received, the number of calls the group of analysts could read was statistically insignificant. XYZ provides the network address of these text file calls on their isolated local computer drive, a local area network (LAN) or a wide area network (WAN). Furthermore, the location of a related database may be provided as being located on a computer disk drive, a LAN, or a WAN.","Electronic files stored in the database may be one or more of the following types: Program File (*.exe), Text File (*.txt, *.prn, *.csv), Word Document (*.doc), Rich Text Format (*.rtf), Windows Write (*.wri), Word for Macintosh (*.mcw), MS-DOS Text with Layout (*.asc), Text with Layout (*.ans), E-mails (*.eml), Outlook Address Book (*.olk), Personal Address Book (*.pab), WordPerfect file (*.wpd), Schedule+Contact (*.scd), Powerpoint (*.ppt), Harvard Graphics Show (*.sh3), Harvard Graphics Chart (*.ch3), Freelance Windows file (*.pre), Excel File (*.xl*), Adobe Acrobat File (*.pdf), Web Page (*.htm*, *.asp, *.jsp), Query File (*.*qy), Lotus 1-2-3 File (*.wk*), Quattro Pro\/Dos File (*.wq1), Microsoft Works File (*.wks), Works for Window (*.wps), Microsoft Access Files (*.mdb), Dbase Files (*.dbf), SYLK Files (*.slk), Data Interchange Format File (*.dif), Backup File (*.bak), Quattro Pro 1.0\/5.0 (win) (*.wbl), Text Recovered from any File (*.*), Graphic Interchange Format (*.gif), Windows Bitmap (*.bmp), JPEG file interchange format (*.jpg), Tag image file format (*.tif), portable network graphics (*.png), Kodac Photo CD (*.pcd), PC Paintbrush (*.pcx), Raster file (*.ras), Audio File (*.wav, *.snd, *.aif, *.aifc, *.aiff, *.wma, *.mp3), CD Audio Track (*.cda), Media Playlist (*.asx, *.wax, *.m3u, *.wvx), MIDI File (*.mid, *.rmi, *.midi), Movie File (*.mpeg, *.mpg, *.m1v, *.mp2, *.mpa, *.mpe), Video File (*.avi, *.wmv), Windows Media File (*.asf, *.wm, *.wma, *.wmv), and Tactile Sensing File in ASCII, LabView, or MATLAB formats.","These electronic file formats derived from other applications may use known transformation functions to extract concepts. For example, text based formats may use natural language processing and industry or standard references such as thesauri and dictionaries. Graphics based formats may use image segmentation and classification application\/algorithms for concept extraction. Pressure, temperature and other tactile physical sensations such as roughness, smoothness and stickiness are reducible to electronic recordings and can be abstracted as concepts. Voice recordings may also be abstracted as concepts. Olfaction sensor arrays produce recordings that may also be abstracted as concepts. Biochemical assays to determine taste concepts such as sweet, bitter, sour, salty and other differentially identified chemosensory stimuli may also be abstracted as concepts.","It is important to note that these abstracted concepts from all of these varying human perceptions may be stored in textual format, but it is not required. There are some concepts that are imperceptible to the human perception such as gamma rays in the electromagnetic spectrum. Furthermore, it may be important to integrate multiple perceptions simultaneously to fully characterize and remove ambiguity from information such as voice intonation, facial expression and text containing emotion (such as laughter and sarcasm). Consider, for example, the meaning of the sarcastically made statement \u201cYou must be a genius!\u201d. Known applications\/algorithms as previously indicated may extract concepts from all these perceptions beyond and\/or within the boundaries of human perception.","Although the objects and resulting concepts of the present invention may be of any electronic format, the example described herein reduces concepts to textual format for analysis by a natural language processing algorithm. If the common format is a graphical format, then standard segmentation and classification image processing applications\/algorithms apply. This rule similarly applies for other format domains.","The concepts may be refined based upon their relationships to other concepts (step  of ). For example, using natural language processing software, XYZ extracts all of the words within its customer call records. The software automatically ignores commonly-used stop words, such as: \u201cthe\u201d, \u201cif\u201d, \u201cand\u201d, \u201cbut\u201d, \u201cor\u201d, etc. Assume that the words extracted are as follows:","explained, explnd, xplnd, explanation, explain, xpln, expln;","educate, educ, educat, edcate, educt, edu;","reward, rewards, rwrds, rwrd, rewrd, rewrds;","close, cls, clos;","account, acct, accnt, acount, acnt.","The reason for the unfamiliar words in the call records is that the customer service representatives often use a form of short-hand to record the calls. Using an internal company thesaurus or an industry domain expert, XYZ creates the following concepts (step  of  and\/or step  of ):\n\n","The frequency of occurrence of individual child concepts are counted and totaled for its parent concept within the initial set of objects (step  of ). These frequencies of occurrence within the initial set of concepts may also be normalized by document count, hit count, or other standard natural language processing normalization procedures (step  of ).","XYZ then uses an English-language thesaurus to discover that Explain and Educate are synonyms (step  of  and\/or step  of ). Thus, XYZ modifies the definition of Explain so that Educate becomes a child-concept of Explain (similarly, Explain becomes the parent-concept of Educate). That is to say that Explain is now defined as follows:\n\n","The frequency of occurrence of individual child concepts from this combined internal and external reference are counted and totaled for its parent concept within and outside the initial set of objects (step  of ). These frequencies of occurrence outside the initial set of concepts may also be normalized by document count, hit count, or other standard natural language processing normalization procedures (step  of ).","It is the interaction of multiple stakeholders that generate this list of child concepts for a particular parent concept both within and outside of the organization. A multi-user environment is important to maintain this dynamic list as words may be deleted or added to any parent concept with time and events. For example, a new service representative may use \u201cxpn\u201d as a shorthand for \u201cexplain,\u201d or a representative whose employment is terminated may have been the only one who shorthands \u201cexplain\u201d with \u201cxpln\u201d (step  of ). If a concept is deleted, then a second set of concepts is created from the initial set of concepts because relationships among concepts may change as a result of this deletion (step  of ). The multi-dimensional analysis may be repeated to determine what other concepts may be deleted (step  to step  in ).","Furthermore, the business may evolve to have a product named \u201cXPLND,\u201d so further child concept refinement is required to separate documents that refer to the product \u201cXPLND\u201d versus the shorthand for explain \u201cxplnd.\u201d A deletion of a child concept may occur for one parent concept, while a simultaneous creation of a new parent and child concept combination is created (step  of ). Multi-dimensional analysis may be repeated until the information void is filled as a result of the concept deletions (step  to step  of ).","The method discussed thus far in this example confirms information already known by stakeholders. The revelation of the requirement for novel business processes, however, requires performing multi-dimensional analysis on at least one concept present in the initial set of objects (step  of ). An example of multi-dimensional analysis is XYZ performing multi-dimensional analysis on the call records while focusing on the newly defined concepts, as described below:\n\n","At this point, XYZ develops a hypothesis that customer calls seeking an explanation of the Reward Points system could be eliminated if the explanation were provided on their website or as an automatic option on their interactive voice response (IVR) system. This would save XYZ money because the number of calls that required human interaction would be reduced and they could hire fewer customer service representatives.","XYZ again performs multi-dimensional analysis on the call records (this time focusing on the newly defined concept Explain_Reward_Points). Using summarization, XYZ concludes that Explain_Reward_Points occurred in five percent (5%) of the call records analyzed, or 5,000 call records.","However, XYZ also realizes that customers call for multiple reasons. Thus, call records containing Explain_Reward_Points may not necessarily be eliminated by offering an explanation if the customer also called for another reason (to close his or her account for example). This example involves an increasingly complex and expanding set of objects, along with their resulting concepts and nested concept relationships. However, discovered concepts may also be single objects.","To that end, XYZ again performs multi-dimensional analysis on the call records (this time focusing on the newly defined concepts Explain_Reward_Points and Close_Account). Using relationship discovery, XYZ discovers that ten percent (10%) of the time that Explain_Reward_Points occurred, Close_Account occurred within the same call record. This time, XYZ creates a new concept called Explain_Reward_Points_w\/o_Close_Account, which occurs whenever Explain_Reward_Points occurs and Close_Account DID NOT occur within the same document.","XYZ once again performs multi-dimensional analysis on the call records (this time focusing on the newly defined concept Explain_Reward_Points_w\/o_Close_Account). Using summarization, XYZ concluded that Explain_Reward_Points_w\/o_Close_Account occurred in four and one-half percent (4.5%) of the call records analyzed, or 4,500 call records.","Next, XYZ wants to determine which retail chains were generating the most calls seeking an explanation of the Reward Points system. The retail chain that generated each call is stored in the \u201cRetailer\u201d column of structured data in XYZ's customer relationship management database. XYZ created five new concepts to identify which retailer is generating a call:\n\n","XYZ then creates a new concept type called Retailer.","XYZ once again performs multi-dimensional analysis on the call records (this time focusing on the concept Explain_Reward_Points_w\/o_Close_Account; the concept type Retailer; and all of its associated concepts: Retailer_A, Retailer_B, Retailer_C, Retailer_D, & Retailer_E). XYZ is able to slice-and-dice the call records containing Explain_Reward_Points_w\/o_Close_Account and thus view them by retailer as a report of the resulting analysis (step  of ). Then, using data visualization, XYZ is able to easily see that the vast majority (75%) of customer calls which were only related to an explanation of the Reward Points system came from Retailer C (step  of ) as shown in .","After these iterations with multi-dimensional analysis, it is determined that no further concept exists that is relevant to the information needs of this analyst at this particular time (step  to step  in ).","Although no further concepts from the initial set of concepts exist, the resulting outputs lead the analyst to seek additional objects to create a second set of objects as part of fulfilling and completing the information exploration and determining\/recommending corrective action(s) (step  of ). If new and relevant information objects are found, then the method repeats (step  to step  in ). For example, upon investigation, XYZ discovers that Retailer C was the only retailer that did not have an explanation of the Reward Points system on its website or as an automated option on their interactive voice response (IVR) system. XYZ can quickly remedy the situation, reducing its total call volume and cutting costs.","This example ends when the information needs are satisfied and\/or no more objects or concepts exist or can reasonably be discovered (step  of ).","The resulting exploration of relevant objects and concepts creates at least one concept that can be stored in a concept repository (step  of ). The initial set of concepts may also be stored in a concept repository during refinement. These concept repositories may have read, write and delete permission for sharing with other users to permit concept relevancy refinement and to identify the information needs boundary within and outside of an organization (step  of ). Users may simultaneously access and refine predefined sets of concepts relevant to different goals of an organization such as product development, revenue enhancement, cost reduction, competitor intelligence, and recruitment.","Furthermore, as concepts and objects are refined new business rules are created and used in transformation of other new and pre-existing objects or data into a datastore (step  of ).","Example Graphical User Interfaces (GUI) of the Present Invention",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0105","num":"0118"},"figref":"FIG. 11","b":["1102","1104","1106"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0106","num":"0119"},"figref":["FIG. 12","FIG. 12"],"b":["1202","1204","1202"]},"After refining parent and child concepts, an analysis of the highest frequency parent concepts may be determined. An examination of these parent concept frequencies leads to a set of high yield parent concepts that should be further analyzed. These concepts are labeled as concept type \u201cp\u201d for primary call reason and are illustrated in the GUI of .  illustrates a \u201csuggested concepts to analyze\u201d menu , a \u201cselected concepts to analyze\u201d menu , a frequency of occurrence menu  and a hits menu .","Menu  shows the \u201cp\u201d parent concepts that are suggested concepts to analyze. The selected concepts undergoing analysis is shown in menu . Menu  shows the results of the analysis as \u201cp\u201d parent concepts in columns, and the documents where their associated child concepts may be found in the rows, with their intersection showing frequency of occurrence. Analyzing this output is part of the multi-dimensional analysis of drill down as more complex concepts are discovered. For example, in the first row of menu , \u201cp fee waivers\u201d and \u201cp late fee\u201d occur together for object 36938.txt. There may be cause to examine the combination of these concepts as a newly discovered concept of \u201cp fee waivers\u201d within 5 words of \u201cp late fee\u201d within objects as an example relationship. The underlined objects are links to the original object that can be verified for the existence of this complex relationship in menu .","Concept type \u201cP\u201d represents the possible problems of calls leading to business expenses that the organization would like to minimize to improve revenue and profit. In general, concepts types relate to aspects or dimensions within business processes such as products, components, services, actions taken, processes within and outside the company, symptoms, suppliers, or any combination of the above. Concept types primarily clarify an analysis for the user. Thus, concept types facilitate knowledge discovery and lead to new actionable insights.","An example of how \u201cp\u201d type concepts are chosen for further analysis is shown in a graph  of . The abscissa is the quantified cost of a call related to the p parent type derived from the analysis. The ordinate is the p parent type representing a ranked list by frequency of occurrence of child concepts for their respective parent concepts with the highest occurrence at the bottom of the graph. A client\/domain expert is involved in examining the primary call reasons and their quantified costs. Those reasons unknown to the client\/domain expert with high business value (cost) are chosen for further analysis. In this example, \u201cp payment\u201d, \u201cp late fee\u201d, \u201cp fee waivers\u201d, and \u201cp close\u201d were expected to be primary call reasons and as such did not surprise the client\/domain expert. However, \u201cp inquiry\u201d, \u201cp explanation\u201d, \u201cp advise\u201d and \u201cp verification\u201d were not expected, so a further analysis may be desired.","Multi-dimensional analysis may be performed on \u201cp inquiry\u201d, \u201cp explanation\u201d, \u201cp advise\u201d and \u201cp verification\u201d (Exp-Ver-Inq-Adv analysis), as shown in a menu  of . Merely by way of example, the first step is to create folders using the child concepts for these p parent concepts of menu  (). This example should not unduly limit the scope of the claims herein. One of ordinary skill in the art would recognize many variations, alternatives, and modifications. As another example, folders need not be created but it may be possible to slice and dice across one concept or concept type. The objects are then scored and classified based on the best match using standard natural language processing applications\/algorithms shown in menu . Those objects that best matched one p parent concept over another were sorted into their respective folders.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0112","num":"0125"},"figref":["FIG. 16","FIG. 17"],"b":["1606","1702"]},"The previous analyses lead to more complex p parent concept combinations as shown in a graph  of . Here, the abscissa is the call center cost per year, while the ordinate represents the combined p parent concepts based on a given relationship. The circled \u201cp verification p options R\u201d label represents a non-obvious, complex concept with a high cost that makes it a candidate for further analysis.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0114","num":"0127"},"figref":["FIG. 19","FIG. 18","FIG. 18"],"b":["1902","1","1802","1902","1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0115","num":"0128"},"figref":["FIG. 20","FIG. 11"],"b":["2002","1106"]},"The most interesting concepts may be analyzed on a client-by-client basis by examining their frequency of occurrence. This is illustrated in  by a menu . In menu , the columns hold the complex compound concepts (e.g., \u201cP Verification P Options R\u201d and \u201cP Verification P Payment P Options R\u201d) with a given relationship, while the rows represent the different clients (e.g., Alpha, Epsilon and Gamma). The scores can be normalized, be represented as a percentage of total calls, or be used with other normalization algorithms.","The analysis from  may be visualized as part of a multidimensional analysis as illustrated in a bar graph  in . This graph compares the percent of total client calls received by an individual client (e.g., Alpha, Epsilon, and Gamma) for the complex concept \u201cp verification p payment p options\u201d to the total client calls received by all clients for this concept.","The absolute cost of these calls are shown in graph  of , where these same three clients (i.e., Alpha, Epsilon, and Gamma) are examined with respect to absolute cost on the ordinate for the complex concepts \u201cp verification p payment p options.\u201d","Embodiments of the method of the present invention can be performed using a computer software system of the type sold by Intelligenxia, Inc. of Jacksonville, Fla. The Intelligenxia system is described, in part, in the above-referenced U.S. patent applications. Modifications and extensions to the Intelligenxia system necessary to implement the present invention will be apparent to a person skilled in the art based on the disclosure set forth herein.","While exemplary embodiments of the present invention have been described above, it should be understood that these embodiments have been presented by way of example only, and are not meant to limit the scope of the invention. It will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes in form and detail may be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined in the appended claims. Thus, the breadth and scope of the present invention should not be limited by the above-described exemplary embodiments, but should be defined only in accordance with the following claims and their equivalents. Each document cited herein is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE FIGURES","p":["These and other features of the invention are more fully described below in the detailed description and accompanying drawings.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":"FIGS. 7A and 7B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":"FIG. 9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":"FIG. 10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"figref":"FIGS. 11-23"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0034"},"figref":"FIG. 24"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
