---
title: Porous thin film time-varying reflectivity analysis of samples
abstract: A method for analyzing gaseous or liquid samples is provided. Samples are interacted with pores of a porous thin film. A time-varying response of reflectivity is obtained from the surface of the porous thin film during the interaction. One or more analytes forming the sample or a part of the sample are identified based upon the time-varying response.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07042570&OS=07042570&RS=07042570
owner: The Regents of the University of California
number: 07042570
owner_city: Oakland
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20030109
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["RELATED APPLICATION REFERENCE AND PRIORITY CLAIM","STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENT INTEREST","FIELD OF THE INVENTION","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS"],"p":["This application claims priority of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60\/351,993, filed Jan. 25, 2002, under 35 U.S.C. \u00a7 119.","This invention was made with Government assistance under NSF Grant No. DMR-9700202 and DARPA (SPAWAR) Grant No. N66001-98-C-8514. The Government has certain rights in this invention.","A field of the invention is sample analysis. The invention concerns other more particular fields, including but not limited to, solid state sensors, molecular identification, image analysis, and detection of gases and liquids, e.g., toxic gases, solvents, nucleic acids, and proteins.","Sample identification is important to many commercial industries. The ability to quickly, cheaply, and accurately determine an unknown sample is important in diverse applications ranging from drug discovery to alarm systems. Scientific researchers also make use of sample analysis, for example to conduct genetic research, analyze pollutants in the atmosphere and to monitor processes, such as vapor deposition processes. Scientific researchers and commercial industries continue to find needs for sample identification and analysis.","The intensity of a porous thin film's, e.g., porous silicon, visible photoluminescence changes depending upon the types of gases absorbed to its surface. This phenomenon constitutes the basis for a simple and inexpensive chemical sensor device (See, U.S. Pat. No. 5,338,415). Methods exist to chemically alter porous silicon's surface, and porous silicon can be tuned to be sensitive for specific gases and liquids. Also see, e.g., \u201cInvestigation of Porous Si for Vapor Sensing\u201d Anderson, R. C.; Muller, R. S.; Tobias, C. W., Sensors and Actuators 1990, A21-A23, 835-839; \u201cPorous Silicon as a Material in Microsensor Technology\u201d Barret, S.; Gaspard, F.; Herino, R.; Ligeon, M.; Muller, F.; Ronga, I. Sensors and Actuators A 1992, 33, 19-24; and \u201cProton Gated Emission from Porous Silicon\u201d Chun, J. K. M.; Bocarsly, A. B.; Cottrell, T. R.; Benziger, J. B.; Yee, J. C. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1993, 115, 3024-3025. Porous silicon thin film's, e.g., porous silicon, insulator and semiconductor films, can be fabricated to display well-resolved Fabry-P\u00e9rot fringes in their luminescence and reflection spectra. Such interference-based spectra are sensitive to gases or liquids adsorbed to the inner surfaces of the porous Si layer. U.S. Pat. No. 5,318,676 uses the interference based spectra to identify adsorbed individual gases or liquids. U.S. Pat. No. 6,248,539 used a binder to bind analytes in pores and then identify the analytes by detecting a shift in the reflection spectra.","There continues to be a need for fast, sensitive and inexpensive sample analysis devices. A particular need exists for devices capable of detecting constituents in liquid and gas mixtures.","A method for analyzing gaseous or liquid samples is provided. Samples are interacted with pores of a porous thin film. A time-varying response of reflectivity is obtained from the surface of the porous thin film during the interaction. One or more analytes forming the sample or a part of the sample are identified based upon the time-varying response.","The invention is directed to the use of a porous thin film to obtain time-resolved reflectivity data and use the data to analyze a sample that is interacted with the porous thin film. The sample may be a liquid or a gas. The porous thin film is structured to have a pore size and thickness that will cause a liquid sample to diffuse in a characteristic manner that can be identified through reflectivity data obtained from the porous thin film. Thin porous films may also be tailored such that a gas sample will similarly condense in a characteristic manner that can be identified through time dependent reflectivity data obtained from the porous thin film. The data is obtained over time, i.e., at multiple times or continuously over a time period, during a period when reflectivity is changing. This occurs, for example, when a sample is first brought into contact with the porous thin film and prior to a time when the reflectivity reaches a steady state. If reflectivity is in a steady state, a state for obtaining the necessary time-varying data can be induced. It can be induced, for example, if the temperature of the porous thin film is intentionally changed. Mixture compositions having multiple analytes may be analyzed with embodiments of the invention. Pressure changes in a gas being monitored with a device of the invention may also be detected, as pressure change induces a change in reflectivity from a steady state.","Preferred embodiment sample analysis devices of the invention include a porous film, a chamber, an illumination source, a light sensor, and a controller. An analysis by a device of the invention or using the method of the invention may be conducted in real time at room temperature. Devices of the invention may be portable, and constructed from inexpensive components, e.g., porous silicon thin films, glass chambers, a tungsten lamp or LED and a CCD (charge-coupled device) or phototransistor sensor. Accordingly, the invention may be used in controlled settings, such as laboratories, as well as in field settings, such as in an industrial settings and even military settings. Reflectivity spectra may be in the visible range and beyond, e.g., near infrared. This permits illumination and sensing through media that may be a barrier in the visible range. The invention accordingly has a diverse range of applicability. Example applications include identification of biological molecules, e.g., nucleic acids and proteins, and the detection of gases, e.g., dangerous gases in an industrial setting. Other applications include detection of warfare agents and industrial solvents or fuels. Preferred embodiments of the invention use porous silicon thin films. Porous silicon is a high surface area network of silicon nanocrystallites. It can be synthesized directly from the same type of inexpensive silicon wafers that are used in the fabrication of microchips. Its open porosity and its high surface area make it an ideal adsorbent for a variety of molecules. Porous silicon films can be prepared with pore sizes ranging from a few nanometers to several microns in diameter to allow detection of a range of analytes from small molecules to whole cells. This forms the basis for a simple and sensitive analysis device suitable for the aforementioned applications and for others such as biological molecule sensing, gene sequencing, pathogen detection, etc.","The invention will now be illustrated with respect to preferred embodiments and experimental data. In describing the invention, particular exemplary devices, formation processes, and device applications will be used for purposes of illustration. The particular embodiments and data will be understood by artisans to illustrate broader aspects of the invention, and not to limit the invention to the preferred embodiments.","Referring now to , a preferred embodiment sample analysis device  is shown. The device includes a porous thin film  enclosed in a sample chamber . The chamber  provides a sealed and controlled environment for analysis. Its construction may vary depending on the setting in which it will be employed, to include, for example, means such as insulation to provide isolation from an external environment. The porous thin film  is structured to be stable in the presence of a type of sample to be analyzed, i.e., particular gases or liquids of interest, and to produce time-varying reflectivity at an illumination wavelength as a gas condenses or a liquid diffuses in the pores of the porous thin film . The porous thin film  may be formed in or on any suitable substrate. A sample introduced into the chamber  through an inlet  interacts with the pores of the porous thin film . As the interaction proceeds, time-varying reflectivity data can be obtained by a light sensor  disposed to detect reflections caused by an illumination source . The light sensor  and illumination source  may optically communicate with a surface of the porous thin film  via optical fibers . The light sensor  and illumination source may be within or outside of the chamber , so long as an optical path to the porous thin film is provided. Certain types of illumination sources, e.g. semi-conductor lasers, LEDs, etc., are more suitable for a solid state within-chamber arrangement, while others, e.g., a tungsten lamp, are more suited for an outside chamber arrangement.","The light sensor  and illumination source  are controlled by a controller  to cause the light sensor  to acquire measured time-varying reflection data from the surface of the porous thin film . The controller  may acquire the measured time-varying data, and may also control environmental conditions within the chamber . For example, the controller  might control the inlet  and an outlet . The controller  may also control a pressure pump , a heater , and\/or an electrical stimulator  (which can act as a heater). The pressure pump , heater  or electrical stimulator  may be used by the controller  to induce a time dependent reflectivity response from a sample resident in the chamber  that has been adsorbed into pores in the porous thin film . This is useful, for example, to disturb a steady state reached by the sample wherein there would not be a time dependency in measured reflectivity data. In some cases there will be no need for a chamber to create a controlled environment, and the porous thin film  can be exposed directly to a sample environment. For example, if the time-varying signal is to be induced by a temperature change (e.g., a heater such as the electrical stimulator  attached to the porous thin film), then the sample can be outside of a chamber.","The inlet  is controlled by the controller  to introduce samples, for example. Similarly, the outlet  may be used to evacuate samples, as the interaction of a sample with the pores of the porous thin film  may be reversed. The inlet  and outlet  may be controlled to act in an automated cycle. This may be useful, for example, when the invention is applied to an alarm system, such as a system used to take air samples and initiate an alarm upon detection of a warfare agent, pollutant, toxic gas, or unwanted contaminant in an industrial process. The controller  might alternatively comprise part of a laboratory computer or be realized by software in a larger process. The controller  might also be a set of signals from other devices, such as a wide scale control system. Detection and analysis may also be initiated by process control software or operator control to conduct a test, such as in a laboratory setting to analyze biological samples or chemical samples, as in drug and biological research. As an additional example, the controller  might be realized by signaling and data communication through an interface, such as a short range wireless interface, e.g., bluetooth. The controller, upon making a fit to characteristic data, may produce a signal indicating identification of a sample or an analyte of the sample. For example, an alarm signal could be produced and communicated to another device. Additional example signals include signals used to control or initiate control of another process, or signals used to increment a quantity in memory being used to track detection events.","The controller  includes or accesses memory  to store measured data, and also to store characteristic data for sample identification. The characteristic data is predetermined to permit identification of analytes of a sample type of interest. The characteristic data may be obtained, for example, experimentally for a class of samples to be analyzed. The characteristic data is representative of time progressive condensation (in the case of a gas) or diffusion (in the case of a liquid) in the pores of the porous thin film . The characteristic data is dependent upon the pore size structure and depth, and the rate of condensation of diffusion. The characteristic data permits a fit of measured time-varying reflectivity data from the porous thin film as a sample interacts. A fit of the measured time-varying reflectivity data identifies one or more analytes in the sample being analyzed.","In the case where the porous thin film  is a single layer, e.g., a single layer of porous silicon, the relationship between wavelength and intensity of the interference spectrum in reflectivity data follows the Fabry-P\u00e9rot interference relationship:\n\n\u2003\u2003(1)\n","where \u03bb is the wavelength, \u03bc the refractive index of the porous thin film, n an integer and L the film thickness. The interference fringes depend on porosity and thickness of the porous thin film  and on the average refractive index in the pores. The interference fringes shift when the index of refraction of the material changes. Thus, the reflectance spectrum is a sensitive indicator of any molecules that are condensed in the pores. For a given gas, there is a correlation between the pressure and the shift in the fringes. This mechanism is thus reversible versus the pressure and reproducible.","The time response of the porous thin film sensor  is fairly considered (wavelength shift of the fringes) to be exponential versus time. Simple fits of the data provide the time constants of condensation or evaporation of gases in the porous structure, which have been found to differ from one compound to another. When the device  is exposed to a mixture, the time response becomes multiexponential and the fits give the different time constants of the different constituents. This effect provides a new, easy, rapid and cheap tool for analyzing the composition of gas mixtures. The time variance can be induced by a number of phenomena, such as a pressure pulse, which has been generated by a pump in experiments, and can also be realized by a pulsed heat on the sample by laser irradiation, or by a pulsed voltage applied from one part of the structure to the other, etc. The time response can be measured in many ways, including the exponential fit mentioned above, by time-domain Fourier-transform or by AC frequency analysis methods.","The porous thin film  may also comprise a multilayer thin film, such as a porous silicon Bragg reflector. In the case of a Bragg reflector embodiment, the presence of a sample in the pores similarly modifies the average refractive index of the film , and a shift of the Bragg peak may be sensed and can be fit to predetermined characteristic data to identify a analyte forming a sample or a part of a sample.","The porous thin film  has nanometer scale pores that are small enough to reflect a light wavelength used for illumination of its surface, and may be tailored to suit particular applications of the invention. In accordance with the invention, the pores in the nano-pore structure of the porous thin film  act both as separation columns and detectors. Various types of thin films may be used, including for example various porous semiconductor and insulator thin films, with porous silicon representing a preferred embodiment thin film. Certain porous thin films may be suitable for detection of particular gases and liquids and unsuitable for detection of others. Suitability is easily determined by testing the films with the type of gas or liquid to be detected.","Porous Thin Film Preparation and Treatment Method","When silicon is electrochemically corroded in solutions containing hydrofluoric acid, a porous structure results. The pores propagate primarily in the <100> direction of the crystal, and depending on the electrochemical current, the electrolyte composition, and the dopant characteristics of the wafer, the average diameter of the pores can be tuned from a few nanometers to several microns.","Porous silicon samples may be prepared by an electrochemical etch of silicon. A suitable etching solution is prepared by adding an equal volume of pure ethanol to an aqueous solution of HF (48% by weight). Silicon wafers may be cut to size and have specific portions exposed for etching. Electrical contact is made to the wafer to create etching current of sufficient density. To a first approximation, the etching time will determine the thickness of the porous thin film, while the current density controls pore size. Bragg reflectors are produced by modulating the current density periodically during the etch. After etching, porous thin films are rinsed. Porous thin films are preferably oxidized or otherwise chemically modified in an environment selected to immunize the films from being reactive to the types of sample to be tested.","Data Analysis Methods and Experimental Data","Example embodiments of the invention will now be discussed along with experimental data relating to the same. Included in the discussion are preferred embodiments of data analysis methods used by the controller  to fit measured data to predetermined characteristic data and to develop characteristic data to be used by the controller . Specifications regarding the experimental equipment, measurement techniques and preparation techniques are given primarily so that the obtained experimental data may be fully understood by artisans. Commercial embodiment devices of the invention may take substantially different form, permitting low cost mass manufacturing, for example.","Spectral Measurement","To measure optical interference spectra, we have used an Ocean Optics CCD photodetector, fitted with a fiber optic and lenses to allow detection from small (<1 mm) sample areas. We used a tungsten lamp as an illumination source. The samples have been mounted in a Schlenk line connected to a solvent reservoir and a Baratron pressure gauge. The porous thin films present relatively long time constants of condensation for gases and diffusion times for liquids. Until an adsorption limit is reached, time dependent reflectivity data may be obtained. The time resolution of the experimental setup is 122 ms (22 ms for the acquisition of one reflectivity spectrum, 100 ms of delay between two successive acquisitions), which is sufficiently lower than the time constants measured (s range).","Porous silicon samples were electrochemically etched from monocrystalline p-type silicon substrates (boron-doped, \u02dc0.001 Xcm, (100) oriented, from Siltronix Inc.), at a current density of 50 mA\/cm, in a 3:1 v\/v mixture of aqueous HF (49% hydrofluoric acid) and ethanol. The samples were oxidized in a stream of ozone for 20 minutes prior to mounting in a gas exposure chamber. Fourier transform infrared (FTIR) spectra show that this treatment removes the initial silicon hydride coverage (Si\u2550Hx, with x=1,2,3, stretching bands around 2100 cm\u00b11) and forms silicon oxide (Si\u2550O\u2550Si vibrational band around 1100 cm\u00b11) and some silanol groups (Si\u2550OH vibrational band around 3500 cm\u00b11). This oxidation technique was chosen because of its ability to generate a stable surface. Ozone-oxidized porous silicon samples are stable in air and on exposure to alcohols, esters, ketones and aromatics in both liquid and gas phase. All the experiments we conducted were reversible, indicating that no chemical reaction between the porous thin film and the adsorbed molecules occurs.","After preparation, the porous silicon samples were mounted in a glass chamber connected to the manifold of a Schlenk line that also had a flask of freeze\/pump\/thaw degassed solvent, a vacuum pump (Leybold Trivac), and a pressure gauge (MKS Baratron) attached. Reflectivity spectra were acquired through the glass window of the sample chamber with a bifurcated optic fiber connected on one end to a tungsten lamp and on the other end to the charge coupled device (CCD) spectrometer. Both illumination of the surface and detection of the reflected light were performed along an axis orthogonal to sample surface.","The typical porous Si thin films used in our experiments had a thickness about 35 \u03bcm (measured by profilometry, Dektak II Veeco Sloan Technology), a porosity of about 50% (deduced from the Bruggeman formula) and a refractive index about 1.4 (deduced from the Fourier transform of the reflectivity spectra).","Time-resolved reflectivity experimental data is reflectivity spectra versus time, triggered by a sudden jump in pressure upon analyte introduction, measured with the pressure gauge. The Schlenk line was evacuated to 5 mtorr, and the valve of the degassed solvent flask was then opened. The time necessary to move from the 5 mtorr base pressure to the vapor pressure of the solvent in the flask was found to be between 3 and 6 s. Acquisition of the reflectivity spectra versus time was initiated 2\u00b11 s after the pressure gauge indicated that the pressure was at steady state. All the experiments were performed at room temperature.","Under normal incidence, the constructive interference condition between two waves reflected in a thin film is given by the interference relationship:\n\n21\u2003\u2003(1)\n\nwhere m is the spectral order of the fringe, \u03bb the wavelength, n the refractive index of the film, and 1 its thickness. Since m is an integer, and since 1 is constant for a given film, the derivative of Equation 1 is given by:\n\n21\u2003\u2003(2)\n","Any modification of the refractive index n will then induce a proportional modification of the interference fringe position \u03bb. When a porous Si film is exposed to analytes in the gas phase, capillary condensation induces an increase of its effective refractive index by replacement of a fraction of air (n=1) by a fraction of liquid (n>1). The position of one fringe was monitored as a function of time after a pulse of analyte vapor was introduced into the sample chamber. Since the data were recorded after the pressure of analyte in the system was at steady state, only diffusion and capillary condensation effects within the porous silicon films determine the temporal response of the data.","The time-resolved reflectivity spectra of the same porous silicon film after a pulse of pure acetone and pure ethanol are presented in FIG. A. Specifically,  is a linear plot of (\u03bb\u2212\u03bb) versus time, where \u03bb, is the wavelength of the maximum of an optical fringe at time t and \u03bbis the wavelength of the fringe maximum at t=0 (before introduction of analyte, approximately 860 nm for all the experiments reported here). The three traces correspond to data for acetone vapor (O), etahol vapor (\u0394), and the vapor from a 1:1 (v\/v) mixture of acetone\/ethanol. The time origin is the time at which the pressure in the Schlenk line reached a stable value. The three spectra were recorded at room temperature on the same porous silicon sample (porosity of 50% and thickness of 35 \u03bcm). Markers correspond to experimental points. Dotted lines correspond to single exponential fits. If \u03bb is the position of the fringe at time t, then \u03bb(t)=a+b exp(\u2212t\/r), where r is the effective time constant for condensation, a and b are parameters determined by the position of the fringe at t=0 (\u03bb) and at t=equilibrium (\u03bb): a=\u03bband b=\u03bb\u2212\u03bb. The values of the parameters are summarized in Table 1.  is a plot of (\u03bb(t)\u2212a)\/b=exp(\u2212t\/r). The reflectivity signal reaches steady state a few tens of seconds after the pressure in the system reaches equilibrium. It should be stressed that ethanol and acetone have the same refractive index (n=1.36), but that they have different vapor pressures, 50 torr and 190 torr, respectively. The time required for the system to reach equilibrium is about 10 s for acetone, which has a high vapor pressure, and about 20 s for ethanol, which has a lower vapor pressure. The total amplitude of the red shift in the spectral fringe depends only on the liquid fraction condensed in the sample, since the two compounds have the same refractive index. It is larger for acetone (51\u00b13 nm) than for ethanol (37\u00b13 nm), indicating that more acetone condenses in the pores of these particular samples than does ethanol.","An effective condensation time, s, is defined as the value of the inverse of the slope of a single exponential fit of the wave-length versus time plot. The fits are shown for ethanol and acetone in . The values of s for ethanol and acetone extracted from the fits are 13\u00b12 s and 5\u00b11 s, respectively, demonstrating that the condensation dynamics are different for the two solvents.","The same experiment was performed on the same interferometer (in the same position with respect to the detection optics) but with a 1:1 by volume mixture of acetone and ethanol. The pressure of the ethanol\/acetone mixture is 120 torr at 20\u00b0 C., corresponding to the average of the vapor pressures of the two pure compounds (Raoult's law). The time required to reach equilibrium is about 20 s () and corresponds to the time required by the compound with the larger condensation time (ethanol) to diffuse and condense in the porous film. The amplitude of the red shift induced by the mixture (47\u00b13 nm) is intermediate between the shifts induced by the pure compounds (51\u00b13 nm for acetone and 37\u00b13 nm for ethanol), indicating that the filling fraction follows the vapor pressure. A single exponential fit of the time resolved reflectivity spectrum of the mixture leads to a time of condensation of 9\u00b12 s, which is the average of the times of condensation obtained for the pure compounds (these values are summarized in Table 1). A double exponential fit of the time-resolved reflectivity spectrum of the condensation of the mixture gives two different times of condensation: 6\u00b11 s and 12\u00b12 s.","Table 1 lists values of the parameters \u03bb\u2212\u03bband r for the condensation of acetone, ethanol, and of a mixture 1:1 v\/v of acetone and ethanol, deduced from the single exponential fits presented in .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0039","num":"0038"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00001","num":"00001"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"4"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"49pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"98pt","align":"center"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":[{},"TABLE 1"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"Effective time constant"]},{"entry":[{},"Analytes","\u03bb\u2212 \u03bb[nm]","for condensation, r[s]"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"acetone","51 \u00b1 3","5 \u00b1 1"]},{"entry":[{},"ethanol","37 \u00b1 3","13 \u00b1 2\u2002"]},{"entry":[{},"mixture 1:1","47 \u00b1 3","9 \u00b1 2"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}}}}},"For a particular porous thin film to be used in a device  of the invention, such testing can produce the characteristic data and the data in the table are a form of characteristic data. These values closely match those obtained for the pure compounds (5\u00b11 s and 13\u00b12 s for acetone and ethanol, respectively). The error limits represent the spread of the data obtained by repeating the experiments three times for each analyte. Because the two time constants differ only by a factor of 2, the single exponential curve provides an adequate fit to the time resolved reflectivity spectrum of the mixture. Nevertheless, the correlation factor is improved by 5% when using a double exponential fit. The results demonstrate that time-resolved reflectivity constitutes a tool to identify solvents and also to analyze binary mixtures, in a process which is analogous to the gas chromatography technique, but with significantly lower resolution.","The behavior of the condensation times with the physical properties of the porous silicon thin films was also investigated.  shows the condensation times of ethanol deduced from exponential fits of the time resolved reflectivity spectra for four porous silicon films with different thicknesses. Specifically,  plots the time of condensation of ethanol in the pores, deduced from exponential fits as described in , versus thickness of the porous silicon film, measured by profilometry. The four samples were etched from the same silicon substrate in a solution of saturated (49%) aqueous HF\/ethanol 3:1 (v\/v) with a current density of 50 mA\/cmand then oxidized by a 20 min ozone treatment. Markers represent the experimental points with their error bars and the dotted line is included as a guide to the eye. All the porous silicon samples were prepared and oxidized under the same conditions, except for the duration of the etch which was varied from 6 min to 18 min. Thus, the samples had the same porosity, but different thicknesses, ranging from 18 to 41 \u03bcm (measured by profilometry). As can be seen in , the condensation time(s) of ethanol increases with film thickness. Such behavior is in qualitative agreement with Fick's law of gas diffusion, which stipulates that the longer the distance, the longer the time of diffusion (mean displacement R is proportional to the square root of the time t: R=(2D t)\u00bd, with D being the diffusion coefficient).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0042","num":"0041"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 4","FIGS. 2A and 2B","FIG. 4"],"sup":"2"},"Time-resolved reflectivity thus constitutes a fast and inexpensive tool to identifying vapors in porous thin films. The components of a binary mixture can be separated temporally in the porous film  in a process that is analogous to gas chromatography, where different chemical compounds, with different physical properties and different affinities for the surface of the column are separated by their transit times through the column. Unlike chromatography, the porous thin film  plays a dual role of separation column and detector. The behavior of the condensation time of a pure compound versus the physical properties of the porous thin film  (like thickness and porosity) qualitatively follows the gas diffusion laws. The pore size, length, and surface derivatization of the porous thin film may be adjusted to optimize specificity. Embodiments of the invention are expected to be especially useful for biological and chemical sensing.","The open pore structure and large specific surface area (a few hundred mper cm, corresponding to about a thousand times the surface of the polished silicon wafer) make porous silicon thin films employed in embodiments of the invention a convenient material for sensitive detection of liquid and gaseous analytes. The ability to electrochemically tune the pore diameters and to chemically modify the surface provides control over the size and type of molecules adsorbed. These properties may be exploited for time resolved reflectivity detection of toxic gases, volatile organic compounds, explosives, DNA, and proteins.","The porous layers generated in the electrochemical etch can be quite smooth, to the extent that the optical interferometers, Bragg filters, and a variety of other high quality optical structures can be generated. The determining physical parameter for reflectivity-based sensor devices is the optical thickness of the films, which is the product of the refractive index (n) and the thickness (L). These are both determined and well controlled by the electrochemical parameters used in the synthesis, and thin films with given optical parameters can be etched in a reproducible way. Characteristic data therefore may be developed for films manufactured in the same manner, without the need to test each individual film that is made.","Devices of the invention are easy and cheap to produce (electrochemical etching of silicon wafers and oxidation processing). They can be used either in continuous reflectivity configuration to measure the pressure of a gas, which would produce a change over time in the measured reflectivity data, or to give the composition of a mixture of different gases. In this latter regard it performs functions of a chromatographic device, with the distinction being that the separation medium used is also the light sensor.","While a specific embodiment of the present invention has been shown and described, it should be understood that other modifications, substitutions and alternatives are apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art. Such modifications, substitutions and alternatives can be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention, which should be determined from the appended claims.","Various features of the invention are set forth in the appended claims."],"GOVINT":[{},{}],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIGS. 2A and 2B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 4"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
