---
title: Method for delivering cable channels to handheld devices
abstract: A method, apparatus, and article of manufacture provide the ability to broadcast premium video programming. Thus, once premium video programming is received, it is encoded into the vertical blanking interval and unused/non-interfering Active lines found in a typical television broadcast. However, the encoded information is completely transparent to the pre-existing/typical television channel. The resulting encoded content is then broadcast with the typical television broadcast.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07757267&OS=07757267&RS=07757267
owner: The Boeing Company
number: 07757267
owner_city: Chicago
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20031103
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS","DETAILED DESCRIPTION","CONCLUSION"],"p":["This application is a continuation-in-part application and claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. Section 120 of the following commonly-assigned U.S. utility patent application, which is incorporated by reference herein:","Utility application Ser. No. 10\/409,875, filed Apr. 9, 2003, now U.S. Pat. No. 7,584,493 by Erin H. Sibley and Paul Damian Tarbuck, entitled \u201cRECEIVER CARD TECHNOLOGY FOR A BROADCAST SUBSCRIPTION VIDEO SERVICE\u201d, which application claims priority to Provisional Application Ser. No. 60\/376,084, filed Apr. 29, 2002, by Erin H. Sibley and Paul Damian Tarbuck, entitled \u201cRECEIVER CARD TECHNOLOGY FOR A BROADCAST SUBSCRIPTION VIDEO SERVICE\u201d;","This application is related to the following co-pending utility patent applications, which are incorporated by reference herein:","Utility application Ser. No. 09\/844,919, filed Apr. 26, 2001, by Erin H. Sibley, entitled \u201cCOMMUNICATION SYSTEM WITH SECONDARY CHANNEL REBROADCASTING WITHIN A LOCAL AREA NETWORK\u201d;","Utility application Ser. No. 09\/844,976, filed Apr. 26, 2001, by Erin H. Sibley, entitled \u201cDIGITAL OVER-THE-AIR COMMUNICATION SYSTEM FOR USE WITH ANALOG TERRESTRIAL BROADCASTING SYSTEM\u201d;","Utility application Ser. No. 09\/844,932, filed Apr. 26, 2001, by Erin H. Sibley, entitled \u201cPORTABLE DEVICE FOR USE WITH DIGITAL OVER-THE-AIR COMMUNICATION SYSTEM FOR USE WITH TERRESTRIAL BROADCASTING SYSTEM\u201d;","Utility application Ser. No. 09\/844,923, filed Apr. 26, 2001, by Erin H. Sibley, entitled \u201cDIGITAL OVER-THE-AIR COMMUNICATION SYSTEM FOR USE WITH DIGITAL TERRESTRIAL BROADCASTING SYSTEM\u201d;","Utility application Ser. No. 09\/844,920, filed Apr. 26, 2001, by Erin H. Sibley and Michael W. Sales, entitled \u201cCOMMUNICATION SYSTEM FOR REBROADCASTING ELECTRONIC CONTENT WITHIN LOCAL AREA NETWORK\u201d;","Utility application Ser. No. 09\/564,082, filed May 3, 2000;","U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60\/249,153 (PD-200352) filed on Nov. 16, 2000, entitled \u201cMobile Multimedia Subscription Programming Delivery System\u201d;","U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60\/268,482 (PD-201027) filed on Feb. 12, 2001, entitled \u201cPortable Handheld Devices to Receive Digital Over The Air Broadcasts\u201d;","U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60\/262,811 filed on Jan. 19, 2001, entitled \u201cA New Method For Delivering In-Vehicle Entertainment Services\u201d;","U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60\/271,578 filed on Feb. 22, 2001, entitled \u201cA New Method And System For Delivering Mobile Direct To Home Entertainment Services\u201d; and","U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60\/272,741 filed on Mar. 1, 2001, entitled \u201cA New Method And System For Delivering Entertainment To Portable Devices\u201d.","1. Field of the Invention","The present invention relates generally to broadcasting digital information, and in particular, to a method, apparatus, and article of manufacture for delivering broadcast video programming to wireless personal digital assistants (PDAs) or laptop computers.","2. Description of the Related Art","A significant demand exists to deliver more content to wireless personal digital assistants, laptop computers, and\/or handheld personal digital assistants (PDAs). In the prior art, the only video programming available is in the form of short clips and over the air local television broadcasts. However, PDA and laptop users are not able to receive premium cable channels. These problems may be better understood with a description of prior art broadcasting, satellite based systems, and wireless devices.","Digital direct broadcast systems such as DIRECTV\u00ae. and DIRECPC\u2122 broadcast via satellite, television programs and information or computer applications, respectively. DIRECTV\u00ae broadcasts television programming in a similar fashion to that of terrestrial television. DIRECPC\u2122 subscribers place requests that are queued up and broadcast, to the subscriber's computer. DIRECPC\u2122 services on-demand requests. DIRECTV\u00ae and DIRECPC\u2122 incorporate encryption in addressing for applications such as on-demand requests. These systems provide access control where users make selection decisions in advance of the content being broadcast.","The systems described above are all satellite-based systems. That is, each of the systems delivers content directly from a network operations center to a satellite that broadcasts the information to the users. Further, certain cable and satellite video programming (e.g., premium programming such as CNN\u2122 or ESPN\u2122) are not available over terrestrial based systems. Such systems, however, use satellite and cable delivery of video broadcast to primarily fixed users. For example, a satellite-based system requires the placement of a satellite dish on the building in which the service is used. The satellite dishes must be positioned in a location on the building so that they are positioned toward the geostationary satellite generating the broadcast signals. If the \u201cview\u201d to the satellite is blocked by trees or other buildings, the service cannot be used. Also, some consumers view the satellite dishes as not aesthetically pleasing. Further, cable television is not available to wireless receivers.","Mobile devices such as cellular phones and personal digital assistants are increasing their presence in the marketplace. The functionality of such devices is increasing to such applications as the Internet. However, such devices have heretofore been limited to Internet applications.","Satellite connectivity to mobile devices is available in a wireless fashion. However, satellite television reception is not practical for wireless handheld devices due to the excessive cost, large size and complexity of antennas desired, and flexibility for tracking the satellite. Satellite radio is available to smaller wireless receivers. However, satellite radio does not include video programming. In this regard, the only video programming available is in the form of short clips. Therefore, it was previously assumed that no economical method for delivering video programming (e.g., cable-like channels) to mobile devices was practical. In this regard, the prior art fails to provide video programming via terrestrial over-the-air transmissions to the typical wireless TV users.","It would therefore be desirable to provide video programming to mobile devices in a reliable and cost effective manner.","Embodiments of the invention provide the ability to deliver subscription based cable programming to user devices (e.g., wireless handheld PDAs) via a unique system that leverages existing television broadcast infrastructure. The invention takes advantage of the unused vertical blanking interval (VBI) lines and unused\/non-interfering Active lines found in a typical television broadcast. The previously unused lines are combined in an effort to increase the capacity to a practical level required to transmit a premium cable channel to a user device. The added channel is completely transparent to the pre-existing channel that continues to broadcast over the air.","In the following description, reference is made to the accompanying drawings which form a part hereof, and which is shown, by way of illustration, several embodiments of the present invention. It is understood that other embodiments may be utilized and structural changes may be made without departing from the scope of the present invention.","Overview","One or more embodiments of the invention allow subscription based video broadcasts to wireless handheld personal digital assistants (PDAs) or laptop computers via a unique system approach that uses unused \u201cvertical blanking interval\u201d (VBI) lines and non-interfering \u201cActive\u201d lines to increase the capacity of the broadcast transmission.","In the following figures the same reference numerals will be used to identify the same components in the various views.","As described in this application, \u201celectronic content\u201d is meant to encompass various types of digital information including the distribution of video programming, music, videos, movies, music videos, games, advertising and promotional materials associated with the content. \u201cElectronic content\u201d may also include cable-type television programming that includes wide variety of multi-channel content.","Referring now to , electronic content distribution system  is illustrated. Electronic distribution system  generally has a network operations center (NOC) , a satellite  in communication with NOC , an over-the-air broadcast center  that is coupled to users  over the air.","The network operations center  is coupled to national feeds  and national ad sales  through content packaging . National feeds  may, for example, be national \u201ccable\u201d type services channels, premium video channels, or satellite service  such as DIRECPC\u2122 or DIRECTV\u00ae. The national ad sales  may be derived in-house  or as will be further described below may be obtained from various promotional ad agencies. A content packaging block  is coupled to national feeds  and national ad sales . The content packaging  functions to couple national feeds  with national ad sales .","The network operations center  has a control system that includes various computers  (e.g., a computer or small server that is configured to host several applications), a data encoder , and a multiplexer  that are coupled to antennas  that uplink electronic content to satellite . The control system  operates in a manner known to those skilled in the art. In this regard, the computers  may employ a video and audio capture card that converts incoming video and audio data (e.g., from content packaging ) into a digital format and routes the data forward. In addition, an application that may reside on the host computer\/server  may include channel and network management for multiple channel distribution and billing information.","A \u201clow bit rate\u201d software compression application may also reside on the host computer\/server . Such compression software may compress the digital video and audio (i.e., from content packaging ) to data rates suitable for transmission (e.g., below 180 Kbps for a given channel).","Following the compression, the video and audio information may be converted to Internet Protocol (IP) and routed out of the computer  via ether net link to the data encoder  (also referred to as digital video broadcast or DVB encoder). The DVB encoder  provides an international digital broadcast standard for TV, audio and data. DVB can be broadcast via satellite, cable or terrestrial systems and has been used in Europe and the Far East. In this regard, the DVB encoder  may use a DVB standard as a platform to encapsulate the IP information and assign the proper addressing and conditional access functions. An analog 70 MHz Intermedate Frequency (IF) signal may serve as the output of the DVB encoder .","Using RF (radio frequency) equipment, the IF signal (e.g., the analog 70 MHz IF signal) may then be QPSK (Quadrature Phase Shift Keying) modulated and routed to a frequency upconvertor that converts the 70 MHz to Ku band frequency. The Ku band frequency may then be routed to a Ku band amplifier. Following amplification, the signal may be routed to antennas  such as a large 5 meter Ku band dish that is configured and pointed for transmission to satellite .","The geo-synchronous satellite  receives the signal and routes the signal back to earth in a bent-pipe fashion to several users (e.g., broadcast centers ) in the large antenna coverage.","Over-the-air broadcast center  has an antenna  (e.g., a small dish that is less than . meters) that receives downlink signals from satellite . The downlink signal may pass through a Low Noise Block (LNB) convertor (e.g., within control system  or attached to antenna ) that outputs an L-band frequency.","Over-the-air broadcast center  has a control system  that comprises a control computer , a DVB Receiver , a server , a Local Area Network Hub , and a VBI encoder . The L-band frequency is received in the DVB Receiver  where the encapsulated IP is removed if the user (if authorized via conditional access) and routed out the back of the receiver  (e.g., via Ethernet connection). A personal computer or small server  that hosts some unique software receives the Ethernet data.","One of the software applications (referred to as VBI software) that may be loaded onto the computer  may configure the data in a specific format that is required by the subsequent VBI encoder . Forward error correction (FEC) may also be employed for a more robust link. Another software application (referred to as VBI subscription software) that may also be present on the host computer  may allow subscription management and addressing functions.","Additional software may also be loaded on the computer  to allow for the injection of local television commercials\/ad sales  from content packaging . In this regard, control system  is coupled to content packaging , which in turn is coupled to local feeds  and local ad sales . Thus, the over-the-air broadcast center receives downlink signals from satellite  and local advertising content through local ad sales .","Within control system , as the data leaves the computer , it may be routed to a Local Area Network (LAN) Hub device  that allows connectivity to the VBI encoder . The VBI Encoder box  receives the data and encodes the data into the unused VBI portion of the existing television channel (e.g., in lines -). The VBI encoder  may also use a portion of the unused Active lines that are currently hidden above and below the typical lines that the viewer can see on a normal television screen. The combination of the unused VBI lines and the unused Active lines may allow the minimum capacity required for an additional television program that can be offered to a wireless subscriber. The added channel is completely transparent to the pre-existing channel that is to be broadcast over the air.","The pre-existing regular television program video (i.e., local feeds ) are also routed from content packaging  through the VBI encoder  and combined into one single video output. However, the audio portion for the existing television program  may be routed separately (from VBI encoder ) to an amplifier (e.g., within control system ).","Thus, as described above, control system  receives local channel feeds (also referred to as preexisting television programming) through local feeds  and may also provide local advertising content through local ad sales . The local feeds , local ad sales , and downlink signals from satellite  are combined in control system . Some of the information from satellite  may also be stored in server  for on-demand broadcasting.","The signals from the VBI encoder  and the audio amplifier are received by RF\/television transmitter equipment  where the signals are modulated onto VHF or UHF carriers and amplified.","Control system  is coupled to a wireless transmitter  that broadcasts the wireless signals to users . Accordingly, the amplified signal from RF equipment  is routed to wireless transmitter  for broadcasting. Wireless transmitter  may comprise a cell tower such as that used in cellular phones, a TV tower\/antenna that broadcasts digital signals or a stratospheric platform positioned above a predetermined metropolitan area for broadcasting over-the-air signals. If the wireless transmitter  comprises a TV tower, the channels broadcast may be excess channels or bandwidth for a metropolitan area allocated in HDTV format. To allow quick deployment of a system, an HDTV format may not be relied upon. That is, the digital over-the-air content may be incorporated into unused portions of an analog television broadcast, i.e., the vertical blanking interval and\/or unused active lines.","Users  are coupled to an antenna  used for receiving over-the-air broadcast signals. Users  may comprise a variety of devices such as a personal computer , a laptop computer , a network  or a hand-held device . Each of the devices is preferably coupled to an antenna  for receiving over-the-air signals. Each device may have the antenna  coupled therein or may be connected to a separate antenna such as that of an automotive vehicle. Hand-held device  may comprise a variety of devices such as a digital media receiver, a personal digital assistant, or other type of hand-held device.","Thus, users  will receive the normal television signal along with the transparent television signal via computer \/ and\/or small wireless handheld PDA device . The computer \/ or handheld device  may host software applications that are required to receive the subscriber programming information. For example, the computer \/ or handheld device  contains television tuning hardware functions required to receive normal over the air broadcasts as well as to pass the transparent VBI and Active line information. VBI software present on the computer \/ and handheld device , receives the output of the tuner and subsequently decodes the VBI and Active line information. Further, the software may also contain forward error correction (FEC) as well as subscriber management, conditional access, and encryption functions.","After the VBI line data and Active line data are removed from the normal broadcast, the information may be routed to \u201clow bit rate\u201d decompression software. Such decompression software decompresses the sub 180 Kbps data rate and outputs analog audio and video signals to the screen and speaker of the computer \/ or handheld device . Billing and caching functions may also be available on the computer \/ or handheld device .","In addition to the above, each device (e.g., computer \/ or handheld device ) associated with user  may have a menu  or other selection apparatus such as buttons or switches for selecting electronic content broadcast by over-the-air broadcast center . Menu  may provide information to the user as to the current electronic content being broadcast or may provide an interface to the electronic content stored within the user device.","In operation, the network operations center  provides a substantial amount of the content to be broadcast by the over-the-air broadcast center . In an actual implementation, very few network operations centers are required. Preferably, only one network operations center  is provided. A substantial amount of programming is uplinked to satellite . Satellite  downlinks various electronic content to over-the-air broadcast centers  throughout the country. The over-the-air broadcast center  may also combine local content and local ads through local feeds  and local ad sales .","As described above, users  may also be coupled to broadcast center . Thus, if on-demand service is desired, broadcast center  through telephone wires or through a wireless medium may be contacted so that the broadcast center  broadcasts the information through wireless transmitter . Broadcast center  may track data so that affinity information may be broadcast with the electronic content so that the users may filter the electronic content and store the electronic content on the user devices.","Referring now to , a business level view of an electronic content distribution system  is illustrated according to the present invention. The electronic content distribution system  is centered around a system company . The system company  is responsible for the initial broadcast and uplinking of the electronic content. The system company  interfaces with over-the-air distribution companies . The over-the-air distribution companies  may be cellular phone systems, television stations, or may be a company owned system. The over-the-air distribution companies are generally coupled to the end users  through the over-the-air broadcast.","System company  may also be coupled to various outside sources such as advertising agency , content providers , and e-commerce merchants . The personalization\/advertising metering box  may represent various aspects of system company, over-the-air distribution and advertising agencies . Although illustrated separately, box  may be incorporated into these other functions.","Personalization\/advertising metering box  monitors the transactions by users  and helps to formulate an affinity model that is used to provide affinity information along with the electronic content to end users  so that material likely to be desirable to the particular end users  may be stored at the end users . The end users  are also coupled to transaction processing\/fulfillment box . The transaction processing\/fulfillment box  is shown coupled to system company , over-the-air distribution company , and e-commerce merchants . Although illustrated as a separate box, transaction processing\/fulfillment box  may be incorporated into system company , over-the-air distribution company , and e-commerce merchants .","It is envisioned that end users  may subscribe to a predetermined service such as a television programming package as well as being able to request certain electronic content on demand. This may be done through the menu system as described above. Upon selecting a desired electronic content from the menu, the user device may be coupled to transaction processing\/fulfillment box  wherein the on-demand service is paid for and wherein the over-the-air distribution system  broadcasts the information to the end user . The over-the-air distribution system may also be used to provide a decryption key to end users  for information stored on the user devices but is encrypted.","Advertising agencies  may provide targeted advertising that is coupled to various specific content of content providers  to particularly target a specific market.","Referring now to , one embodiment of a user device  is illustrated. Each user device  preferably is coupled to an antenna  as described above. Antenna  is coupled to a receiver  that receives the over-the-air signals and converts them into a useful format. Receiver  is coupled to a filter  that has affinity information of the user therein. Filter  is coupled to a memory cache . Memory cache  and filter  are coupled to a display  that is used to display menu . Thus, receiver , filter , and memory cache  may provide tuning hardware functions required to receive normal over the air broadcasts as well as pass the transparent VBI and Active line information. Devices , , and  may also provide the capability to decode the VBI and Active line information as well as provide forward error correction, subscriber management, conditional access, and encryption functions.","A control device  is coupled to display  to allow selections of various menu items from memory cache . Control  may also be used to select streaming content information being received at receiver  through filter . Control  may, for example, be a touch pad, keyboard, touch screen or other device. Control device  may also be coupled to the purchasing system  such as transaction processing\/fulfillment box  of  above.","One advantage of the invention is that user device  may be mobile or fixed. That is, home users as well as mobile users such as those using hand-held devices or those with laptop computers may benefit from the system. In operation, the over-the-air broadcast center  broadcasts a variety of information simultaneously. Receiver  receives all the information and through the use of filter  decides whether or not to store the information in memory cache . The electronic content may be full rights to the electronic content, may be an encrypted form of the electronic content, or may be an indicator for menu  that will allow the user to make an on-demand request for the information. Filter  has affinity information associated therewith so that the electronic content received by receiver  may be screened.","In the simplest form, the broadcast content may be cable TV channels packaged as a service much like the service DirecTV\u00ae provides to households. In another embodiment, the broadcast electronic content may contain affinity information so that the filter  may compare the broadcast affinity information with the affinity information within the filter and thereby store only the potentially desirable electronic content in memory cache . For each item stored in memory cache , a menu item is displayed on display  so that the user may select the electronic content when desired. In addition, the broadcast content contains information encoded in the VBI and unused Active lines as described above.","If full rights are not given in the electronic content, the control device  may select purchasing the device from purchasing system . Thus, the receiver  may receive the on-demand information and\/or a decryption key. The user device through menu  and display  may be also used to select various over-the-air streaming information from over-the-air broadcast center .","After purchasing the electronic content, the information may be provided to advertisers and to the network operations center  so that affinity information may be associated with the broadcast information. Data mining techniques may be also used at the network operations center  so that various affinity models may be generated to target specific audiences and markets. This information will form an affinity preference model for developing affinity preference models for content downloads. These affinity models may be periodically updated and as well, the filter terms located at the user device may also be updated.","Referring now to , as mentioned above, over-the-air broadcast center  may be used for broadcasting the digital electronic content signals for use with an analog television signal . Such a system may be used for simply broadcasting cable-like television channels to portable devices or may include the other functions noted above. The analog television signal  is a conventional analog signal having an Active scan line portion or primary channel  corresponding to a number of Active scan lines. The Active scan lines correspond to the information used to form the image on the television screen. In addition, there is a portion of the Active scan lines that are unused\/non-interfering since they are hidden above and below the typical lines that the viewer can see on a normal television display apparatus.","After the Active scan line portion , a vertical-blanking interval  is commonly broadcast. The vertical blanking interval  is essentially a pause before the next television signal with another set of Active scan lines and vertical blanking interval  is broadcast. The vertical blanking interval used in current analog systems typically employ about 24 scan lines. In this regard, the invention may utilize the unused portion of the VBI which are commonly lines -. As mentioned above, the television signal  is an analog signal. Although an over-the-air analog signal has been described, the present invention may also be used in the vertical blanking interval (and unused Active scan lines) of a digital satellite broadcast signal which will be described further in .","The present embodiment seeks to include electronic content (such as an additional channel or programming) in digital format using the vertical blanking interval  and unused\/non-interfering portion of the Active scan lines . The digital signal is therefore superimposed upon the analog television signal . The electronic content during this time may also be referred to as a secondary channel.","Referring now to , a second embodiment of an over-the-air broadcast center \u2032 is illustrated. In this embodiment, video content, whether local or through a satellite such as the one illustrated in , is provided to over-the-air broadcast center \u2032. Video content  is provided to a video server  that has video compression software  therein. Any video compression may be utilized. For example, a suitable video compression may use MPEG 4 compression software . Such software is known to those skilled in the art. The digital video content  is then compressed by software  and provided to vertical blanking interval bridge hardware . Vertical blanking interval bridge hardware  may include vertical blanking interval software  which is used to superimpose the compressed digital signal onto the vertical blanking interval and unused Active lines of the broadcast television signal. The combined signal is coupled to broadcast infrastructure  where the combined signal is then transmitted over the air with a broadcast antenna . Broadcast infrastructure  and antenna  may have components of the type described above in . Using such a standard high-speed vertical blanking interval (and unused Active lines) combined with advanced compression (e.g., MPEG 4) techniques, the present invention may exceed any required capacity (e.g., of approximately 100 kbps).","A mobile device  capable of receiving the over-the-air broadcasts from broadcast antenna  is illustrated. Mobile device  may be one of the numerous devices described above in connection with . Exemplary devices include a personal digital assistant or a cellular phone. The present invention includes circuitry to receive the electronic content in addition to the functions of the device. For example, a personal digital assistant may still have calendaring and contact information as well as providing a display screen for displaying the received digital broadcast signal. A cellular phone, for example, may also include the capability of receiving telephone signals as well.","To carry through with the vertical blanking interval (and unused Active lines) electronic content broadcast by broadcast infrastructure , an antenna  may be used to receive the entire broadcast television signal from antenna . This entire television signal includes both the regular broadcast channel as well as the digital electronic content embedded within the vertical blanking interval and unused Active lines. A TV tuner  is incorporated into the mobile device  so that selections of different programming may be accomplished. Vertical blanking interval frame grabbing software  is used to receive a compressed digital video signal transmitted within the vertical blanking interval and unused Active lines of the broadcast signal. The frame grabbing software  is coupled to decompression software  to decompress the compressed video signal. The decompressed video signal from decompression software  is displayed on an output device . Decompression software  may also include conditional access software. Conditional access software allows for only authorized viewing of the digital content on a memory. Such conditional access may be software coded into the device or provided on a separate card in a manner similar to that of the DIRECTV\u00ae system. Speakers may also be incorporated into output device  to provide audio simultaneously with the video.","Advantageously, the present invention allows over-the-air broadcast signals to act as a carrier for the digital electronic content desired to be provided to mobile users. While the emphasis is on mobile users, stationary users may also be serviced by such a system.","Monitoring equipment  may also be incorporated into the system. The monitoring equipment  provides feedback to the broadcast center corresponding to the quality of the signals so that adjustments may be made.","Referring now to , a personal digital assistant  having the features according to the present invention are illustrated in a block diagrammatic form. The same reference numerals are used to illustrate the same components from . Personal digital assistant  has an operating system , which may be separate from the present invention. However, those skilled in the art will recognize that operating system  may include vertical blanking interval frame grabber software  and decompression and conditional access software  as a part thereof, as illustrated. Operating system  is coupled to various architectural elements  depending on the type of system. Architecture elements  are coupled to antenna  and to TV tuner . TV tuner , as above, allows the user to select the desired electronic content to be viewed on display . TV tuner  is thus coupled between architecture elements  and display . Architecture elements  may, for example, include an input device such as knobs, buttons, or switches for allowing the selection of various electronic content.","A power source  may also be included on the device. Power source  may be a battery or a rechargeable battery. This allows personal digital assistant  to be mobile. In addition to batteries, personal digital assistant  may also be powered with an AC adapter.","Referring now to , a cellular phone  is illustrated having the broadcast reception capability described above. In this embodiment, cellular phone  has an operating system \u2032 that supports the traditional cellular phone elements as well as those described above with respect to . Cellular phone  may also include a touch pad , an ear speaker , and a microphone  to support the cellular phone application.","Referring now to , the present invention may be suited for mobile use such as in an automotive vehicle . Automotive vehicle  may incorporate a mobile device  therein. Mobile device  may be coupled to a vehicle power source  such as the vehicle battery. Also, mobile device  is preferably coupled to a first vehicle antenna  and preferably to a second vehicle antenna .","Referring now also to , the same reference numerals are used to identify the same components from that of . Mobile device  may be coupled in a cradle . Cradle  may be coupled to vehicle power source  and to antennas  and . A connector  having a male portion A and a female portion B may be respectively coupled on mobile device  and connector . As illustrated, mobile device  is removable from cradle . However, in some automotive applications, mobile device  may be coupled fixedly to cradle . Cradle  may also have other electrical circuitry therein used for operating mobile device . As illustrated in dashed lines, TV tuner  may also be incorporated into cradle . Such a device would be suitable for a removable portable digital assistant wherein only the television tuner aspects are desired when mounted within cradle .","Referring now to , the present invention may also be suitable for use in an HDTV broadcasting environment. Governmental bodies have regulated the HDTV environment by providing an allocated bandwidth . The allocated bandwidth for a channel in the United States is 6 MHz. The allocated bandwidth  is less than the broadcast channel bandwidth  over which the television stations will broadcast the television signal. Thus, excess bandwidth  remains.","Referring now also to , a similar figure to that of  except rather than broadcasting over the vertical blanking interval and unused Active lines, the excess bandwidth of the allocated bandwidth for a digital television signal is utilized to broadcast the digital signal. In this embodiment, video content  is provided to compression software . Excess bandwidth software is used to couple the regularly broadcast signal with the electronic content. Both signals are broadcast through broadcast infrastructure  through antenna . A receiving antenna  coupled to TV tuner  is used to receive the electronic content signal. An excess bandwidth frame grabber  grabs the electronic content from the excess bandwidth and provides it to decompressor . The decompressed video content is displayed on display  in a similar manner to that described above. Decompressor  may also include conditional access software as described above.","In operation, the system operator uplinks a plurality of electronic content packages to a satellite. These electronic content packages are preferably a subscriber type package such as that provided by DIRECTV\u00ae service. Preferably, at least a portion of the electronic content packages is common throughout the region or country. The electronic content packages are received from the satellite by the various over-the-air broadcasters. The over-the-air broadcasting broadcasts their regular signals and in addition, the digital electronic content. In the case of an analog television channel, the digital signal is superimposed over the vertical blanking interval of the signal. In the case of an HDTV signal, the digital content is provided in the excess bandwidth. The electronic content packages are received in a user appliance or device where either the analog signal or the HDTV signal is preferably disregarded except for the electronic content packages. Purchasers of the service are granted access by purchasing the conditional access software either directly (e.g. in a format card) or indirectly (e.g. purchasing an enabled device). Thus, the electronic content packages are granted access to, decompressed and displayed on the display device and any audio signals are heard through any speaker device incorporated within the user device.","Referring now to , another embodiment of the present invention is illustrated. The present invention may also be embodied in various types of content delivery systems such as a direct broadcast satellite system . In addition, a cable network or fiber optic network may also be used. The following description is directed to a direct broadcast satellite content delivery system. That is, a satellite may be used to broadcast both a primary channel and a secondary channel during the vertical blanking interval of the primary channel as mentioned above. System  has feeds , which are a simplified version of those shown above in . Feeds  are meant to be inclusive of various types of feeds including local feeds and cable-type broadcast feeds. The feeds  are coupled together at broadcast center . The broadcast center  organizes the signal and directs the television signals through an antenna  to a satellite . The broadcast center thus organizes the signals into primary channels, which contain a substantially greater amount of digital information than the secondary channel broadcast during the vertical-blanking interval and unused Active lines of the primary channel.","Satellite  broadcasts the primary channel and the vertical blanking interval\/unused Active line secondary channel to a particular service area. In a cable or fiber optic system the primary and secondary channels are delivered via a cable or fiber optic cable rather than satellite .","A base station  having a receiving antenna  is illustrated receiving both the primary channel and the secondary vertical broadcast interval\/unused Active line channel. Base station  represents a variety of potential types of base stations. Base station  may, for example, be similar to that of a set top box for the DIRECTV\u00ae systems. Base station  is coupled to a television  in a conventional manner. Preferably, television  receives the primary channel from base station . In a cable or fiber optic system, base station  may be connected to the cable or fiber optic cable directly.","Base station  may also include a transmitter  which is used to form a local area wireless network  between a transmitting antenna  and user devices . Preferably, the secondary or vertical blanking interval\/unused Active line channel is transmitted to the user devices  in a wireless manner. Transmission may take place using standard formats such as the Bluetooth format for wireless devices. The user devices  include similar types of devices illustrated in  such as cellular phones and personal digital assistants. Of course, those skilled in the art will recognize that various types of wireless devices configured to receive the frequencies broadcast by transmitter  may be employed.","Various uses for such a system will be evident to those skilled in the art. One use envisioned for such a device is for residential use so that both the primary channel may be enjoyed by watching television  while users throughout the house and nearby surroundings may enjoy the secondary channel broadcast during the vertical-blanking interval and unused Active lines of the primary channel. Other uses include public buildings and public transportation. A base station may be employed on the building or public transportation to receive at minimum the secondary channel within the vertical blanking interval and unused Active lines and rebroadcast the secondary channel to the mobile wireless devices. Examples of suitable public places include airports, shopping malls, arenas, subways, trains, buses and the like.","Referring now to , a more detailed block diagram of a broadcast system  is illustrated.  uses the same reference numerals for the same components as . Broadcast center  has similar content to . That is, video content  is provided to a video server  that has video compression software  therein. Similar video compression may be used as mentioned above with respect to software . The digital video content to be placed within the vertical blanking interval and unused Active lines of the satellite broadcast signal is provided to vertical blanking interval bridge hardware  having vertical blanking interval software  therein. Vertical blanking interval software  is used to superimpose the compressed digital electronic content signal into the vertical blanking interval and unused Active lines of the digital broadcast television signal. Vertical blanking interval bridge hardware  is coupled to satellite infrastructure  rather than broadcast infrastructure  as illustrated in . Thus, the vertical blanking interval and unused Active lines of the digital broadcast satellite signal are transmitted from satellite infrastructure  through antenna  to digital broadcast satellite .","A satellite network operation center  may be employed to control the movement and quality of the signals broadcast from the satellite . Broadcast center  in addition to the structure illustrated in  broadcasts the digital broadcast signal in a conventional manner with the addition of the secondary or vertical broadcast interval\/unused Active line channel therein.","Base station  includes antenna  for receiving the digital satellite broadcast signals described above. A tuner  may also be included therein for tuning various channels received through the digital broadcast signal. TV tuner  may include various numbers of individual tuners for the use of multiple users. The multiple users may include directly connected users such as a television  or mobile user devices . TV tuner  may also be configured to receive both primary and secondary broadcast channels. At minimum, TV tuner  is configured to receive secondary digital broadcast signals.","TV tuner  is coupled to vertical blanking interval frame software  which is used to receive the compressed digital video signal transmitted within the vertical blanking interval and unused Active lines of the digital broadcast signal. Vertical blanking interval frame software  is coupled to decompression and conditional access software . As mentioned above, the present system may be a subscription type service, which will be restricted through conditional access as described above. The electronic content forming the secondary channel is thus decompressed and allowed access to through decompression and conditional access software .","Video display and audio output  thus receives the electronic content forming the secondary channel which is then coupled to a wireless local area network transmitter . Wireless local area network transmitter  uses an antenna  to locally distribute the video display and audio output  to the user devices  using antenna  on the wireless local area network transmitter  and antenna  on user device . As mentioned above, wireless local area network preferably transmits the secondary channel using standard wireless technology such as Bluetooth or the 802.11 type interface. Preferably, the secondary channel has less digital video content that is suitable for retransmission to mobile devices. Typically, mobile devices do not include the processing power of high level devices such as set top boxes. Because mobile devices are smaller, the amount of content and thus the corresponding digital bits can be a lot smaller without losing the effect. This embodiment may also include another type of a high altitude communication device such as a stratospheric platform rather than a satellite. However, it is envisioned that a satellite will be more useful and reach more users than a stratospheric platform.","In operation, a primary channel having digital electronic content such as a secondary channel during a vertical blanking interval and\/or unused Active lines of the primary channel is uplinked to the high altitude communication device such as a satellite. The primary channel having the digital electronic content is received and over-the-air broadcast to the user devices where it is received, displayed, or heard. Preferably, a base station such as a set top box for the DIRECTV\u00ae system is modified to include the wireless local area network system described above. Such a system will provide an additional service for DIRECTV\u00ae users who require mobility.","In addition to the above, an alternate embodiment of the invention may provide for the use of a PC-like plug-in card (referred to as a receiver card) for receiving and enabling use\/display of the digital content in the VBI and\/or unused active lines (e.g., by a wireless subscriber). Such a receiver card may slide into equipment such as a computer laptop or PDA device. The receiver cards enable reception of the digital information in the VBI and\/or unused Active lines by wireless users. Most PDAs and computer laptops provide PCMCIA (Personal Computer Memory Card International Association) and Flash card interfaces. Embodiments of the invention may be configured for accommodation by such interfaces. Accordingly, embodiments of the invention may be configured to interface with PCMCIA and other types of interfaces while other embodiments may interface with a Flash card or similar type of interface. Additional details that further describe the use of such receiver cards are provided in U.S. Utility application Ser. No. 10\/409,875, filed Apr. 9, 2003, by Erin H. Sibley and Paul Damian Tarbuck, entitled \u201cRECEIVER CARD TECHNOLOGY FOR A BROADCAST SUBSCRIPTION VIDEO SERVICE\u201d.","Logical Flow",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0106","num":"0105"},"figref":"FIG. 14","b":["1400","1400"]},"The video programming received may then need to be processed for encoding and transmission. Thus, at step , the video programming is encoded into the vertical blanking interval (VBI) and unused\/non-interfering Active lines of a pre-existing television channel. Further information may also be encrypted such as subscription management and addressing functions. The unused Active lines containing the encoded information are Active lines that are hidden above and\/or below the typical lines that a viewer can see on a normal television screen. The combination of the unused VBI and unused Active lines may provide the minimum capacity required for an additional television program (e.g., a premium cable channel) that can be offered to a wireless subscriber. Such an additional channel is completely transparent to the pre-existing channel that is broadcast over the air. The encoding may also provide for combining the pre-existing television channel and VBI\/unused Active lines into one single video output (audio output may be routed separately to an amplifier).","The encoded video and audio are received at transmitter equipment and modulated onto VHF and\/or UHF carriers and amplified. Thereafter, the amplified signal may be routed to a television antenna tower where the terrestrial broadcast is sent to all users within range at step .","Once broadcast, the normal television signal (along with the transparent television signal) may be received at a user device such as a computer or small wireless handheld device (e.g., a personal digital assistant [PDA]) (e.g., using a receiver card) at step . The user device contains various functionality including the ability to manage received subscriber programming information (e.g., that is broadcast). The user device may also contain television tuning hardware functions (e.g., in a receiver card or other modules) required to receive the normal over-the-air broadcasts as well as to pass the transparent VBI and unused Active line information. VBI software on the user device may receive the output from the tuning hardware and decode the VBI and unused Active line information. Such software may also contain forward error correction (FEC) as well as subscriber management, conditional access, and encryption functions.","After the VBI and unused Active line data are removed from the normal broadcast, the information may be routed to decompression software which outputs the analog audio and video signals to the screen and speaker of the user device at step . In addition, billing and caching functions may be available on the user device.","In view of the above, the present invention advantageously uses the previously unused digitally vertical blanking interval and unused Active lines of a normal broadcast signal. Further, handheld devices are now capable of receiving over-the-air broadcasts of proprietary signals.","This concludes the description of the preferred embodiment of the invention. However, the foregoing description of the preferred embodiment of the invention has been presented for the purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise form disclosed. Many modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teaching. It is intended that the scope of the invention be limited not by this detailed description, but rather by the claims appended hereto."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["Referring now to the drawings in which like reference numbers represent corresponding parts throughout:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0034"},"figref":["FIG. 9","FIG. 8"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"figref":"FIG. 10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0037","num":"0036"},"figref":"FIG. 11"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0037"},"figref":"FIG. 12"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0039","num":"0038"},"figref":"FIG. 13"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0040","num":"0039"},"figref":"FIG. 14"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
