---
title: Gas mask filter canister
abstract: A filter for a gas mask has an elliptical or circular, convex shape to conform to the curvature of the wearer's face, or a planar shape. The filter comprises a double particulate filter element and a double adsorption filter element configured for axial airflow therethrough with a bifurcated flow pattern. The adsorption filter element comprises a granulated charcoal, a composite material having carbon particles combined with binder particles, or an immobilized bed of charcoal granules and EVA-coated fibers.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07311764&OS=07311764&RS=07311764
owner: Avon Protection Systems, Inc.
number: 07311764
owner_city: Cadillac
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20030425
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS","GOVERNMENT INTEREST","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENT"],"p":["This application claims priority on International Application No. PCT\/US03\/12787, filed Apr. 25, 2003, which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application 60\/319,207, filed Apr. 26, 2002.","This invention was made with government support under DAAD13-00-C-0021 by the Department of Defense (US Special Operations Command). The government has certain rights in this invention.","1. Field of the Invention","The invention relates to gas masks and filter canisters etherefor. In one aspect, the invention relates to a filter canister having a profile that conforms to the curvature of the wearer's face. In another aspect, the invention relates to a gas mask with a mask housing and a filter cartridge that conforms to the face of the wearer. In another of its aspects, the invention relates to a low profile filter canister that has a relatively high flow rate and relatively low flow resistance. In yet another of its aspects, the invention relates to an axial flow filter canister that has a relatively low flow resistance.","2. Description of the Related Art","PCT International Publication No. WO 01\/78839, published Oct. 25, 2001, discloses a bayonet-type connector for connecting a removable filter to a gas mask. A filter canister comprising a hollow container having an oval shape is also disclosed, with parallel planar top and mounting surfaces separated by a perimeter wall. The canister is mounted to the mask with a twist and lock mechanism for quick change of spent canisters. A secondary filter for treating toxic industrial materials is disclosed for adding to the primary canister as necessary by a twist and lock mechanism.","U.S. Pat. No. 5,019,311 to Koslow, issued May 28, 1991, discloses a process for producing a composite material having carbon particles combined with binder particles which, through heat and pressure, are formed into a substantially uniform, stabilized mixture which can retain a preselected shape.","Conventional replaceable circular or elliptical gas mask filters with parallel planar top and mounting surfaces can be mounted to one or to both sides of the mask and extend laterally outwardly of the mask. Such filters typically comprise a folded paper or fabric particulate filter and a granulated carbon adsorption filter. In order to maximize the density of the carbon granules and avoid introducing flow channels through the adsorption filter, the granulated carbon is typically placed in the filter canister through a process of \u201csnow storm filling\u201d the granulated carbon into the filter in such a way that the density of the granules is maximized. This process requires that the top and mounting surfaces be flat.","Laterally-mounted filters with flat top and mounting surfaces extend outwardly of the wearer's face, and can interfere with the wearer's vision and activities (e.g. sighting a firearm), or contact objects in close proximity to the wearer, potentially damaging the filter and rendering it inoperative, and injuring the wearer. Because the auxiliary filter further extends outwardly of the mask, the use of an auxiliary filter can exacerbate the problems inherent with the outwardly extending primary filter.","Filters having a curved section to conform closely to the curvature of the wearer's face can mitigate many of the problems associated with conventional filters having flat top and mounting surfaces. However, the curvature of the filter interferes with the conventional \u201csnow storm filling\u201d method of placing the carbon filter granules in the filter canister, and can prevent the granules from assuming a sufficient density. As well, the curvature of the filter canister can cause unacceptable variations in the thickness of the carbon layer, leading to insufficient protection of the wearer.","A mask with dual filter units shaped to conform to the shape of the face is disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 5,078,132 and U.S. Pat. No. 6,176,239. The filter units are of a non-circular shape and appear to be molded of a particulate filter material with a binder.","According to the invention, a filter canister for a gas mask according to the preamble of claim  has an upper wall or inlet wall which is convex and a lower or outlet wall is concave to conform the filter canister to the face of the user.","Further according to the invention, a gas mask assembly comprises a mask housing having filter mount defining an inlet port for mask housing and a filter canister as described above removably mounted to the filter mount in close proximity to the mask housing to conform to the face of the mask user.","In one embodiment of the invention, there are at least two pair of the separate filter elements, the airflow path through the filtration medium is bifurcated and each of the bifurcated paths pass through one pair of the separate filter elements.","In another embodiment of the invention, one of the filter elements comprises an adsorption bed and typically comprises at least one of a granulated charcoal, a composite material having carbon particles combined with binder particles, or an immobilized bed of charcoal granules and coated fibers. Further, the adsorption filter bed can include activated charcoal impregnated with at least one of copper, zinc, silver, molybdenum and triethylenediamine.","In a preferred embodiment of the invention, the other of the filter elements is a particulate filter to remove from air solid or liquid aerosols, droplets and particulate matter such as dust, smokes, bacteria and viruses.","In a preferred embodiment of the invention, the side wall of the canister housing can be elliptically shaped.","In accordance with one embodiment of the invention, the upper wall of the filter canister has a second connector for mounting an auxiliary filter canister. An auxiliary filter canister with an inlet wall, an outlet wall, and a side wall has an inlet opening in the inlet wall and an outlet opening in the outlet wall. An auxiliary filter medium adapted to remove TIM contaminants from air mounted is mounted within the auxiliary canister. The canister further defines an air flow path through the auxiliary filter medium between the inlet opening and the outlet opening in the auxiliary canister. A third connector is mounted to the outlet wall of the auxiliary canister and is adapted to connect to the second connector to connect the filter canister to the auxiliary canister with gases flowing serially therethrough. Preferably, the second and third connectors are twist and lock connectors. The side wall of the auxiliary canister can be elliptically shaped. The auxiliary filter medium comprises copper sulfate-impregnated activated carbon to remove the TIM gases.","In one embodiment of the invention, the filter mount and the filter canister connector comprise twist and lock connectors.","In a further embodiment, a self sealing mechanism is mounted in the inlet port for sealing the inlet port when the filter canister is removed from the mask housing.","A gas mask assembly  according the invention is shown in . As shown in , the assembly  comprises a mask housing  and a filter assembly . The mask housing  comprises a filter mount  at lower lateral portions of the mask housing , comprising a self-sealing mechanism (not shown) as disclosed in PCT International Publication No. WO 01\/78839, published Oct. 25, 2001, and incorporated herein by reference, and an inlet port . The inlet port  is preferably provided with a twist and lock or bayonet filter mount as disclosed in PCT International Publication No. WO 01\/78839. A conventional female-type threaded connector can also be utilized. The mask housing  can also comprise a speech module  that combines the functions of voice projection and drinking. Such a speech module is disclosed in PCT Application No. US02\/22591, published Jan. 30, 2003.","In the preferred twist and lock configuration shown in PCT International Publication No. WO 01\/78839, the base of the filter is fitted with three lugs and an orientation notch so that it can only fit one way on the mating filter mount on the mask housing  or face piece. The action of twisting the filter activates two locks on the filter such that the filter cannot inadvertently be released. Two clip locks on the filter are of a living hinge type such that they must both be pressed simultaneously in order to release the filter to untwist it from its locked position on the filter mount. A rubber seal is fitted to the filter that also acts under compression at the base of the filter mount. The seal also wipes the side of the filter mount as it is fitted. The process of seating the filter and an additional feature on the filter activates a self-sealing valve that opens when the filter is attached but closes when the filter is removed. This permits the user to change filters while being in a contaminated environment should the need arise. A suitable self-sealing valve has been disclosed in PCT International Publication No. WO 01\/78839.","As shown in , the filter assembly  comprises a primary filter  and an auxiliary filter . The primary filter  is provided with a connector , which is shown in  as comprising a male-type threaded connector for matingly interconnecting with female-type threads of the inlet port  of the mask housing , for mounting the primary filter  to the mask housing . As discussed above, the primary filter  and the inlet port can preferably be provided with a twist and lock connector as disclosed in PCT International Publication No. WO 01\/8839. The auxiliary filter  is preferably mounted to the primary filter  through a similar twist and lock or threaded connection such as disclosed in the PCT International Publication No. WO 01\/78839.  show the use of a twist and lock connector  for connecting the auxiliary filter  to the primary filter .","Referring now to , the primary filter  comprises an elliptically-shaped primary filter canister  having a canister base  and a canister cover . The canister base  comprises a canister floor , a connector  extending axially outwardly therefrom, and a canister peripheral wall  extending generally orthogonally from the canister floor . The canister cover  comprises a top wall  and a cover peripheral wall  extending generally orthogonally therefrom. The peripheral wall  terminates in a downwardly depending, perimeter outer lip . The top wall  terminates in a downwardly depending inner lip . The canister cover  is joined to the canister base  with the perimeter outer lip  extending over an upper end of the peripheral wall  to form the circular, or elliptical, generally doughnut-shaped canister  having the connector  and defining an interior chamber .","The connector  comprises an outlet aperture  defining a filter outlet opening  for fluid communication with the inlet port  when the primary filter  is attached to the mask housing .","The chamber  holds an elliptical, generally doughnut-shaped primary filter element . The filter element  comprises a top portion  and a bottom portion . The top portion  comprises an elliptical ring-shaped top wall , a downwardly depending elliptical outer sidewall  connected thereto, and a downwardly depending circular inner sidewall  connected to the top wall  and uniformly spaced inwardly of the outer sidewall . The inner sidewall  is provided with radially spaced filter apertures  at a lower portion thereof: The bottom portion  comprises an elliptical bottom wall , an upwardly-extending elliptical outer sidewall  connected thereto, an upwardly extending circular inner sidewall  connected to the bottom wall  and uniformly spaced inwardly of the outer sidewall , and a centrally-located circular inlet floor  connected to the inner sidewall  orthogonal thereto. The inner sidewall  forms a center inlet aperture  to define a cylindrical filter inlet opening  terminating at the inlet floor . The filter inlet opening  can optionally be covered with an integral grille piece (not shown) to prevent large particles, such as sand or other debris, from entering the filter .","The top portion  and the bottom portion  matingly communicate to form the primary filter element  by joining the outer sidewall  to the outer sidewall  at a suitable outer wall joint , and joining the inner sidewall  to the inner sidewall  at a suitable inner wall joint . The joints ,  comprise rigid, airtight joints. The top wall  and the bottom wall  are provided with a plurality of apertures (not shown) extending therethrough for fluid communication of the interior of the filter element  with the chamber .","The primary filter element  comprises a pair of spaced-apart, ring-shaped particulate filter elements  of uniform thickness and a pair of spaced-apart, ring-shaped adsorption filter elements  of uniform thickness enclosed therein, separated by a ring-shaped perforated retainer  and arranged in a stacked relationship. The particulate filter elements  extend from the inner sidewalls ,  to the outer side walls , . In , the particulate filter elements  are shown separated by an inlet channel  in fluid communication with the filter apertures .","The adsorption filter elements  extend from the inner sidewalls ,  to the outer side walls , . The adsorption filter elements  are shown spaced from the particulate filter elements  with the intervening retainer . However, the adsorption filter elements  can be separated from the particulate filter elements  by a permeable membrane, or can be stacked in contact with one another. The retainer  extends from the inner sidewalls ,  to the outer side walls , , and is fixedly attached thereto, preferably by ultrasonic welding.","The primary filter element  is provided with a plurality of radially extending upper ribs  extending upwardly from the top wall  and a plurality of radially-extending lower ribs  extending downwardly from the bottom wall . The upper ribs  bear against the underside of the top wall  and the lower ribs  bear against the underside of the canister floor  to retain the filter element  in a fixed position relative to the primary filter canister  and form upper radial air flow channels  and lower radial air flow channels  along the top and bottom, respectively, of the filter element . Additionally, the outer walls ,  of the filter element  terminate somewhat short of the outer walls ,  of the primary filter canister  to form a vertical, annular air flow channel  between the upper flow channel  and the lower flow channel .","Referring to , the flow of air through the filter  is indicated by the arrows designated as \u201cA\u201d. Air is introduced into the primary filter  through the filter inlet opening , and into the primary filter element  through the filter apertures . The air proceeds through the inlet channel  and then flows upwardly and downwardly through the particulate filter elements . After exiting the particulate filter elements , the air flows through the retainer  and then through the adsorption filter elements  to exit the filter element  through apertures in the top wall  and the bottom wall . Air exiting through the bottom wall  flows downwardly into the lower flow channel . Air exiting through the top wall  flows upwardly into the upper flow channel , then radially to the vertical flow channel , then downwardly into the lower flow channel . Air flows radially out of the lower flow channel  to exit the primary filter canister  through the filter outlet opening  and into the mask housing .","The particulate filter element  removes aerosols, particulate materials, and droplets from contaminated air, and can comprise any particulate filtration media suitable for removing aerosols, particulate materials, and droplets, including pleated sheets, electrostatically-charged fibers or fiberglass paper in a suitable configuration for the axial air flow described herein. Preferably, the particulate filter element  comprises an electrostatically-charged, nonwoven fabric manufactured by 3M Company and sold under the product name AEM5.","The adsorption filter element  preferably comprises a granulated activated charcoal impregnated to provide protection against military war gases with heavy metals salts, such as copper, silver, zinc and molybdenum salts, and also of amine triethylenediamine. The impregnants react chemically with the low boiling point compounds in order to retain them on the charcoal. Other conventional impregnated charcoals or alumina suitable for military applications can be used, as can non-impregnated charcoals for filters to be used in industrial rather than military applications. As an example, a copper sulfate-treated charcoal can be used in an environment containing ammonia.","The granulated charcoal comprising the pair of adsorbent filter elements  is held between the top wall  or canister-floor , the side walls , , , , and the retainers , and is placed into the filter element  by a suitable process, preferably vibratory filling, in order to achieve a specified density. Nonwoven fines filters (not shown) separating the adsorbent filter elements  from the top wall , the canister floor , and the retainer  are used to prevent small charcoal granules from migrating through the top wall , the canister floor , and the retainers .","One example of a process for placing the granulated charcoal into the filter is described in U.S. Patent Application Ser. No. 60\/319,206, filed Apr. 25, 2002, which is incorporated herein by reference. The process proceeds generally as follows. The fines filters are first bonded to the top wall , the bottom wall , and the retainers  by ultrasonic welding. The retainers  are ultrasonically welded in position in the primary filter element . A 10 millimeter orifice (not shown) is provided in the filter element  through which the charcoal granules are introduced while the filter element  is operably supported on a vibrating platform (not shown). The magnitude of both horizontal and vertical forces is carefully controlled in order to impart sufficient energy into the charcoal granules to enable them to achieve an optimum packing density of approximately 0.62 grams per cubic centimeter. When filling is complete, a plug is placed into the 10 millimeter orifice and sealed, preferably by ultrasonic welding, to the filter element  to complete the enclosure of the granular bed.","Two cut packs each comprising three layers of 3M AEM5 are then cut to the correct filter shape and placed into the filter element  adjacent the retainers  to form the particulate filter elements . Particulate layers that contain a high proportion of polypropylene can be ultrasonically welded to the filter element . The outer side walls ,  and the inner side walls ,  are then ultrasonically welded together, the filter element  is placed into the filter canister , and the canister cover  is welded to the canister base .","Alternatively, the adsorption filter element  can comprise the PLEKX material manufactured by KX Corporation and disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 5,019,311 to Koslow, issued May 28, 1991, and incorporated herein by reference. The PLEKX material comprises a composite material having carbon particles combined with binder particles which, through heat and pressure, are formed into a substantially uniform, stabilized mixture which can retain a preselected shape. As used herein, the PLEKX material is formed into an 8-layer stack bonded to form a filter pack by injection molding a surrounding sleeve of polymer, such as polypropylene or another elastomer, which is press-fit into the primary filter element .","Alternatively, the adsorption filter element  can comprise an immobilized bed of granulated activated charcoal fabricated from a mixture of charcoal granules and EVA-coated fibers, such as nylon or fiberglass-coated fibers. The fibers are cut to about 3 mm in length, and are combined with the charcoal granules in the approximate proportion of 20% by weight of the fibers to the granules. The mixture is heated to the melt-flow temperature of the EVA coating of the fibers, and formed into a preselected shape to conformably fit within the primary filter element .","As discussed previously, the filter canister  is shown having a threaded connection for connecting the filter canister  to the mask housing . A \u201ctwist and lock\u201d or bayonet connector as described in PCT International Publication No. WO 01\/8839 is preferably used to connect the filter canister  to the mask housing . An auxiliary filter  having a conformable elliptical shape or a conventional cylindrical shape to filter out toxic industrial materials or non-typical military contaminants can be mounted to the primary filter , preferably using a bayonet connection  as described in PCT International Publication No. WO 01\/78839. The use of a secondary filter specific to toxic industrial chemicals (TIC) or toxic industrial materials (IBM) can be used to significantly extend the life of the primary filter.","There is a stated need to broaden the scope of performance of military filters to include a very wide range of toxic industrial chemicals that occur either as vapor or liquid droplets, solid\/liquid aerosols, or particulate matter. Conventional military charcoals, being non-specific adsorbents to a great degree, possess the characteristics to remove many of these chemicals from the air stream. However, there are chemicals that are widely used in industrial processes and available in large quantities that possess toxicity high enough to be of concern to military personnel. Ammonia, formaldehyde, and ethylene oxide are three chemicals that cause such concern, and conventional military charcoals are not very effective against them. It is possible to increase the weight of charcoal adsorbent in the filter to improve protection against such chemicals, but this would impose a significantly increased burden on military personnel due to the additional weight, increased breathing resistance, and life cycle cost of the equipment. An effective way to reduce this burden is the use of the auxiliary filter  that can be added to the primary military filter as the need arises.","An example of how the combination of the primary and auxiliary filters works is described for the filtering of ammonia. A primary filter canister consisting of activated charcoal impregnated with copper, zinc, silver, molybdenum and triethylenediamine was challenged with a concentration of 1000 milligrams\/metereach of cyanogen chloride and ammonia. While the cyanogen chloride breakthrough was greater than 45 minutes, the ammonia breakthrough was less than 5 minutes. An auxiliary filter canister consisting of copper sulfate-impregnated activated carbon was attached to the primary filter and this new configuration was challenged with 1000 milligrams\/metereach of cyanogen chloride and ammonia. The breakthrough time for both cyanogen chloride and ammonia was greater than 45 minutes.","The auxiliary filter  can comprise a conventional TIC filter element arrangement or the unique filter element arrangement disclosed herein. As well, the primary filter  and auxiliary filter  can also be adapted to accept a hose fitting for use in military vehicles.","The unique filter assembly  disclosed herein improves the functionality of a conventional gas mask by conforming the primary filter  and the auxiliary filter  to the curvature of the wearer's face, thereby streamlining the profile of the mask and filter. The streamlined profile reduces the potential-that the fitter will interfere with the wearer's vision and activities (e.g. sighting a firearm), or contact objects in close proximity to the wearer, potentially damaging the filter and rendering it inoperative, and injuring the wearer. The improved adsorption filter element provides the desired filtering capability of a granulated activated charcoal filter in an elliptical, conformal filter.","Further, the bifurcated flow construction with the double particulate and adsorption filters reduce the airflow resistance through the filter compared with a comparable axial flow filter due to the increase in filtration surface area and the corresponding reduction in the face velocity. At the same time, the relatively low profile and the conformal shape minimize interference with normal activities. The filtration surface area is further increased by the elliptical shape of the filter.","The invention has been described with respect to a specific embodiment that represents the best mode for practicing the invention but should not be considered to limit the invention to any particular embodiment. The filter canister can be a circular shape or any complex shape as well as an elliptical shape. Further, the filter canister can be flat rather than conformal with the use of the bifurcated flow pattern disclosed above. Further, the method of attaching the filter canister to the mask housing can be the preferred twist and lock connector or can be threaded or any other known manner of releasably mounting the filter canister to the mask housing.","While the invention has been specifically described in connection with certain specific embodiments thereof, it is to be understood that this is by way of illustration and not of limitation. Reasonable variation and modification are possible within the scope of the foregoing description and drawings without departing from the spirit of the invention."],"GOVINT":[{},{}],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["In the drawings:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 2"],"b":["3","3"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 3"]}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
