---
title: Method for fabricating a photonic crystal
abstract: A photonically engineered incandescence is disclosed. The emitter materials and photonic crystal structure can be chosen to modify or suppress thermal radiation above a cutoff wavelength, causing the emitter to selectively emit in the visible and near-infrared portions of the spectrum. An efficient incandescent lamp is enabled thereby. A method for fabricating a three-dimensional photonic crystal of a structural material, suitable for the incandescent emitter, is also disclosed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=06869330&OS=06869330&RS=06869330
owner: Sandia Corporation
number: 06869330
owner_city: Albuquerque
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20030123
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS","STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENT INTEREST","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION","Photonically Engineered Emitter Structures","Fabrication of the Photonic Crystal","Optical Properties of the Tungsten Photonic Crystal"],"p":["This is a divisional of application Ser. No. 09\/940,962, filed Aug. 27, 2001 and since issued as U.S. Pat. No. 6,611,085.","This invention was made with Government support under contract no. DE-AC04-94AL85000 awarded by the U.S. Department of Energy to Sandia Corporation. The Government has certain rights in the invention.","The present invention relates to incandescent lamps, and more particularly to incandescent lamps made from photonically engineered thermal emitters.","Incandescent lamps offer very high quality lighting, are inexpensive, and are the most popular lighting technology for residential use. They are also, unfortunately, the least efficient (energy to useful light) lighting technology used commercially today. An excellent overview of incandescent lamp technology is given in Bergman et al., , GE Research and Development Center, Report 98CRD027, February 1998.","The lighting industry commonly uses the term luminous efficacy to describe the efficiency of a lamp. Luminous efficacy is frequently defined as the luminous flux divided by the total radiant power in units of lumens\/Watt. The luminous flux has units of lumens, and is the radiant flux weighted by the human eye response. A better description for the efficiency of a lamp is to divide the luminous flux by the total input power to the lighting source, so that the electrical performance can be factored into the comparison of lighting technologies. This disclosure will use the latter definition for luminous efficacy, since some lighting approaches have inherently less efficiency in converting input electrical power into radiant power.","The luminous efficacy of a 60 W incandescent lamp using a tungsten filament is only about 15 lumens\/Watt. The luminous efficacy of the incandescent lamp is low because much of the light (around 90%) is emitted by the tungsten filament in the non-visible infrared (wavelengths longer than 760 nm) portion of the spectrum. Fluorescent lamps are much more efficient than incandescent lamps, and have luminous efficacies between 75 and 100 lumens\/Watt. By comparison, the theoretical maximum luminous efficacy for high-quality white lighting using a broad spectral source is around 200 lumens\/Watt.","An incandescent lamp works by heating up a tungsten filament to a sufficiently high temperature (typically around 2800\u00b0 K) that it radiates in the visible portion of the electromagnetic spectrum (roughly 380 to 760 nm). Such high-temperature bodies are commonly referred to as \u201cemitters\u201d or \u201cradiators\u201d. The radiation from a high-temperature emitter is described by the theory of blackbodies. An ideal blackbody emits the theoretically maximum radiation. Real emitters do not radiate as well as an ideal blackbody. The emissivity is the ratio of the radiation from a real emitter to the radiation of an ideal blackbody, and is unitless with a value between 0 and 1.","The luminous efficacy of the incandescent lamp can be improved by modifying the emissivity of the emitter. The optimum emitter for lighting purposes would have an emissivity of unity in the visible portion of the spectrum and an emissivity of zero in the non-visible portions of the spectrum. Such an emitter would emit all the light in the useful visible portion of the spectrum and no light in the non-useful non-visible portion of the spectrum. A 2800\u00b0 K emitter with such an optimized selective emission would have a luminous efficacy approaching 200 lumens\/Watt, or over 10\u00d7 improvement compared to current incandescent lamps and 2\u00d7 improvement compared to current fluorescent lamps.","There remains a need for a high-temperature emitter that selectively emits radiation in the visible portion of the spectrum, thereby enabling an incandescent lamp having improved luminous efficacy.","The present invention provides a photonically engineered incandescent emitter, comprising a photonic crystal having a characteristic lattice constant and comprising an emitter material having a first dielectric constant and at least one other lattice material having at least one other dielectric constant and wherein the characteristic lattice constant, the emitter material, and the at least one other lattice material are chosen so as to create a photonic bandgap that suppresses or modifies thermal emission above a desired cutoff wavelength. The emitter material can comprise a refractory non-metal or a refractory metal, such as tungsten. The photonically engineered incandescent emitter can thereby be tailored to selectively emit thermal radiation in the visible and near-infrared portions of the spectrum, enabling a more efficient incandescent lamp.","The present invention further provides a method for fabricating the photonically engineered structure, suitable for the incandescent emitter, comprising forming a lattice structure mold of a sacrificial material on a substrate; depositing a structural material into the lattice structure mold; and removing the sacrificial material from the lattice structure mold. Silicon integrated circuit technology is particularly well suited to forming the lattice structure mold to enable the formation of photonic crystals of refractory materials with lattice constants on the order of the wavelength of visible light.","The present invention comprises a photonically engineered incandescent emitter that is more efficient than conventional incandescent lamps and a method for making the same. The more efficient incandescent emitter of the present invention is enabled by improving the emission selectivity of a high-temperature emitter using photonically engineered structures. Photonically engineered structures consist of materials with a periodic variation on the order of the wavelength of light. The periodic variation changes the allowed optical modes in the medium, leading to many varied and useful properties. Some photonic structures completely eliminate optical modes in all directions for a specific band of wavelengths. These structures are said to exhibit a three-dimensional (3D) photonic bandgap. A description of photonic crystals and their properties is given by Joannopoulos et al., (1995).","The thermal emission spectrum and, therefore, the emissivity can be altered by suitable modification of the properties of photonic structures. The use of photonic structures for the control of emission of thermal radiation from an object is disclosed in copending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09\/441,221 to Lin and Fleming, which is incorporated herein by reference. Modification of the thermal radiation from a photonic structure in the infrared portion of the spectrum has been described by Lin et al. in \u201cEnhancement and suppression of thermal emission by a three-dimensional photonic crystal,\u201d Phys. Rev B62, R2243 (2000). Lin et al. fabricated a 3D \u201cLincoln-Log\u201d type silicon photonic crystal with air as the second dielectric. The silicon photonic crystal had a lattice constant of 4.2 \u03bcm and a large photonic bandgap covering the infrared wavelength range from \u03bb=9-15 \u03bcm. When heated to 410\u00b0 C., the silicon photonic crystal exhibited significantly reduced emissivity between 10 and 16 \u03bcm, indicative of the 3D photonic band gap.",{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00024","num":"00024"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":"100"},"To move the photonic bandgap closer to the long-wavelength edge of visible light, the photonic crystal can have smaller dimensions and use materials that have greater dielectric contrast and can tolerate high temperatures (e.g., 2800\u00b0 K). As described by Bergman et al., the most common material used for incandescent lamp filaments are tungsten-based materials. As a metal, tungsten also offers the advantage of a large refractive index when used in a photonic crystal. A large difference in the refractive index enhances the effect of the periodic variation of the refractive index on the optical modes in the photonic crystal, thereby producing a photonic crystal with a large photonic bandgap wherein the emissivity is reduced.","The present invention discloses a 2D or 3D photonic crystal that selectively emits at visible and near-infrared wavelengths. Various types of photonic crystal structures that exhibit a 2D or 3D photonic bandgap known to those in the art are suitable for the present invention. Some examples of photonic crystal structures and the fabrication thereof are disclosed in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09\/296,702 to Fleming and Lin, which is incorporated herein by reference.","A common type of photonic crystal exhibiting a 3D photonic bandgap that will be used as an illustrative example in the present disclosure is the Lincoln-Log type of photonic crystal structure  shown schematically in FIG. . The 3D Lincoln-Log type structure comprises alternating layers , each layer  further comprising an evenly spaced row of parallel \u201clogs\u201d or rods  of material with a first dielectric constant. The spaces between the rods  are filled by a material  having a second dielectric constant. For simplicity as well as for high dielectric contrast, material  is often air. For a four-layer photonic crystal , the one-dimensional rods  have a stacking sequence that repeats itself every four layers with a repeat distance of c. Within each layer , the axes of the rods  are parallel to each other with a pitch of d. Alternate layers  are rotated by 90 degrees relative to the previous layer. Between each layer , the rods  are shifted relative to each other by 0.5 d. The resulting structure has a face-centered-tetragonal lattice symmetry of which the diamond structure is a subset. For the special case of c\/d=1.414, the crystal  can be derived from a face-centered-cubic unit cell with a basis of two rods.","Photonic crystal structures exhibiting 2D or 3D photonic bandgaps suitable for the present invention can be fabricated by various methods known to those skilled in the art. The vertical topology of the 3D photonic crystal structure can be built by repetitive deposition and etching of multiple dielectric films in a layer-by-layer method. One layer-by-layer method for fabricating the photonic crystal is to build up the structure directly with the structural material, as was done for the silicon photonic crystal of Lin et al., described above. Alternatively, the fabrication process can comprise forming a lattice structure mold for the structural material in a sacrificial material, selective deposition of the structural material into the lattice structure mold, and finally removing the sacrificial material from the backfilled mold to leave a photonic crystal of the structural material. The latter method may have advantages for structural materials that can otherwise build up large residual stresses during a direct layer-by-layer fabrication process. This fabrication process can be used to form photonic crystals of a wide variety of structural materials that can be deposited by a conformal process, including metals, metal alloys, and semiconductors.","For illustrative purposes, described below and illustrated in -is a layer-by-layer fabrication sequence for a 3D Lincoln Log tungsten photonic crystal suitable for the incandescent emitter of the present invention. The tungsten photonic crystal described herein has a pitch between adjacent rods of d=4.2 \u03bcm, a rod width of w=1.2 \u03bcm, and a layer thickness of 1.6 \u03bcm. Photonic crystals of other refractory metals and non-metals, such as tungsten alloys, silicon carbide, carbon, and titania, are also suitable for the photonically engineered incandescent emitter of present invention.","The lattice structure mold can be formed by sequential deposition of a cavity-forming structural material, such as polysilicon, in alternating patterned layers of a sacrificial mold material, such as silica (SiO). The basic layer-by-layer polysilicon in silica fabrication sequence is described by Lin et al. in 394, 251 (1998) and in the copending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09\/296,702 to Fleming and Lin. The layer-by-layer fabrication method disclosed by Fleming and Lin enables layered material composition with precise thickness, planarity, and alignment control.","In , a first layer  comprised of the sacrificial mold material, e.g., silica, is deposited onto a silicon substrate . The thickness of silica layer  is greater than the desired thickness of the first structured layer  of the photonic lattice, whose thickness is typically in the range 0.02-10 \u03bcm, depending on the cutoff wavelength of interest. For the 3D tungsten photonic crystal described herein, the thickness of the structured layer  can be 1.6 \u03bcm, and the initial thickness of silica layer  can be approximately 2.0 \u03bcm.",{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00032","num":"00032"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 3"],"i":["b ","b"],"b":["310","311","310","310","311","311","310","300","311"]},"In , polysilicon  can be deposited by chemical vapor deposition to fill in the regions between the silica spacer bars . Again, the polysilicon thickness can be greater than the desired final thickness of the first structured layer . Depositing the polysilicon  generally leads to a complex and non-planar surface . Such a rough and uneven surface could result in a poor quality photonic crystal, due to scattering and uncontrolled reflections at the growth surface. Therefore, chemical-mechanical-polishing (CMP) of the growth surface is performed to planarize the growth surface prior to deposition of subsequent structural layers. CMP of the general type used in the present invention is disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 5,998,298 to Fleming et al., which is incorporated herein by reference.","As shown in , a first structured layer  comprising a planar pattern of silica spacer bars  and polysilicon rods  is thereby produced. The polysilicon rods  are elongate, roughly rectangular in cross section, and can be 1.2 \u03bcm wide and 1.6 \u03bcm thick.","As shown in , repeating the same basic set of growth and processing steps, multiple structured layers  can be grown on top of the substrate  to form the desired photonic lattice structure  with polysilicon. To form the Lincoln-Log structure, the orientation of the polysilicon rods  is rotated 90\u00b0 between each structured layer , and between every other layer the rods  are shifted relative to each other by half of the pitch d. The structure  thereby has a face-centered-tetragonal lattice symmetry.","As shown in , the polysilicon rods  can then be removed to form the lattice structure mold . The polysilicon rods  can be removed using a 6M, 85\u00b0 C. KOH etch, which has a selectivity of \u02dc100:1 (Si to SiO). Over-etch during the KOH process, which is desirable to ensure the removal of all the polysilicon , can result in the formation of a \u201cV\u201d structure  on the bottom of the layer  contacting the silicon substrate . This is due to etching of the underlying silicon substrate  and is dependent on the substrate crystallographic orientation. The KOH etch effectively stops when the etch-front encounters the slow etching (111) planes of the silicon substrate , thereby forming the \u201cV\u201d groove .","As shown in , the lattice structure mold  can be backfilled with a structural material. A variety of deposition processes, such as chemical vapor deposition (CVD), electroplating, or infiltration with spin-on glasses or nanoparticles, can be used for the backfilling of the mold , so long as the sacrificial material (e.g., silica) can later be selectively removed from the backfilled structural material. For example, III-V compound semiconductors, II-VI materials, single and mixed oxides, nitrides, oxynitrides, metals, and metal alloys can be deposited by CVD. A precursor conducting coating can be applied to the lattice structure mold  and a wide variety of metals can be electroplated from a solution to backfill the mold . Typical electroplated metals include copper, nickel, gold, iron, silver, cobalt, and chromium.","The lattice structure mold  can be backfilled with tungsten via CVD to form tungsten rods  embedded in the silica mold material . A precursor 50 nm thick TiN adhesion layer (not shown) can be deposited on the mold  by reactive ion sputtering, since the blanket CVD tungsten film does not adhere to silicon dioxide. Tungsten can be deposited at high pressure (e.g., 90 Torr) from WFand H. The chemical vapor deposition of tungsten results in films of very high purity. The tungsten film can have a resistivity of 10 \u03bcOhm-cm. Backfilling of the mold  with CVD tungsten  can result is a rough and uneven tungsten growth surface  on the top surface of the mold .","As shown in the top surface of the backfilled mold  can planarized by CMP to remove the excess tungsten. A scanning electron micrograph of a tungsten-backfilled, planarized mold  is shown in . As shown in , a keyhole  can be formed in the center of the more deeply embedded lines of the tungsten rods , since the step coverage of the CVD tungsten deposition process is not 100%. However, the film thickness is far greater than the skin depth of tungsten for electromagnetic radiation in the visible and infrared.","Finally, as shown in , the silica spacer bars  can be removed from the tungsten-backfilled and planarized lattice structure mold  by selective etching with a 1:1 HF-based solution. The result is a 3D tungsten photonic crystal  comprising stacked tungsten rods  on the silicon substrate . shows a scanning electron micrograph of the four-layer tungsten photonic crystal  comprising the stacked tungsten rods  on the silicon substrate . The tungsten photonic crystal  has a stacking sequence that repeats itself every four layers, and has a face-center-tetragonal lattice symmetry. The tungsten rod  width is 1.2 \u03bcm, rod-to-rod spacing is 4.2 \u03bcm and the filling fraction of the high index tungsten is 28%. The tungsten photonic crystal  retains sufficient structural integrity to be handled readily.","This fabrication process can be extended to create almost any interconnected photonic crystal having selective emissivity at visible or infrared wavelengths. For example, current state-of-the-art silicon integrated circuit processing tools are capable of shrinking the minimum feature sizes to those required for structures that have photonic bandgaps in the near infrared and have selective emissivity in the visible. See, e.g., \u201cInternational Technology Roadmap for Semiconductors,\u201d 1999 Edition [retrieved on Aug. 9, 2001]. Retrieved from the Internet:<URL: http:\/\/public.itrs.net\/files\/1999_SIA_Road map\/Home.htm>.","The optical properties of the 3D tungsten photonic crystal  fabricated according to the above process were characterized using a Fourier-transform infrared measurement system for wavelengths ranging from 1.5 to 25 \u03bcm. To obtain reflectance (R), a sample spectrum was taken from a 3D tungsten photonic crystal  first and then normalized to a reference spectrum of a uniform silver mirror. To find the absolute transmittance (T), a transmission spectrum taken from a tungsten photonic crystal  was normalized to that of a bare silicon wafer. This normalization procedure was to calibrate away extrinsic effects, such as light reflection at the air-silicon interface and absorption of the silicon substrate .",{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00043","num":"00043"},"figref":"FIG. 5","b":["510","520","380","530","380","510","520","380"]},"As shown in , tilt-angle reflection spectra  were taken to determine the angular dependence of the photonic band gap. For tilt-angle transmission measurements, the tungsten photonic crystal  was mounted on a rotational stage and the rotational angles spanned from light incident angles from 0\u00b0 to 60\u00b0, measured from the surface normal (i.e., the <001> direction). The crystal orientation is tilted from the <001> to <110> axes. The light incident angle is therefore systematically tilted away from G-X\u2032 toward G-L of the first Brillouin zone. Four tilt-angle spectra  are shown in , for light incident angles of 10, 30, 40, and 50\u00b0, respectively. As the light incident angle is increased, the band edge position moves from \u03bb\u02dc6 \u03bcm for q=10\u00b0 to \u03bb\u02dc8 \u03bcm for q=50\u00b0. Both the oscillating features at \u03bb<6 \u03bcm and the high reflectance at longer wavelength remain for all light incident angles. Therefore, a large complete 3D photonic band gap exists, from \u03bb\u02dc8 \u03bcm to \u03bb>20 \u03bcm, for the tungsten photonic crystal .",{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00045","num":"00045"},"figref":"FIG. 7","b":["700","710","700","700","700","700","700"],"sup":["\u22128 ","\u22121"]},"Such an extraordinarily large band gap is ideally suited for suppressing broadband Blackbody radiation in the infrared and re-cycling radiant energy into visible spectrum.  shows the spectral emissivity  of the tungsten photonic crystal . The crystal  has a photonic bandgap (region with nearly zero emissivity) over a large range in the far infrared (8 \u03bcm<\u03bb<25 \u03bcm) portion of the spectrum. The very large photonic bandgap and large reduction in emissivity  in the far infrared is due to the use of metal for the photonic crystal. In the photon recycling process, the photonic band gap completely frustrates infrared thermal emission and selectively forces the radiation into near-infrared and visible emission. Consequently, energy is not wasted in heat generation, but rather re-channeled into a useful emission band. The lattice constant and refractory material of the photonic crystal can be determined by the fabrication process. Therefore, the emission band can be tailored to be in the visible when the photonic crystal is heated up to an elevated temperature of >1500\u00b0 C., giving rise to a highly efficient incandescent lamp.","It will be understood that the above description is merely illustrative of the applications of the principles of the present invention, the scope of which is to be determined by the claims viewed in light of the specification. Other variants and modifications of the invention will be apparent to those of skill in the art."],"GOVINT":[{},{}],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The accompanying drawings, which are incorporated in and form part of the specification, illustrate the present invention and, together with the description, describe the invention. In the drawings, like elements are referred to by like numbers.",{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00014","num":"00014"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00015","num":"00015"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00016","num":"00016"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00017","num":"00017"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 4","FIG. 4"],"i":["a ","b "]},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00018","num":"00018"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00019","num":"00019"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00020","num":"00020"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00021","num":"00021"},"figref":"FIG. 8"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
