---
title: Adaptive web-based asset control system
abstract: Disclosed herein is an adaptive Internet-based product control system that utilizes web technology to gather and present asset control data in an environment with constantly changing requirements due to various third party demands and/or funding restrictions. The present system tracks third party assets, provides real-time data regarding current status, and assists in returning the assets to the customer in a more timely fashion. The system can adapt to constantly changing user requirements by use of a Cold Fusion database interface to a set of data files that can be constructed and reconstructed on-the-fly. Multiple third party structures are supported with one central data file that handles the security logs and one central tasking data bank for tracking specific third party funding/tasking. The system also interfaces with bar code readers to gather of asset data and to upload it at a later time.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07685207&OS=07685207&RS=07685207
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 07685207
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20030725
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"GOVINT":[{},{}],"heading":["STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENT INTEREST","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS"],"p":["The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.","1. Field of the Invention","The present invention relates to database technology and, more particularly, to adaptive data management systems that may be accessed via the world wide web and, even more particularly, asset control systems utilized to manipulate, organize, and display product and\/or component data, in a military repair\/storage depot environment, despite constantly changing requirements due to various third party (i.e. customer) demands and\/or funding restrictions.","2. Description of the Background","A military repair\/storage depot is an extremely dynamic environment. At any given moment, any number of high- and low-tech systems\/components (\u201cassets\u201d) may be in the process of being transferred (i.e. shipped) into, or out of, the facility. As the name \u201crepair\/storage\u201d depot implies, the incoming and outgoing assets generally belong to third parties and are present at the facility to take advantage of either the technical skills\/knowledge of the personnel stationed there, or the warehouse space that is available on-site. Assets present for either reason must be carefully tracked to ensure that they are readily available to their owners. In this regard, the assets and any allocation of the depot's resources (e.g. repair personnel, storage space) must be matched in the most efficient manner possible.","Inefficiencies in the tracking of assets and the allocation of resources can result in significant asset unavailability and increased labor costs. Therefore, it is particularly important with large scale repair\/storage contracting to provide a database system capable of proper and timely asset control despite widely varying third party needs.","Four examples of widely varying third party requirements are as follows: Customer A has simple assets but requires (1) any shipment of those assets, into or out of a repair\/storage facility, to be accompanied by specified shipping documents and (2) any database containing information about those assets to be secure and to provide limited access for certain viewers. Customer B has simple assets, although quite different from those of Customer A, requiring only minimal database security (i.e. allowing the data to be shared by many individuals) and utilizes a traditional supply support system (e.g. applying integrated logistics support \u201cILS\u201d management techniques as described within DEF STAN 00-60 during the project life cycle). Customer C is a governmental entity, such as a Navy or Army base, dealing with complex products that contain sub-products. Customer D requires paper movement only (i.e. a typical support role for inventory management). In the context of an asset control system, each of these hypothetical third parties will require a different customer profile. Moreover, as time passes, an existing customer's profile (e.g. data access requirements, shipping procedures) may change, funding sources may change, and new third party accounts will need to be established. Each of these changes will necessitate one or more changes to the database system tracking the various assets.","There is commercially available software that may be utilized for asset control (i.e. to establish job plans and work plans). One such job planning software package is MAXIMO\u00ae, a program developed and available from PSDI, Inc. MAXIMO\u00ae is designed to help organizations reduce equipment downtime, closely control and track maintenance expenses, cut spare parts inventories and costs, improve safety, increase purchasing efficiency, and more effectively deploy productive assets, personnel, and other resources. MAXIMO\u00ae is an advanced materials management solution that offers web-based storeroom management. Customers can use their Internet browser to create and send material requisitions directly via MAXIMO\u00ae, where they are filled from storeroom inventory or by purchase from a manufacturer or complementary supplier. Orders can be executed electronically. Unfortunately, while MAXIMO\u00ae, as supplied by PSDI, could be used to address some aspects of the present need (i.e. asset control in a military repair\/storage depot environment), it possesses only limited flexibility and, therefore, would require the expenditure of a significant amount of capital to complete the customization\/reprogramming effort needed to render it fully functional.","Other commercially available software programs that are useful in resource planning are job standards programs. These programs are used to create, maintain, and manipulate standards for maintenance work (i.e. detailing the steps to be taken and man-hours\/trades needed to complete a task), allowing a user to construct new standards using information retained in a database. An example of this type of software is AutoMOST\u00ae available from H.B. Maynard and Company, Inc.","There are also a number of patents that are illustrative of \u201cadaptive data management\u201d software applications. For example, U.S. Pat. Nos. 5,970,475 to Barnes et al. (see reference numeral  in ) and 6,157,928 to Sprenger et al. (See reference numeral  in ) disclose data access via Internet or web-based applications. Additionally, the Barnes et al. patent provides an example of customer\/user-definable data formats\/templates.","Thus, dynamic scalable web-enabled databases with customer\/user-definable data formats\/templates are fairly well-known. However, none of the foregoing examples are capable of gathering data from customers in real time, and then constructing data files on-the-fly. It would be greatly advantageous to provide an adaptive web-based asset control system that utilizes web technology to gather and present asset control data despite constantly changing requirements due to various third party demands and\/or funding restrictions.","It is, therefore, the primary object of the present invention to provide an improved asset control system for use in a military repair\/supply depot environment.","It is another object of the present invention to provide an improved asset control system that is Internet or web accessible.","Yet another object of the present invention is to provide an improved asset control system that accommodates constantly changing requirements due to various user demands and\/or funding restrictions.","It is another object of the present invention to provide an improved asset control system that is capable of gathering data from users in real time and constructing data files on-the-fly.","It is still another object of the present invention to provide an improved asset control system that is simple and straightforward for new users to learn and use.","These and other objects are accomplished by an adaptive, web-based asset control system that utilizes web technology to gather and present asset control data in an environment with constantly changing requirements due to various third party (e.g. customer) demands and\/or funding restrictions. The present system tracks third party assets, provides real-time data regarding current status, and assists in returning the assets to the customer in a more timely fashion. Moreover, the system is adaptable and relatively non-complex so that it can easily be learned and utilized by all users.","The present invention possesses the means to adapt to constantly changing user requirements through its use of a Cold Fusion database interface to a set of data files that can be constructed and reconstructed on-the-fly. Multiple third party structures are supported with one central data file that handles the security logs and one central tasking data bank for tracking specific third party funding\/tasking. The present invention incorporates log in security and limits data accessibility based on the assigned rights and\/or specific duties of the logged in user. The present invention includes, as will be discussed in detail below, \u201cHome\u201d, \u201cPC\u201d, \u201cTech\u201d, \u201cReports\u201d, \u201cTasks\u201d, \u201cOptions\u201d, \u201cDB Sel\u201d, \u201cLogistics\u201d, and \u201cAdmin\u201d modules\/interfaces. The present invention also interfaces with bar code readers to provide for the gathering of asset data and to allow users to enter data as it happens (e.g. technicians entering repair data) for uploading at a later time.","As mentioned above, the present invention utilizes a Cold Fusion server interface. MacroMedia\u00ae Cold Fusion MX is a server platform that allows developers to easily integrate Internet applications with databases, XML, web services, etc. Specifically, Cold Fusion Studio and Cold Fusion Server 4.01 were used.","In use, the collected data is stored in Microsoft SQL 7.0 server database tables and is made accessible with existing Microsoft products (e.g. Internet Explorer 4.0\/5.0, Access 97).","A number of acronyms are found in the instant specification and . The acronyms are defined as follows:\n\n","The present invention is an adaptive web-based product control system that utilizes web technology to gather and present product control data in an environment with constantly changing requirements due to various customer demands and\/or funding restrictions. The present system tracks customer assets, provides real-time data of current status, and helps to return the assets to the customer in a more timely fashion. Moreover, the system is adaptable and relatively non-complex so that it can easily be learned by all users.","The adaptive web-based product control system according to the present invention utilizes a Cold Fusion server interface. MacroMedia\u00ae Cold Fusion MX is a server platform that allows developers to easily integrate Internet applications with databases, XML, web services, etc. Specifically, Cold Fusion Studio and Cold Fusion Server 4.01 were used. Cold Fusion Studio and Cold Fusion Server 4.01 provide the dynamic interface to the gathered data. In addition, common web software (e.g. Cascading Style Sheets, Java-script and ASP) adds enhancements and speed to improve the user interactions with the data.","The collected data is stored in Microsoft SQL 7.0 server database tables and is made accessible with existing Microsoft products (i.e. Internet Explorer 4.0\/5.0, Access 97).","The concept for this invention is the utilization of a Cold Fusion database interface with a set of data files that can be constructed and re-constructed on the fly (i.e. DHMTL concepts), allowing the software to adapt to needs of different customers. Due to their changing environments, customers may change profiles at any time. The present invention provides for the creation of customer accounts (i.e. unique databases\u2014concept proof is provided in Access 97, but could be any web accessible database) by gathering minimum baseline data then populating data tables that change the presentation of information so that unique data can be gathered\/displayed for that customer (i.e. trends may be based on different hardware repair procedures and parts). Above this customer layer, lies a control system that gathers typical and common product control data (i.e. cost center numbers, status codes, tasking that directs work).","The invention is structured to be separate data files with its unique data tables that address the needs of each customer. At present there are eleven different customer structures with one central data file that handles the security logs and a central tasking data bank for tracking funding and specific tasking to the repair shop. The invention utilizes log on security and assigns permission rights and limits the accessibility of the site to specific duties of the log-in user.","Software Architecture","The software includes a multi-step Log In procedure with various levels of user rights, a \u201cHome\u201d module\/interface, a \u201cPC\u201d (i.e. product control) module\/interface, a \u201cTech\u201d (i.e. technical data input) module\/interface, a \u201cReports\u201d module\/interface, a \u201cTasks\u201d module\/interface, an \u201cOptions\u201d module\/interface, a \u201cDB Sel\u201d (i.e. database selection) module\/interface, a \u201cLogistics\u201d module\/interface, and an \u201cAdmin\u201d (i.e. system administration) module\/interface. Each of the modules\/interfaces is described in greater detail below.","Log in Procedure\/User Rights","The flowchart of  shows the steps required to log in to the production control system of the present invention. After validating, at step , the information entered by the user on the log in screen (see ) at step , the user is provided, at step , with the menu access rights commensurate with his\/her status as defined in  through .","The log in screen of  provides a user with a field  in which his\/her name is entered and a second field  in which a password is entered. Once the appropriate information has been entered into the two fields , , the user clicks on button  to proceed to the screen shown in  (see discussion below). Hyperlink  is provided to allow a user to set up a new account. Hyperlink  provides any user with the opportunity to forward information to the individual in charge of maintaining the software application of the present invention (e.g. to report a \u201cbug\u201d).","The menu access rights, as indicated by \u201cA\u201d through \u201cI\u201d, are defined as follows; \u201cA\u201d refers to production controller links or the \u201cPC\u201d button  at the top of a typical screen layout (see ), \u201cB\u201d refers to technician\/technical data links or the \u201cTech\u201d button , \u201cC\u201d refers to report links or the \u201cReports\u201d button , \u201cD\u201d refers to job task links or the \u201cTasks\u201d button , \u201cE\u201d refers to program options or the \u201cOptions\u201d button , \u201cF\u201d refers to database selection or the \u201cDB Sel\u201d button , \u201cG\u201d refers to logistics links or the \u201cLogistics\u201d button , \u201cH\u201d refers to administration links or the \u201cAdmin\u201d button , and \u201cI\u201d refers to production controller administration rights or a sub-menu item associated with the \u201cPC\u201d button. Each of the buttons controls access to a specific module\/interface.","Once the appropriate menu access right has been provided, the user is allowed to select and set, at steps  and , respectively, the database in which he\/she will operate. This is accomplished via the database selection screen shown in . At the database selection screen, the user is provided with the means to select one of the databases to which he\/she has access rights via the choices shown on the drop down menu at , which then appears in field , prior to clicking on the \u201cChoose\u201d button .","The following table shows the correlation between the data entered via the screens shown in  and the data tables of :",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0072","num":"0082"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00001","num":"00001"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"4"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"21pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"91pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"21pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"84pt","align":"center"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":[{},"Data Entry Point",{},"Data Table\/Field"]},{"entry":["FIG.","Reference Numeral","FIG.","Reference Numeral"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["1B","12","29D","12\u2032"]},{"entry":["1B","13","29D","13\u2032"]},{"entry":["1C","42","29D","42\u2032"]},{"entry":["1C","43","29D","43\u2032"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}},"\u201cHome\u201d Module\/Interface","A software application is typically provided with a home screen that is made available to a logged in user.  is a screen print of the information shown when a user clicks on the \u201cHome\u201d button . In addition to indicating, at  and , respectively, the user's name\/ID and the database into which the named user is logged in, a series of hyperlinks - is provided.","Hyperlinks - replicate the functionality associated with buttons -. This replicated functionality is provided because some users prefer to navigate via hyperlinks while others prefer buttons. Hyperlinks - provide access to additional functional areas of the present invention. For example, hyperlink  provides for the changing of the user's password and hyperlink  allows a user to download the true type font required for the printing of bar codes (i.e. a set up step required prior to the use of a barcode reader for technical data input). Additionally, hyperlink  provides access to the screen shown in  where users may request\/propose changes to the software application of the present invention by indicating the appropriate software sub-section via the choices shown on the drop down menu at , which then appears in field , and entering (1) a description of the request\/proposal at , (2) the date of the request\/proposal at , and (3) his\/her name at .","The following table shows the correlation between the data entered via the screen shown in  and the data tables of :",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0077","num":"0087"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00002","num":"00002"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"4"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"21pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"91pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"21pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"84pt","align":"center"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":[{},"Data Entry Point",{},"Data Table\/Field"]},{"entry":["FIG.","Reference Numeral","FIG.","Reference Numeral"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["2B","87","29J","87\u2032"]},{"entry":["2B","88","29J","88\u2032"]},{"entry":["2B","89","29J","89\u2032"]},{"entry":["2B","99","29J","99\u2032"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}},"\u201cPC\u201d Module\/Interface","Asset control software must include the means for creating new data records or editing previously entered information.  is a screen print of the information shown when a user clicks on the \u201cPC\u201d button . In addition to indicating, at , the database into which the user is logged in, a series of hyperlinks - is provided.","Hyperlink  provides access to the screen shown in  into which data is entered by the user to create a new job and associated serial number. The data entered includes \u201cToday's Date\u201d in field , the \u201cNSN\u201d via drop down menu  which then appears in field  or the \u201cEquipment\u201d via drop down menu  which then appears in field , the \u201cTask Request Number\u201d in field , the \u201cPurpose Code\u201d via drop down menu  which then appears in field , the \u201cRequested Task\u201d via drop down menu  which then appears in field , the \u201cSerial Number\u201d in field , the \u201cOwner\u201d via drop down menu  which then appears in field  or the \u201cUIC\u201d via drop down menu  which then appears in field , the \u201cTransfer Date In\u201d in field , the \u201cICN\u201d in field , the \u201cSchedule Control Number\u201d in field , the \u201cIncoming Document Number\u201d in field , and \u201cComments\u201d in field .","Hyperlinks - provide access to data input screens (not shown in the Figures) where existing jobs may be closed out or queried as to condition. Hyperlinks ,  provide access to data input screens (not shown in the Figures) where information on closed out\/shipped jobs may be sorted and displayed by serial number and equipment description, or by serial number and national stock number (NSN). Hyperlinks ,  provide access to data input screens (not shown in the Figures) where existing jobs may be selected and\/or listed for shipment.","Finally, hyperlink  provides access to the screen shown in  into which data is entered by the user to edit the information associated with a specific old job. The data that may be edited includes \u201cToday's Transaction Date\u201d in field , the \u201cJob Status\u201d via drop down menu  which then appears in field , the \u201cRequested Task\u201d via drop down menu  which then appears in field , the \u201cNSN\u201d via drop down menu  which then appears in field  or the \u201cEquipment\u201d via drop down menu  which then appears in field , the \u201cSerial Number\u201d in field , the \u201cProduction Controller Comments\u201d in field , the \u201cTransfer Date In\u201d in field , the \u201cItem came in from\u201d via drop down menu  which then appears in field , the \u201cICN\u201d in field , the \u201cIncoming Document Number\u201d in field , the \u201cSchedule Number\u201d in field , the \u201cItem to be shipped to\u201d via drop down menu  which then appears in field , the \u201cTICN\u201d in field , the \u201cOutgoing Document Number\u201d in field , and the \u201cTransfer Date Out\u201d in field .","Hyperlink  also allows the user to generate a hard copy shop traveler such as that shown in . A shop traveler, showing information such as job number , serial number , and\/or NSN , generally accompanies the equipment as it proceeds through the various repair steps\/shops. The traveler also includes space  where technicians may hand-write additional information that may be added to the present invention's computer data record at a later time. In general, the space  will only be utilized when, for some reason, a technician's computer workstation is down.","The following table shows the correlation between the data entered via the screens shown in  and the data tables of :",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0085","num":"0095"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00003","num":"00003"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"4"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"21pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"91pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"21pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"84pt","align":"center"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":[{},"Data Entry Point",{},"Data Table\/Field"]},{"entry":["FIG.","Reference Numeral","FIG.","Reference Numeral"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["4","222","29B","222\u2032"]},{"entry":["4, 5","224","29B","224\u2032"]},{"entry":["4, 5","226","29B","226\u2032"]},{"entry":["4, 5","227","29B","227\u2032"]},{"entry":["4","230","29B","230\u2032"]},{"entry":["4, 5","501","29A","501\u2032"]},{"entry":["4","502","29A","502\u2032"]},{"entry":["4","503","29B","503\u2032"]},{"entry":["4","504","29E","504\u2032"]},{"entry":["4, 5","505","29A","505\u2032"]},{"entry":["4, 5","506","29E","506\u2032"]},{"entry":["4, 5","507","29B","507\u2032"]},{"entry":["4","508","29A","508\u2032"]},{"entry":["4","509","29B","509\u2032"]},{"entry":["4, 5","510","29B","510\u2032"]},{"entry":["4, 5","511","29B","511\u2032"]},{"entry":["4, 5","512","29B","512\u2032"]},{"entry":["4, 5","513","29B","513\u2032"]},{"entry":["4, 5","514","29B","514\u2032"]},{"entry":["4","515","29B","515\u2032"]},{"entry":["5","521","29B","521\u2032"]},{"entry":["5","522","29B","522\u2032"]},{"entry":["5","529","29B","515\u2032"]},{"entry":["5","533","29B","533\u2032"]},{"entry":["5","534","29B","534\u2032"]},{"entry":["5","535","29B","535\u2032"]},{"entry":["5","536","29B","536\u2032"]},{"entry":["5","537","29E","537\u2032"]},{"entry":["5","538","29A","508\u2032"]},{"entry":["5","539","29A","508\u2032"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}},"\u201cTech\u201d Module\/Interface","An asset control system must provide for the inputting and monitoring of technical information associated with each asset.  is a screen print of the information shown when a user, typically a repair technician as opposed to a customer, clicks on the \u201cTech\u201d button . In addition to indicating, at , the database into which the user is logged in, a series of hyperlinks - is provided.","Hyperlinks - provide access to data input screens (those associated with hyperlinks , , , and  are not shown in the Figures) typically utilized by repair technicians to enter information associated with a specific job or type of equipment. In particular, hyperlink  provides the technician with access to the screen shown in  in order to edit the information associated with a specific in-process job. The information that may be edited includes the \u201cJob Start Date\u201d in field , the \u201cJob Status\u201d via drop down menu  which then appears in field , the \u201cFailure Description\u201d via drop down menu  which then appears in field , the \u201cTotal Labor\u201d in field , the \u201cRepair (Parts) Total\u201d in field , the \u201cJob Completion Date\u201d in field , the \u201cJob Description\u201d via drop down menu  which then appears in field , the \u201cRepair Description\u201d via drop down menu  which then appears in field , the \u201cRepair Comments\u201d in field , and the \u201cParts Used\u201d in field .","Hyperlink  provides a technician with access to the data entry screen of .  shows an example of a unique third party requirement\u2014a screen layout of an Image Intensifier Test Data Sheet prior to its completion by a repair technician. The data that is entered includes the \u201cAIMS File Name\u201d in field , the \u201cAIMS MTF\u201d in field , the \u201cR\u201d in field , the \u201cEBI\u201d in field , the \u201cMaximum Gain\u201d in field , the \u201cMinimum Gain\u201d in field , the \u201cInput Current\u201d in field , the \u201cSignal to Noise Ratio\u201d in field , the \u201cCenter Resolution\u201d in field , \u201cVisual Quality\u201d information in fields -, the \u201cReason for Failure\u201d in field , the \u201cQA Result\u201d in field , the \u201cLabor Hours\u201d in field , \u201cComments\u201d in field , and the \u201cDate\u201d in field .","Hyperlink  provides a technician with access to previously entered data such as that shown in the screen print of . As one can see, image intensifiers have many data points that must be tracked to, for example, provide an engineering trend analysis. This module\/interface accommodates the entry and reporting of such data. This module also may be used as a source of historical asset information by a technician, such that proper repair decisions may be made or that repeat failures are identified.","The following table shows the correlation between the data entered via the screens shown in  and the data tables of :",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0092","num":"0102"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00004","num":"00004"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"4"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"21pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"91pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"21pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"84pt","align":"center"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":[{},"Data Entry Point",{},"Data Table\/Field"]},{"entry":["FIG.","Reference Numeral","FIG.","Reference Numeral"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["7B","537","29E","537\u2032"]},{"entry":["7B","541","29C","541\u2032"]},{"entry":["7B","542","29C","542\u2032"]},{"entry":["7B","544","29C","544\u2032"]},{"entry":["7B","545","29C","545\u2032"]},{"entry":["7B","546","29C","546\u2032"]},{"entry":["7B","547","29C","547\u2032"]},{"entry":["7B","548","29C","542\u2032"]},{"entry":["7B","549","29C","549\u2032"]},{"entry":["7B","551","29C","551\u2032"]},{"entry":["7B","552","29C","552\u2032"]},{"entry":["7B","553","29A","553\u2032"]},{"entry":["7B","555","29C","555\u2032"]},{"entry":["7B","556","29E","556\u2032"]},{"entry":["8","561","29G","561\u2032"]},{"entry":["8","562","29G","562\u2032"]},{"entry":["8","563","29G","563\u2032"]},{"entry":["8","564","29G","564\u2032"]},{"entry":["8","565","29G","565\u2032"]},{"entry":["8","566","29G","566\u2032"]},{"entry":["8","567","29G","567\u2032"]},{"entry":["8","568","29G","568\u2032"]},{"entry":["8","569","29G","569\u2032"]},{"entry":["8","570","29G","570\u2032"]},{"entry":["8","571","29G","571\u2032"]},{"entry":["8","572","29G","572\u2032"]},{"entry":["8","573","29G","573\u2032"]},{"entry":["8","574","29G","574\u2032"]},{"entry":["8","575","29G","575\u2032"]},{"entry":["8","576","29G","576\u2032"]},{"entry":["8","577","29G","577\u2032"]},{"entry":["8","578","29G","578\u2032"]},{"entry":["8","579","29G","579\u2032"]},{"entry":["8","580","29G","580\u2032"]},{"entry":["8","581","29G","581\u2032"]},{"entry":["8","582","29G","582\u2032"]},{"entry":["8","583","29G","583\u2032"]},{"entry":["8","584","29G","584\u2032"]},{"entry":["8","585","29G","585\u2032"]},{"entry":["8","586","29G","586\u2032"]},{"entry":["8","587","29G","587\u2032"]},{"entry":["8","588","29G","588\u2032"]},{"entry":["8","589","29G","589\u2032"]},{"entry":["8","590","29G","590\u2032"]},{"entry":["8","591","29G","591\u2032"]},{"entry":["8","592","29G","592\u2032"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}},"\u201cReports\u201d Module\/Interface","To provide for the efficient interpretation of available data, it must be presented in an appropriate format. In general, the most appropriate format is one that is user-defined or user-selected from a plurality of configuration parameters. This module provides a series of user-definable report structures and graphs to display asset information for a variety of users and\/or purposes (e.g. an overall look at workload issues).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0095","num":"0105"},"figref":"FIG. 10","b":["64","79","130","131","135","130","131","135","136","130","130"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0096","num":"0106"},"figref":["FIGS. 11 and 12","FIG. 10","FIG. 11","FIG. 12"],"b":["135","79","140","141","142","143","79","145","146","147","148","149"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0097","num":"0107"},"figref":["FIGS. 13-16B","FIG. 13"],"b":["150","151","152","153","154","155","156","157","158","159","79","185","151"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0098","num":"0108"},"figref":"FIG. 14","b":["160","161","162","163","164","165","166","167","168","169","79","162"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0099","num":"0109"},"figref":["FIG. 15A","FIG. 15B"],"b":["170","79","171","173","174","175","176","177","178","179","172","173","172","183","184","186","187","188","189"]},"Column  provides a user with the ability to indicate, by clicking on the appropriate box, which jobs are ready to be shipped (i.e. in the case of a repair, ready to be returned to the owner). After indicating, in column , the jobs that are ready for shipment, button  is clicked to \u201ctag\u201d, within the database, those jobs for the manual steps required to physically ship the item(s). Clicking on button  resets, or clears, any of the boxes in column  that may have been clicked on earlier in the user's work session.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0101","num":"0111"},"figref":["FIG. 16A","FIG. 16B"],"b":["190","79","191","193","194","195","196","197","198","199","200","192","193","192","370","371","372","373","374","375","376","377","378","379","380","371","380","192","381"],"sub":"\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014"},"The following table shows the correlation between the data entered via the screen shown in  and the data tables of :",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0103","num":"0113"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00005","num":"00005"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"4"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"21pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"91pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"21pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"84pt","align":"center"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":[{},"Data Entry Point",{},"Data Table\/Field"]},{"entry":["FIG.","Reference Numeral","FIG.","Reference Numeral"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["16B","370","29B","370\u2032"]},{"entry":["16B","371","29B","371\u2032"]},{"entry":["16B","372","29B","372\u2032"]},{"entry":["16B","373","29B","373\u2032"]},{"entry":["16B","374","29B","374\u2032"]},{"entry":["16B","375","29B","375\u2032"]},{"entry":["16B","376","29B","376\u2032"]},{"entry":["16B","377","29B","377\u2032"]},{"entry":["16B","378","29B","378\u2032"]},{"entry":["16B","379","29B","379\u2032"]},{"entry":["16B","380","29B","380\u2032"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}},"\u201cTasks\u201d Module\/Interface","An asset control system must provide for the creation and maintenance of \u201ctask\u201d information (i.e. directions given to a repair shop\/warehouse to perform some action) associated with each asset.  is a screen print of the information shown when a user clicks on the \u201cTasks\u201d button . In addition to indicating, at , the database into which the user is logged in, a series of hyperlinks - is provided.","Hyperlinks  and  provide access to data input screens (that associated with hyperlink  is not shown in the Figures) typically utilized by a user (e.g. customer with appropriate access rights) to enter, or modify, information associated with a specific job. Hyperlinks  and  provide access to screens (that associated with hyperlink  is not shown in the Figures) typically utilized by a user to generate reports containing information as to the status of a specific job. Hyperlinks - provide access to data input or captured data display screens (those associated with hyperlinks  and  are not shown in the Figures) that typically allow a user to either issue material (e.g. a specific NSN) from a supply center\/warehouse to another user, or to display the results of the process. This process is also known as a \u201cdata push\u201d. The present invention possesses the flexibility to collect this data and to \u201cpush\u201d the data to external, third party users.","Hyperlink  provides a user with access to a blank Task Request Page shown in .  provides a screen print example of a completed Task Request Page. As with many of the screen prints discussed above, the database into which the user is logged in is indicated at  on .","At Step  in , information about the user (i.e. \u201crequester\u201d) is entered. The information that is entered includes a user name at , a user code via drop down menu  which then appears in field , and the date on which the request in generated at . The data entered at Step  appears in the completed Task Request Page of  at lines -.","At Step  in , information regarding the nature of the task is entered. The information that is entered includes an indication as to whether the task request is \u201cUrgent\u201d in nature at , the nature of the desired task via drop down menu  which then appears in field , and a user-specified description of the requested task at . The data entered at Step  appears in the completed Task Request Page of  at lines -.","At Step  in , information about the specific equipment is entered. The information that is entered includes either an equipment model designation via drop down menu  or an equipment NSN via drop down menu  which then appears in field , a condition code for the item via drop down menu  or  which then appears in field , a purpose code for the item via drop down menu  or  which then appears in field , the quantity of items to be processed at , and a user-specified description of the desired deliverables at . The data entered at Step  appears in the completed Task Request Page of  at lines -. The information contained in drop down menu  is linked via JavaScript to that contained in drop down menu  such that a user needs to make a selection from only one of the two menus (i.e. the non-selected menu then immediately correlates the information it displays to that chosen in the selected menu). This feature provides users knowing only the \u201cEquipment\u201d designation\/model number or only the \u201cNSN\u201d with equivalent means for accessing database information.","At Step  in , information regarding the means of payment for the services to be rendered is entered. The information that is entered includes a WBS or charge number for the Production Controller Labor at  or , respectively, a WBS or charge number for the Technician Labor at  or , respectively, a WBS or charge number for the Material at  or , respectively, and a WBS or charge number for the Supply Support at  or , respectively. The data entered at Step  appears in the completed Task Request Page of  at lines -.","At Step  in , information associated with new assets is entered. The information that is entered includes a contract number at , a requisition number at , a contract CLIN number at , the quantity being ordered at , a project\/group for which the item is being ordered at , and a supplier company name at . The data entered at Step  appears in the completed Task Request Page of  at lines -.","At Step  in , e-mail information is entered. The information that is entered includes the name of the individual to which an e-mail message is to be forwarded at  and the name of the person sending the e-mail message at .","Line  on  displays the name of the customer database associated with the task request and line  repeats that name and includes the task number assigned to that request.","Hyperlink  on  provides the user with access to the screen shown in  that allows a synopsis of the information associated with a specific task request to be reviewed. The scroll buttons ,  allow the user to move sequentially through the task request numbers. Scroll button  allows the user to jump to the first task request number while button  allows the user to jump to the last task request number. The \u201cSelect\u201d button  allows the user to gain access to the complete record of information associated with the selected task request number.","Hyperlink  on  provides the user with access to the screen shown in  that allows a \u201cRequest for Issue\u201d to be generated. This screen allows data to be inserted into a legacy military system. Once again, the database into which the user is logged in is indicated at . The information that is entered includes either an NSN via drop down menu  which then appears in field  or an equipment name\/description via drop down menu  which then appears in field , a user-specified quantity at , an activity code\/description via drop down menu  which then appears in field , a UIC via drop down menu  which then appears in field , a user-specified date Julian at , user-specified request for issue number at , a user-specified date requested at , and user-specified remarks at . If the request is for \u201cLocal Issue\u201d, a charge number is entered at  and a building location is specified at . To process the information entered in the form, the user clicks on the \u201cInsert Data\u201d button .","The following table shows the correlation between the data entered via the screens shown in  and  and the data tables of :",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0118","num":"0128"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00006","num":"00006"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"5"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"28pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"77pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"21pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"77pt","align":"center"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]},{"entry":[{},{},"Data Entry Point",{},"Data Table\/Field"]},{"entry":[{},"FIG.","Reference Numeral","FIG.","Reference Numeral"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"18A","220","29E","220\u2032"]},{"entry":[{},"18A","221","29E","221\u2032"]},{"entry":[{},"18A","222","29E","222\u2032"]},{"entry":[{},"18A","223","29E","223\u2032"]},{"entry":[{},"18A","224","29E","224\u2032"]},{"entry":[{},"18A","225","29E","225\u2032"]},{"entry":[{},"18B, 21","226","29A","226\u2032"]},{"entry":[{},"18B, 21","227","29A","227\u2032"]},{"entry":[{},"18B","228","29E","228\u2032"]},{"entry":[{},"18B","229","29E","229\u2032"]},{"entry":[{},"18B","230","29E","230\u2032"]},{"entry":[{},"18B","231","29E","231\u2032"]},{"entry":[{},"18B","232","29E","232\u2032"]},{"entry":[{},"18C","233","29E","233\u2032"]},{"entry":[{},"18C","234","29E","234\u2032"]},{"entry":[{},"18C","235","29E","235\u2032"]},{"entry":[{},"18C","236","29E","236\u2032"]},{"entry":[{},"18C","237","29E","237\u2032"]},{"entry":[{},"18C","238","29E","238\u2032"]},{"entry":[{},"18C","239","29F","239\u2032"]},{"entry":[{},"18C","240","29F","240\u2032"]},{"entry":[{},"18C","241","29E","241\u2032"]},{"entry":[{},"18C","242","29E","242\u2032"]},{"entry":[{},"18C","243","29E","243\u2032"]},{"entry":[{},"18C","244","29E","244\u2032"]},{"entry":[{},"18C","245","29E","245\u2032"]},{"entry":[{},"18C","246","29E","246\u2032"]},{"entry":[{},"18C","248","29D","248\u2032"]},{"entry":[{},"21","290","29F","290\u2032"]},{"entry":[{},"21","291","29F","291\u2032"]},{"entry":[{},"21","292","29F","292\u2032"]},{"entry":[{},"21","293","29F","293\u2032"]},{"entry":[{},"21","294","29F","294\u2032"]},{"entry":[{},"21","295","29F","295\u2032"]},{"entry":[{},"21","296","29F","296\u2032"]},{"entry":[{},"21","297","29F","297\u2032"]},{"entry":[{},"21","298","29F","298\u2032"]},{"entry":[{},"21","299","29F","299\u2032"]},{"entry":[{},"21","300","29F","300\u2032"]},{"entry":[{},"18B","504","29E","504\u2032"]},{"entry":[{},"18A","506","29E","506\u2032"]},{"entry":[{},"21","508","29A","508\u2032"]},{"entry":[{},"18B","628","29D","628\u2032"]},{"entry":[{},"18B","629","29D","629\u2032"]},{"entry":[{},"18B","630","29E","630\u2032"]},{"entry":[{},"21","693","29A","693\u2032"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}}}}},"\u201cOptions\u201d Module\/Interface","An asset control system must provide for the creation and maintenance of information (e.g. drop down menu selections) associated with each database.  is a screen print of the information shown when a user clicks on the \u201cOptions\u201d button . In addition to indicating, at , the database into which the user is logged in, a series of hyperlinks - is provided.","Hyperlinks - provide access to data input screens (those associated with hyperlinks - and  are not shown in the Figures) typically utilized by a user (e.g. customer with appropriate access rights) to enter, delete, or modify, information associated with a specific database. Hyperlinks - provide access to screens (not shown in the Figures) typically utilized by a user to enter, delete, or modify, information associated with all of the databases associated with the present invention.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0122","num":"0132"},"figref":"FIG. 23","b":["324","79","327","328","326","329","325"]},"\u201cDB Sel\u201d Module\/Interface","An asset control system must provide a user possessing multiple database rights with the ability to switch back and forth among them.  is a screen print of the information shown when a user clicks on the \u201cDB Sel\u201d button  (note that  is nearly identical to ). In addition to indicating, at , the database into which the user is currently logged in, the user is provided with the means to access a different database by selecting of one of the choices shown on the drop down menu at , which then appears in field , prior to clicking on the \u201cChoose\u201d button .","The following table shows the correlation between the data entered via the screen shown in  and the data tables of :",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0126","num":"0136"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00007","num":"00007"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"5"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"21pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"84pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"21pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"77pt","align":"center"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]},{"entry":[{},{},"Data Entry Point",{},"Data Table\/Field"]},{"entry":[{},"FIG.","Reference Numeral","FIG.","Reference Numeral"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"24","42","29D","42\u2032"]},{"entry":[{},"24","43","29D","43\u2032"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}}}}},"\u201cLogistics\u201d Module\/Interface","Many third parties (e.g. government entities) require asset tracking that ensures the optimum utilization of all applicable warranties. This module\/interface provides instant access to current warranty data to ensure that that important goal is accomplished. This module\/interface also allows for the entry of warranty data and provides a real-time display of warranty status via various report structures. The present invention is integrated with the production\/repair process to provide notification to a production controller, as an asset is received, that a warranty can be utilized.","An asset control system must also provide a means for tracking and returning warranty rejects back to the respective supplier\/manufacturer. This module\/interface allows for the inputting and tracking of information regarding rejected items as they are returned to, or received from, a third party.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0130","num":"0140"},"figref":"FIG. 25","b":["68","79","340","347"]},"Hyperlinks  and  provide access to data input screens (that associated with hyperlink  is not shown in the Figures) typically utilized by a user (e.g. customer with appropriate access rights) to enter, or modify, information associated with a specific warranty. Hyperlinks - provide access to screens (those associated with hyperlinks - are not shown in the Figures) typically utilized by a user to generate reports containing warranty information. Hyperlinks  and  provide access to data input screens (not shown in the Figures) typically utilized by a user to enter, or modify, information associated with a specific QDR.","Hyperlink  on  provides the user with access to the screen shown in  that allows a new warranty record to be generated. Once again, the database into which the user is logged in is indicated at . The information that is entered includes an equipment name\/description via drop down menu  which then appears in field  or an NSN via drop down menu  which then appears in field , user-specified serial number information either in field  or field , a warranty end date at , a user-specified contract number at , a user-specified contract CLIN at , a user-specified requisition number at , a user-specified delivery order number at , user-specified DD information at , and a user-specified DD date at . To process the information entered in the form, the user clicks on the \u201cAdd Items\u201d button . The information contained in drop down menu  is linked via JavaScript to that contained in drop down menu  such that a user needs to make a selection from only one of the two menus (i.e. the non-selected menu then immediately correlates the information it displays to that chosen in the selected menu). This feature provides users knowing only the \u201cEquipment\u201d designation\/model number or only the \u201cNSN\u201d with equivalent means for accessing database information.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0133","num":"0143"},"figref":["FIG. 27","FIG. 25"],"b":["342","79","226","350","227","351","367","365","367","368"]},"The following table shows the correlation between the data entered via the screens shown in  and the data tables of :",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0135","num":"0145"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00008","num":"00008"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"5"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"28pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"77pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"21pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"77pt","align":"center"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]},{"entry":[{},{},"Data Entry Point",{},"Data Table\/Field"]},{"entry":[{},"FIG.","Reference Numeral","FIG.","Reference Numeral"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"26, 27","226","29A","226\u2032"]},{"entry":[{},"26, 27","227","29A","227\u2032"]},{"entry":[{},"26","350","29I","350\u2032"]},{"entry":[{},"26","351","29I","350\u2032"]},{"entry":[{},"26","352","29I","353\u2032"]},{"entry":[{},"26","353","29I","353\u2032"]},{"entry":[{},"26","354","29I","354\u2032"]},{"entry":[{},"26","355","29I","355\u2032"]},{"entry":[{},"26","356","29I","356\u2032"]},{"entry":[{},"26","357","29I","357\u2032"]},{"entry":[{},"26","358","29I","358\u2032"]},{"entry":[{},"26","359","29I","359\u2032"]},{"entry":[{},"26","360","29I","360\u2032"]},{"entry":[{},"27","365","29I","365\u2032"]},{"entry":[{},"27","366","29I","365\u2032"]},{"entry":[{},"27","367","29I","367\u2032"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}}}}},"\u201cAdmin\u201d Module\/Interface","An asset control system must provide for its own administration.  is a screen print of the information shown when a user clicks on the \u201cAdmin\u201d button . In addition to indicating, at , the database into which the user is logged in, a series of hyperlinks - is provided. The hyperlinks -, respectively, allow an administrator to add a new user, to delete or edit an existing user, and to determine which users are on-line (i.e. interacting with the present invention) at any given time.","Hardware Architecture","The system includes a conventional computer workstation, operating system, and the software-implemented process of the present invention. The computer workstation may be, for example, a conventional personal computer with standard internal components (e.g. a microprocessor with peripheral chipset mounted on an appropriate motherboard). Of course, other more or less powerful computer systems can be used, but it is suggested that the computer system meet the minimum system requirements for Microsoft Access 97, or an equivalent database operating system. The user interface is preferably a conventional color monitor, a modem, and a standard input device such as a mouse. The operating system is preferably Windows 95, or a later revision. All data entry forms may be maintained on the Internet for user access, and a separate web server is required in this case.","The system software may be compressed onto a series of installation floppy diskettes, and may be loaded onto a computer system as described above using conventional installation macros such as provided with Windows 2000.","Bar Code Readers","SPT1700 \u201cpalm style\u201d bar code readers are used to allow the gathering of inventory data and allow technicians to enter their repair data as it happens and then upload it at a later time.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0143","num":"0153"},"figref":["FIGS. 29A through 29J","FIG. 29A","FIG. 29A","FIG. 29A","FIG. 29A","FIG. 29A","FIG. 29B","FIG. 29B","FIG. 29C","FIG. 29C","FIG. 29C","FIG. 29D","FIG. 29D","FIG. 29D","FIG. 29D","FIG. 29D","FIG. 29D","FIG. 29E","FIG. 29E","FIG. 29E","FIGS. 29E and 29F","FIG. 29F","FIG. 29F","FIG. 29F","FIG. 29G","FIG. 29H","FIG. 29I","FIG. 29I","FIG. 29J","FIG. 29J"],"b":["29","805"]},"The various data tables include a number of relational database linkages. These include fields named \u201cID\u201d (see reference numerals , , , and  in ;  in ;  and  in ; - in ; and  in ), \u201cIDkey\u201d (see reference numerals  and  in ;  and  in ;  and  in ; - in ; and  in ), \u201cJobnum\u201d (see reference numeral  in ;  and  in ; and  in ), \u201cWORnum\u201d (see reference numeral  in ), \u201cPermission_ID\u201d (see reference numeral  in ), \u201cIDRFIAssignment\u201d (see reference numeral  in ), \u201cTube_ID\u201d (see reference numeral  in ), \u201cQDR_ID\u201d (see reference numeral  in ), \u201cWarranty_ID\u201d (see reference numeral  in ), and \u201cECPID\u201d (see reference numeral  in ).","Having now fully set forth the preferred embodiment and certain modifications of the concept underlying the present invention, various other embodiments as well as certain variations and modifications of the embodiments herein shown and described will obviously occur to those skilled in the art upon becoming familiar with said underlying concept. It is to be understood, therefore, that the invention may be practiced otherwise than as specifically set forth in the appended claims."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["Other objects, features, and advantages of the present invention will become more apparent from the following detailed description of the preferred embodiment and certain modifications thereof when taken together with the accompanying drawings in which:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 1A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":["FIG. 1B","FIG. 1A"],"b":"10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":["FIG. 1C","FIG. 1A"],"b":["40","50"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":"FIG. 2A","b":"61"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":["FIG. 2B","FIG. 2A"],"b":"83"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":"62"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":"FIG. 7A","b":"63"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":"FIG. 7B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0034"},"figref":"FIG. 9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"figref":"FIG. 10","b":"64"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0037","num":"0036"},"figref":"FIG. 11"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0037"},"figref":"FIG. 12"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0039","num":"0038"},"figref":"FIG. 13"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0040","num":"0039"},"figref":"FIG. 14"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0041","num":"0040"},"figref":"FIG. 15A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0042","num":"0041"},"figref":["FIG. 15B","FIG. 15A"],"b":"172"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0043","num":"0042"},"figref":"FIG. 16A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0044","num":"0043"},"figref":["FIG. 16B","FIG. 16A"],"b":"192"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0045","num":"0044"},"figref":"FIG. 17","b":"65"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0046","num":"0045"},"figref":"FIGS. 18A-C"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0047","num":"0046"},"figref":"FIG. 19"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0048","num":"0047"},"figref":"FIG. 20"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0049","num":"0048"},"figref":"FIG. 21"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0050","num":"0049"},"figref":"FIG. 22","b":"66"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0051","num":"0050"},"figref":"FIG. 23"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0052","num":"0051"},"figref":"FIG. 24","b":"67"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0053","num":"0052"},"figref":"FIG. 25","b":"68"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0054","num":"0053"},"figref":"FIG. 26"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0055","num":"0054"},"figref":"FIG. 27"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0056","num":"0055"},"figref":"FIG. 28","b":"69"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0057","num":"0056"},"figref":"FIGS. 29A-J"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
