---
title: Film cooled article with improved temperature tolerance
abstract: The invention is a film cooled article such as a turbine engine blade or vane, having a wall with a hot surface to be film cooled. The hot surface includes a depression featuring a descending flank and an ascending flank Coolant holes which penetrate through the wall, have discharge openings residing on the ascending flank During operation, the depression locally over-accelerates a primary fluid stream F flowing over the ascending flank while coolant jets concurrently issue from the discharge openings. The local over-acceleration of the primary fluid deflects the jets onto the hot surface and spatially constrains the jets thus encouraging them to spread out laterally and coalesce into a laterally continuous, protective coolant film. In one embodiment, the depression is a trough In another embodiment, the depression is a dimple 
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=06932572&OS=06932572&RS=06932572
owner: United Technologies Corporation
number: 06932572
owner_city: Hartford
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20030227
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"p":["This is a continuation of application Ser. No. 09\/861,753 filed on May 21, 2001 now U.S. Pat. No. 6,547,524.","1. This invention was made under a U.S. Government Contract and the Government has rights herein.","2. This invention pertains to film cooled articles, such as the blades and vanes used in gas turbine engines, and particularly to a blade or vane configured to promote superior surface adherence and lateral distribution of the cooling film.","3. Gas turbine engines include one or more turbines for extracting energy from a stream of hot combustion gases that flow through an annular turbine flowpath. A typical turbine includes at least one stage of blades and one stage of vanes streamwisely spaced from the blades. Each stage of blades comprises multiple, circumferentially distributed blades, each radiating from a rotatable hub so that an airfoil portion of each blade spans across the flowpath. Each stage of vanes comprises multiple, circumferentially distributed nonrotatabale vanes each having airfoils that also span across the flowpath. It is common practice to cool the blades and vanes to improve their ability to endure extended exposure to the hot combustion gases. Typically, the employed coolant is relatively cool, pressurized air diverted from the engine compressor.","4. Turbine designers employ a variety of techniques, often concurrently, to cool the blades and vanes. Among these techniques is film cooling. The airfoil of a film cooled blade or vane includes an internal plenum and one or more rows of obliquely oriented, spanwisely distributed coolant supply holes, referred to as film holes. The film holes penetrate the walls of an airfoil to establish fluid flow communication between the plenum and the flowpath. During engine operation, the plenum receives coolant from the compressor and distributes it to the film holes. The coolant issues from the holes as a series of discrete jets. The oblique orientation of the film holes causes the coolant jets to enter the flowpath with a streamwise directional component, i.e. a component parallel to and in the same direction as the dominant flow direction of the combustion gases. Ideally, the jets spread out laterally, i.e. spanwisely, to form a laterally continuous, flowing coolant film that hugs or adheres to the flowpath exposed surface of the airfoil. It is common practice to use multiple, rows of film holes because the coolant film loses effectiveness as it flows along the airfoil surface.","5. Film cooling, despite its merits, can be challenging to execute in practice. The supply pressure of the coolant in the internal plenum must exceed the static pressure of the combustion gases flowing through the flowpath. Otherwise the quantity of coolant flowing through the film holes will prove inadequate to satisfactorily film cool the airfoil surfaces. At worst, the static pressure of the combustion gases may exceed the coolant supply pressure, resulting in ingestion of harmful combustion gases into the plenum by way of the film holes, a phenomenon known as backflow. The intense heat of the ingested combustion gases can quickly and irreparably damage a blade or vane subjected to backflow. However, the high coolant pressures required to guard against inadequate coolant flow and backflow can cause the coolant jets to penetrate into the flowpath rather than adhere to the surface of the airfoil. As a result, a zone of the airfoil surface immediately downstream of each hole becomes exposed to the combustion gases. Moreover, each of the highly cohesive coolant jets locally bifurcates the stream of combustion gases into a pair of minute, oppositely swirling vortices. The vertically flowing combustion gases enter the exposed zone immediately downstream of the coolant jets. Thus, the high pressure coolant jets not only leave part the airfoil surface exposed, but actually entrain the hot, damaging gases into the exposed zone. In addition, the cohesiveness of the jets impedes their ability to spread out laterally (i.e. in the spanwise direction) and coalesce into a spanwisely continuous film. As a result, strips of the airfoil surface spanwisely intermediate the film holes remain unprotected from the hot gases.","6. One way to encourage the coolant jets to adhere to the surface is to orient the film holes at a shallow angle relative to the surface. With the holes so oriented, the coolant jets will enter the flowpath in a direction more parallel than perpendicular to the surface. Unfortunately, installing shallow angle film holes is both expensive and time consuming. Moreover, such holes contribute little or nothing to the ability of the coolant to spread out laterally and coalesce into a continuous film.","7. A known film cooling scheme that helps to promote both lateral spreading and surface adherance of a coolant film relies on a class of film holes referred to as shaped holes. A shaped hole has a metering passage in series with a diffusing passage. The metering passage, which communicates directly with the internal coolant plenum, has a constant cross sectional area to regulate the quantity of coolant flowing through the hole. The diffusing passage has a cross sectional area that increases in the direction of coolant flow. The diffusing passage decelerates the coolant jet flowing therethrough and spreads each jet laterally to promote film adherance and lateral continuity. Although shaped holes can be beneficial, they are difficult and costly to produce. An example of a shaped hole is disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 4,664,597.","8. What is needed is a cost effective film cooling scheme that encourages the cooling jets to spread out laterally across the surface of interest and to reliably adhere to the surface.","9. According to the invention, an article having a wall with a hot surface, for example a turbine engine blade or vane, includes a depression featuring a descending flank and an ascending flank. Coolant holes, which penetrate through the wall, have discharge openings residing on the ascending flank. During operation, the depression locally over-accelerates a primary fluid stream flowing over the ascending flank while coolant jets concurrently issue from the discharge openings. The local over-acceleration of the primary fluid deflects the coolant jets onto the hot surface thus encouraging them to spread out laterally and coalesce into a laterally continuous, protective coolant film.","10. According to one aspect of the invention, the depression is a laterally extending trough. According to another aspect of the invention, the depression is a local dimple.","11. The principal advantage of the invention is its ability to extend the useful life of a cooled component or to improve the component's tolerance of elevated temperatures without sacrificing component durability. The invention may also make it possible to increase the lateral spacing between discrete film holes, thus economizing on the use of coolant and improving engine performance, without adversely affecting component life. The invention also minimizes the designer's incentive to reduce coolant supply pressure and accept the attendant risk of combustion gas backflow in an effort to promote film adherance.","21.  illustrate a turbine blade for the turbine module of a gas turbine engine. The blade includes a root , a platform  and airfoil . The airfoil has a leading edge , defined by an aerodynamic stagnation point, a trailing edge , and a notional chord line C extending between the leading and trailing edges. The airfoil has a wall comprised of a suction wall  having a suction surface , and a pressure wall  having a pressure surface . Both the suction and pressure walls extend chordwisely from the leading edge to the trailing edge. One or more internal plenums, such as representative plenum , receive coolant from a coolant source, not shown. In a fully assembled turbine module, a plurality of circumferentially distributed blades radiates from a rotatable hub , with each blade root being captured in a corresponding slot in the periphery of the hub. The blade platforms collectively define the radially inner boundary of an annular fluid flowpath . A case  circumscribes the blades and defines the radially outer boundary of the flowpath. Each airfoil spans radially across the flowpath and into close proximity with the case. During operation, a primary fluid stream F comprised of hot, gaseous combustion products flows through the flowpath and over the airfoil surfaces. The flowing fluid exerts forces on the airfoils that cause the hub to rotate about rotational axis A.","22. The suction and pressure walls ,  each have a cold side with relatively cool internal surfaces ,  in contact with the coolant plenum . Each wall also has a hot side represented by the external suction and pressure surfaces ,  exposed to the hot fluid stream F. The hot surface  includes a depression  in the form of a trough . Although the trough  is illustrated as extending substantially linearly in the spanwise direction, other trough configurations are also contemplated. For example, the trough may be spanwisely truncated, or may extend, at least in part, in both the spanwise and chordwise directions, or the trough may be nonlinear.","23. As seen best in , the trough has a descending flank  and ascending flank . A gently contoured ridge  may border the aft end of the trough. The ridge rises above, and then blends into a conventional airfoil contour \u2032, shown with broken lines. A floor , which is neither descending nor ascending, joins the flanks , . In the illustrated embodiment, the floor  is merely the juncture between the descending and ascending flanks, however the floor may have a finite length. A row of film coolant holes , penetrates the wall to convey coolant from the cold side to the hot side. Each hole has an intake opening  on the internal surface of the penetrated wall and a discharge opening in the form of an orifice  on the external surface of the penetrated wall. Each discharge opening resides on the ascending flank of the trough. The film coolant holes are oriented so that coolant jets discharged therefrom enter the primary fluid stream F with a streamwise directional component, rather than with a counter-streamwise component. The streamwise directional component helps ensure that the coolant jets adhere to the hot surface rather than collide and mix with the primary fluid stream F.","24.  illustrates a variant of the invention in which one or more spanwisely extending discharge slots  introduce coolant into the flowpath  and thus serve the same purpose as the discharge orifices . Each slot, like the discharge orifices , resides on the ascending flank of the trough . The discharge slot may penetrate all the way through the wall  to the plenum  or may communicate with the plenum by way of one or more discrete, sub-surface feed passages.","25.  show an alternate embodiment of the invention in which the depression is an array of spanwisely distributed dimples  and the discharge opening is an orifice . , although previously referred to in the context of the trough , are also representative of a cross-sectional view taken through a typical dimple . Although the illustrated dimples form a substantially linear, spanwisely extending dimple array, other dimple array configurations are also contemplated. For example, the array may be spanwisely truncated or may extend, at least in part, in both the spanwise and chordwise directions, or the array may be nonlinear. The discharge opening of the coolant hole, although illustrated as an orifice, may take other forms, for example a slot  as seen in ","26. Each dimple  has a descending flank  and an ascending flank . A gently contoured ridge  borders the aft end of each dimple. A floor  joins the flanks as described above. In the illustrated embodiment each dimple has a semi-spherical shape, however other shapes may also be satisfactory. A single discharge opening resides on the ascending flank of each dimple, the opening being spanwisely centralized between the lateral extremities of the dimple. However, the opening may be spanwisely offset on the ascending flank or multiple openings may reside on the ascending flank of each dimple if desired.","27. The operation of the invention is best understood by referring to , which shows an enlarged cross-sectional view of an airfoil suction surface incorporating an exemplary inventive depression . The illustration of  is somewhat exaggerated to ensure its clarity.  also shows the chordwise variation in static pressure and velocity of the primary fluid stream F flowing over the inventive surface  or prior art surface \u2032.","28. Considering first the prior art surface depicted with broken lines, the static pressure of the fluid stream F decreases in the chordwise direction, causing a corresponding acceleration of the fluid as is evident from the slope of the velocity graph. By contrast, the depression  of the inventive airfoil causes a localized perturbation in the static pressure field as the primary fluid flows over the depression. In particular, the depression provokes an increase in the static pressure as the primary fluid flows over the descending flank . Then, as the fluid flows over the ascending flank , the static pressure drops precipitously causing a local over-acceleration of the fluid stream as revealed by the steep slope of the velocity graph. For the illustrated surface, the over-acceleration locally overspeeds the fluid stream aft of the discharge opening . Because of the local over-acceleration, the primary fluid stream deflects the coolant jets  issuing from the film coolant holes so that the jets adhere to the surface . By deflecting the coolant jets onto the surface , the local acceleration of the primary fluid stream also spatially constrains the jets, encouraging them to spread out laterally and coalesce into a laterally continuous coolant film. The ridge  and\/or a more aggressive slope on the ascending flank than on the descending flank may enhance the over-acceleration and will govern the extent of the overspeed, if any.","28. These phenomena are seen more clearly in the schematic, comparative illustrations of . , B and C show how the relatively modest fluid acceleration in the vicinity of the film coolant hole \u2032 of a conventional airfoil may contribute to suboptimal film cooling. In , a typical coolant jet \u2032 penetrates a small distance into the flowpath leaving zone \u2032 unprotected. As seen in , each of the discrete cooling jets locally bifurcates the fluid stream F into vertically flowing substreams F, Fof hot combustion gases. The vertically flowing substreams then become entrained into the unprotected zone \u2032 between the cooling jets \u2032 and the airfoil surface \u2032. Accordingly, the prior art film cooling arrangement not only leaves zone \u2032 unprotected, but also encourages the hot gases to flow into the unprotected zone. In addition, the discrete cooling jets leave strips \u2032 of the airfoil surface, spanwisely intermediate the discharge openings, exposed to damage from the hot gases (FIG. B).","29. , B and C show how the depression of the inventive airfoil offers superior protection of the airfoil surface. As seen in , in contrast to , the local over-acceleration and local overspeeding of the fluid stream F deflects the coolant jets  onto the airfoil surface, thus effectively eliminating exposed zone \u2032 shown in . As seen best in , the over-accelerated and overspeed fluid stream also helps to spatially constrain the coolant jets. The spatial constraint causes the jets to spread out laterally and coalesce into a laterally continuous coolant film, effectively eliminating the unprotected strips  of FIG. B.","30. Because the invention achieves superior film cooling, the blade enjoys extended life or can endure a higher temperature fluid stream F without suffering a reduction of life. The invention may also allow the blade designer to use fewer, more widely separated film holes thus economizing on the use of coolant without jeopardizing blade durability. Economical use of coolant improves overall engine efficiency because the coolant is usually pressurized working medium air extracted from the engine compressor. Once extracted and ducted to the turbine for use as coolant, the useful energy content of the air cannot usually be fully recovered. The invention also reduces any incentive for the blade designer to try to promote good film adherence by operating at a reduced coolant pressure and thereby incurring the risk of inadequate coolant flow or combustion gas backflow. Finally, the invention may dispense with the need to install costly, shallow angle film holes or shaped holes. However, it is not out of the question that some applications may benefit from the use of shallow angle film holes or shaped holes in conjunction with the inventive depression.","31. Although the invention has been shown as applied to the suction surface of a turbine blade, it is also applicable to other cooled surfaces of the blade such as the pressure surface  or the blade platform. The invention may also be used on turbine vanes and other film cooled articles such as turbine engine ducts and outer airseals."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENT INTEREST","TECHNICAL FIELD","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","BEST MODE FOR CARRYING OUT THE INVENTION"],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["12.  is a side elevation view of a turbine blade for a gas turbine engine showing a spanwisely extending depression in the form of a trough and also showing coolant holes whose discharge openings are orifices that reside on an ascending flank of the trough.","13.  is a view similar to  but showing coolant discharge openings in the form of spanwisely extending slots.","14.  is a view similar to  but showing the depression in the form of a spanwisely extending array of dimples with coolant hole discharge orifices residing on ascending flanks of the dimples.","15.  is an enlarged view of one of the dimples shown in FIG. .","16.  is a view similar to that of , but showing a coolant discharge opening in the form of a slot.","17.  is a view taken in the direction \u2014 of  showing the airfoil of the inventive turbine blade in greater detail and also showing an internal coolant plenum, the illustration also being representative of a similar view taken in direction \u2014 of FIG. .","18.  is an enlarged view similar to  showing the trough of  or a dimple of  in greater detail and graphically depicting the static pressure and velocity of combustion gases flowing over the trough.","19. , B and C are schematic illustrations showing coolant jets issuing from film holes of a prior art turbine blade or vane.","20. , B and C are schematic illustrations showing coolant jets issuing from film holes of the inventive turbine blade or vane."]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
