---
title: Systems and methods for integrating loyalty and stored-value programs
abstract: Systems and methods are provided for operating an integrated stored-value and loyalty program within a financial infrastructure. An identifier and a packet of transaction information defining a transaction between a merchant and a customer are received at a loyalty host. Qualifying aspects of the transaction are identified from the packet of transaction information. A customer reward is determined from the identified qualifying aspects and a history of information defined by the identifier. Information defining the reward is transmitted to a stored-value host that records a value parameter that may be applied as value by the customer to another transaction.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07424441&OS=07424441&RS=07424441
owner: The Western Union Company
number: 07424441
owner_city: Englewood
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20031217
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS-REFERENCES TO RELATED APPLICATIONS","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","BRIEF SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION"],"p":["This application is a continuation-in-part application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10\/079,927, entitled \u201cSYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR OPERATING LOYALTY PROGRAMS,\u201d filed Feb. 19, 2002 by Colleen George and John Cawthorne (sometimes referred to herein as \u201cthe parent application\u201d), the entire disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference for all purposes.","This application is also related to the following commonly assigned U.S. Patent Applications, the entire disclosure of each of which is also incorporated herein by reference for all purposes: U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09\/971,303, entitled \u201cSTORED VALUE CARDS AND METHODS FOR THEIR ISSUANCE,\u201d filed Oct. 3, 2001 by Kevin A. James et al.; U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10\/371,167, entitled \u201cMETHODS AND SYSTEMS FOR COORDINATING A CHANGE IN STATUS OF STORED-VALUE CARDS,\u201d filed Feb. 21, 2003 by David R. Baumgartner; U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10\/421,604, entitled \u201cMULTI-PURSE CARD SYSTEM AND METHODS,\u201d filed Apr. 22, 2003 by Kenneth Algiene; U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10\/405,043, entitled \u201cMETHODS AND SYSTEMS FOR PROCESSING UNRESTRICTED STORED-VALUE INSTRUMENTS,\u201d filed Mar. 31, 2003 by Christopher McGee and David R. Baumgartner; U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10\/286,006, entitled \u201cSTORED VALUE CURRENCY CONVERSION SYSTEMS AND METHODS,\u201d filed Nov. 1, 2002 by Kevin A. James et al.; U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10\/356,207, entitled \u201cACH SETTLEMENT SYSTEMS AND METHODS,\u201d filed Jan. 30, 2003 by David R. Baumgartner et al.; U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10\/267,180, entitled \u201cELECTRONIC CARD AND TICKET AND METHODS FOR THEIR USE,\u201d filed Oct. 8, 2002 by Christopher McGee et al.; U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10\/268,040, entitled \u201cDISCOUNT-INSTRUMENT METHODS AND SYSTEMS,\u201d filed Oct. 8, 2002 by Christopher McGee et al.; and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10\/245,784, entitled \u201cMETHOD AND SYSTEM FOR MERCHANT PROCESSING OF PURCHASE CARD TRANSACTIONS WITH EXPANDED CARD TYPE ACCEPTANCE,\u201d filed Sep. 17, 2002 by Allen C. Strayer et al.","This application relates generally to consumer transactions. More specifically, this application relates to operating loyalty programs in connection with consumer transactions.","In recent years, there has been a steady proliferation of loyalty programs offered to consumers. There are a variety of different models on which such loyalty programs are based, but a common feature of all is that they offer an incentive designed to encourage customers to conduct business preferentially with one organization rather than with competitor organizations. For example, such loyalty systems often take the form of point systems in which a customer is credited with a number of points for each transaction and is entitled to exchange certain numbers of points for goods and\/or services.","A prototypical example of such a loyalty system is used in the airline industry. An airline typically offers some number of points to each consumer that is correlated with the distance traveled. At certain levels, the points may be exchanged by the consumer for airline tickets; generally, a larger number of points is required for more valuable international or intercontinental tickets. Sometimes, additional incentives may be used to induce customers to reach certain point levels, such as by providing preferential seating and booking privileges. Similar loyalty systems are also used in environments for the retail sale of goods, with customers of a particular store being entitled to rewards in exchange for certain levels of business. Generally, however, such loyalty systems are limited in flexibility and are narrow in scope.","There is a general recognition in the industry of a need for more sophisticated loyalty-based systems capable of responding to long-term competitive threats such as retail overcapacity, mass advertising spending, consumer attrition issues, etc. For example, it is desirable for the system to be sufficiently flexible that rewards can be provided quickly, even in real time at the moment the desired point level is reached. Similarly, it is desirable for the system not to be reliant on a specific type of tender, such as a specific type of loyalty-program card, but instead to be capable of accepting any type of tender, whether it be a loyalty-program card, credit card, debit card, store-specific coupon, or other instrument. Furthermore, it is desirable to increase the convenience by which loyalty rewards are issued to customers as they qualify for such rewards.","Embodiments of the invention thus provide methods and systems that integrate loyalty and stored-value programs to provide a more diverse array of capabilities both to merchants and to customers. In a first set of embodiments, a method is provided for operating an integrated stored-value and loyalty program within a financial infrastructure. An identifier and a packet of transaction information defining a transaction between a merchant and a customer are received at a loyalty host. Qualifying aspects of the transaction are identified from the packet of transaction information. A customer reward is determined from the identified qualifying aspects and a history of information defined by the identifier. Information defining the reward is transmitted to a stored-value host that records a value parameter that may be applied as value by the customer to another transaction.","In some of these embodiments, the packet of transaction information may also be transmitted to the financial infrastructure with a request for authorization of the transaction. In some instances, a notification of the customer reward is transmitted to a point-of-sale terminal at which the packet of transaction information was generated. The value parameter may be applied as value to the other transaction at a second merchant different from the merchant. In certain embodiments, the qualifying aspects of the transaction may include item-level information that identifies specific items or specific types of items that form part of the transaction. In different embodiments, identification of the qualifying aspects may be performed at the loyalty host or at a point-of-sale terminal where the packet of transaction information was generated.","In a second set of embodiments, a method is provided for operating a stored-value program. An identifier and a transaction amount are received at a stored-value host for a transaction between a merchant and a customer. A defined set of stored-value parameters is identified from the identifier. The set of stored-value parameters is translated into a value amount, at least a portion of which is applied to the transaction amount to define a modified transaction amount. The modified transaction amount is transmitted to a point-of-sale terminal at which the identifier and transaction amount were generated as an amount to be used in effecting the transaction.","In some embodiments, application of at least a portion of the value amount may further define a modified value amount, in which case the modified value amount may be translated into a modified set of stored-value parameters for use in updating a record of the stored-value parameters. The transaction amount may be transmitted to a financial infrastructure with a request for authorization of the transaction. In some instances, at least a portion of the set of stored-value parameters may be increased in response to an instruction from a loyalty host implementing a loyalty reward for the customer. In one embodiment, the identified set of stored-value parameters consists of a single stored-value parameter.","In a third set of embodiments, a method is provided for operating a loyalty program integrated with a financial infrastructure. An identifier and a packet of transaction information defining a transaction between a merchant and a customer are received at a loyalty host. A determination is made whether the customer and merchant are participants in the loyalty program. Specific items that form part of the transaction are identified from the packet of transaction information. A customer reward is determined from the identified specific items and a history of information defined by the identifier.","In some embodiments, the packet of transaction information may be transmitted to the financial infrastructure with a request for authorization of the transaction. In other embodiments, an authorization determination received from the financial infrastructure may be transmitted to the merchant. The identifier and packet of transaction information may be received from a point-of-sale terminal.","1. Overview","Various loyalty systems may involve a variety of different entities. A simple example of a traditional prior-art loyalty system is shown in . In this illustration, the loyalty system  operates for a plurality of merchants  related by a merchant association . A single issuer  provides an instrument that may be used to identify individual customers and their participation within the loyalty system . For example, the merchant association  may simply be a commercial retail entity, such as \u201cStore X\u201d and merchants  may be retail outlets for that entity. The identification instrument issued by the issuer  may be a loyalty card that identifies the commercial entity. A customer may then present her card when she makes purchases at any retail outlet of Store X and accumulate points. Such points may be redeemed for merchandise from a catalog at some later date when certain point-total levels are reached.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 1B","b":["120","116","104","108","116","116","108"]},"The loyalty systems illustrated in  remain constrained in their operation by the limited scope of relationships among specific merchants and issuers. One embodiment of the invention that provides significantly greater scope is shown schematically in . The embodiment of  uses an aggregator  that acts as an intermediary between an issuer association  and a plurality of merchants . The aggregator  may also act as a direct intermediary between issuers  and merchants , in which case it functions in a manner similar to the issuer association  shown in .","The increased versatility of loyalty programs that may be administered with this system  exploit the existence of multiple, and sometimes competing, issuer associations . For example, any instrument associated with an issuer association that also bears an identification of the aggregator  may be used to participate in a loyalty program. In some instances, the loyalty program will be for a single retail organization, but may in other instances span across multiple organizations. A variety of examples of loyalty programs that may be administered with the structure of  are discussed below.","The basic structure of  may be extended in further embodiments to encompass multiple aggregators . In the embodiment shown in , the loyalty system  includes a plurality of aggregators , each of which interacts with at least one issuer association  and perhaps also directly with one or more issuers . A plurality of merchants  interact with the aggregators ; each individual merchant within the system may interact with one or more of the aggregators. Accordingly, a particular merchant may permit any customer having an instrument identifying its associated aggregators to participate in a loyalty program. Further, that merchant may permit any customer having an instrument identifying any issuer associations  associated with those aggregators , or even any issuers  associated with those issuer associations  or aggregators , to participate. This arrangement thus provides an enhanced degree of versatility in the administration of loyalty programs.","While  show those merchants and issuers who participate in some aspect of a loyalty system, more generally there will also exist merchants and issuers who do not participate in the loyalty system. Such nonparticipating merchants and issuers may nevertheless wish to share in a financial infrastructure for processing transactions with the participating merchants and issuers. Such a financial infrastructure provides a general interconnection among merchants and issuers that permits credit, debit, check, stored-value, and other types of transactions to be executed. The infrastructure functions generally by permitting a merchant to transmit details of a transaction to a central authority, which then ensures that any necessary authorization from an issuer (or issuer association) is obtained so that the transaction may be approved.","In addition to integration with such a financial infrastructure, increased flexibility and convenience are provided to the loyalty system in embodiments of the invention through integration with a stored-value system. Such increased flexibility and convenience are manifested both in the administration of the system and in the types of rewards that may be provided to customers. Similar benefits are also enjoyed by the stored-value system as a result of its integration with the loyalty system, with the two systems combining synergistically as described below to provide capabilities beyond the mere combination of the systems.","2. Integration of Loyalty System with Stored-Value System",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":["FIGS. 2A-2C","FIGS. 1C","FIGS. 2A-2C"],"b":["1","216","220","216","208","204","202","112"]},"When a transaction is executed using a point-of-sale terminal , an electronic packet identifying the terms of the transaction, including an identification of a payment instrument, a stored-value-program identifier, and\/or a loyalty-program identifier, is forwarded by the corresponding merchant server  to the switching element . The specific components of the electronic packet may vary in different circumstances since some transactions may be made without identifying a stored-value program and\/or without identifying a loyalty program. Also, as described in additional detail below, the electronic packet may include item-level detail specifying each product that forms part of the transaction to be used in implementing certain loyalty programs that make use of such information. The manner in which the switching element  routes all or part of the electronic packet may depend on how it is physically connected with other parts of the integrated infrastructure. For example, in , the switching element  includes a connection with an authorization server and with a loyalty host  that is configured to manage the loyalty program. The loyalty host  is in communication with a stored-value host  that is configured to manage the stored-value program.","The switching element initially makes a determination whether the merchant and customer who are parties to the transaction are registered with either or both of the loyalty system and stored-value system. Such a comparison is performed by comparing the identification of the parties included within the electronic packet with a database listing of registered participants. If either party is not registered, the switching element  only forwards the electronic packet to the authorization server  through communication networks comprised by the financial infrastructure. Such a routing may be appropriate, for example, where a transaction is initiated using a credit or debit card at a merchant that does not honor applicable stored-value or loyalty programs or by a customer who is not enrolled in such programs. Further details regarding how the information is then treated by the authorization server are provided in the parent application. Irrespective of how it is implemented, the authorization server  may subsequently return an approval or denial code for the transaction depending a result of applying approval standards. The approval or denial code may then be routed back to the point-of-sale terminal  through the merchant server  be the switching element .","If the parties to the transaction are registered, indicating that the customer is participating in one or more forms of loyalty programs integrated with the financial infrastructure and\/or is participating in a stored-value program integrated with the financial infrastructure, the switching element  forwards at least relevant portions of the electronic packet to the loyalty host . The loyalty host  stores administration criteria for the loyalty programs and includes protocols for further forwarding relevant portions of the electronic packet to the stored-value host  as needed. The administration criteria for the loyalty programs may be applied in accordance with a variety of different schemes, some of which are described below, and such administration may including routing data back to a point-of-sale terminal  through the switching element  and a merchant server . The stored-value host  stores administration criteria for the stored-value programs and may route information back to a point-of-sale terminal  through the loyalty host , switching element , and merchant server .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"figref":["FIG. 2B","FIG. 2A"],"b":["228","232","228","232","232","228","232","228","208","220","216","232"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0034"},"figref":"FIG. 2C","b":["228","232","220","228","232","220","232","228","228","232","220","216","208"]},"In the architectures illustrated with , the switching element is additionally shown equipped to forward the electronic packet to the authorization authority , as was mentioned in connection with . In some alternative embodiments, this function may alternatively be performed by the loyalty host or stored-value host over corresponding communication links. Such a capacity may be used, for example, in embodiments where application of the loyalty and\/or stored-value programs is to be implemented only if the transaction is properly authorized and executed.","The structure of  is also intended to illustrate that information regarding the loyalty and stored-value programs may be obtained from multiple merchants. In some embodiments, these multiple merchants may define a coalition that acts in concert in implementing loyalty and\/or stored-value programs. For example, such a coalition might include at least one merchant from different market segments to enhance an overall customer experience and provide greater versatility in the loyalty programs. This greater versatility may be reflected, for example, by offering rewards in one market segment that result from customer activity in a different market segment. This cooperation among merchants thus benefits customers by significantly expanding the scope of the potential loyalty rewards and also acts to the benefit of merchants by inducing customers to participate in particular ways in other market segments.","3. Stored-Value and Loyalty Programs","In embodiments of the invention, stored-value programs may be implemented by using one or more stored-value parameters. These stored-value parameters may, for example, hold information related directly to aspects of a purchasing history by customers, with the actual currency value being correlated to the stored-value parameters by a particular algorithm. Such an arrangement provides considerably greater flexibility in the way in which value indicators may be stored when compared with simply storing cash-value amounts, and permits a more flexible integration with the loyalty programs. In some instances, maintaining stored-value parameters in lieu of cash-value amounts permits the implementation of loyalty programs that would not possible with an integration with a cash-value stored-value program.","The specific nature of the stored-value parameters may vary in different instances, and may be used to accumulate such information as the number of times purchases have been made at a particular location, the number of times particular products or classes of products have been purchased, the number of times certain value constraints have been met by individual purchases, and the like. These types of information may be easily aggregated by loyalty activity and subsequently be converted to cash value when the stored-value program is implemented. In some cases, a reverse conversion may be used when value is added to a stored-value program with cash or equivalent value. The use of a surrogate conveniently allows the implementation of nonlinear translations between the values that are stored and their corresponding cash values. For instance, points could be distributed so that 1.0 point is assigned for each dollar of value up to $25, 1.2 points are assigned for each dollar of value between $ and $50, 1.5 points are assigned for each dollar of value between $51 and $100, 1.8 points are assigned for each dollar of value between $101 and $500, etc. Similar nonlinear translations may be used is redeeming the value, and different translation algorithms may be used for purchasing and redeeming value to accommodate specific types of arrangements. Furthermore, the reverse translation capabilities may be used in some instances to accelerate qualifications for certain rewards through the stored-value mechanisms. Some examples of this type of interplay between the stored-value and loyalty aspects of the integrated arrangement are discussed with a number of examples in greater detail below. Still more complex algorithms may be used in the value translations by making use of more than one type of value. For example, determination of a cash amount may depend on multiple parameters that store different types of information.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0040","num":"0039"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIGS. 2A-2C"],"b":["232","304","308","316","312","324","208","232"]},"The different accounts that may be maintained are illustrated schematically in the figure with circles that enclose certain point values. Each card identification may identify one or more of the accounts, as indicated by sets . The card identification is thus used by the identifier module  to identify which stored-value accounts are to be considered in the value translation. In the example, the accounts identified by set - are used so that an intermediate electronic packet  may be generated in which the card identification is substituted with the point values for those accounts. This intermediate electronic packet  is used by the translator module  to convert the point values into a cash value amount, as indicated in electronic packet . Such a translation is performed in accordance with the specified algorithms and may differ for a number of different reasons. For example, the stored-value host  may be intended to handle a number of different stored-value programs, perhaps for a variety of different merchants, merchant associations, and\/or issuer associations, and each of those programs may treat the translations in a different fashion.","The value processor module  determines how the stored value is to be applied to the transaction amount, producing electronic packets that define a modified transaction amount  and a modified value amount  depending on that application. In a relatively simple embodiment, this may be preformed simply by comparing the size of the value amount with the transaction amount in electronic packet . If the value amount is greater than the transaction amount, the modified transaction amount  may be reduced to zero and the modified value amount  set equal to the difference between the original value amount and the original transaction amount. If the transaction amount is instead greater than the value amount, the modified transaction amount  may be set equal to the difference between the original transaction amount and the original value amount while the modified value amount is set to zero. In other embodiments, other types of manipulations may be performed in assigning the modified value and transaction amounts  and , perhaps taking into account standing instructions regarding such manipulations provided by the customer or specific instructions that may be provided by the customer at the point of sale. Such alternative manipulations may be designed to deplete certain types of value parameters preferentially over others.","The modified value amount  is returned to the translator module  for translation back into the stored-value parameters to update those values in accordance with execution of the transaction. An electronic packet  that defines how the value parameters are to changes is therefore transmitted to the value updater module , which changes the value parameters as indicated.","The coordinated operation of the switching element , loyalty host , and\/or stored-value host  with respect to a transaction is illustrated with the flow diagram of  for one embodiment. Those functions performed by the switching element  are denoted generally by block , those performed by the loyalty host  are denoted generally by block , and those performed by the stored-value host  are denoted generally by block . The progression through the flow diagram is shown for an embodiment that uses the architecture described in connection with , with loyalty-host functions being performed in block  after switching-element functions in block  and before stored-value-host functions in block . In alternative architectures, the progression through the flow diagram may differ. For example, with the architecture described in connection with , the flow may proceed from block  to block  and then to block ; alternatively, with the architecture described in connection with , the flow may proceed in parallel from block  to blocks  and . Moreover, there is no requirement that the functions represented by the individual blocks be performed in the order indicated. In some alternative embodiments, the functions may be performed in a different order, some functions may be omitted, and some additional functions may be added.","At block , transaction data are received from the point-of-sale terminal  as an electronic packet by the switching element . The item-level transaction information that may be included in that electronic packet may be obtained at the point-of-sale terminal by reading bar-code information printed directly on an item or an affixed label. The identification by the point-of-sale device  is generally sufficient to identify both the price of each item as well as to provide a classification of each item. In embodiments that use bar codes, for example, classification may be deduced from the bar code in accordance with standardized classification systems, including, for example, the Universal Product Code (\u201cUPC\u201d) system, the European Article Number (\u201cEAN\u201d) system, the Global Trade Item Number (\u201cGTIN\u201d) system, the Serialized Shipping Container Code (\u201cSSCC\u201d) system, the Global Location Number (\u201cGLN\u201d) system, the Global Returnable Asset Identifier (\u201cGRAI\u201d) system, the Global Individual Asset Identifier (\u201cGIAI\u201d) system, and the Global Service Relation Number (\u201cGSRN\u201d) system, among others. Many of these systems are currently administered by the Uniform Code Council, Inc. (\u201cUCC\u201d) and EAN International. While the emphasis of the these organizations is currently on bar-code technologies, including Reduced Space Symbology (\u201cRSS\u201d) and Composite Symbology (\u201cCS\u201d), they acknowledge that the systems may alternatively be implemented using other technologies, such as with radio-frequency tags. Embodiments of the invention are not restricted to any particular classification technology and are intended to encompass all such classification systems.","The transaction information may be used as indicated at block  to seek authorization for the transaction in the manner described in further detail in the parent application; details regarding the return of a denial or approval code for the transaction are discussed at length in that application and have been incorporated by reference. At block , the electronic packet is analyzed to identify the merchant at which the transaction originated and to determine whether that merchant participates in any of the loyalty and\/or stored-value programs administered by the loyalty and\/or stored-value hosts  and . Similarly, the electronic packet is analyzed at block  to determine whether the customer who is a party to the transaction participates in the loyalty and\/or stored-value programs. If the merchant or customer does not participate, the transaction-authorization process may proceed but neither the loyalty not stored-value programs is implemented.","If loyalty functions are to be invoked, the card identification and transaction information are transmitted to the loyalty host  at block . Aspects of the transaction that qualify for loyalty credit are identified from the transaction data, including identification of item-level data that may define qualifying aspects of the transaction, at block . These qualifying aspects are used to determine whether a reward should be issued at block . Usually such a determination is made on a combination of aspects of the current transaction with recorded past behavior, although in some instances a single transaction may qualify for a reward. If there has been no qualification for a reward, the qualifying aspects of the transaction may be accumulated with the records of prior transactions so that a similar determination whether a reward has been earned may be made with data from a subsequent transaction.","If a reward has been earned, there are multiple ways in which the reward may be provided to the customer in different embodiments. For instance, in one embodiment, the reward is provided as an immediate reward, such as with an immediate reduction in the cost of the current transaction to the customer. Such an immediate reward may be provided as indicated at block  by transmitting an award notification back to the point-of-sale terminal  for application at block . In other embodiments, the transmittal at block  may result in the printing of a certificate or notification of the award by the point-of-sale terminal  rather than resulting in an immediate application of the reward. Such embodiments may be suitable when the reward applies to a different merchant or class of merchants who participate in a coalition-based loyalty program.","In still other embodiments, the notification provided at block  may simply indicate to the customer that a reward has been made and automatically credited to the stored-value program that the customer participates in. In these cases, the reward may be effected by transmitting award information directly to the stored-value host  as indicated at block , with the stored-value host  then updating the stored-value information at block  in accordance with the reward information. For instance, a customer might make purchases at merchant X, a clothing retailer, that qualifies her for a reward that is equal to 100 points in a stored-value account that is restricted to redemption at merchant Y, a hardware retailer. Accordingly, the customer is notified of the reward through the point-of-sale terminal  at the time of the purchase at merchant X, and the stored-value host  automatically credits the stored-value account with the 100 points.","If the stored-value functions are to be invoked, the card identification and transaction information are transmitted to the stored-value host  at block . The transaction information includes at least the total transaction amount and may also include subamounts that correspond to particular types of items that form part of the transaction. Relevant stored-value parameters are identified at block  as described above by identifying which stored-value accounts correspond to the received card identification and perhaps also correspond to the accounts that are limited to use at the particular merchant or for a particular product type. The stored-value parameters are translated to a value amount at block , such as by using the translator module  described in connection with . At block , the value amount is applied to the transaction to determine a modified transaction amount and a modified value amount. These values are usually reduced by the same amount from the original transaction and value amounts, although there may be instances in which the reductions differ. The point-of-sale terminal is notified of the modified transaction amount at block  so that that amount may be substituted for the original transaction amount in executing the transaction. In addition, the modified value amount is translated to the stored-value parameters at block  so that the recorded stored-value parameters may be updated at block .","In the foregoing description, identification of the item-level data in administering the loyalty programs was described as being performed at the loyalty host . In other embodiments, however, such item-level information may alternatively be processed at a different point in the architecture. In one such embodiment, the item-level information is processed at the point-of-sale terminal  where the transaction is initiated. In this embodiment each point-of-sale terminal  includes a copy of item-level qualifications for the loyalty programs so that those parts of the transaction that qualify may be identified at the outset. Rather than transmit specific item-level information as part of the electronic packet to the switching element , the electronic packet may instead simply identify that certain qualifications for certain loyalty programs have been met. Such an embodiment simplifies the operation of the loyalty host , but requires that data specifying administration of the loyalty programs be maintained on multiple point-of-sale devices . In another embodiment, these two considerations may be compromised by maintaining the item-level loyalty-program information on the merchant servers  and performing the identification of met qualifications at those points in the architecture.","Each of the loyalty host  and stored-value host  may be configured in a variety of different ways to effect the functions described. In one embodiment, a computer system is used for each, one example of which is shown schematically in . This figure broadly illustrates how individual system elements for the loyalty host  or stored-value host  may be implemented in a separated or more integrated manner. The loyalty host  or stored-value host  is shown comprised of hardware elements that are electrically coupled via bus , including a processor , one or more input devices , one or more output devices , one or more storage devices , a computer-readable storage media reader , a communications system , a processing acceleration unit  such as a DSP or special-purpose processor, and a memory . The computer-readable storage media reader is further connected to a computer-readable storage medium , the combination comprehensively representing remote, local, fixed, and\/or removable storage devices plus storage media for temporarily and\/or more permanently containing computer-readable information.","Information regarding merchants, issuers, individual customers and details specifying the administration of the loyalty and\/or stored-value programs is generally stored on the storage devices . The communications system  is configured to effect communications as needed by receiving the electronic packet from the switching element  and to provide return communications back through the infrastructure. In addition to providing such infrastructure communications links internal to the system, the communications system  may also provide a connection to other networks such as the Internet and may comprise a wired, wireless, modem, and\/or other type of interfacing connection. Such additional connections may be useful for support functions that may be assisted by the loyalty host  and\/or stored-value host  described briefly below and in greater detail in the parent application.","The loyalty host  or stored-value host  also comprises software elements, shown as being currently located within working memory , including an operating system  and other code , such as a program designed to implement methods of the invention. It will be apparent to those skilled in the art that substantial variations may be used in accordance with specific requirements. For example, customized hardware might also be used and\/or particular elements might be implemented in hardware, software (including portable software, such as applets), or both. Further, connection to other computing devices such as network input\/output devices may be employed.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0055","num":"0054"},"figref":["FIG. 5B","FIGS. 2A-2C"],"b":["228","232","540","104","108","112","116","544","228","232","228","232","104","108","112","116","544"]},"Examples of support services that may be configured in this way include card-creation services, customer-care services, and settlement services, in addition to other support services. Such services may be provided as functions comprised by the hosts  and  or may be provided as functions operating separately but with access to the hosts. Elements for providing the support services thus usually include a communication with the Internet  so that their functions may be accessed as necessary or desirable by merchants , issuers , merchant associations , issuer associations , and\/or customers . Further description of support functions that may be supported is provided in the parent application, which has been incorporated by reference.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0057","num":"0056"},"figref":["FIGS. 6A and 6B","FIG. 6A","FIG. 5B"],"b":["604","608","612","616","620","624"]},"In some instances, the experience of the customer may be enhanced by providing the customer with the ability to choose a reward from among a number of options, rather than simply providing a default award based on transaction activity. One method of providing such options is illustrated in . In response to execution of various transactions at block , the loyalty host stores and accumulates transaction information at block  to monitor the customer's progress towards a reward. In some cases, different rewards may be provided at different levels, with the customer being required to forego a lower-level reward to accumulate more transactions to qualify for the higher-level reward. When the customer contacts the loyalty host at block , such as over the Internet connection shown in  or through another mechanism, the loyalty host presents a number of reward options to the customer at block  from which the customer may make a selection at block . In response to the customer's selection, the loyalty host transmits reward information to the stored-value host at block  so that the stored-value host may apply the reward at block .","4. Examples","The systems described above are suitable for accommodating a large variety of different types of loyalty programs, and for integrating those programs with stored-value programs. Individual programs may be specific to an individual store or organization or may span across multiple otherwise unrelated organizations as part of a more comprehensive coalition-based loyalty system. In one aspect, individual customers may participate in multiple loyalty programs that are managed as independent programs by the aggregator . Points maintained for the different programs are identified and distinguished by different point types. In this way, the customer may be able to use a single instrument identified with the aggregator's logo for participation in all its loyalty programs.","For each of the loyalty programs, rewards may be accumulated in at least three ways. First, rewards may be based on recency criteria, in which a reward is triggered either by completing a transaction within a specified time interval or by completing a specified number of transactions within a given time interval. Second, rewards may be based on frequency, in which a reward is triggered by completing a specified number of transactions. Third, rewards may be monetarily based so that a reward is triggered when a specified total transaction amount is reached. Such triggers may be specified for individual transactions or may be specified for accumulated transaction amounts over multiple transactions.","In addition, reward triggers may be conditional. Examples of conditional triggers include a requirement that points be accumulated only for transaction above a certain amount, and perhaps that points be accumulated more generally at different rates for transactions of different sizes. Other conditional triggers may be associated with time constraints so that points may only be accumulated only after a specified date, only before a specified date, only on certain days of the week, only during certain holiday periods, etc. Accumulation of points may also be conditionally restricted to certain tender types and to transactions where no reward is applied.","Accumulation of rewards is generally tracked in terms of points, which may be correlated with aspects of a transaction, and may be set to expire after a certain time period or at a predetermined time. Thus, for a recency loyalty system, points will generally be set to expire within the time period required for completion of the transactions. For a frequency loyalty system, points will usually be integers corresponding to the number of transactions completed. For a monetary loyalty system, points will be correlated with the dollar amount of the transaction, perhaps nonlinearly if customers are to be credited differently based on the size of individual transactions. The correlation rates may differ for different issuers, even within the same loyalty program, requiring use of the settlement functions among issuers and\/or merchants. Points may generally be structured to expire periodically or after a specified period of inactivity to prevent excess accumulation by individual customers. Furthermore, point totals for individuals may be conditioned to reset when awards are given, to reset on a cyclical basis (e.g., monthly or annually), to continue to accumulate (rewards given for different levels reached), or to be permanently eliminated upon issuance of a reward (such as for a one-time reward).","In certain embodiments, points may be accumulated collectively by multiple customers. For example, each member of a family may have a separate card that identifies them individually, but points are accumulated into an account for the family as a whole. In other embodiments, points may be transferred among customers.","The manner in which such loyalty programs function may be illustrated with specific examples. First, consider a coalition-based loyalty program in which points are given for every dollar spent at any of a plurality of stores having diverse retail practices, such as a clothing chain, a hardware chain, and a restaurant chain. A customer who uses a card bearing a logo for the aggregator that manages this program accumulates points at any of the stores and may exchange the accumulated points for goods at any of the stores. For example, the customer may make a series of purchases at the hardware chain over a period of time and may subsequently redeem the points for dinner at a restaurant that forms part of the restaurant chain. This is an example of a purely monetary loyalty program that operates by the individual chains determining how to allocate point values among themselves to accommodate their respective benefits of participating in the program. This is also an example where different money-point correlation rates may be appropriate to account for differences in retail practices among the merchants.","As another example, consider a loyalty program in which a pizza chain and a video-rental chain cooperate. They advertise collectively that anyone who buys three pizzas at the pizza chain may receive a free video rental at the video-rental chain and anyone who rents fifteen videos at the video-rental chain is entitled to a free pizza at the pizza chain. Customers having cards bearing the aggregator logo have their purchases of pizzas and rentals of videos recorded so that the reward may be issued when the criteria have been fulfilled. Such rewards may be given automatically at the point of sale when the customer uses his card. This is an example of a frequency-based reward system that uses the aggregator to integrate separate organizations into the plan in a cooperative way.","As a further example, consider a loyalty program in which a movie-theater chain, a bookstore chain, and a music-store chain that are otherwise independent from one another cooperate. They offer a program in which, in any monthly period, a $25.00 purchase at each of two of the chains entitles the customer to a $5.00 rebate towards a purchase at the third chain. The purchases of customers having cards bearing the aggregator logo are recorded whenever they visit any of the three chains and issue the appropriate reward when the conditions are met. This example combines aspects of recency-based and monetary-based loyalty systems that use the aggregator to permit separate organizations to cooperate to their mutual benefit.","In each of these examples, the customer may be provided with a significantly more diverse array of options when the loyalty program is coupled with the stored-value program. In particular, in some embodiments the customer may be permitted to exercise greater control over how accumulating points are used by storing the loyalty points as value parameters used by the stored-value system. In such embodiments, the points may be allowed to accumulate by the customer to trigger a loyalty reward, or may be used according to the value translation used by the stored-value host. Loyalty rewards may effectively be accelerated through payment by the customer, i.e. by adding stored value that translates into the desired types of value parameters.","In other instances, the reloading of value in the stored-value portion of the program may itself generate loyalty points towards a reward. For instance, a reward may be provided, say in the form of a free pizza purchase, every time five value reloads that exceed $50 are made. The rewards may vary, such as to encourage reloading larger value amounts.","Still other arrangements are enabled by embodiments of the invention, as will be evident to those of skill in the art.","Having described several embodiments, it will be recognized by those of skill in the art that various modifications, alternative constructions, and equivalents may be used without departing from the spirit of the invention. Accordingly, the above description should not be taken as limiting the scope of the invention, which is defined in the following claims."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["A further understanding of the nature and advantages of the present invention may be realized by reference to the remaining portions of the specification and the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used throughout the several drawings to refer to similar components. In some instances, a sublabel is associated with a reference numeral and follows a hyphen to denote one of multiple similar components. When reference is made to a reference numeral without specification to an existing sublabel, it is intended to refer to all such multiple similar components.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIGS. 1A and 1B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIGS. 1C and 1D"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIGS. 2A-2C"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 5A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 5B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIGS. 6A and 6B"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
