---
title: Compact antenna element and array, and a method of operating same
abstract: An antenna element includes a section which is electrically non-conductive, a plurality of electrically conductive patches on the section which each face in a predetermined direction, a feed arrangement electrically coupled to the patches, and an annular strip of conductive material supported on the section and extending around the patches free of electrical contact therewith. A plurality of these antenna elements can be used to form an array, where one of the antenna elements has several other antenna elements provided at spaced locations around it. Each antenna element can include, on a side of the section opposite from the patches, an electrically-conductive portion with a cavity which faces the section.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=06847328&OS=06847328&RS=06847328
owner: Raytheon Company
number: 06847328
owner_city: Waltham
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20030127
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"p":["This application claims the priority under 35 U.S.C. \u00a7119 of provisional application No. 60\/360,912 filed Feb. 28, 2002.","This invention was made with Government support under Contract No. N00039-00-9-2224 awarded by the Department of the Navy. The Government has certain rights in this invention.","This invention relates in general to antennas and, more particularly, to antenna arrays suitable for use with global positioning satellite systems.","In January, 1999, the Johns Hopkins University Applied Physics Laboratory (APL) released a Global Positioning Satellite (GPS) risk assessment study. This study was carried out because GPS is being evaluated for possible use as the sole basis for airplane navigation in U.S. national airspace. The study concluded that the only significant risk was interference (intentional or unintentional). The study went on to outline three primary sources of unintentional interference, which are: (1) out-of-band television transmissions, (2) very high frequency (VHF) broadcasts, and (3) over-the-horizon (OTH) military radar. The study recommended the use of antenna nulling and signal processing techniques to overcome any kind of interference.","One specific of the use of GPS for airplane navigation is that GPS has become a significant, enabling technology for present and future military fighter jets. GPS technology is being utilized for many other military aspects as well, and is forming the foundation for new paradigms in military tactics. As a result, the U.S. military is growing increasingly reliant on GPS.","The success of a mission and the lives of troops can often depend on the accuracy and availability of a GPS system. Therefore, signal denial is a major concern, whether it is caused intentionally or unintentionally. For this reason, many military GPS systems use specialized antenna arrays, called controlled reception pattern antennas (CRPAs), which can work in conjunction with integrated electronics to adaptively cancel (or null) unwanted signals. These antennas and the associated electronics are often referred to generically as anti-jam antenna systems.","Many branches of the military are now deciding to add anti-jam capabilities to their existing GPS systems. This trend will carry over to many commercial\/civil organizations in the near future. Beginning with GPS satellites planned for launch in 2005, two additional commercial signals will be available. The first signal, which is designated L5, will be broadcast over a carrier frequency of 1176.45 MHz. The second signal will be added to the existing L2 carrier frequency. These new signals are intended to modernize the GPS standard by facilitating higher accuracy and availability for critical commercial applications, including primary aircraft navigation, life-saving rescue operations, and so forth. In time, these critical civilian applications will require system availability and accuracy comparable to that required by the military today.","The addition of anti-jam capability to existing military GPS systems will, in many cases, present the issue of replacing existing single-element Fixed Reception Pattern Antennas (FRPAs), which are relatively small, with a larger CRPA array and also an antenna electronics (AE) unit. With existing physical and budgetary constraints, array size and cost will be prime discriminators during procurement for this transition.","Most existing CRPA array designs use microstrip patch antenna elements. These elements are attractive because they are relatively simple in design, exhibit a low profile, and have performance characteristics which are well understood. The existing state-of-the-art CRPA arrays (which utilize patches) can provide the anti-jam performance required for most, if not all, of the projected military applications. However, the size and cost of existing CRPA arrays will be a significant impediment to their proliferation. In this regard, existing 7-element GAS-1 CRPA arrays are typically about 14 inches in diameter, and can each cost as much as $12,000.","Existing GAS-1 antennas are too large to fit on many aircraft, and there is a need for a smaller array that will meet many or all requirements of the U.S. military. In order to provide a smaller array, it is necessary to shrink the size of the antenna elements, and\/or position them closer together. On the other hand, to be an efficient radiator, an antenna element typically needs to be a certain size. For example, a single antenna element normally needs to be at least a quarter wavelength to a half wavelength in size in order to operate efficiently. An array would need to be larger. In fact, electrically small antennas usually exhibit degraded performance (reduced bandwidth, efficiency, and so forth), which can greatly hinder the overall system performance. An electrically small antenna which is efficient and broadband is highly desirable.","It is possible to make existing CRPA patch elements physically smaller by using a substrate material which has a high dielectric constant (loading). These smaller loaded elements can, in theory, be positioned more closely together, in order to form a smaller array. However, there are performance and other sacrifices associated with this approach. First, the dielectric loading tends to decrease the element's bandwidth and efficiency, and to increase the element's weight and cost. Narrow bandwidth coupled with manufacturing and material tolerances can lead to significant production problems, and can ultimately drive up the cost of the array. Second, testing has shown that small loaded patch elements can exhibit very high element-to-element coupling values when they are separated by a distance of one-third wavelength or less. This increased coupling leads to degraded anti-jam performance.","Consequently, there is a need for a cheaper and smaller CRPA array which provides acceptable anti-jam performance and which is less dependent on manufacturing and material variations. Some associated technical problems are that unloaded broadband antenna elements tend to be large (the opposite of what is needed), and the close element-to-element spacing needed for a reduced-size array tends to degrade the performance of the antenna and inhibit the overall system's ability to cancel the interfering or jamming signals.","A first form of the present invention involves an antenna element which includes a section that is electrically non-conductive, a plurality of electrically conductive patches that are provided on the section and that each face in a predetermined direction, a feed arrangement electrically coupled to the patches, and an annular strip of conductive material supported on the section and extending around the patches free of electrical contact with the patches.","A different form of the invention involves a first antenna element and a plurality of second antenna elements disposed at spaced locations around the first antenna element, each antenna element including a section that is electrically non-conductive, a plurality of electrically conductive patches that are provided on the section and that each face in a predetermined direction, a feed arrangement electrically coupled to the patches, and an annular strip of conductive material supported on the section and extending around the patches free of electrical contact with the patches.","Yet another form of the invention involves: forming a plurality of electrically conductive patches on an electrically non-conductive section, in a manner so that the patches each face substantially in a predetermined direction; providing on the section an annular strip of conductive material which extends around the patches free of electrical contact with the patches, the section, the patches and the annular strip being parts of an antenna element; and effecting one of transmission and reception of an electromagnetic signal through the patches.","Still another form of the invention involves: forming a plurality of electrically conductive patches on each of a plurality of non-conductive sections, in a manner so that the patches each face substantially in a predetermined direction; providing on each section an annular strip of conductive material which extends around the patches thereon free of electrical contact with the patches, wherein each section, the patches thereon and the annular strip associated therewith are parts of a respective one of a plurality of antenna elements; and positioning the antenna elements so that a first antenna element has a plurality of second antenna elements disposed at spaced locations therearound.",{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00024","num":"00024"},"figref":["FIG. 1","FIG. 2"],"b":["10","10","1","10","10","10","10"]},"The antenna array  in the disclosed embodiment is configured for use in a global positioning satellite (GPS) system, but this is an exemplary application, and the present invention is not limited to GPS systems. The antenna array  is an array of a specialized type which is commonly referred to as a controlled reception pattern antenna (CRPA). CRPA arrays work well in conjunction with integrated electronics to adaptively cancel or null unwanted signals. Consequently, these arrays and the associated electronics are often referred to generically as anti-jam antenna systems.","In the disclosed embodiment, the antenna array  is configured for use with GPS frequency L1 (1.227 GHz), and GPS frequency L2 (1.575 GHz). However, as noted above, the antenna array  is not restricted to GPS applications. Further, the antenna array  could be used for other applications that involve lower or higher frequencies. At higher frequencies, the antenna array  could have a smaller size, in dependence on the particular frequencies of operation, and at lower frequencies the array  would have a larger size, in dependence on the particular frequencies of operation.","As evident from , the antenna array  has an overall shape in a top view which is approximately a square, and in the disclosed embodiment this square has a size of about 7 inches by 7 inches. The antenna array  has a height of about 3.5 inches. The antenna array  includes a housing or base  which is approximately square in a top view, with horizontal top and bottom surfaces, and vertical side surfaces. The base  is made from a piece of aluminum, and is thus electrically conductive.","The base  has in the upper side thereof a 3 by 3 array of nine cavities -. The cavities - each extend vertically downwardly into the base  from the top surface thereof. The cavities - are of equal size, and each have approximately a square shape in the top view of FIG. . Each of the cavities - has four vertical side surfaces, and a horizontal bottom surface. Four of the nine cavities, which are cavities , ,  and , each have a respective platelike tab - which projects horizontally inwardly from a top edge of the outer wall of that cavity. Each of the tabs - has a respective threaded hole - extending vertically through it, and these holes can be used to removably secure the not-illustrated radome in place.","The antenna array  includes five antenna elements -, each of which has a lower end supported in a respective one of the five cavities , , ,  and . The four outer antenna elements -, which are referred to as auxiliary antenna elements, are all identical to each other. The center antenna element , which is referred to as a reference antenna element, is slightly different from the auxiliary antenna elements -, in a manner explained later. The auxiliary antenna element  will be described first.","The antenna element  includes a foam block  of generally rectangular shape. In the disclosed embodiment, the foam  is a rigid, non-conductive, closed cell foam made of polymethacrylimide, and can be obtained commercially from Northern Fiber Glass Sales, Inc. of Hampton, N.H. under the trade name ROHACELL. This foam material is electromagnetically inert, but provides structural rigidity to the antenna is element. From an electromagnetic perspective, the foam  could optionally be omitted, without significantly affecting the electromagnetic operation of the antenna element.","The foam block  has a substantially square shape in a top view, with outside dimensions that are only slightly smaller than the inside dimensions of the associated cavity . In a side view (FIG. ), the foam block  has a rectangular shape. The lower portion of the foam block  is disposed within the cavity , and the upper end of the foam block projects a short distance above the top surface of the base .","The antenna element  also includes a layer  of a dielectric material. The dielectric layer  is fixedly secured to the top surface of the foam block , for example using an epoxy adhesive of a known type. In a top view, the dielectric layer  is square, and has dimensions which are substantially the same as those of foam block , so that each side surface of the dielectric layer  is substantially flush with a respective side surface of the foam block .","In the disclosed embodiment, the dielectric layer  is made of a relatively inexpensive dielectric material commonly known as FR4. FR4 material is a commercially available, glass-reinforced epoxy which has a dielectric constant in the range of about 4.0 to 4.5, and which is also sometimes referred to as GFG or G. The FR4 material is much cheaper and easier to process than many other common radio frequency (RF) or microwave materials. The dielectric layer  can be made from a single solid piece of FR4 material, or instead from a laminate of several layers of FR4 material. Alternatively, it would be possible to fabricate the dielectric layer  from any of a number of different dielectric materials, without significantly altering the electromagnetic operation of the antenna element .","The antenna element  also includes an electrically conductive fence or strip . The strip  is annular, and extends completely around the dielectric layer  and an upper portion of the foam block . In the disclosed embodiment, the strip  is adhesively coupled to the dielectric layer  and foam block , for example by a known epoxy adhesive, or by any other suitable known adhesive. In the disclosed embodiment, the strip  is made of copper, but it could alternatively be made of any other suitable material which is electrically conductive. In the disclosed embodiment, the strip  has a width (vertical height) which is approximately twice the vertical thickness of the dielectric layer . However, it would alternatively be possible to adjust the width of the strip , in order to vary the electrical characteristics of the antenna element .","The antenna element  includes four antenna elements or patches -, which are each disposed on the top surface of the dielectric layer . The patches - are each made of copper, but could alternatively be made of some other electrically conductive material. In the disclosed embodiment, the dielectric layer  and the patches - are fabricated by commercially purchasing a large sheet that has a sandwich configuration, in which a thin layer of copper is provided on each side of a layer of dielectric material. A square section is cut from this sheet in a size appropriate for the dielectric layer , and all of the copper material on the bottom side of the dielectric layer is removed through chemical etching or mechanical milling. Further, selected portions of the copper layer on the upper side of the dielectric layer are removed through chemical etching or mechanical milling, in order to leave only the four patches - on the dielectric layer. It will be recognized, however, that the dielectric layer  and the patches - could alternatively be fabricated in some other manner.","Each of the patches - has substantially the shape of an equilateral triangle, such that the three apexes of each patch each have an angle of 60\u00b0. The patches  and  are slightly smaller in size than the patches  and , for reasons discussed later. The patches  and  are disposed at spaced locations along an imaginary line , such that each has an apex nearest the other, and such that each is effectively bisected by the line . The patches  and  are arranged in a similar manner along an imaginary line , which is perpendicular to the line . The imaginary lines  and  intersect at a point which is located centrally between all four patches -. The patches  and  serve as a first bowtie antenna element, and the patches  and  serve as a second bowtie antenna element, where the two bowties are orthogonal to each other.",{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00037","num":"00037"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIGS. 2 and 3"],"b":["53","53","101","104","62","61","16","101","104","62","71","74","101","104","106","109","111","114","101","104"]},"With reference to , each of the outer conductors - is soldered to the adjacent apex of a respective one of the patches -, as indicated at -. The inner conductors  and  of the cables  and  are cut so that their upper ends are approximately flush with the top surface of the dielectric layer . The upper ends of the inner conductors  and  are not electrically coupled to any of the patches or other structure on top of the dielectric layer .","The inner conductor  from the cable  is bent to extend to a location in the region of the cable , and is soldered to either the outer conductor  of the cable  or the adjacent apex of the patch . The inner conductor  does not engage the outer conductor  of its own cable or the inner conductor  of the cable . In a similar manner, the inner conductor  of the cable  is bent so as to extend to a location adjacent the cable , and is soldered to either the outer conductor  of the cable , or the adjacent apex of the patch . The inner conductor  does not touch the outer conductor  of its own cable, the inner conductor  of cable , or the inner conductor  of cable .","The patch  is thus coupled to the inner conductor  and, during operation of the antenna element , the inner conductor  will function to some extent as part of the patch . In contrast, the other patch  of that bowtie element is not coupled to the center conductor of any of the four cables -. This is why, as mentioned above, the patch  has a physical size which is slightly smaller than the physical size of the patch .","More specifically, the relative sizes of the patches  and  are selected so that the combined electrical effect of the patch  and the attached inner conductor  is approximately equal to the electrical effect of the patch  by itself. In a similar manner, the patch  is selected to be slightly smaller than the patch , so that the combined electrical effect of the patch  and the inner conductor  is approximately equal to the electrical effect of the patch . The patches of a given antenna element can be physically trimmed at their outer edges, to thereby adjust their sizes in order to obtain an appropriate impedance match.","Each of the coaxial cables - is coupled at its lower end to a respective coaxial connector which is disposed against a bottom surface of the base , for example as shown at  and  in  for the cables  and . Alternatively, instead of providing coaxial connectors such as those depicted at -, each cable could extend to a location remote from the antenna array . The four coaxial cables - collectively serve as a feed arrangement for the antenna element .","As mentioned above, the antenna elements - and  are each substantially identical to the antenna element . Accordingly, the structure of the antenna elements - and  is not described here in detail. Turning to the reference antenna element  at the center of the array , the structure of the antenna element  is similar in many respects to the structure of the antenna element . However, there are some differences, and the following discussion addresses primarily the differences.","Referring to , the reference antenna element  has a foam block  which is made of the same material as the foam block . The foam block  has a lower portion with approximately the same size and shape as the foam block , except that the lower portion of the foam block  has a vertical height which is somewhat greater than the vertical height of the foam block , as evident from FIG. . At its upper end, the foam block  has a lip or flange , which projects outwardly beyond the lower portion of block  on all sides thereof. The foam block  has its lower end disposed in the cavity  of the base . The underside of the flange  is disposed at a location which is slightly vertically higher than the top surface of the dielectric layer  of the antenna element .","The antenna element  includes a dielectric layer , which is made of the same material as the dielectric layer  of antenna element . However, as evident from , the dielectric layer  is somewhat larger in horizontal directions than the dielectric layer , and is congruent with the flange  of the block . The dielectric layer  and flange  each have approximately a square shape, except that small, square notches - are provided at the corners of each. Consequently, in the top view of , the overall shape of the dielectric layer  and flange  is approximately that of a cross. The notches - reduce the extent to which the dielectric layer  may tend to interfere with the electrical operation of any of the auxiliary antenna elements -.","The reference antenna element  has an electrically conductive fence or strip  which extends along and is fixedly secured to the peripheral edges of the dielectric layer  and flange . As evident from the top view of , the strip  is annular, and has a shape which is approximately the outline of a cross.","As shown in , the reference antenna element  includes four triangular patches -, which are provided on the top surface of the dielectric layer . The antenna element  includes four coaxial cables -, which serve as a feed arrangement, and which are operatively coupled to the patches - in a manner similar to that discussed above in association with  for the antenna element . The patches - of the reference antenna element  are proportionally larger than the patches of the auxiliary antenna elements -, by a factor of approximately 26%. The outside dimensions of the dielectric layer  of the reference antenna element  are proportionally larger than the outside dimensions of the dielectric elements of the auxiliary antenna elements -, by a factor of approximately 36%.",{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00048","num":"00048"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 4"],"b":["55","152","171","174","176","179","191","192","193","194","195","196","10"]},"If the reference antenna element  had substantially the same size as the auxiliary antenna elements -, the reference antenna element  would tend to have a higher operational frequency range than the auxiliary antenna elements -. Consequently, by making the reference antenna element  proportionally larger, as discussed above, the reference antenna element  is configured to operate in the same frequency range as the auxiliary antenna elements. Moreover, the larger size of the reference antenna element  helps to reduce element-to-element coupling between the reference antenna element and the auxiliary antenna elements, and also avoids degraded input impedance match and pattern coverage for the reference antenna element .",{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00050","num":"00050"},"figref":"FIG. 5","b":["201","53","1","202","53","63","27"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00051","num":"00051"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIGS. 5 and 6","FIG. 6"],"b":["206","53","1","207","5","53","206","207","207","206","53"]},"In regard to the auxiliary antenna element , the provision of the conductive strip  around the dielectric layer  permits a reduction in the size of the antenna element  in horizontal directions by a factor of approximately 24%. The provision of the conductive cavity  in the base  facilitates a reduction of approximately 20% to 25% in the vertical height of the antenna element , and allows the antenna element to be substantially contained inside a cavity in a ground plane.","The auxiliary antenna elements - are substantially identical to each other, and the reference antenna element  is similar to them. However, with reference to , it will be recognized that the foam block  of each of these antenna elements can be inserted into the associated cavity in the base  with any one of four different orientations. Similarly, the foam block  of the reference antenna element  can be inserted into its cavity with any one of four different orientations. The selection of an appropriate orientation for each antenna element is referred to as \u201cclocking\u201d the antenna element. It will be noted that the auxiliary antenna elements - and  each have their smaller antenna patches to the upper and left sides as viewed in , and the larger patches to the lower and right sides. In contrast, the auxiliary antenna element  has its smaller patches to the lower and right sides in , and its larger patches to the upper and left sides. The reference antenna element  has its smaller patches to the upper and right sides in , and its larger patches to the lower and left sides.","Through selection of an appropriate clocking position for each antenna element, electromagnetic interaction between the antenna elements can be minimized, in order to improve overall performance of the antenna array . Even where the spacing between the centers of the antenna elements is less than about one-third wavelength, the element-to-element coupling is typically about \u221213 dB to \u221214 dB, which represents a significant improvement in comparison to pre-existing antenna arrays that have similar spacing.","As discussed above, the embodiment of  has an electrically-conductive base  with several cavities that are each associated with a respective antenna element. In an alternative configuration, cavities for the antenna elements are each defined by a respective different physical part, where each such part is an upwardly-open container that is made from an electrically-conductive material and has thin walls. The use of such a thin-walled cavity for each antenna element appears to provide some improved performance, in that the element match is slightly better tuned, the low-angle axial ratio is decreased, and the pattern coverage is increased because the pattern is less directive.","In a different variation, which is not separately illustrated, each of the antenna elements - can have four tubes that extend vertically through it, and each tube can have a respective one of the coaxial cables of the feed arrangement extending through it. Each tube can be made of brass, and the shield of each cable can be soldered to the upper or lower end of the tube through which it extends. This can facilitate the removal and replacement of cables with little or no damage to them.","The antenna elements - can each be referred to as a loaded bowtie antenna element in a cavity, or an \u201cLBC\u201d element. As discussed later, these LBC elements each provide good electrical performance in a size which is more compact than comparable pre-existing antenna elements. In particular, each LBC element can be approximately 20% smaller than a comparable pre-existing antenna element operating in the same band, without sacrificing bandwidth. Each LBC element may be less than about 0.4 wavelength tall, and less than about one-third wavelength square. Each LBC element exhibits a 40% to 50% impedance bandwidth, good efficiency, and a relatively consistent and broad reception pattern. In this regard, and as discussed later, the typical bandwidth-limiting bifurcation exhibited by pre-existing antenna elements at higher frequencies is avoided by the LBC element.","With reference to , the four coaxial cables - effectively form two orthogonal shorted two-wire transmission lines, each of which serves as a balanced-to-unbalanced (BALUN) transformer and a shorted matching stub. Consequently, the overall configuration which results has two LBC element outputs (one for each dipole), and these outputs can be combined using a 90\u00b0 hybrid in order to produce a desired right-hand circular polarization (RHCP). Alternatively, the same hybrid could be utilized to produce left-hand circular polarization (LHCP), if desired. The outer conductors - of each cable are electrically coupled to the conductive material of the base  which forms the cavity for each element, for example by soldering.","In the disclosed embodiment, the cavities and foam blocks each have approximately a square shape in a top view, but they could alternatively have the shape of some other polygon, such as a hexagon or octagon, in order to provide a larger number of clocking positions for each element. The diameters of the coaxial cables -, and the spacing between them, can be adjusted in order to vary the performance of the antenna element .","The present invention provides a number of technical advantages. One such advantage relates to the provision of antenna elements which are compact in size, and have a relatively large bandwidth. The antenna elements are efficient, and have a broad radiation pattern which is relatively consistent across a broad bandwidth.","Advantages of the disclosed antenna array include the fact that it is very compact and provides good performance, including good anti-jam capability, good element impedance matching, good pattern coverage, a wide bandwidth, and limited element-to-element coupling. The antenna array has a weight which is significantly lower than that of a pre-existing array which operates in the same waveband. The disclosed antenna array also has a manufacturing cost which is significantly less than that of pre-existing antenna arrays with comparable performance, and is backward compatible with the antenna electronics of at least some pre-existing systems.","Although selected embodiments have been illustrated and described in detail, it will be understood that various substitutions and alterations are possible without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention, as defined by the following claims."],"GOVINT":[{},{}],"heading":["GOVERNMENT INTEREST","TECHNICAL FIELD OF THE INVENTION","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION"],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["A better understanding of the present invention will be realized from the detailed description which follows, taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings, in which:",{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00019","num":"00019"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00020","num":"00020"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00021","num":"00021"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00022","num":"00022"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00023","num":"00023"},"figref":["FIGS. 5 and 6","FIG. 1"]}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
