---
title: Real-time benefits service marketplace
abstract: A method for managing employee benefits in real-time includes receiving, from an employer, requirements for benefits; transmitting the requirements to one or more benefits providers; receiving bids from the one or more benefits providers to satisfy the requirements for benefits; receiving, from the employer, an authorization to enroll benefits of a selected benefits provider from the one or more benefits providers; and transmitting the authorization to the selected benefits provider.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07933785&OS=07933785&RS=07933785
owner: SAP AG
number: 07933785
owner_city: Walldorf
owner_country: DE
publication_date: 20030715
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["TECHNICAL FIELD","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION","Other Embodiments"],"p":["The application relates to benefits administration.","Companies provide their employees with benefits in the form of benefits packages. These benefits may include health care insurance and life insurance. Benefits services companies supply these benefits to employers. In the realm of health care, employers have a growing number of different kinds of benefits packages from which to choose.","Increases in health care costs, for example, have resulted in higher health care plan premiums for employers. These rising costs require new controls by employers. These controls include reviewing data and information about health care plans currently being provided to employees, obtaining information about different health care benefits options, sharing data internally and externally, utilizing all information to make better decisions, going to market at any time, and obtaining real-time market data.","Third party vendors can provide services to assist employers with implementing the foregoing controls.","In general, in one aspect, the invention is directed to a method for managing employee benefits in real-time. The method includes receiving, from an employer, requirements for benefits; transmitting the requirements to one or more benefits providers; receiving bids from the one or more benefits providers to satisfy the requirements for benefits; receiving, from the employer, an authorization to enroll benefits of a selected benefits provider from the one or more benefits providers; and transmitting the authorization to the selected benefits provider. This aspect may include one or more of the following features.","Receiving the authorization may include receiving an electronic signature from the employer. The method may also include receiving, from the employer, electronic payment for the benefits, receiving requests for payment for the benefits from the selected benefits provider, and transmitting electronic payment for the benefits to the selected benefits provider. The method may also include receiving a carrier receipt from the selected benefits provider, and\/or transmitting a carrier receipt to the employer.","The benefits may include at least one of health care benefits, life insurance benefits, savings plans, stock option plans, pension plans, 401K plans, credit plans, flexible spending accounts, and claims processing for flexible spending accounts. Receiving and transmitting may be performed using a markup language, such as Extensible Markup Language (XML).","The method may include receiving, from the employer, a request to change benefits for the employee, and transmitting, to the selected benefits provider, the request to change benefits. The method may include receiving, from the employer, a request to stop benefits, and transmitting, to the selected benefits provider, the request to stop benefits.","Machine-readable media may store executable instructions that cause one or more machines to implement the method.","In general, in another aspect, the invention is directed to a system for managing employee benefits in real-time. The system includes an Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) system to manage human resources information for a company with employees, and one or more computers to manage information for one or more benefits providers. At least one of the computers is configured to: receive, via a network and the ERP system, requirements for benefits services for an employee; transmit the requirements for benefits services, via the network, to the one or more of the computers managing information for one or more benefits providers; receive, via the network, bids to satisfy the requirements for benefits services from the one or more computers; transmit the bids to the ERP system via the network; receive, via the network and from the ERP system, an authorization to enroll the services of a selected benefits provider from the one or more computers; and transmit the authorization via the network to a computer managing information for the selected benefits provider.","In general, in another aspect, the invention is directed to a system for managing employee benefits in real-time. The system includes one or more computers managing information for one or more benefits providers, and an Enterprise Resource Planner (ERP) to manage human resources information for a company with employees. The ERP is configured to: obtain requirements for benefits; transmit, via the network, the requirements to the one or more computers; receive, via the network, bids to satisfy the requirements from the one or more computers; obtain an authorization to enroll the services of a selected benefits provider; and transmit, via the network, the authorization to a computer managing information for the selected benefits provider.","These and other embodiments may have one or more of the following advantages.","Some embodiments provide interfaces to currently existing Health Care Management (HCM) benefits and payroll administration systems used by employers for their employees. The interfaces provide access to benefits plan header data and details, as well as exact payroll deductions that are sent to the benefits provider as payments. The administrative and payment data can be processed through existing e-payment (electronic payment) service software to support data traffic in this business scenario. Such software is commercially available as e-payment service modules of mySAP Financials products from SAP AG of Walldorf, Germany.","Some embodiments allow companies to participate in e-benefits procurement (electronic benefits procurement). Such services allow a company to choose freely between different insurance companies and other benefits providers through a benefits broker. Companies also can exchange information with a provider of choice directly. These services offer multiple functions, such as selection, enrollment, and administration processes. E-benefits procurement offers real-time marketplace services, such as provider auctions and additional World Wide Web (hereinafter, simply \u201cWeb\u201d) hosting services. Provider auctions allow health care providers to compete freely for a specific employer request with their offerings. As a result, the employer obtains the best bid for the services the employer requires.","Some embodiments provide Web-based access to benefits information and allow changes to be made to any benefits plan. Examples of these changes include changing providers and adding, deleting or changing benefits plans.","The system described herein further is able to link to back-end systems and\/or third party systems. The back-end systems, such as financial applications, can update information in real-time, e.g., pay deductions for additional services. The third party systems, e.g., service providers, brokers or benefits providers, can update records in real-time. Services can be configured by an employer to meet its needs or by a third party service provider.","Other features and advantages will be apparent from the description, the drawings, and the claims.","Like reference numerals in different figures indicate like elements.","Referring to , system  shows a computer network, over which a benefits service provider, employers, and benefits providers communicate. Employer , benefits provider , and benefits provider  are trading or business partners in benefits. What this means is that the employer obtains benefits for its employees from one or both of benefits providers  and . Benefits service provider  may be a third party vendor that facilitates auctioning for benefits by benefits providers  and  to meet the needs of employer . Alternatively, benefits service provider  may be affiliated with employer .","Computer network  includes several computers. Computer , which is managed by benefits service provider , is configured to communicate over network . In embodiments where benefits service provider  is affiliated with employer , computer  is coupled with an Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) system of employer . An ERP system is used to plan allocation of resources within a company.","Computer  is managed by employer ; computer  is managed by benefits provider ; and computer  is managed by benefits provider . Computers ,  and  are also configured to communicate over network .","System  includes benefits service provider (BSP) server  and BSP servlets , , and . BSP server  and BSP servlets , , and  are computer programs (i.e., executable instructions) that are installed on, and that run on, their respective computers. In this regard, BSP server  is installed on computer . Computers , , and  are installed with BSP servlets , , and , respectively.","BSP server  manages Web services for administrating benefits for employer  via auctioning by benefits providers  and . This process is described below.","Employer , benefits provider , and benefits provider  register with a Central Business Partner (CBP) Server. The CBP server may be a computer program and is not shown in , but may run anywhere on computer network , e.g., on computer . Employer , benefits provider , and benefits provider  perform registration to provide, to the CBP server, information, such as their names, postal addresses, electronic mail (e-mail) addresses, partner roles (e.g., employer or benefits provider), usernames, and passwords.","During installation of BSP servlets , , and , employer , benefits provider , and benefits provider  (which each constitute \u201cbusiness partners\u201d) each send their respective user information to the CBP server and request to be registered. In response, the CBP server issues a global unique identifier (GUID) to each business partner. The CBP server determines whether each business partner is already registered and, if the business partner is not registered, the CBP server registers the business partner.","After successful registration, the GUID issued by the CBP server is stored locally on each business partner's computer , , or . The GUID is used to identify each business partner during subsequent communications over system . The CBP server also initiates creation of a financial account or store of financial information, such as secured bank account information. Once this is completed, the business partner becomes a member of system .","Providing Employee Benefits",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 2","FIG. 2"],"b":["100","10","24","20","100","24","28","100","10","100","22","18","12"]},"In process , a benefits provider (in this example, benefits provider ) prepares () a profile. The profile is a document or set of documents specifying benefits that are available from benefits provider . Benefits provider 's profile is described in further detail below. The completed profile is transmitted () to BSP server . BSP server  uses network data in benefits provider 's profile to launch () benefits provider 's BSP servlet .","BSP servlet  prepares () eXtensible Markup Language (XML) documents  containing information, including a benefits specification extracted from benefits provider 's profile. Use of the XML documents is described below.","Employer  also prepares () a profile. The employer's profile includes benefits requirements for one or more employees within its organization. Employer 's profile is described in further detail below. Employer  submits the profile to BSP server . BSP server  uses network data in employer 's profile to launch () employer 's BSP servlet . Employer 's BSP servlet  prepares () XML document(s)  containing information, including benefits requirements extracted from employer 's profile.","Employer 's BSP servlet  propagates () a search message from the XML document  via network . The search message is broadcast over system  to request the benefits requirements specified in employer 's profile. BSP servlet  receives () the search message. Other servlets, such as BSP servlet , also receive the message and act accordingly; however, for illustration, we focus on BSP servlet .","BSP servlet  compares () requirements in the search message against benefits specified in its XML document . The comparison is described in more detail below. If the requirements match the benefits, BSP servlet  prepares () a bid based on the search message, and sends () a bid message to employer 's BSP servlet . Briefly, the bid message includes a description of benefits offered by the benefits provider plus a price for those benefits. The bid message is described in more detail below.","BSP servlet  receives () the bid message from BSP servlet . BSP servlet  determines if the bid is acceptable using criteria specified by employer . If the bid is determined to be acceptable, BSP servlet  creates () an offer using the bid message, and submits the offer to employer 's local negotiation\/contracting (e.g., ERP) system (not shown). The offer is described in more detail below. Employer 's local negotiation\/contracting system may be running on computer  or on another computer.","The search\/bid process described above also occurs with benefits provider \/BSP servlet .","Employer 's local negotiation\/contracting system sorts the bid message from BSP servlet  and any other bids received (e.g., from BSP servlet ). The sorting is performed according to criteria selected by employer  in order to determine the \u201cbest\u201d bid from the employer's perspective. This sorting is described in more detail below.","If employer 's local negotiation system selects () the bid received from BSP servlet  as the best bid (based on the sorting), then its local negotiation\/contracting system sends () a contract message to BSP servlet . The contract message includes a \u201cRequest For Contract\u201d XML document. The Request For Contract XML document includes price and payment terms for the benefits offered in the bid. The contract message also includes a query asking BSP servlet  if benefits provider  is ready to close the offer made in the Request For Contract XML document.","Employer  may negotiate a price with benefits provider  before sending the contract message. Negotiation may be one-on-one. Employer  and benefits provider  exchange messages and agree to a final contract via the negotiation. A process for performing the negotiation is described below.","BSP servlet  receives () the contract message. BSP servlet  verifies () the terms of contract and whether the terms of contract agree with the terms in benefit service provider 's profile of benefits. If the terms of contract agree, then BSP servlet  signs () the contract, indicating its willingness to make a deal. Otherwise BSP servlet  rejects () the contract. Either way, BSP servlet  notifies () BSP servlet .","BSP servlet  may sign the contract using an electronic signature. The Federal Electronic Signatures in Global and National Commerce Act, signed into law on Jun. 30, 2000, provides electronic transactions the same legal status as pen-and-paper transactions by providing a consistent national framework for electronic signatures and transactions. This allows electronic signatures to be used in the employee benefits administration system described herein.","BSP servlet  receives () either a rejected contract message or a signed contract message. If the message is a signed contract message, BSP servlet  signs () the contract and sends the contract back to BSP servlet  for verification. The signature may be electronic. If the message is a rejected contract message, then BSP servlet  starts the above-described contracting process with the next best benefits provider (e.g., benefits provider ) until a contract is made with one benefits provider.","If a contract is made with benefits provider , BSP servlet  logs the contract with a local financial agent for benefits provider . Likewise, BSP servlet  logs the contract with a local financial agent for employer . Logging the contract may be performed electronically. Both local financial agents submit the resulting contract to a central financial server agent for benefits service provider . Submission may be electronic. The central financial server agent for benefits service provider  collects fees for benefits service provider  by inspecting the contract.","The central financial server agent for benefits service provider  provides, electronically, all fees, payments and funds transfers between employer 's account and benefits provider 's account. These financial transactions are discussed in further detail below.","If a contract is not made with a benefits provider, employer  re-starts process  by propagating () new search messages. Process  then proceeds as above.","Profiles","The profile generated by benefits provider  above, and submitted to BSP servlet , includes network data and a benefits service provider agreement. The profile describes networking requirements, service product (benefits) needed, and other detail needed to find a matching employer.","The network data includes computational resources available for BSP servlet . The computational resources that may be specified include, for computer , central processing unit (CPU) power, fast\/primary memory specifications, slow\/secondary memory specifications, operating system specifications, and the version of the J2EE (Java 2 Platform, Enterprise Edition) software library installed on computer . The network data may also include the type of task to be executed, e.g., J2EE tasks and an underlying network grid environment (path, IP addresses) that may be needed to transfer the information to BSP servlets  or . The underlying network grid environment may include information about firewalls protecting computers  and . The network data may also includes the schedule time and the minimum amount of usage time for jobs in addition to the average performance of the system that is acceptable (determined from benchmarking certain performance characteristics, such as integer and float point arithmetic operations and their network connection speed, etc).","The benefits service provider agreement may include benefits specification and rules, benefits service provider fee payment type and mode, a maximum benefits service provider fee per second\/transaction to be paid for an auctioning task, and benefits service provider penalties, including credit granted or demanded for not honoring a contract.","The profile generated by employer , and submitted to BSP servlet , includes much of the same data as the profile generated by benefits provider , except that benefits requirements are included instead of benefits specifications.","Bid Messages and Offers","Trading proposal documents are used by BSP servlets  and  to create bid messages from benefits provider  and offers from employer , respectively. These trading proposal documents include initiator information (employer\/benefits provider) including a GUID, data about the benefits including benefits enrollment data (administration data); benefits plan data (e.g., rules and plain text descriptions), and quantifiable parameters, such as costs. The trading proposal documents also include sort criteria and matching rules for use in comparing offers and bids.","Employer  and benefits providers  and  express the benefits specifications and requirements in the trading proposal documents in a standard format that all participants in system  can understand. XML documents may be used to describe trade proposals of employer  and benefits providers  and . XML documents are plain text, and thus are platform independent. Any platform that can read ASCII text has the ability to read an XML document.","Graphical User Interfaces (GUIs) in system  may be used on the various computers of system  to input and receive information. The GUIs may be created using the JAVA Swing application programming interface (API). All the fields entered take their respective default units. For example,  shows a trade proposal XML document created by such a GUI. Furthermore,  shows an example search message in XML format;  shows an example match message; and  shows an example contract message.","XML Schemas provide means of expressing trade proposals and contracts in system . These schemas provide the templates used to describe the documents. These templates describe the formats to express the role of the business partner (e.g., employer or benefits provider), basic information, and proposal\/contract information. BSP server  and BSP servlets , , and  use a set of rules when generating or parsing the XML documents.","Generation of XML documents to describe the trade proposal\/contract requires little effort on the user's part. The API implementations to generate XML documents could use Java Document Object Model (JDOM) and a GUI could use Java swing for easy implementation. JDOM is a Java-based solution for accessing, manipulating, and outputting XML data from Java code. While JDOM interoperates well with existing standards such as the Simple API for XML (SAX) and the Document Object Model (DOM), it is not an abstraction layer or enhancement to those APIs. All of these tools are a subset of J2EE.","Matching Requirements","As described above, BSP servlet  compares () requirements in a search message against a specification of benefits in XML document . This matching uses maintenance and generation of search lists.","For optimal maintenance and generation of search lists, a method is used which generates and maintains a list of search results per installed computer (e.g., computers , , ). This method includes download of an existing search list at the time of registration with system . This list can be modified and should be limited so as not to overload the network with redundant data and to limit message traffic in general. To prevent overload, a parameter, called \u201cNumber Of Legs\u201d (NOL), may be included in the search message. This parameter controls the number of nodes a trade proposal can travel to in the marketplace network. Node operators are able to configure this parameter through a node configuration API.","When a node receives a search message, it decreases the NOL by one and, if the NOL is not zero, propagates a search message. By setting the NOL to a maximum number of hops to be traveled, the depth of propagation in system  is controlled.","Since it is possible to receive redundant messages in system , a unique identifier for each proposal\/contract is assigned so that matching systems can ignore duplicate messages. The search messages add path information as they travel to various nodes. This path information is used later to reimburse all nodes along the path for propagating the search requests. This reimbursement provides incentive for business partners , , and  to tune their BSP servlets , , and  for optimal distribution of search messages.","BSP servlet  compares the requirements in the search message against the specification of benefits in XML document  when the bid prepared by the employer 's trade proposal document matches the offer prepared by benefits provider 's trade proposal document. The match is achieved when the bid and offer are compared according to the rules defined by each party to match the proposals.","A match making algorithm is used to determine this match. The match making algorithm utilizes rule based comparisons between structured and unstructured data sources for matching trade proposals. All standard comparisons for match making procedures are used by this match making algorithm. For example, one rule states that price compatibility is achieved if a bid price \u201cBPRI\u201d is at least some percentage \u201cPERC\u201d % greater than an offer price \u201cOPRI\u201d. Thus, PERC defines the percentage that the prices may differ from each other. If a bid and offer are compatible in all conditions defined by the comparison rules (or some subset thereof), an indication of \u201cmatching\u201d will be output by the matching system.","Sorting Bids","As described above, employer 's local negotiation\/contracting system sorts a bid message and any other bid messages received according to criteria chosen by employer  in order to select the best bid (). A sort algorithm is used to sort matches and to find the best bid for the defined purpose. The XML documents , , and  for the trade proposals can contain many parameters, some of which are related. Therefore, each business partner , , and  contains common sort criteria.","Negotiation","Negotiation between employer  and a benefits provider may be performed as follows. Employer  initiates the negotiation phase by sending benefits provider  the Request For Contract XML document, which may include the price, payment type, and contract terms specified in the original trade proposal documents. A status element is attached to the Request For Contract XML document. This status element may be changed by benefits provider  as negotiations continue.","Benefits provider  verifies the Request For Contract XML document to confirm that the specified parameters match its proposal. If everything in the Request For Contract XML document sent by employer  matches the benefits provider's benefits specifications, the status element of the document is set to \u201cAccepted\u201d and the document sent back to employer . If there are any differences between the Request For Contract XML document and the benefits provider's benefits specifications, the status element of the document may be set to \u201cRejected\u201d and the document is sent back to employer . Any amendments or changes will be marked \u201cAmended\/Changed\u201d, provided that the changes match employer 's proposal.","Employer  receives a document, in which the status is either \u201cAccepted\u201d or \u201cRejected\u201d. If the status is \u201cAccepted\u201d, employer  electronically signs the contract and sends the contract back to benefits provider . If the status is \u201cRejected\u201d, employer  can pick the next best benefits provider (e.g., benefits provider ) and repeat the process (or send an addendum with status \u201cAmended\/Changed\u201d to match benefits provider 's proposal more closely).","If benefits provider  receives a signed contract document, benefits provider  also signs the contract. Thereafter, the status of the contract is set to \u201cClosed\u201d and the proposal converted into a contract. Both benefits provider  and employer  inform benefits service provider's BSP server  of the contract, which controls exchange of financial information and which automatically stores a record for future payment and reference purposes.","The financial system that manages the financial transactions described above can keep a transactional history of the employer and benefits providers. A database records this transaction history. The financial system accrues or deducts all the payments from the accounts of employer , benefits provider , or benefits provider  each time a successful transaction takes place, without accessing the external financial networks. The financial system also manages transaction fees in system . This account information is used to make transactions with existing financial networks to debit or credit the accounts of employer , benefits provider , or benefits provider , as needed.","Protocols","In system , the Simple Object Access Protocol (SOAP) may be used as the messaging mechanism to handle transmission and receipt of data between BSP servlets , , , and . SOAP is an XML based protocol that includes three parts:","(1) an envelope that defines a framework for describing what is in a message and how to process it,","(2) a set of encoding rules for expressing instances of application-defined data types, and","(3) a convention for representing remote function procedure calls and responses.","SOAP is a stateless, one-way message exchanging paradigm, but applications can create more complex interaction patterns (e.g., request\/response and request\/multiple pattern) by combining such one-way exchanges with features provided by an underlying transfer protocol and application-specific information. The Java API for XML Messaging (JAXM) Optional Package is used to send and receive document oriented XML messages. JAXM implements Simple Object Access Protocol (SOAP) with attachments messaging so that software engineers can focus on building, sending, receiving, and decomposing messages for applications, instead of programming low level XML communications routines. SOAP is used to frame search messages, match messages, and contract messages.","In system , searching, matching, and contract messaging may be performed via Web service protocols that are accessible via SOAP. Web services enable the trading partners of system  to conduct business over the Web. Web services can be defined as a collection of functions packaged as a single entity and published to a network for use by other programs. Web services are building blocks for creating open distributed systems and allow companies and individuals to quickly and cheaply make their digital assets available worldwide. In one embodiment, Web service may be implemented as follows.","Benefits service provider  creates, assembles, and deploys the Web service using a programming language, middleware, and platform. Benefits service provider  defines the Web service in a document, which may be written in Web Services Description language (WSDL). The WSDL document describes the Web service to others. Benefits service provider  registers the service in Universal Description, Discovery, and Integration (UDDI) registries. UDDI enables the publication of Web services and thereby enables other software to search for these Web services. A prospective user finds the service by searching a UDDI registry. The user's application binds to the Web service and invokes the service's operations using SOAP. SOAP offers an XML format for representing parameters (as noted) and return values over Hyper Text Transfer Protocol (HTTP).","In some embodiments, the Web services use software conforming to J2EE. In other embodiments, the Web services use software conforming to Microsoft.NET. The Web services enable communication in real-time between the business partners on network , labeled , , and .","Real-time communications typically are those communications that elicit an immediate response. In a real-time mode, a sender sends a request to a receiver, either directly or through a switch (clearing-house), and remains connected while the receiver processes the request and returns a response to the original sender. Typically, response times range from a few seconds to around thirty seconds, and generally do not exceed one minute. The scope of the term \u201creal-time\u201d, however, is not limited to these response times.","The benefits service marketplace described herein is not limited to use with the hardware and software of ; it may find applicability in any computing or processing environment and with any type of machine that can run machine-readable instructions, such as a computer program.","The benefits service marketplace may be implemented in hardware, software, or a combination of the two. The benefits service marketplace may be implemented using computer programs executing on one or more programmable computers that each include a processor, a storage medium readable by the processor (including volatile and non-volatile memory and\/or other storage elements).","Each such program may be implemented in a high level procedural or object-oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However, the programs can be implemented in assembly or machine language. The language may be a compiled or an interpreted language.","Each computer program may be stored on a storage medium or device (e.g., CD-ROM, hard disk, or magnetic diskette) that is readable by a general or special purpose programmable computer for configuring and operating the computer when the storage medium or device is read by the computer to implement the system. The benefits service marketplace may also be implemented as computer-readable storage media, configured with computer program(s), where, upon execution, instructions in the computer program(s) cause the computers to implement the functions described herein for administering benefits.","The invention is not limited to the embodiments set forth herein. For example, the blocks in  may be rearranged and\/or one or more of the blocks may be omitted. The features described above may be used with systems other than the benefits service marketplace described herein","The commands, documents, and protocols used herein are merely representative; others may be used. The features shown in  can be modified to accommodate alternative systems, networks, and protocols.","Other communications can be transmitted, such as a request, from an employer to a benefits provider, to stop providing benefits. Carrier receipts may also be provided, e.g., in response to payment or to confirm communications.","Examples of benefits that may be managed via system  include, but are not limited to, health care benefits, life insurance benefits, savings plans, stock option plans, pension plans, 401K plans, credit plans, flexible spending accounts, and claims processing for flexible spending accounts.","The invention is not limited to the embodiments set forth herein. Other embodiments are also within the scope of the following claims."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIGS. 3 to 6"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
