---
title: System and method for displaying a constant time selection context menu interface
abstract: A system and method are provided for a context menu pop-up interface. In one embodiment, the context menu interface may be activated in relation to a second interface, and may include a plurality of selection areas organized around a central selection area. In a preferred embodiment, the sizes of each of the plurality of selection areas increase as a distance to each selection area increases from the central selection area, and the sizes are selected such that the plurality of selection areas can be selected in approximately the same time.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07559036&OS=07559036&RS=07559036
owner: Trading Technologies International, Inc.
number: 07559036
owner_city: Chicago
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20040305
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["FIELD OF INVENTION","BACKGROUND","DETAILED DESCRIPTION","I. Context Menu Pop-Up Interface","II. Hardware and Software Overview","III. Constant Time Selection Context Menu Pop-Up Interface"],"p":["The present invention is directed towards electronic trading. More specifically, the present invention relates to a system and method for displaying a context menu pop-up interface providing a plurality of choices that can be selected in approximately the same time.","An exchange is a central marketplace with established rules and regulations where buyers and sellers meet to trade. Some exchanges, referred to as open outcry exchanges, operate using a trading floor where buyers and sellers physically meet on the floor to trade. Other exchanges, referred to as electronic exchanges, operate by an electronic or telecommunications network instead of a trading floor to facilitate trading in an efficient, versatile, and functional manner. Electronic exchanges have made it possible for an increasing number of people to actively participate in a market at any given time. The increase in the number of potential market participants has advantageously led to, among other things, a more competitive market and greater liquidity.","With respect to electronic exchanges, buyers and sellers may log onto an electronic exchange trading platform by way of a communication link through their user terminals. Once connected, buyers and sellers may typically choose which tradeable objects they wish to trade. As used herein, the term \u201ctradeable object\u201d refers to anything that can be traded with a quantity and\/or price. It includes, but is not limited to, all types of traded events, goods and\/or financial products, which can include, for example, stocks, options, bonds, futures, currency, and warrants, as well as funds, derivatives and collections of the foregoing, and all types of commodities, such as grains, energy, and metals. The tradeable object may be \u201creal,\u201d such as products that are listed by an exchange for trading, or \u201csynthetic,\u201d such as a combination of real products that is created by the user. A tradeable object could actually be a combination of other tradeable object, such as a class of tradeable objects.","When a trader selects a tradeable object, the trader may access market data related to the selected tradeable object(s). Referring to , an example communication that might occur between an electronic exchange and a client terminal in accordance with the preferred embodiments is shown. During a trading session, market data  in the form of messages may be relayed from a host exchange  over communication links  and  to a client terminal generally indicated as . As illustrated in , intermediate devices, such as gateway(s)  may be used to facilitate communications between the client terminal  and the host exchange . It should be understood that while  illustrates the client terminal  communicating with a single host exchange, in an alternative embodiment, the client terminal  could establish trading sessions to more than one host exchange.","The market data  contains information that characterizes the tradeable object's order book including, among other parameters, order related parameters, and the inside market, which represents the lowest sell price (also referred to as the best or lowest ask price) and the highest buy price (also referred to as the best or highest bid price). In some electronic markets, market data may also include market depth, which generally refers to quantities available in the market at certain buy price levels and quantities available in the market at certain sell price levels.","In addition to providing the tradeable object's order book information, electronic exchanges can offer different types of market information such as total traded quantity for each price level, last traded price, last traded quantity, or order fill information. Typically, a trader may view the information provided from an exchange via one or more specialized trading screens created by software running on the client terminal . Upon viewing the market information or a portion thereof, a trader may wish to take actions, such as send orders to an exchange, cancel orders at the exchange, or change order parameters, for example. To do so, the trader may input various commands or signals into the client terminal . Upon receiving one or more commands or signals from the trader, the client terminal  may generate messages that reflect the actions taken, generally shown at . It should be understood that different types of messages or order types can be submitted to the host exchange , all of which may be considered various types of transaction information. Once generated, user action messages  may be sent from the client terminal  to the host exchange over communication links  and .","In a typical trading interface that supports entering orders into electronic exchanges, the speed with which a user can make a selection, such as to define an order quantity and an order type, for example, in entering an order into the market can have an enormous impact on whether a profitable trade can be made. Some interfaces offer a single click trading functionality that enables a trader to quickly send an order to an exchange by simply clicking a location on the interface corresponding to a predetermined price level and a buy\/sell action. Using such interfaces, a trader may assign certain actions to be automatically taken in response to a trader selecting a left mouse button or a right mouse button, for example. In one embodiment, each mouse button may be associated with a single combination of an order type and an order quantity such that, for example, a left mouse button may correspond to a limit order for 5 lots, while the right mouse button may correspond to a different combination, such as a limit order for 7 lots, for example. When configured in this way, a trader could select either of the two choices in entering a trade by using either the left mouse button or the right mouse button to click on a price level where the user wishes to trade. Therefore, making each choice would take the same amount of time for a user.","However, the approach of mapping choices to buttons of typical input devices does not scale up. More specifically, since there is a limit on the number of choices that can be made with a pointing device having two or three buttons, such as a mouse or a joystick, only two or three different choices can be selected in constant time. There are a few other currently used interfaces that allow a user to select from a list of many choices. One of such interfaces is a commonly known menu interface illustrated in a block diagram of . To make a selection using the menu interface , a user has to move the mouse to one of the choices, such as \u201cChoice \u201d  in this example, and then click on the selected choice. Then, when a menu  corresponding to the selected choice appears, a user has to move the mouse to a location corresponding to a desired sub-choice, such as one of the \u201cSub-Choices -,\u201d and then click again. Looking at the interface , the individual sub-choices in the menu  cannot all be selected as quickly as each other, since the menu sub-choice on the top, such as \u201cSub-Choice ,\u201d for example, can be selected more quickly than the second one, which may be selected more quickly than the third one, and so on, because there are progressively longer distances to traverse.","Therefore, using the menu interface, the average time to select a menu item increases with a number of choices on the menu, and the actual time to select an item depends on its relative position in relation to the position of the selection means. This relative spatial dependence has been scientifically proven by Fitts, who developed a model that is now commonly referred to as the Fitts' law. According to the Fitts' law, the time to move and point to a target of width \u201cW\u201d at a distance \u201cA\u201d is a logarithmic function of the spatial relative error (\u201cA\/W\u201d). Therefore, referring back to the menu interface in , since the average time to select a target increases with the number of choices \u201cN,\u201d the actual time to select an item depends on its relative position to the selection means. This implies then that the menu type interface selection method does not scale well to a large number of choices.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":["FIGS. 3A-3C","FIGS. 3A and 3B","FIG. 3C","FIGS. 2"],"b":["300","302","304","200","302","306","304","3","3"]},"For most applications, the difference of a few hundred milliseconds in selecting items is not critical, and the existing interfaces work well. However, in an electronic trading environment, such as First-In-First-Out (\u201cFIFO\u201d) markets, or any other market types, where speed means the difference between making and losing money, even a few hundred milliseconds might be critical in the fast moving markets. Therefore, in relation to a trading interface, the speed with which the user can make a selection, such a selection of an order quantity or an order type in entering an order into the market, can have enormous impact on whether a profitable trade can be made.","According to one example embodiment, a context menu pop-up interface is provided that offers a plurality of selection choices, all of which can be selected by a user in substantially the same amount of time. The context menu pop-up interface may consist of an arrangement of selection areas or cells, where each selection area boundary and content may be visible, while the background of each selection area is transparent or translucent so that the context menu pop-up interface does not obscure any other interface in relation to which it is activated. According to one preferred embodiment, a plurality of selection areas associated with the interface may be organized around a central selection area, and the sizes of the plurality of areas increase as a distance from the central selection area to each selection area increases. Additionally, the sizes of the selection areas are selected such that each of the plurality of selection areas can be selected in approximately the same time. In one preferred embodiment, the sizes of the selection areas are controlled using the Fitts' law principles, or variations thereof.","For example, the context menu pop-up interface can be used in relation to a trading interface. The trading interface may include an order entry region with a plurality of locations for receiving commands to send trade orders to an electronic exchange. When the context menu pop-up interface is activated upon detecting a user activation request command when a cursor associated with a user input device, such as a mouse, is located in relation to one of the order entry locations, the context menu pop-up interface may provide a number of selection areas associated with a plurality of order related parameters. In such an embodiment, the order related parameters may include order quantities, order types, or any actions\/functions to be taken in relation to pending orders, or orders to be sent to an exchange. For example, when a user selects one of the selection areas associated with an order quantity, the selected order quantity may be used to automatically populate a quantity field in a pending order ticket.","While the present invention is described herein with reference to illustrative embodiments in relation to trading interfaces, it should be understood that the present invention is not limited thereto, and could be used in relation to any other interfaces providing a number of selection choices. Other systems, methods, and advantages of the present embodiments will be or become apparent to one with skill in the art upon examination of the following drawings and description. It is intended that all such additional systems, methods, features, and advantages be within the scope of the present invention, and be protected by the accompanying claims.","As will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art, the present embodiments may be operated in an entirely software embodiment, in an entirely hardware embodiment, or in a combination thereof. However, for sake of illustration, the preferred embodiments are described in a software-based embodiment, which is executed on a computer device. As such, the preferred embodiments take the form of a computer program product that is stored on a computer readable storage medium and is executed by a suitable instruction system in the computer device. Any suitable computer readable medium may be utilized including hard disks, CD-ROMs, optical storage devices, or magnetic storage devices, for example.","The example embodiments that will be used hereinafter to describe different configurations and functionalities of the context menu interface will be described in reference to trading interfaces. However, it should be understood that the context menu interface could be used in relation to any interface that allows a user to make selection choices, set values, or define parameters.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":["400","400","400","402","404","406","400"]},"Preferably, the trading application  has access to market information through the interface , such as through an application programming interface (\u201cAPI\u201d), and the application  can also forward transaction information to the host exchange  via the API . In a preferred embodiment, when the trading application  receives market information from the exchange , it may arrange and display the received information in many different ways, depending on how the trader prefers to view the information on the visual output display devices . The display devices  could be a CRT-based video display, an LCD-based display, a gas plasma-panel display, a display that shows three-dimensional images, or a different display type. Also, the display device  could be a combination of separate display devices that can together create a composition in the user's visual field of the context menu and the interface, such as a head-mounted monocular see-through display that holds the context menu used together with another display that holds the trading interface. In the preferred embodiment, the trading application  creates specialized interactive screens that enable traders to, among other things, enter and execute orders, obtain market quotes, and monitor positions. The range and quality of features available to the trader on his or her trading screen may vary according to the specific software application being run. In addition to, or in place of interactive screens, the client terminal  could run automated types of trading applications. The trading application  may also receive input signals from traders via input device . The input devices can include, for example, a mouse, a keyboard, or any other input means selected by a user.","The preferred embodiment may be implemented on any type of trading screen, therefore, details regarding the trading screen are not necessary to understand the present invention. However, in one embodiment, one type of trading screen that can be used is provided by a commercially available trading application referred to as X_TRADER\u00ae from Trading Technologies International, Inc. of Chicago, Ill. X_TRADER\u00ae also provides an electronic trading interface, referred to as MD Trader\u2122, in which working orders and\/or bid and ask quantities are displayed in association with a static price axis or scale. Portions of the X_TRADER\u00ae and the MD Trader\u2122-style display are described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09\/590,692, entitled \u201cClick Based Trading With Intuitive Grid Display of Market Depth,\u201d filed on Jun. 9, 2000, U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09\/971,087, entitled \u201cClick Based Trading With Intuitive Grid Display of Market Depth and Price Consolidation,\u201d filed on Oct. 5, 2001, U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10\/125,894, entitled \u201cTrading Tools For Electronic Trading,\u201d filed on Apr. 19, 2002, and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10\/376,417, entitled \u201cA System and Method for Trading and Displaying Market Information in an Electronic Trading Environment,\u201d filed on Feb. 28, 2003, the contents of each are incorporated herein by reference. However, it should be understood that orders in the system illustrated in  could also be placed using any other trading application as well. Additionally, the preferred embodiments are not limited to any particular product that performs translation, storage, and display functions.","The context menu application  is preferably a software application that interfaces with the trading application  to display a context menu interface. In a preferred embodiment, the context menu interface provides a plurality of selection choices that are arranged in such a manner so that each choice can be selected in approximately equal amount of time. It should be understood that the context menu application  may be configured to work with any type of display to provide the functionality described hereinafter.","According to example embodiments that will be described in greater detail below, a context menu interface offers a user a plurality of selection choices that can be selected in substantially the same time. More specifically, according to one example implementation, the context menu interface may be activated by a user in relation to another interface, such as a trading interface, and may consist of an arrangement of selection areas or cells, where each cell boundary and content may be visible, while the background of each cell is transparent or translucent. Using such an embodiment, the context menu interface may provide meaningful context selection choices, while not obscuring the trading interface. As will be described in greater detail below, each cell of the context menu may be associated with one or more selection parameters or actions to be taken in response to selecting a cell, and the actions associated with each cell may be user configurable.","Also, preferably, choices\/actions presented in relation to each cell may change based on a portion of an underlying interface in relation to which the context menu is activated. Thus, for example, if the context menu is activated in relation to an order entry area of the trading interface, each cell of the context menu may provide order related selection choices. The order related selection choices may be as simple as a single value that can be used to define an order quantity, or as complicated as a collection of several parameters, such as an order quantity and an order type. Alternatively, cell choices may map to a plurality of functions, the execution of which may result in determining one or more parameters\/values or actions. Also, in another embodiment, it should be understood that each cell may be associated with a set of time-based choices, so that a cell may display different selection choices depending on the time of day, month, or year when the context menu interface is activated.","1. Functionality",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0037"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 5","FIG. 4"],"b":"500"},"Referring to , at step , the trading application  provides a trading interface for trading a tradeable object in an electronic trading environment. As mentioned in relation to , the trading interface may take a format of the MD Trader\u2122-style display; however, it should be understood that the context menu interface could be used in relation to different display types. In one embodiment, the trading interface may include an order entry region with a plurality of locations that can be used for receiving commands to send trade orders to an electronic exchange. In such an embodiment, the locations may be arranged along a common axis of prices, such as a static price axis, as in the MD Trader\u2122-style display, and each location may be associated with a price along the common price axis. At step , the context menu application  detects an activation selection input, or an activation command, associated with a request to enable a context menu interface. In one example embodiment, a user can activate the context menu interface by simply pressing an input choice of an input means. In an embodiment where the input means includes a mouse, the user may activate the context menu by simply pressing, and alternatively holding, the right\/left mouse button on a particular location of the trading interface. However, it should be understood that the context menu interface could be activated using different selection inputs, such as voice activation inputs, a combination of keyboard inputs, or via any other user-configurable means. Also, it should be understood that the context menu interface could be automatically activated upon detecting triggers or events received from outside sources.","At step , the context menu application  displays a context menu interface in relation to the trading interface. In a preferred embodiment, the location and selection choices corresponding to each cell of the displayed context menu interface may depend on the position of a selection means, such as a mouse, at the time of detecting the activation selection input. For example, if the context menu interface is activated in response to pressing the right mouse button in relation to a buy\/sell price level displayed on the trading interface, the context menu interface could be centered on the selected price level corresponding to the current mouse location. Also, in such an embodiment, the selection choices of the context menu could correspond to a number of order related parameters, and may define, for example, a number of order quantities, order types, the combination thereof, or any other order related parameters or functions configured by a trader.","At step , the context menu application  detects a user input selecting a choice on the context menu interface. In one embodiment, a user can select a desired choice by simply moving the selection means to a cell on the context menu corresponding to the desired choice and then selecting that cell. For example, a user can move a mouse to the cell that corresponds to the user's choice, and then may click on the desired choice. In an alternative embodiment, when a user activates the context menu interface by a right mouse button click, for example, the user may then move the mouse to the cell corresponding to the desired choice, while still having the mouse button pressed down, and then may release the right mouse button when the mouse is positioned over the desired selection choice. In such an embodiment, a trader is essentially performing a mouse gesture that consists of detecting a right mouse button down action, then moving the mouse in a particular direction for a particular distance, and then detecting a release of the mouse button at the location of the desired selection choice.","Once the selection is made in relation to the context menu, the context menu application  may disable the context menu interface, and, at step , the trading application , or any other application, may perform one or more actions implied by or associated with the selected choice. For example, if the context menu interface is activated in response to selecting a price level corresponding to a buy order, and then a specific value is selected in relation to the context menu interface, the selected value may be used to dynamically populate an order quantity field in an order ticket of an order that is being placed at the selected price. However, as mentioned in earlier paragraphs, it should be understood that each cell could be associated with more complex actions, or functions, which, when executed, may result in one or more actions to be taken or one or more values to be applied in relation to the underlying item.","2. Display Layout Creation","The example context menu interfaces that will be described in greater detail below include a plurality of selection choices that can be selected in approximately the same time upon activating the context menu. According to one example embodiment, the layout and sizes of the selection choices on the context menu interface are based on the principles of the Fitts' law.  are block diagrams illustrating and explaining principles that were used to construct one example layout for the context menu interface.","The Fitts' law can be used to measure and predict how long it will take for a user to move a mouse from one location, and to click on a target selection choice. The following equation represents the Shannon formulation of the Fitts' law:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0046","num":"0045"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00001","num":"00001"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mi":"MT","mo":"=","mrow":{"mi":"a","mo":"+","mrow":{"mi":"b","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"log","mn":"2"},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mn":"1","mo":"+","mfrac":{"mi":["A","w"]}}}}}}}},{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mi":"EQN","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"1"}},"mo":"\u2062","mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.6em","height":"0.6ex"}}}}}]}}}},"br":{}},"According to one example embodiment, a context menu interface may include a series of adjacent targets that can be selected by a user in substantially the same time using a mouse pointer or any other selection means.  illustrates two example adjacent targets, \u201ctarget \u201d and \u201ctarget ,\u201d that will be used to explain one example embodiment for constructing the context menu interface. The following equations represent the Fitts' law for the two targets:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0048","num":"0047"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00002","num":"00002"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"MT","mn":"1"},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mi":"a","mo":"+","mrow":{"mi":"b","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"log","mn":"2"},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mn":"1","mo":"+","mfrac":{"msub":[{"mi":"A","mn":"1"},{"mi":"w","mn":"1"}]}}}}}}}},{"mrow":{"mi":"EQN","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"2"}}}]},{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"MT","mn":"2"},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mi":"a","mo":"+","mrow":{"mi":"b","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"log","mn":"2"},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mn":"1","mo":"+","mfrac":{"msub":[{"mi":"A","mn":"2"},{"mi":"w","mn":"2"}]}}}}}}}},{"mrow":{"mi":"EQN","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"3"}}}]}]}}}},"Based on EQN(2) and EQN(3), for the movement times MTto be equal for each target, MT=MT, A\/wand A\/wshould be equal. Therefore, to construct a series of adjacent targets with the same selection time, the width of each target should be preferably adjusted so that the movement time from the mouse pointer to each target is the same. For the embodiment illustrated in , where MTis set equal to MT, Acan be represented with the following equation:\n\n+\u00bd()\u2003\u2003EQN(4)\n\nSubstituting EQN(4) for Ain EQN(3), MTcan be represented with the following equation:\n",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0050","num":"0049"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00003","num":"00003"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"MT","mn":"2"},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mi":"a","mo":"+","mrow":{"mi":"b","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"log","mn":"2"},"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mn":"1","mo":"+","mfrac":{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"A","mn":"1"},"mo":"+","mrow":{"mfrac":{"mn":["1","2"]},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":"w","mn":"1"},{"mi":"w","mn":"2"}],"mo":"+"}}}},"msub":{"mi":"w","mn":"2"}}}}}}}},{"mrow":{"mi":"EQN","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"5"}}}]}}}},"br":{},"sub":["1","2"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0051","num":"0050"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00004","num":"00004"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mfrac":{"msub":[{"mi":"A","mn":"1"},{"mi":"w","mn":"1"}]},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mfrac":{"msub":[{"mi":"A","mn":"2"},{"mi":"w","mn":"2"}]},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mfrac":[{"msub":[{"mi":"A","mn":"1"},{"mi":"w","mn":"2"}]},{"mn":["1","2"]},{"msub":{"mi":"w","mn":"1"},"mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":"\u2062","msub":{"mi":"w","mn":"2"}}}],"mo":["+","+"]}}}},{"mrow":{"mi":"EQN","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"6"}}}]}}}},"br":{},"sub":"2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0052","num":"0051"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00005","num":"00005"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"w","mn":"2"},"mo":"=","mfrac":{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":"w","mn":"1"},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"A","mn":"1"},"mo":"+","mrow":{"mfrac":{"mn":["1","2"]},"mo":"\u2062","msub":{"mi":"w","mn":"1"}}}}},{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"A","mn":"1"},"mo":"-","mrow":{"mfrac":{"mn":["1","2"]},"mo":"\u2062","msub":{"mi":"w","mn":"1"}}}}]}}},{"mrow":{"mi":"EQN","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"7"}}}]}}}},"br":{},"sub":["1","1"],"figref":"FIG. 6B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0053","num":"0052"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00006","num":"00006"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"w","mn":"2"},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mfrac":{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":"w","mn":"1"},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"w","mn":"1"},"mo":"+","mrow":{"mfrac":{"mn":["1","2"]},"mo":"\u2062","msub":{"mi":"w","mn":"1"}}}}},{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"w","mn":"1"},"mo":"-","mrow":{"mfrac":{"mn":["1","2"]},"mo":"\u2062","msub":{"mi":"w","mn":"1"}}}}]},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mn":"3","mo":"\u2062","msub":{"mi":"w","mn":"1"}}}}},{"mrow":{"mi":"EQN","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"8"}}}]}}}},"br":{},"b":["3","2"],"figref":["FIG. 6C","FIG. 6C"],"sub":["2","1","1","1 ","3","3","3","1","1","2","3","1","1","2","1","1","1","3","3","3","3","1"]},"In general, if we define a central target, \u201ctarget ,\u201d as a box centered around the initial mouse pointer, and the initial target has a width of w=w, and the recurrence relation for the successive amplitudes are A=\u00bd(w+w) and A=A+\u00bd(w+w), the following equation defines the distance to the \u201ck\u201d target.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0055","num":"0054"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00007","num":"00007"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":["A","k"]},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mrow":[{"mfrac":{"mn":["1","2"]},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":"w","mrow":{"mi":"k","mo":"-","mn":"1"}},{"mi":["w","k"]}],"mo":"+"}}},{"mfrac":{"mn":["1","2"]},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":"w","mrow":{"mi":"k","mo":"-","mn":"2"}},{"mi":"w","mrow":{"mi":"k","mo":"-","mn":"1"}}],"mo":"+"}}},{"mfrac":{"mn":["1","2"]},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":"w","mrow":{"mi":"k","mo":"-","mn":"3"}},{"mi":"w","mrow":{"mi":"k","mo":"-","mn":"2"}}],"mo":"+"}}},{"mfrac":{"mn":["1","2"]},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":"w","mn":"0"},{"mi":"w","mn":"1"}],"mo":"+"}}}],"mo":["+","+","+","+"],"mi":"\u2026"}},{"msub":{"mi":["A","k"]},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mrow":[{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"munderover":{"mo":"\u2211","mrow":[{"mi":"i","mo":"=","mn":"1"},{"mi":"k","mo":"-","mn":"1"}]},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"msub":{"mi":["w","i"]}}},{"mfrac":{"mn":["1","2"]},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":"w","mn":"0"},{"mi":["w","k"]}],"mo":"+"}}}],"mo":"+"}}],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mtext":{}}}},{"mrow":{"mi":"EQN","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"9"}}}]}}}}},"Then solving for Wk using the initial assumption of",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0057","num":"0056"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00008","num":"00008"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mrow":{"mfrac":[{"msub":[{"mi":["A","k"]},{"mi":["w","k"]}]},{"msub":[{"mi":"A","mn":"1"},{"mi":"w","mn":"1"}]}],"mo":"="},"mo":","}}},"br":{}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0058","num":"0057"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00009","num":"00009"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["w","k"]},"mo":"=","mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"w","mn":"1"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mfrac":{"msub":[{"mi":["A","k"]},{"mi":"A","mn":"1"}]},"mo":"."}}}}},"br":{},"sub":["k ","k-1 "]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0059","num":"0058"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00010","num":"00010"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["w","k"]},"mo":"=","mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"w","mn":"1"},"mo":"\u2062","mfrac":{"msub":[{"mi":["A","k"]},{"mi":"A","mn":"1"}]}}},"mo":","}}},"br":{},"sub":"k "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0060","num":"0059"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00011","num":"00011"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["w","k"]},"mo":"=","msup":{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":"w","mn":"1"},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mn":"1","mo":"+","mfrac":{"mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":"\u2062","msub":{"mi":"w","mn":"1"}},"msub":{"mi":"w","mn":"0"}}}}},{"mi":"k","mo":"-","mn":"1"}]}}},{"mrow":{"mi":"EQN","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"10"}}}]}}}}},"When substituting EQN(10) into EQN(9), Acan be represented using the following equation:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0062","num":"0061"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00012","num":"00012"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["A","k"]},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mrow":[{"mrow":[{"mfrac":{"msub":{"mi":"w","mn":"0"},"mn":"2"},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"msup":{"mrow":[{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mn":"1","mo":"+","mfrac":{"mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":"\u2062","msub":{"mi":"w","mn":"1"}},"msub":{"mi":"w","mn":"0"}}}},{"mi":"k","mo":"-","mn":"1"}]}}},{"mfrac":{"msub":{"mi":"w","mn":"1"},"mn":"2"},"mo":"\u2062","msup":{"mrow":[{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mn":"1","mo":"+","mfrac":{"mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":"\u2062","msub":{"mi":"w","mn":"1"}},"msub":{"mi":"w","mn":"0"}}}},{"mi":"k","mo":"-","mn":"1"}]}}],"mo":"+"},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mfrac":{"mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":"w","mn":"0"},{"mi":"w","mn":"1"}],"mo":"+"},"mn":"2"}},"mo":"\u2062","msup":{"mrow":[{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mn":"1","mo":"+","mfrac":{"mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":"\u2062","msub":{"mi":"w","mn":"1"}},"msub":{"mi":"w","mn":"0"}}}},{"mi":"k","mo":"-","mn":"1"}]}}],"mo":"="}}},{"mrow":{"mi":"EQN","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"11"}}}]}}}}},"It should be understood that the widths of the target  and the target  can be different as well, and the embodiments described below are not limited to the initial assumption of w=wthat was used in relation to EQN(9). Table 1 below illustrates a plurality of example sets of values for w, w, w, w, w, and w, where w\u2260w, and w=1.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0064","num":"0063"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00001","num":"00001"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"7"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"14pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"42pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"21pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"28pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"6","colwidth":"63pt","align":"center"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":[{},"TABLE 1"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"6","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]},{"entry":[{},"w","w","w","w","w","w"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"6","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":{}}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"7"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"14pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"42pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"21pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"35pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"28pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"6","colwidth":"63pt","align":"char","char":"."}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"1","0.5","1.0","2.0","4.0","8.0"]},{"entry":[{},"1","0.9","2.52","7.06","19.76","55.32"]},{"entry":[{},"1","1.2","4.08","13.87","47.16","160.36"]},{"entry":[{},"1","1.5","6.0","24.0","96.0","384.0"]},{"entry":[{},"1","2.0","10.0","50.0","250.0","1,250.0"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"6","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}}]}}},"It should be understood that the example context menu interface can be extended by adding menu cells to the left of the first target cell as well.  is a block diagram illustrating one example context menu interface  that may be created based on the principles described above. The context menu  includes seven targets - that are positioned adjacent to each other, and having their widths determined using the Fitts' law principles. Therefore, based on the embodiments described in reference to the preceding figure, the widths of targets ,  are equal to the width of the target , while targets ,  are three times wider than targets , , while targets ,  are nine times wider than targets , .","Now, let's assume that the construction of the context menu  will be extended into two dimensions. The following equation represents a modified Fitts' Law, and defines a movement time \u201cMT\u201d as a function of not only an amplitude of the movement \u201cA,\u201d and a width of a target \u201cw\u201d as measured in the direction of the movement, but also as the function of the height of the target as measured in a direction perpendicular to the direction of movement:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0067","num":"0066"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00013","num":"00013"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mi":"MT","mo":"=","mrow":{"mi":"a","mo":"+","mrow":{"mi":"b","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"log","mn":"2"},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mn":"1","mo":"+","msqrt":{"mrow":{"msup":[{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mfrac":{"mi":["A","w"]}},"mn":"2"},{"mrow":{"mi":"\u03b7","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mfrac":{"mi":["A","h"]}}},"mn":"2"}],"mo":"+"}}}}}}}}},{"mrow":{"mi":"EQN","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"12"}}}]}}}}},"In EQN(12), \u201ca\u201d and \u201cb\u201d are constants, which may be on the order of \u221250 to 200 milliseconds for \u201ca\u201d, 100 to 170 milliseconds for \u201cb\u201d, and \u201c\u03b7\u201d is another constant, which may be in the range from 1\/7 to \u2153. It should be understood that the values given for the coefficients are only example values, and a different set of values can be used depending on the type of a pointing device, for example. EQN(12) is based on the research performed by Accot and Zhai, who described their research results in the publication entitled \u201cRefining Fitts' Law Models for Bivariate Pointing.\u201d However, it should be understood that different variations of EQN(12) could also be used to determine heights and widths of the cells corresponding to the multi-dimensional context menu interfaces.","Using EQN(12), it can be observed that not only the width of each target, but also the height of each target plays an important role in determining how much time it will take a user to select a target. Therefore, in order for the movement times to be equal, MT=MT, and using EQN(12), the following relationship should be satisfied:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0070","num":"0069"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00014","num":"00014"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"msup":[{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mfrac":{"msub":[{"mi":"A","mn":"1"},{"mi":"w","mn":"1"}]}},"mn":"2"},{"mrow":{"mi":"\u03b7","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mfrac":{"msub":[{"mi":"A","mn":"1"},{"mi":"h","mn":"1"}]}}},"mn":"2"}],"mo":"+"},{"msup":[{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mfrac":{"msub":[{"mi":["A","k"]},{"mi":["w","k"]}]}},"mn":"2"},{"mrow":{"mi":"\u03b7","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mfrac":{"msub":[{"mi":["A","k"]},{"mi":["h","k"]}]}}},"mn":"2"}],"mo":"+"}],"mo":"="}},{"mrow":{"mi":"EQN","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"13"}}}]}}}}},"Based on EQN(13), in order to achieve substantially equal movement times, targets further away are preferably not only wider, but also taller. It should be understood that there could be many pairs of values (w,h) that could satisfy EQN(13). In one example embodiment, the construction of the interface may be simplified by using symmetry in any two dimensional construction, such that the width of each target will equal its height, h=w, for all k, which then results in the following relationship:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0072","num":"0071"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00015","num":"00015"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"msup":{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mfrac":{"msub":[{"mi":"A","mn":"1"},{"mi":"w","mn":"1"}]}},"mn":"2"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mn":"1","mo":"+","mi":"\u03b7"}}},{"mrow":{"msup":{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mfrac":{"msub":[{"mi":["A","k"]},{"mi":["w","k"]}]}},"mn":"2"},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mn":"1","mo":"+","mi":"\u03b7"}},"mstyle":[{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}}],"mi":"or","mfrac":{"msub":[{"mi":"A","mn":"1"},{"mi":"w","mn":"1"}]}},"mo":"=","mfrac":{"msub":[{"mi":["A","k"]},{"mi":["w","k"]}]}}],"mo":"="}},{"mrow":{"mi":"EQN","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"14"}}}]}}}}},"It should be understood that as the widths of the target  and the target  can be different, the width and height of each target could be different as well. Table 2 below illustrates a plurality of example sets of values for wand h, where w=1, h=1, A=1, and \u03b7=0.142857.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0074","num":"0073"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00002","num":"00002"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"91pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"91pt","align":"center"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":"TABLE 2"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["w","h","A"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":{}}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"91pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"35pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"91pt","align":"char","char":"."}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["2.708479","6","2.854239"]},{"entry":["2.743368","5","2.871684"]},{"entry":["4","2.153846","3.5"]},{"entry":["6","2.232625","4.5"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}},"3. Example Menu Interface Layouts",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0076","num":"0075"},"figref":["FIGS. 8A-8C","FIGS. 6-7","FIGS. 8B and 8C","FIG. 8C"],"b":["802","806","802","804","806"],"sub":["0","0","0","0"]},"The two-dimensional arrangement of the context menu (\u201cM\u201d) interface can be defined as a function of three variables, M(w, w, r), where the size of the inner cell is w, the size of the first outer ring of cells is w, and the number of rings around the central cell is \u201cr.\u201d The sizes of the rings beyond the first one can be determined using the following equation, which shows the width for the kring.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0078","num":"0077"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00016","num":"00016"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["w","k"]},"mo":"=","msup":{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":"w","mn":"1"},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mn":"1","mo":"+","mfrac":{"mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":"\u2062","msub":{"mi":"w","mn":"1"}},"msub":{"mi":"w","mn":"0"}}}}},{"mi":"k","mo":"-","mn":"1"}]}}},{"mrow":{"mi":"EQN","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"15"}}}]}}}}},"Thus, for the context menu interface in , with M(1,1,3), the total size (width or height) of the context menu interface M(w,w,r) is:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0080","num":"0079"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00017","num":"00017"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mi":"SIZE","mo":"=","mrow":{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":"w","mn":"0"},"mo":"+","mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"munderover":{"mo":"\u2211","mrow":{"mi":"i","mo":"=","mn":"1"},"mi":"r"},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"msup":{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":"w","mn":"1"},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mn":"1","mo":"+","mfrac":{"mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":"\u2062","msub":{"mi":"w","mn":"1"}},"msub":{"mi":"w","mn":"0"}}}}},{"mi":"r","mo":"-","mn":"1"}]}}}},{"msub":{"mi":"w","mn":"0"},"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mn":"1","mo":"+","mfrac":{"mrow":{"msup":{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mn":"1","mo":"+","mfrac":{"mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":"\u2062","msub":{"mi":"w","mn":"1"}},"msub":{"mi":"w","mn":"0"}}}},"mi":"r"},"mo":"-","mn":"1"},"msub":{"mi":"w","mn":"1"}}}}],"mo":"="}}},{"mrow":{"mi":"EQN","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"16"}}}]}}}},"br":{},"sub":["0","1"],"b":["27","902","908","902","908","902","908"],"figref":["FIGS. 8A-8C","FIGS. 9A-9D","FIGS. 8A-8C"]},"Referring to specific examples given in reference to , the context menu interface  includes 26 circular selection choices. Then, the interfaces , , and  are radial geometry interfaces. More specifically, the interfaces  and  include 19 circular selection targets and 31 elliptical selection targets, respectively, while the interface  includes 31 polygonal sector shaped selection targets. It should be understood that, while all four interfaces include three rings of selection choices, more or fewer number of rings, and thus, more or fewer selection targets could be used in relation to each interface.","The interfaces described above provide a number of selection choices that can be selected in substantially the same time; however, in the environments where a user is rapidly making a selection, while relying on spatial memory and muscle memory rather than visual guidance to move a mouse or a different selection means in the correct direction for the correct distance, the user can sometimes make a wrong selection due to positioning errors relative to the perceived width and height of the target. Since most positioning errors often occur around the boundaries of the selection choices, it might be desirable to slightly shrink the target sizes so that the selection targets are not exactly adjacent. In such an embodiment, most errors would result not in an incorrect selection, but rather in making no selection at all, since the incorrectly positioned mouse would often lie in a buffer region between valid selection choices. Such error-reduction context menu interface configurations may be especially beneficial when used in relation to trading interfaces, in which avoiding the possibility of selecting a wrong choice may make an enormous difference to the trader.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0083","num":"0082"},"figref":["FIG. 10","FIG. 8C","FIG. 10","FIG. 10","FIG. 10"],"b":["1000","1000","806","806","1000","1004","1002","1000"]},"Using the error-sensitive context menu interface , a user could define a number of desired actions to be taken in response to detecting an invalid selection. In one embodiment, when a selection is made while the mouse or a different selection means is positioned in a buffer zone, the context interface may be deactivated, and no action will be taken in response to the invalid selection. Also, a user could be alerted with an audible and\/or visual warning that no selection has been made. In an alternative embodiment, rather than removing the context interface from the display when an invalid selection choice is made, an audible or a visual warning may be triggered, and a user may be given an opportunity to select the intended item.","Since errors that occur are mostly positioning errors relative to the perceived width and height of the targets, simply drawing the target slightly smaller may serve to have the effect of causing the user to take more care in the positioning movement. In such an embodiment, if the boundaries separating the item choices in the original version of the diagram are used to determine which choice has been selected, and because the actual choices have been drawn slightly smaller within those boundaries, the net effect will be a reduction in error rates, depending on how much of a visual buffer is provided in drawing the diagram.","The context menu interfaces shown in relation to the preceding figures were all two-dimensional interfaces; however, it should be understood that one-dimensional context menu interface could also be created using the Fitts' law principles described above. Similarly, a three-dimensional context menu could be constructed according to the same principles for use with a display that renders a three-dimensional scene and is capable of translucent display.  is a block diagram illustrating an example one-dimensional context menu interface . The interface  includes a plurality of selection choices - arranged in a column. However, it should be understood that different layouts for selection choices could also be used, such as placing all or some choices in a row, or at some user-defined angle, for example. Also, the height of each selection choice in the interface  may be determined using the Fitts' law principles, so that it takes substantially the same time to select each choice when the selection means, such as a mouse, is initially positioned at the selection choice . In the embodiment illustrated in , the heights of the selection choices  and  are the same as the height corresponding to the selection choice , then the heights of the selection choices  and  are three times the height of the selection , and the heights of the selection choices  and  are nine times the height of the selection choice . However, it should be understood that different heights for the selection choices could also be used. Also, it should be understood that more or fewer selection choices could be provided in relation to the one-dimensional context menu interfaces.","4. Context Menu Interface and Trading Interface",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0088","num":"0087"},"figref":"FIG. 12","b":["1210","1200"]},"The trading interface  is the MD Trader\u2122-style display; however, it should be understood that different interface types could also be used. The trading interface  arranges the market information in an easy to read fashion by orienting working orders, as well as bid and ask quantities as shown at , , and  along a common price axis . The representative prices for the given tradeable object are shown in a price column, where the prices are arranged in a numerical order in increments. It should be understood that prices may be of the static-type, such as when prices normally do not move until a repositioning command is received, or of the dynamic-type, such as when prices normally move. A display like the one shown in  also allows a trader to enter orders by selecting a price cell that is situated along the common price axis . More information related to placing orders using the display illustrated in  can be found in the applications referenced above in relation to .","As mentioned in relation to the earlier figures, the context menu interface  can be activated upon detecting a user input associated with a request to activate the context menu interface. In one embodiment, when the context menu interface  is displayed in relation to the underlying interface, it is preferably centered on the current location of the input means at the time of detecting an activation request input. In , for example, the context menu interface  was activated upon detecting a user input in relation to the cell in the BidQ column  corresponding to the price level of 141.","In one example embodiment, the position of the input means in relation to the underlying interface at the time when the context menu interface is activated may dictate the types of selection choices provided in relation to the context menu interface. For example, if the context menu interface  is used in relation to a trading interface, as in this example, and a user activates the context menu interface  when the mouse cursor is positioned in relation to a price level for an order, the context menu interface  may provide a number of selection choices corresponding to different order quantities, order types, any actions that can be taken in relation to an order, or the combination thereof. Also, in such an embodiment, a different set of choices may be provided in relation to the context menu interface  if the interface  is activated upon selecting a cell in the BidQ column  and the AskQ column . Alternatively, the user input activating the context menu interface  may dictate selection choices that will be provided in relation to the interface . Further, alternatively, it should be understood that the types of selection choices provided in relation to a context menu interface could be user-configurable.","In the embodiment illustrated in , the context menu interface  includes a number of selection choices corresponding to different order quantities, and to two actions: \u201cCan\u201d corresponding to a request to cancel the selected quantity, and \u201cTO,\u201d which corresponds to a trade-out request action. However, in an alternative embodiment, the context menu interface could display the combination of order quantities and order types. In another embodiment, upon detecting a selection input in relation to the context menu interface , such as detecting a selection of an order quantity, another context menu interface could be activated to display a different set of selection choices, such as order types, for example. In such an embodiment, the second context menu interface may be centered at the location of the cell corresponding to the selected order quantity. It should be understood that different embodiments are possible as well.","When the context menu interface  is displayed in relation to the trading interface , the cell boundaries corresponding to each choice as well as the content of each cell may be visible, while the background of each cell may be translucent or transparent so that a user can easily view the contents of the underlying interface. To make the cell boundaries and contents easily visible, and to ensure that they can be distinguished by the user from the background interface, the boundaries and cell content can be displayed using one color, with a shadow of a contrasting color to help visually separate the foreground element from the background, such as the shadow illustrated in relation to each cell boundary and each cell content shown in . Alternatively, the cells and the selection choices corresponding to each cell may be surrounded with a contrasting color, as opposed to just drawing a shadow. It should be understood that different embodiments for easily distinguishing foreground selection choices and underlying choices could also be used. Also, it should be understood that, based on the user preferences, the selection choices displayed in relation to each cell could be solid or partially transparent.","As mentioned in reference to earlier figures, a user can select a cell on the context menu interface  using different methods. According to one method in which the context menu interface  is activated by pressing and holding the right mouse button, for example, the selection action may take place once a user positions the mouse at the desired selection choice, while still holding the mouse button down, and then releases the right mouse button. However, it should be understood that different embodiments for selecting a desired selection choice are possible as well. For example, a user could right mouse click to activate the context menu interface , and then once again right\/left mouse button click to select a desired choice on the context menu interface.","It should be understood that the context menu interface  could be configured to operate in a system modal mode, which may cause the context menu interface to be the only interface that receives mouse inputs or detects mouse movements until the context menu interface  is dismissed, by making a choice, canceling the operation, or by receiving any other user input. However, it should be understood that different implementations are possible as well. Also, any operation selected in relation to the context menu interface  can be cancelled by pressing the Escape key, by choosing a cell associated with a \u201ccancel\u201d action, or, in the embodiment where a selection is made upon releasing a pressed-down mouse button, by releasing the right mouse button when the mouse is not over any cell. Upon detecting a cancellation request, the context menu interface  may be removed from the display, and no action is taken. However, while the context menu interface  is displayed, and when the mouse is over a cell, the background of that cell could be colored and optionally translucent, and the cell contents could be drawn in a different color to visually distinguish the current selection, such as a cell corresponding to an order quantity of 8 in .","In the embodiment using the context menu interface  in relation to the trading interface , the central cell of the interface  could be configured to have the same value as had been previously associated with, for example, the right mouse button user action, so that when the context menu  is activated, the trader may select the central selection choice without moving the mouse. Such an embodiment may be especially beneficial, since it may facilitate an easy migration by a trader to use the context menu interface  in relation to the trading interface , while preserving the semantics of user's old habits.","Also, it should be understood that the selection choices associated with each context menu interface cell may be user configurable. In such an embodiment, the example embodiments described above may be especially beneficial to a trader who in advance has given some consideration as to what values\/actions\/functions the trader wants to use in relation to different cells of the context menu interface . If a trader is familiar with choices given in relation to the context menu interface , the trader will not have to press the mouse button, visually find and recognize each choice, and then move the mouse to the cell location associated with the desired choice, and then release the mouse button or click on the desired choice. Rather, a trader who knows a cell that he wishes to select will begin moving the mouse in that direction as soon as the initial mouse button is initially depressed. Therefore, in the embodiment where a trader enables the context menu interface  by depressing the right\/left mouse button, then quickly moves the mouse in a desired location of a selection choice, and then releases the mouse button at the location of the selection choice, results in a very quick selection process of desired order related parameters, or in performing any other action associated with the selection choice.","The above description of the preferred embodiments, alternative embodiments, and specific examples, are given by way of illustration and should not be viewed as limiting. Further, many changes and modifications within the scope of the present embodiments may be made without departing from the spirit thereof, and the present invention includes such changes and modifications.","It will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that methods involved in the system and method for displaying the context menu interface may be embodied in a computer program product that includes one or more computer readable media. For example, a computer readable medium can include a readable memory device, such as a hard drive device, CD-ROM, a DVD-ROM, or a computer diskette, having computer readable program code segments stored thereon. The computer readable medium can also include a communications or transmission medium, such as, a bus or a communication link, either optical, wired or wireless having program code segments carried thereon as digital or analog data signals.","The claims should not be read as limited to the described order or elements unless stated to that effect. Therefore, all embodiments that come within the scope and spirit of the following claims and equivalents thereto are claimed as the invention."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["Example embodiments of the present invention are described herein with reference to the following drawings, in which:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIGS. 3A-3C"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIGS. 6A-6C"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIGS. 6A-6C"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":["FIGS. 8A-8C","FIGS. 6A-6C","FIG. 7"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIGS. 9A-9D"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 11"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 12"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
