---
title: Modular safe room
abstract: A modular bullet resistant safe room constructed of a plurality of panels and having external seam covers connected to selected panels to cover the seam where joined to adjacent panels. Top panels are oriented transverse to the longitudinal direction of the room, and are of the same width as side panels. In this manner the room may be easily lengthened or shortened by adding or removing top and side panels.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07458305&OS=07458305&RS=07458305
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 07458305
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20040206
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS","STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENT INTEREST","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS"],"p":["The present application claims the benefit of priority of U.S. provisional patent application Ser. No. 60\/464,694, filed on Apr. 22, 2003, which is hereby expressly incorporated by reference. Said provisional application has been placed under secrecy order and applicants request that said secrecy order be maintained for this non-provisional application.","The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for government purposes without the payment of any royalties therefor.","Safe rooms have been constructed within VIP residences for many years. The rationale of a safe room is to provide a room for personnel in times of danger and which is resistant to small arms fire. In order to meet this objective in the past, these rooms have been constructed during the building of a residence. However, this required knowledge that a VIP would reside in a particular residence prior to its construction. In order to modify an existing residence to include a permanent safe room, drastic design changes or extremely expensive materials and work are required. The desired modification may not be possible or practical, or may not be justified in situations where a VIP may be temporarily housed.","Therefore, it is an object of the present invention to provide a safe room that can be quickly and easily installed, at a relatively low cost, and which is also easily removable.","Modular rooms which can be quickly assembled and disassembled exist, however they are primarily for protection against sever weather conditions. Existing modular rooms cannot withstand small arms fire, particularly at the seams between joined sections.","The modular safe room in accordance with the present invention includes a plurality of panels of ballistic resistant material, each having an interior side and an exterior side, and selectively joined together at seams to define a room having a front, back, sides and a top. A plurality of seam covers overlap respective ones of the seams, with the seam covers being affixed to selected ones of the panels on the exterior side thereof. The panels include a side panel as well as a top panel, with each being of the same width to facilitate the lengthening or shortening of the room, if required.","In the drawings, which are not necessarily to scale, like or corresponding parts are denoted by like or corresponding reference numerals.","Referring now to , modular safe room  is comprised of a plurality of panels having an interior side and an exterior side and selectively joined together at seams. In accordance with the present invention seam covers  are affixed to particular ones of the panels, on the exterior side thereof, to protect the seams from ballistic threats. An optional cap  has portions broken away to view the seam covers  at the front and back of the structure.","The panels are of a bullet resistant material to meet Level-8 requirements of the UL 752 Standard for Bullet Resistant Equipment, hardened steel ballistic plate being one example. The panels comprising safe room  include side panels , of a first type, side panels , of a second type, door panel  with door , front panel , having a vent , aback panels , identical in structure to front panel  and having an optional vent , back panel , back center panel , top panel , of a first type and top panel  of a second type.","The safe room  extends in a longitudinal direction and the top panels , each of which are in a transverse direction, are of the same width as the side panels  and are joined to side panels on either side of the room, such that the safe room  may be incrementally lengthened or shortened by the installation or removal of side and top panels. The entire modular structure may be easily transported to a site and assembled by two or three persons with hand tools and then secured to a base such as a concrete floor . After removal of the threat necessitating the assembly of the safe room , it may be easily disassembled and removed from the residence where it was installed.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":["FIG. 3A","FIG. 3B"],"b":["40","12","12","20","12","21","12","20","12","23","29","12","32","26","29"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":["FIG. 4A","FIG. 4B"],"b":["34","35","26","29","40","12","12","34","12","35","12","34","29","12","26","32","35"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":"FIG. 5","b":["20","20","44","46","48","49","52","46","52","20","54","55"]},"Panel  also includes gussets  having respective apertures  for joining to a top panel, as will be seen. Reinforcing angle iron cross bars  extend between side frame members  and preferably include cutouts  adjacent the interior surface of plate  for hanging items or for securing ropes or straps. Affixed to the exterior of the panel , overlapping an edge thereof, is seam cover .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 6A"],"b":["34","20","34","70","72","52","10","75","70","76","52","52","58","20","54","72","78","79","34","20"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":"FIG. 7","b":["20","35","26","32","29","23","26","26","82","83","84","85","86","52"]},"A series of apertures  in the front surface of side angle iron  allows connection to side panel , and a series of apertures  in the side surface of side angle iron  allows connection to adjacent back center panel . Similarly, apertures  in the front surface of top angle iron  allow for connection to top panel . Back panel  and back center panel , and back panel  (not illustrated) have a seam cover  on the top angle iron such that when mated to these panels, top panel  slips under these three seam covers. Also illustrated in  is a case  which contains the louvered vent , and which is mounted by brackets  bolted to brackets  on plate .","The structure of back center panel  includes plate  to which is affixed at the edges thereof, side angle irons , top angle iron  and base angle iron , having a portion broken away to illustrate apertures  for securing the panel to the floor. A series of apertures  in the side surface of side angle irons  allow for connection to adjacent panels. Back center panel , in addition to horizontal seam cover  on top of top angle iron , also includes vertical seam covers  on the exterior of either side of plate  to cover the seams between it and adjacent back panels  and . A cross-sectional plan view of the connection between side panel  and back panel , is illustrated in .","A typical vent , illustrated in , includes the case  having side walls , to which are attached the mounting brackets , a back wall , a bottom  and a top . Top  is of a smaller dimension than the side walls  thereby defining an air gap  at the top of case . Secured to the side walls  are louvers , which, in conjunction with back wall , prevent small arms fire from entering the interior of the safe room , while allowing proper airflow, as represented by arrows  () down through louvers  and up through air gap . Vent  in front panel  may be of identical construction.","As previously mentioned the components of the safe room  may be fabricated from any material which meets the Level-8 requirements of the UL 752 Standard for Bullet Resistant Equipment. In the example described, hardened steel ballistic plate is shown by way of example. With such material the fabrication of the panels is accomplished by welding the various parts to the plate of the panel.  illustrates a typical plate  for any of the panels which include a seam cover . In order to preserve the temper of the bullet resistant seam covers it is preferable that they be affixed to the exterior of the plate  by the method shown in .","More particularly, a plurality of holes  are drilled in the plate  near a longitudinal edge and the plate is placed over seam cover . A plug welding procedure is then used to affix the seam cover . This is accomplished by welding through the holes , from the interior side  of plate , resulting in a secure attachment without directly heating the exterior surface of the seam cover .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0039","num":"0038"},"figref":["FIG. 10","FIGS. 1 and 2"],"b":["14","124","125","14","126","125","127","129","130","124","127","131","14"]},"It will be readily seen by one of ordinary skill in the art that the present invention fulfills all of the objects set forth herein. After reading the foregoing specification, one of ordinary skill in the art will be able to effect various changes, substitutions of equivalents and various other aspects of the present invention as broadly disclosed herein. It is therefore intended that the protection granted hereon be limited only by the definition contained in the appended claims and equivalents. Having thus shown and described what is at present considered to be the preferred embodiment of the present invention, it should be noted that the same has been made by way of illustration and not limitation. Accordingly, all modifications, alterations and changes coming within the spirit and scope of the present invention are herein meant to be included."],"GOVINT":[{},{}],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The invention will be better understood, and further objects, features and advantages thereof will become more apparent from the following description of the preferred embodiment, taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings, in which:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 3A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":["FIG. 3B","FIG. 3A"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 4A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":["FIG. 4B","FIG. 4A"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":["FIG. 6A","FIG. 6"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":["FIG. 7A","FIG. 7"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 8A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 8B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 10"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
