---
title: System and method for expiration reminders of rentable media offerings
abstract: The invention can be viewed as a system for providing media information to a user via an interactive media services client device coupled to a programmable media services server device. A method of the preferred embodiment of the present invention includes adding a media title to a media title list in response to user input.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07155733&OS=07155733&RS=07155733
owner: Scientific-Atlanta, Inc.
number: 07155733
owner_city: Lawrenceville
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20040213
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS","FIELD OF THE INVENTION","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS"],"p":["This application is a divisional of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09\/693,784, filed on Oct. 20, 2000, which is a continuation-in-part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09\/590,488, filed on Jun. 9, 2000, and claims the benefit of U.S. provisional application No. 60\/214,987, filed on Jun. 29, 2000, both of which are entirely incorporated herein by reference.","This invention relates in general to television systems, and more particularly, to the field of media-on-demand.","With recent advances in digital transmission technology, cable television systems are now capable of providing much more than the traditional analog broadcast video. In implementing enhanced programming, the home communication terminal (\u201cHCT\u201d), otherwise known as the settop box, has become an important computing device for accessing video services and navigating a subscriber through a maze of available services. In addition to supporting traditional analog broadcast video functionality, digital HCTs (or \u201cDHCTs\u201d) now also support an increasing number of two-way digital services such as video-on-demand.","Typically, a DHCT is connected to a cable or satellite television network and includes hardware and software necessary to provide the functionality of the digital television system at the client's site. Preferably, some of the software executed and data processed by a DHCT is downloaded and\/or updated via the cable television network. Each DHCT also typically includes a processor, communication components and memory, and is connected to a television or other display device, such as a personal computer. While many conventional DHCTs are stand-alone devices that are externally connected to a television, a DHCT and\/or its functionality may be integrated into a television or personal computer, as will be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art.","DHCTs are capable of providing users with a very large number and variety of media rentals. As the number of available media rentals increases, it can become inconvenient and time consuming for users to continually browse through unwanted media titles in order to find the ones that they like. Furthermore, users are often confronted with a choice of many desirable media titles to choose from such that after selecting and viewing a desirable media title, they often forget the names of other media titles that they were interested in viewing. Therefore, there exists a need to make it easier and more convenient for users to find and select desirable media titles.","The invention can be viewed as a system for providing media information to a user via an interactive media services client device coupled to a programmable media services server device. A method of the preferred embodiment of the present invention includes adding a media title to a media title list in response to user input.","The present invention now will be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings, in which preferred embodiments of the invention are shown. This invention may, however, be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein; rather, these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete, and will fully convey the scope of the invention to those skilled in the art.","The present invention is generally implemented as part of a cable television system (CTS). Hence, an illustrative CTS  and its operation will be described initially.  shows a block diagram view of a CTS , which is generally a high quality, reliable and integrated network system that features video, audio, voice and data services to DHCT users. Although  depicts a high level view of a CTS , it should be appreciated that a plurality of cable television systems can tie together a plurality of regional networks into an integrated global network so that DHCT users can receive content provided from anywhere in the world.","The CTS  delivers broadcast video signals as digitally formatted signals in addition to delivering traditional broadcast analog video signals. Furthermore, the system can support one way broadcast services as well as both one-way data services and two-way media and data services. The two-way operation of the network allows for user interactivity with services, such as Pay-Per-View programming, Near Video-On-Demand (NVOD) programming according to any of several known NVOD implementation methods, View-on-Demand (VOD) programming (according to any of several known VOD implementation methods), and interactive applications, such as Internet connections and interactive media Guide (IMG) applications.","The CTS  also provides the interfaces, network control, transport control, session control, and servers to access content and services, and distributes content and services to DHCT users. As shown in , a typical CTS  comprises a headend , hubs , an HFC access network , and users' digital home communication terminals (DHCTs) . It should be appreciated that although a single component (e.g. a headend) is illustrated in , a CTS  can feature a plurality of any one of the illustrated components or may be configured with alternative embodiments for any one of the individual components or with yet other additional components not enumerated above. A content provider (not shown) transmits media content to a headend for further transmission to users downstream in the network.","Content provided by a content provider is communicated by the content provider to one or more headends . From those headends the content is then communicated over a communications network  that includes a plurality of HFC access networks  (only one HFC access network  is illustrated). The HFC access network  typically comprises a plurality of HFC nodes , each of which may serve a local geographical area. The hub  connects to the HFC node  through a fiber portion of the HFC access network . The HFC node  is connected to a tap  which is connected to a network interface unit (NIU)  which is connected to a DHCT . The NIU  is normally located at a user's property and provides a transparent interface between the HFC node  and the users' internal wiring. Coaxial cables are typically used to couple nodes , taps  and NIUs  because the electrical signals can be easily repeated with radio frequency (RF) amplifiers.","As the high-level operations of many of the functions of CTSs  are well known to those of skill in the art, further description of the overall CTS  of  will not be contained herein. It will be appreciated, however, that the CTS  shown in  is merely illustrative and should not be construed as implying any limitations upon the scope of the present invention.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 3"],"b":["11","19","20","23","32","19","63"]},"The DNCS  provides complete management, monitoring, and control of the network's elements and broadcast services provided to users. In one implementation, the DNCS  uses a data insertion multiplexer  and a data QAM  to insert in-band broadcast file system (BFS) data into an MPEG-2 transport stream that is broadcast and received via DHCT's communication interface  and tuner system . The DNCS  also contains a session manager  that uses Digital Storage Media Command and Control (DSMCC) protocol to set up and maintain MOD sessions. The session manager  processes user to network (U-N) session signaling messages, manages allocation of session-related network resources, supports network management operations, acts as a point of contact to the network for the DHCT's  in the network  to establish individual sessions, and supports MOD services by providing the signaling interface to establish, maintain and release client initiated exclusive sessions.","A service application manager (SAM) server  is a server component of a client-server pair of components, with the client component being located at the DHCT . Together, the client-server SAM components provide a system in which the user can access services, which are identified by an application to run and a parameter, such as particular data content, specific to that service. The client-server SAM components also manage the life cycle of the applications on the system, including the definition, activation, and suspension of services they provide and the downloading of the applications into the DHCT  as necessary.","Applications on both the headend  and the DHCT  can access the data stored in a broadcast file system (BFS) server  in a similar manner to a file system found on operating systems. The BFS server  is a part of a broadcast file system that has a counterpart BFS client module  () in a DHCT  connected to the network . The BFS server  repeatedly sends data for applications on a data carousel (not shown) over a period of time in cyclical repeated fashion so that a DHCT  that is in need of reading any particular data file or parts thereof may receive it when requested by a user or one or more of its internal running processes.","A VOD content manager  is responsible for managing the content on the VOD content servers . The MOD server application  controls both the VOD content manager  and the VOD content servers  and utilizes them to help deliver the video and audio streams that make up VOD services. In one embodiment, an MOD content manager and MOD content servers (not shown) could run respectively in parallel to the VOD content manager  and VOD content servers  to manage other types of on-demand media content. In an alternate embodiment an MOD content manager replaces the VOD content manager  and the MOD content servers replaces the VOD content servers . The QAM modulators that comprise the QAM group  receive the MPEG-2 transport streams from the VOD content servers , convert them into encrypted RF signals at a specified frequency (channel), and transmit them to a DHCT  via the network .","The QPSK modem  is responsible for transporting the out-of-band IP (internet protocol) datagram traffic between the distribution headend  and a DHCT . Data from the QPSK modem  is routed by headend router  within the headend . The headend router  is also responsible for delivering upstream application traffic to the various server applications  & .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0042","num":"0041"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":["16","11","41","16","63","11","16","16","42","11","18","11","18","16","44","16","48","41","45","11","45","46"]},"The DHCT  may also include one or more wireless or wired interfaces, also called ports, for receiving and\/or transmitting data to other devices. For instance, the DHCT  may feature USB (Universal Serial Bus), Ethernet (for connection to a computer), IEEE-1394 (for connection to media devices in an entertainment center), serial, and\/or parallel ports. The user inputs may, for example, be provided by a computer or transmitter with buttons or keys located either on the exterior of the terminal or by a hand-held remote control device or keyboard that includes user-actuated buttons.","In one implementation, the DHCT  includes system memory , which includes flash memory  and dynamic random access memory (DRAM) , for storing various applications, modules and data for execution and use by the processor . Basic functionality of the DHCT  is provided by an operating system  that is primarily stored in flash memory . Among other things, the operating system  includes at least one resource manager  that provides an interface to resources of the DHCT  such as, for example, computing resources.","One or more programmed software applications, herein referred to as applications, are executed by utilizing the computing resources in the DHCT . Applications stored in flash memory  or DRAM  are executed by processor  (e.g., a central processing unit or digital signal processor) under the auspices of the operating system . Data required as input by an application is stored in DRAM  or flash memory  and read by processor  as need be during the course of the application's execution. Input data may be data stored in DRAM  by a secondary application or other source, either internal or external to the DHCT , or possibly anticipated by the application and thus created with the application at the time it was generated as a software application, in which case it is stored in flash memory . Data generated by an application is stored in DRAM  by processor  during the course of the application's execution. DRAM  also includes application memory  that various applications may use for storing and\/or retrieving data.","An application referred to as navigator  is also resident in flash memory  for providing a navigation framework for services provided by the DHCT . The navigator  registers for and in some cases reserves certain user inputs related to navigational keys such as channel increment\/decrement, last channel, favorite channel, etc. The client applications may be resident in flash memory  or downloaded into DRAM . The navigator  also provides users with television related menu options that correspond to DHCT functions such as, for example, providing an interactive program guide, blocking a channel or a group of channels from being displayed in a channel menu, and displaying a video-on-demand purchase list.","The flash memory  also contains a platform library . The platform library  is a collection of utilities useful to applications, such as a timer manager, a compression manager, a configuration manager, an HTML parser, a database manager, a widget toolkit, a string manager, and other utilities (not shown). These utilities are accessed by applications via application programming interfaces (APIs) as necessary so that each application does not have to contain these utilities. Two components of the platform library  that are shown in  are a window manager  and a service application manager (SAM) client .","The window manager  provides a mechanism for implementing the sharing of the screen regions and user input. The window manager  on the DHCT  is responsible for, as directed by one or more applications, implementing the creation, display, and de-allocation of the limited DHCT  screen resources. It allows multiple applications to share the screen by assigning ownership of screen regions, or windows. The window manager  also maintains, among other things, a user input registry  in DRAM  so that when a user enters a key or a command via the remote control device  or another input device such as a keyboard or mouse, the user input registry  is accessed to determine which of various applications running on the DHCT  should receive data corresponding to the input key and in which order. As an application is executed, it registers a request to receive certain user input keys or commands. When the user presses a key corresponding to one of the commands on the remote control device , the command is received by the receiver  and relayed to the processor . The processor  dispatches the event to the operating system  where it is forwarded to the window manager  which ultimately accesses the user input registry  and routes data corresponding to the incoming command to the appropriate application.","The SAM client  is a client component of a client-server pair of components, with the server component being located on the headend . A SAM database  in DRAM  includes a data structure of services and a data structure of channels that are created and updated by the headend . Many services can be defined using the same application component, with different parameters. Examples of services include, without limitation and in accordance with one implementation, presenting television programs (available through a WatchTV application ), pay-per-view events (available through a PPV application ), digital music (not shown), media-on-demand (available through an MOD application ), and an interactive program guide. In general, the identification of a service includes the identification of an executable application that provides the service along with a set of application-dependent parameters that indicate to the application the service to be provided. As a non-limiting example, a service of presenting a television program could be executed with a set of parameters to view HBO or with a separate set of parameters to view CNN. Each association of the application component (tune video) and one parameter component (HBO or CNN) represents a particular service that has a unique service I.D. The SAM client  also interfaces with the resource manager , as discussed below, to control resources of the DHCT .","Application clients can also be downloaded into DRAM  at the request of the SAM client , typically in response to a request by the user or in response to a message from the headend. In this non-limiting example DRAM  contains a media-on-demand application (MOD) , an e-mail application , and a web browser application , among others (not shown). It should be clear to one with ordinary skill in the art that these applications are not limiting and merely serve as examples for this present embodiment of the invention. Furthermore, one or more DRAM based applications may, as an alternative embodiment, be resident in flash memory . These applications, and others provided by the cable system operator, are top level software entities on the network for providing services to the user.","In one implementation, applications executing on the DHCT  work with the navigator  by abiding by several guidelines. First, an application utilizes the SAM client  for the provision, activation, and suspension of services. Second, an application shares DHCT  resources with other applications and abides by the resource management policies of the SAM client , the operating system , and the DHCT . Third, an application handles situations where resources are only available with navigator  intervention. Fourth, when an application loses service authorization while providing a service, the application suspends the service via the SAM (the navigator  will reactivate an individual service application when it later becomes authorized). Finally, an application client is designed to not have access to certain user input keys reserved by the navigator (i.e., power, channel +\/\u2212, volume +\/\u2212, etc.).","The MOD client application  provides the user with lists of available media titles to choose from and with video presentations requested by the user. The MOD client application  provides video presentations to the user by engaging, preferably, in a direct two-way IP (Internet Protocol) connection with VOD content servers  (). The MOD client application  is also responsible for providing reminder and filing functionality as described below. In an alternative embodiment, the reminder and\/or filing functionality is provided by a separate application that can be selectively aggregated to the MOD client application  for purposes of charging separately for that functionality.","An executable program or algorithm corresponding to an operating system (OS) component, or to a client platform component, or to a client application, or to respective parts thereof, can reside in and execute out of DRAM  and\/or flash memory . Likewise, data inputted into or outputted from any executable program can reside in DRAM  or flash memory . Furthermore, an executable program or algorithm corresponding to an OS component, or to a client platform component, or to a client application, or to respective parts thereof, can reside in flash memory , or in a local storage device connected to DHCT  and be transferred into DRAM  for execution. Likewise, data input for an executable program can reside in flash memory  or a storage device and be transferred into DRAM  for use by an executable program or algorithm. In addition, data outputted by an executable program can be written into DRAM  by an executable program or algorithm and be transferred into flash memory  or into a storage device for storage purposes. The present invention is not limited by where or how data and\/or applications are stored or retrieved.","Each of the above mentioned applications comprises executable instructions for implementing logical functions and can be embodied in any computer-readable medium for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system, apparatus, or device, such as a computer-based system, processor-containing system, or other system that can fetch and execute the instructions. In the context of this document, a \u201ccomputer-readable medium\u201d can be any means that can contain, store, communicate, propagate, or transport the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system, apparatus, or device. The computer readable medium can be, for example but not limited to, an electronic, magnetic, optical, electromagnetic, infrared, or semiconductor system, apparatus, device, or propagation medium. More specific examples (a non-exhaustive list) of the computer-readable medium would include the following: an electrical connection (electronic) having one or more wires, a portable computer diskette (magnetic), a random access memory (RAM) (electronic), a read-only memory (ROM) (electronic), an erasable programmable read-only memory (EPROM or Flash memory) (electronic), an optical fiber (optical), and a portable compact disc read-only memory (CDROM) (optical). Note that the computer-readable medium could even be paper or another suitable medium upon which the program is printed, as the program can be electronically captured, via for instance optical scanning of the paper or other medium, then compiled, interpreted or otherwise processed in a suitable manner, and then stored in a computer memory.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0055","num":"0054"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":["80","16","82","83","84","85","86","87"]},"With continued reference to  throughout the remaining figures,  shows an example media title selection window . As with other window examples discussed below, processor  executes program instructions of MOD client application  that cause it to direct the window manager  to create window  via display data that is formatted for television . Processor  stores the display data or parts thereof in DRAM  (as necessary) and transfers the display data to a display output system such as RF output system  wherein display data is converted to respective television signals and transmitted to television . Of course, the scope of the invention also includes any other method of causing the described windows to appear to the user.","The example window  contains a top portion  that typically contains one or more headings and a bottom portion  that typically illustrates relevant buttons available for activation with the input device by the user. Media titles list  contains media titles such as media title  and includes a highlighted title area . Information section  contains information related to the media title shown in the highlighted title area , which in this example is \u201cAngela's Ashes\u201d . The user may add a highlighted media title to a reminder list of titles  () by activating the \u201cA\u201d button .","Browsing symbol  suggests to the user that the user may use the up and down arrow buttons ,  to browse the media title list  and use the select button  to request the currently highlighted media title. For example the user may activate the down arrow button  in order to cause the media title \u201cAny Given Sunday\u201d  to be displayed in the highlighted title area  and then activate the select button  in order to request the movie \u201cAny Given Sunday\u201d . In an alternative embodiment, activating the up an down arrows would result in shifting the highlighted title area rather than shifting the media title list (at least until the top or bottom title is highlighted).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0059","num":"0058"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 8"],"b":["110","89","100","111","112","114","111","80","114","130"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0060","num":"0059"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 2","FIG. 8"],"b":["120","112","110","121","121","19","63","70","104","123","122","130","88"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0061","num":"0060"},"figref":["FIG. 8","FIG. 9"],"b":["130","114","110","136","104","87","81","89","133","131","132","134","140"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0062","num":"0061"},"figref":"FIG. 10","b":["150","151","81","131","89","63"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0063","num":"0062"},"figref":["FIGS. 11 and 12","FIG. 8","FIG. 12"],"b":["160","170","130","160","170","161","162","85","86","86","160","162","170","161","87","81"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0064","num":"0063"},"figref":["FIGS. 13 and 14","FIG. 8"],"b":["180","190","183","180","131","183","190","131","88","183","89","91"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0065","num":"0064"},"figref":["FIG. 15","FIG. 8"],"b":["200","131","183","131","88","131","89","131","63"]},"In addition to a reminder list, other designated lists or containers may be set up a priori for other designated functionality. For example, a shopping list may serve as a designated container into which a user may selectively insert media titles during a media-on-demand selection session as discussed below. A user can place media titles in the shopping list as candidates for the current on-demand selection session. Hence, a user can scout the media title list for other media titles while inserting and retaining one or more media titles in the shopping list during the current on-demand selection session. Upon coalescing a set of media titles into the shopping list, the user reviews the titles in the shopping list and makes a final selection for on-demand viewing as described below.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0067","num":"0066"},"figref":["FIG. 16","FIG. 5","FIG. 17","FIG. 17","FIG. 18"],"b":["100","210","100","210","88","89","221","220","89","210","87","81","89","221","87","230","183","230","88","221","89","221"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0068","num":"0067"},"figref":["FIG. 19","FIG. 16","FIG. 20","FIG. 6"],"b":["210","240","210","240","88","89","250","88","240","251","252","253","80","240","240","89","110"]},"In one embodiment, each individual viewer or member of a family has a respective personalized reminder list and\/or shopping list that is titled with an alphanumeric string selected by the respective viewer. A list may simply be titled with a suffix or prefix number or letter which individual viewers appropriate under personal agreement between themselves, or the titles may be input by users with input devices such as keyboards or remote control devices. In yet another embodiment multiple designated reminder lists, each titled with a different media category (such as comedy, drama and adventure) are available to users for filing media titles. Likewise, designated reminder lists may be available for filing media titles according to their respective ratings.","In an alternative embodiment, a set of distinct functional title lists exist, each having a respective small icon representation as illustrated in . Each distinct icon is a small visual color image with a short text string that suggests the functionality of the respective title list. A media title selection list functionality is enhanced by displaying the small representative icons, such as for example icons , , and , inside the perimeter of the media selection window . The input device and MOD client application  further comprises \u201cdrag and drop\u201d functionality whereby a highlighted media title is dragged and \u201cdropped\u201d into an icon. The drag and drop functionality is initiated by the user activating the select key  continuously and simultaneously pressing one of the four arrow keys . While continuing to push the select key , the user presses a sequence of arrow keys  according to where the desired icon is located on the screen. For instance, if the desired icon is shopping list icon , the user can drag a highlighted media title in that direction by pressing the right arrow key  while continuing to hold down the select key . The window  is updated with a representative movie icon (not shown) in motion across the screen as the user performs the drag operation via continual arrow key presses. Once the dragged media title reaches the spatial domain of the desired title list's icon, the displayed icon is dimmed (made darker) by MOD client application  to visually indicate to the user that the currently dragged media title (depicted on the screen to the user with a movie icon) has penetrated sufficiently into the icon's real-estate and can be dropped in. Hence, if the user decides to drop the dragged media title into the title list of the representative icon, the user ceases the press of select key  and the media title is inserted into the respective title list.","In one embodiment, a designated or user-created list comprises a set of \u201clist entries\u201d that are stored along with a set of attributes for each respective list entry in application memory  of DRAM  or read-write non-volatile memory (not shown) of DHCT  and\/or the MOD server. If DHCT  has a local storage device, either internally or externally connected via a communication port or local storage interface, it can be used to alternatively store user-created list information rather than employing the MOD server or in addition to the MOD server. Attributes comprising a list entry in a designated or user-created list can include a media title, a media title's representative image and\/or thumbnail, the time and date that the user created the list entry, identification of user that created the list entry, user-created comments entered by an input device such as keyboard or remote control, and other possible attributes that may help the user recollect the user's train of thought at the time the user inserted the title into the list.","Designated and user-created lists and their respective list entries can be structured into a database, and each set of attributes can comprise a database record in a list database (not shown). Information in designated and user-created lists described herein is read from the DHCT's memory to fill respective data fields in windows presented to a user. Alternatively, the information can be read from the DHCT's local storage (if applicable) or the MOD server.","Regardless of where designated and user-created list information is stored, a subset of information is preferably stored in read-write non-volatile memory of the DHCT  by the MOD client application  for the MOD client application  to find designated and user-created list information in the event that the DHCT  experiences a power outage period. This set of designated and user-created list information that is stored in non-volatile memory preferably includes information as to whether there are user-created list entries in any designated or user-created list (for which a single bit of non-volatile memory can be designated), and preferably information such as a directory path or user identification for where a copy of the list database can be retrieved from the MOD server (by the MOD client application  in communication with th MOD server) or from the DHCT's local storage device (if applicable).","It should be emphasized that the above-described embodiments of the present invention, particularly any \u201cpreferred embodiments\u201d, are merely possible examples of the implementations, merely setting forth a clear understanding of the principles of the inventions. Many variations and modifications may be made to the above-described embodiments of the invention without departing substantially from the spirit of the principles of the invention. All such modifications and variations are intended to be included herein within the scope of the disclosure and present invention and protected by the following claims."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The invention can be better understood with reference to the following drawings. The components in the drawings are not necessarily drawn to scale, emphasis instead being placed upon clearly illustrating the principles of the present invention. In the drawings, like reference numerals designate corresponding parts throughout the several views.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 3"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 3"],"b":"100"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 4","FIG. 5"],"b":"110"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 6"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":["FIG. 8","FIG. 6"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":["FIG. 9","FIG. 8"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":["FIG. 11","FIG. 8"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":["FIG. 12","FIG. 11"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":["FIG. 13","FIG. 8"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":["FIG. 14","FIG. 8"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":["FIG. 15","FIG. 8"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":["FIG. 16","FIG. 5"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":["FIG. 17","FIG. 16"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":["FIG. 18","FIG. 17"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":["FIG. 19","FIG. 16"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":["FIG. 20","FIG. 19"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":["FIG. 21","FIG. 5"]}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
