---
title: Device to detect and measure the concentration and characterization of airborne conductive or dielectric particles
abstract: A measuring system is disclosed which detects and measures the volume concentration and mass flow of the airborne conductive particles, such as carbon-absorptive chaff particles. The measuring system can be used to estimate the effective conductivity of the detected airborne conductive particles. Further, if particles are not airborne, but are lying on a surface they may be made to become airborne by the vacuum source of the present invention and then detected by the measuring system of the present invention.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07034549&OS=07034549&RS=07034549
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 07034549
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20040331
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENT INTEREST","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS"],"p":["The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.","(1) Field of the Invention","The present invention relates to a measuring system, and more specifically, to a system for detecting and measuring the volume concentration and effective conductivity of airborne conductive particles such as (typically \u00bc inch-long) mm-wave carbon-fiber absorptive chaff elements.","(2) Description of the Prior Art","Prior art techniques for detecting and\/or classifying airborne absorptive chaff particles typically involve measuring scattered light from the particles, passing particles through a grid and measuring possible electrical contact between particles and grid elements or collecting particles on a filter for a specified time and then weighing the filter to determine the mass of the collected material. These techniques are cumbersome to apply however, and also do not quantitatively measure the effective conductivity of the particles. Effective electrical conductivity of particles may be estimated by examining particles under a microscope and physically performing electrical measurements, but these techniques are also cumbersome, very time consuming and labor intensive to apply. It is desired to provide a system for detecting and\/or classifying airborne absorptive chaff particles without suffering the prior drawbacks of weighing the filter to determine the mass of the collected airborne particles without performing any microscope analysis of the collected particles, while at the same time, providing for a measurement of effective conductivity of the particles.","It is a primary object of the present invention to provide a system for detecting and classifying airborne absorptive chaff particles and which is devoid of any weighing process or any microscope analysis.","It is a further object of the present invention to provide for a system for detecting and classifying particles and to measure the effective electrical conductivity.","It is a further object of the present invention to provide for a system for measuring the volume of airborne collected particles being detected and classified.","It is a further object of the present invention to measure the mass flow rate of the airborne collected particles being measured and detected.","It is a further object of the present invention to provide for a system for providing a display of a histogram of the effective conductivity of the airborne particles being measured and detected.","The device for detecting airborne conductive or dielectric particles comprises: a resonant cavity having a high E-field sensing region; means for feeding power to the cavity; means for directing airborne particles through the high E-field sensing region of the cavity; and sensing means coupled to the cavity for sensing the drop in E-field level caused by the particle and outputting a signal representative thereof.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":"10"},"As shown in , the device  comprises a microwave cavity  fed by a low power microwave source , typically a low power Gunn effect oscillator, with the fields of the cavity being sensed by a simple crystal diode mixer or crystal detector . Airborne fibers  enter through the sampling nozzle  and pass through a small dielectric flow tube  through a high E-field sensing region  in the cavity  where the fibers  perturb the cavity resonance properties by interaction with the cavity E-field. For conductive particles , passage of the particle  through the sensing region  absorbs energy from the field (reducing the cavity Q) and decreasing the detected E-field level in the cavity . This produces a small output pulse  from the detector , which is amplified by amplifier , that provides an analog output on signal path  and which is delivered to a pulse height analyzer , and also fed to a discriminator\/comparator circuit , which produces a logic pulse  that may be counted by a digital pulse counter circuit . In this mode, the device  serves as a particle detector and counter circuit . By knowing the air volume flow rate through the flow tube  and counting the number of pulses per unit time, the device  can be used to determine the volume concentration of particles in the samples inlet air. The airborne particles  are drawn through the sensing cavity by a vacuum source . Further details of the microwave source and microwave waveguides, may be further described with reference to .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1","FIG. 2","FIG. 3"],"b":["12","12","42","20","26","12"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 3"],"b":["12","44","12"]},"The device  of  may be used to determine the effective conductivity or the mass of the transiting particles . For thin fibrous chaff particles , often several fibers stick together in a cordwood fashion. In this case, the effective conductivity of a particle is proportional to its mass. By proper cavity design, to be discussed hereinafter, the output pulse height of the output pulse  from the detector , may be made to be (nearly) linearly dependent on the effective conductivity of the particle . The m value of a TE (01 m) cavity mode as shown in  is chosen based on measurement requirements and depends on the size, conductivity or dielectric constant of the particles. The value for m could be as small as 1 or possibly in excess of 30.","If desired, and in conformance with the microwave leakage parameters to be further described hereinafter with reference to , the length of the cavity may be made large compared to particle length to accommodate the E-field interaction and Q reduction of the cavity itself. In this case, the pulse height of pulse  from the detector  can be made to vary nearly linearly with effective fiber conductivity. For some types of particles, this effective conductivity is proportional to the number of fibers stuck together in a given particle or to the particle mass. For this case, the time average value of the analog output voltage on signal path  from the amplifier  in  is proportional to mass flow rate.","The analog output signal from the amplifier  is preferably fed to the pulse height analyzer , which comprises an analog to digital converter and memory circuitry. The pulse height analyzer  determines the height of each individual pulse and stores a count in a memory storage register, which has an address number proportional to the pulse height. The result is a histogram-like display of the effective conductivity of the transiting particles, which may be viewed on display terminal .","Depending upon the sophistication of the processing circuitry chosen for , the electronic output from the device  may be: (i) proportional to the number of particles  above a certain size, passing through the sensing region , (ii) proportional to the amount of mass per unit time passing through the sensing region , or (iii) representative of a histogram of particle effective conductivity which for some types of particles is proportional to their size or mass (effective conductivity proportional to number of fibers per particle) distribution.","Further details of the microwave waveguide , and in particular, the wavelengths within the microwave waveguide , may be further described with reference to . The waveguide  is selected to be approximately an integral number of half (guide) wavelengths \u03bbin length at the operating frequency. The presence of the detector diode  and the flow tube  in the cavity  changes the resonant length of waveguide  somewhat. In one embodiment, waveguide  had cavity dimensions of 1.5\u2033 length, 0.9\u2033 width and 0.40\u2033 height for an operation at a frequency of about 10 GHz. The microwave source  is operated at a frequency slightly above the resonant frequency of the cavity. This insures that the energy sampled by the detector diode  is reduced when a particle  transits the measurement interaction space, that is, sensing region , either because the particle reduces the Q of the cavity or because it lowers the resonant frequency of the cavity. Either case produces the same polarity of pulse from the detector diode . The flow tube  is placed a quarter wavelength from the end of the cavity so that the particles  will pass through a region, serving as sensing region , of maximum E-field thereby maximizing its interaction with the field.","Also for maximum interaction the cavity volume which is related to value for m (the number of maximas in the standing wave pattern  of fields in the waveguide ) should be as small as possible. The waveguide  shown in  uses m . To reduce the transit time and sharpen the pulse , the cavity  may be designed so that the sensor region  occurs in reduced height guide, thus reducing the length of the sensing region . This is shown in . The height and length of the reduced height section  is 0.25\u2033 and 0.75\u2033. The height and length of the impedance matching transition are 0.316\u2033 and 0.375\u2033.","The flow tube  from the sampling port , shown in , is made to have a small diameter, such as less than \u00bc inch diameter for \u00bc inch particles and operation at approximately 10 GHz near the sensing region  for several reasons. First, if the airflow rate (velocity) is high, the particle  stays in the sensing region  only very briefly and the detector output pulse  from transit of the particle will be short which is desirable. More importantly, the particle in the form of a fiber  is constrained to be aligned with the axis of the flow tube  and thus, will be forced to be aligned with the cavity E-field, which means that a particle  of a given conductivity and length will always yield the same cavity perturbation as it passes through. The flow tube  should have a small (in comparison with wavelength at the operating frequency) diameter also so that the cavity fields will not extend down the flow tube  very far from the waveguide sensing region , because of waveguide-below-cutoff effect (in the flow tube). This helps to keep the unperturbed cavity Q high by not allowing microwave energy to leak down the tube. Also, since this sharply defines the sensing region , the detector output pulse  is kept short with sharply defined leading and trailing edges. Except for these considerations, the flow in the flow tube  is not critical. It is preferred that the flow tube  have a dielectric lining as it passes through the sensing region . There is no requirement for a particular Reynolds number for proper operation. Measurements have been done in prototype devices where the air velocity in the flow tube as measured with time of flight techniques was varied from less than 100 ft\/sec to over 300 ft\/sec with good results.","The field-particle interaction in sensing region  may be described for the situation of that as a particle  passes through the sensing region  in the cavity of the waveguide , it absorbs microwave power reducing the cavity Q.","As is known in the art, cavity Q is defined as:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0037"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00001","num":"00001"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mi":"Q","mo":"=","mfrac":{"mrow":{"mi":["\u03c9","W"],"mo":["\u2062","\u00b7"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}},"mi":"Pd"}}}}},"where W is the stored energy given by \u2208Eover the volume of the chamber, \u03c9 is the frequency and Pd is the dissipated power. Power is dissipated in the cavity walls, at the feed point and E field sample point, and in a particle  having the form of a particle passing through the cavity sensing region . The output pulse  from a detected fiber is derived from the decrease in E field due to the decreased Q.","A pulse may also be obtained from a dielectric or magnetically active particle with no conductivity because the presence of the particle in the cavity will alter the cavity resonant frequency.","As is known in the art, a non-conductive dielectric particle with relative dielectric constant \u2208 reduces the resonant frequency F of a cavity according to a relation of the form:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0042","num":"0041"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00002","num":"00002"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mfrac":[{"mrow":{"mi":["\u0394","F"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}},"mi":"F"},{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mi":"k","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":"\u025b","mo":"-","mn":"1"}}},{"msub":{"mo":"\u222b","mi":"Vparticle"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"msup":{"mi":"E","mn":"2"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mo":"\u2146","mi":"v"}}}],"mo":"\u2062"},"msub":{"mi":["W","E"]}}],"mo":"="}}}},"where k is a constant depending on geometry factors and Wis the electric energy in the cavity. The presence of the particle in the cavity in a region where it interacts with the electric field E in the cavity reduces the cavity resonant frequency. If the cavity is excited at a frequency above its natural resonant frequency, then the transit of the particle through the cavity reduces the power detected by the crystal detector  because the cavity is excited further off resonance during particle transit. A similar response could be obtained if a magnetically active particle were placed in a region of the cavity where it could interact with the magnetic field.","Sensitivity of the microwave interaction to dielectric, magnetically active or conductive particles is proportional to the ratio of particle volume to cavity volume.","For maximum sensitivity to conductive particles, the power dissipated in a particle  as it passes through the sensing region  should be a large fraction of the total dissipated power in the cavity. This can be done by minimizing all other losses, and requiring that the fiber  have maximum interaction with the cavity E field. Thus for maximum sensitivity, the cavity can be made to resonate in a TEmode. Power Pdissipated in a particle is proportional to geometry factors, the square of the E field, the volume of the particle and the bulk conductivity of the fiber material . The field internal to a long fiber aligned with external field is nearly equal to the external field. The Power, P, may be expressed as:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0046","num":"0045"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00003","num":"00003"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["P","d"]},"mo":"=","mrow":{"msub":{"mo":"\u222b","mi":"Vparticle"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mi":"\u03c3","mo":["\u00b7","\u00b7"],"msup":{"mi":"E","mn":"2"},"mrow":{"mo":"\u2146","mi":"v"}}}}}}},"For one case, a \u00bc inch long, 7 micrometer diameter, 500 Mho\/cm fiber limits the cavity Q to about 10, whereas the Q limit due to wall and probe losses alone is on the order of 1000. This is a very large perturbation yielding high sensitivity to individual particles.","In the maximum sensitivity described above, a single fiber particle  reduces cavity Q a very large amount. A single fiber particle  spoils the Q so much that the cavity barely resonates. In order to use the device  to classify particles according to their conductivity, it is desirable to have an approximately linear response, i.e., a two-fiber particle should yield approximately twice the output pulse height as a single fiber particle. This kind of response can be obtained by using a different choice of cavity design such that the fiber dissipation is a small percentage of the total dissipated power. By using a long slender TE01 m mode cavity (with large approximately 10) value for m, the cavity perturbation by a single particle in a maximum E location is reduced. In this way, a single fiber particle  can be made to reduce cavity Q by say 10%, a double fiber particle  and additional 10% of the new Q or a total of nearly 20% and so on. This linearity can not be maintained indefinitely because of diminishing returns in the percentage of Q change and also because of skin depth effects in particles consisting of many fibers, however, for particles  consisting of a few fibers an approximately linear response occurs. The particle  volume is proportional to the number of fibers which is proportional to the particle mass. Thus, the device  is either a particle detector if it is operated in the high sensitivity mode which is nearly Q spoiled by a single fiber, or a mass detector if it is operated in a reduced sensitivity \u201clinear\u201d mode.","A single pulse  is produced by the detector  for each particle. The concentration of particles is calculated by an equation of the form:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0050","num":"0049"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00004","num":"00004"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mi":"Concentration","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":"#","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mtext":"\/"},"msup":{"mi":"m","mn":"3"}}}},"mo":"=","mfrac":{"mrow":[{"mi":["Particle","Counts","sec"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":[{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},{"mtext":"\/"}]},{"mi":["VolumeFlow","Rate"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":[{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}}],"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msup":{"mi":"m","mn":"3"},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mtext":"\/"},"mi":"sec"}}}]}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"1"}}]}}}}},"Volume flow rate is a function suction level produced by vacuum source  at the output of the flow tube . Nominal flow rate vs. vacuum suction level for a \u00bc inch diameter flow tube may be further described with reference to .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0052","num":"0051"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 6","FIG. 6"],"b":["52","56","58","60","62"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0053","num":"0052"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 6"],"b":["56","58","60","62"]},"The flow rate data shown in  was determined from experiments using a detector operator with two cavities  positioned 4.2\u2033 apart along the flow tube  to perform time of flight measurements. The flow velocity was calculated by determining the time of flight of particles passed along the inlet flow tube . The data of  was taken for two different experiments. Time of flight data is statistical with about a 20% spread. The peak values were calculated by minimum time-of-flight at a particular vacuum level and the average value is the mean velocity for the series in about 40 data points at each vacuum level. The velocity data determined from these time-flight-measurements fall slightly below that calculated from the Bernouli equation (curve ). Volume flow rates in liters per second was calculated by applying the velocity over the entire \u00bc-inch flow tube  inner diameter. This calculation assumes the particles travel at the same velocity as the airflow and that the velocity is uniform across the tube diameter and which is approximately true for high Reynolds number turbulent flow.","If desired, (and if consistent with microwave leakage requirements in a manner as previously described with reference to ) the flow tube diameter may be made large compared with the particle length to accommodate high volume flow rates for sampling requirements. For such a high flow rate arrangement, the particles  may not align with the axis of the flow tube . To accommodate the desired alignment, the arrangement  shown in  may be utilized.","The arrangement  comprises the flow tube , and two (2) additional waveguides  and  and cavity devices , , and , respectively mounted on one end of waveguide , one end of waveguide , and the central region of the flow tube  with the arrangements of all as shown in .","The three cavity devices , , and  are arranged with orthogonal E-field direction to measure three components of the alignment of the particle . More particularly, the three cavity sensors , , and  are mounted orthogonally to sense (consecutively) three components (x, y and z axis) of the particle interaction within the cavity sensors , , and . The three interaction components sense and define the particle orientation and in a large flow tube the particle orientation is random. The particle should be aligned with the E field to get an interaction and get counted by the practice of the present invention. If the particle is perpendicular to the E field in one of the cavities, then at least one of the other cavities will detect it. The configuration shown in  requires only that the particles do not tumble significantly while traveling down the flow tube  through the three sensors , , and .","The transmission flow cavity for the measurement of conductivity of the particles , may be further described with reference to  showing an arrangement . The arrangement  shows further details of the interconnection of the microwave source , the detector , the microwave waveguide , and the flow tube  preferably having a dielectric portion A as it passes through the sensing region . The microwave waveguide  and the detector  further have coupling Iris , whereas the particle flow through the flow tube  is shown by directional arrow .","The detecting cavities may be operated in transmission mode (known in the art) where microwave or mm-wave power transmitted through the waveguide , in particular, is primarily focussed in the sensing region  of the waveguide .","Particles  drawn down the flow tube  occasionally stick to the flow tube  inner wall and reduce the sensitivity of the detector . This can be problematic, if the detector  comprised of the system  operates for a relatively long period of time in a region of high particle concentration. This problem may be substantially eliminated by the arrangement  shown in .","The arrangement  provides for a clean-air bounded layer for preferably clean air and is drawn into the sensing region . The sensing region  forms a boundary layer along the inner side of the flow tube , which reduces the deposition of particles in a cavity sensing region  and allows the detector  to operate for longer periods of time in a high concentration without contamination thereof. A further reduction to minimize the probability of particles sticking to the flow tube  in sensing region , may be further described with reference to  showing an arrangement .","The arrangement  of  is similar to the arrangement  of  with the difference therebetween being that the arrangement  has a reduced height sensing region . This minimizes the probability of particles drawn through the flow tube  and into cavity sensing region  sticking therein by reducing the particle transition time.","Air pressures may be sensed along various points in the flow tube  and at the clear inlet region  to verify their correctness for desired flow rates in the flow tube . If the pressure levels were outside a desired range indicating possible clogging, or rather incorrect flow conditions, a high pressured air stream may be connected to the clean-air inlet  of  or the sampled air inlet of  by a solenoid operated valve so as to cause a so-called sneezing condition to unclog the flow tube .","In certain applications of the device , it is desired to have confidence that the device is working correctly as it is intended to work. Correct flow rates may be monitored by monitoring pressures along the flow tube  and periodically verifying correct operation by monitoring the sensing of the dc bias level from the crystal detector . The bias level is typically in the order of several volts and decreases in magnitude by few mV when a conductive particle  transit the measured space. If the bias level falls below this level, it is an indication that the microwave source  is not providing a suitable power level to the cavity or some other malfunction has occurred.","In operation, the detector  of  positively senses conductive particles , via a low-power microwave (E-field) interaction as they pass through a flow tube . The voltages and currents induced in the particle are so low that there should be no hazard around flammable or explosive atmospheres. Individual particles  are detected. The flow rates may be made high so that the detector  is sensitive to low concentrations of airborne particles.","Additionally a major feature of the device  is its ability to classify particles  according to their effective conductivity thereby providing a rapid means of profiling or histogramming an aerosol distribution. It is desirable to profile an aerosol distribution in dissemination studies to determine what percentage of the particles disseminate as single fibers. In the past it has been extremely difficult to provide such data because of laborious effort required in viewing a significant number of particles collected from the cloud under a microscope. As a result, this type of data was simply not taken in most dissemination and smoke tests. It was simply assumed in smoke tests that most particles consisted of single fibers. Quantitative radar measurements of attenuation and scattering on aerosolized clouds, however, indicate that a significant number of particles disseminate as multiple fiber entities. The device  of the present invention is capable of determining how many fibers are in each particle from a rapid conductivity measurement on individual particles as they pass through the sensing region  of a small resonant millimeter-wave cavity . Availability of this kind of data would provide independent data for confirmation of current microwave field-particle interaction models.","Alternatively, if diagnostic particle classification is not required the device  may be used simply as a particle detector, yielding a single count for each particle above a certain size, which passes through the sensing region . A particle detector  of this type would have wide applicability for monitoring purposes to detect the presence of obscurant CF clouds in combat condition or in certain regions of a test laboratory. It can be used as an area monitor or as a contamination indicator. To check for the presence of conductive particles on clothing or other materials, the inlet end of the sampling tube is placed near the surface to be monitored and the material is \u201cvacuumed\u201d through the flow tube  to the detector .","The volume of the air being sampled by a system of , may be increased by either of the embodiments shown in . More particularly, the detector  of  enclosed in the microwave guide , may be used in conjunction with the embodiments of  to concentrate the air particles or to separate the air particles from a larger volume thereof. This concentration or separation by either of the embodiments of  allows the detector  to sample an increased amount of volume without aspirating all of the air through the cavity  associated with the detector , thereby reducing energy requirements.","Either of the embodiments of  provides a conduit for receiving the airborne particles  being detected by detector . The conduit is dimensioned so as to direct the flow of the received particles into at least two paths, with the first path (minor flow) having a concentrated amount of received particles and being in fluid communication with the input of the microwave guide  forming part of the means for directing the airborne particles . The second path (major flow) carries the remainder of the received particles and is in fluid communication with a vacuum source, such as vacuum source .","More particularly, with reference to , there is shown an arrangement  having a conduit  serving as a device that concentrates particles of the sampled air entering the sampling nozzle . The concentrating device  has two chambers A and B. Chamber A provides a means for creating a first path , which defines the trajectory at which the air particles  to be sampled are delivered to the detector . This first path  corresponds to the centrifugal direction of the air particles  being received by the conduit . The air particles  flowing along path  are directed into the microwave guide  for detection by detector  in a manner as previously described. The microwave guide  also provides the fluid conduit , previously discussed with reference to , which is connected to the vacuum source . The chamber B of the concentrating device  carries the major flow and the remainder of the airborne particles not present in the trajectory path  to vacuum source .","With reference to , there is shown an arrangement  that includes a concentrating device  for increasing the volume of the air capable of being handled by the system . The concentrator  comprises an acceleration nozzle  connected to the sampling nozzle  and having an input with an inner diameter and having a length. The output of the acceleration nozzle  is fed into a first probe tube  by way of opening , into a second probe tube  having an inner diameter, and then into a third probe tube  by way of its input .","The performance characteristics of the concentrator  is selected, in accordance to establish aerosol sampling practices in a manner known in the art, to meet the desired particle size cutoff of the particles desired to be detected and to meet the minor flow needs of the detector  of the present invention.","The nozzle  is dimensioned, in a manner known in the art, so as to provide at least first and second streamlines  and , shown in , with the first streamline defining a path line for the trajectory of airborne particles  having a size smaller than the size of an airborne particles desired to be detected, and with the second streamline  defining a path line for the trajectory of airborne particles  having a size equal to or greater than the size of airborne particles  desired to be detected.","The first probe tube  is arranged to receive the particles associated with the streamline . The air particles  associated with the streamline  are representative of particles too small to be collected and have a path defined by the phantom line of trajectory , shown in .","The second probe tube  is arranged to receive the airborne particles  associated with the second streamline  having a trajectory  (shown in phantom). The second probe tube  is in fluid communication with the input of the microwave-guide  serving as part of the means for directing airborne particles  previously discussed with reference to . The particles entering the microwaveguide  are detected by detector  and are carried to the vacuum source  by way of the fluid conduit .","The output of the first  and third  probe tubes are in fluid communications with the vacuum source , as shown in . The first probe tube  and the third probe tube  carry the major portion of the air being sampled by system  and is indicated by directional arrow , whereas the second probe tube  carries the sampled air having the desired size and flowing in a direction  represented by a directional arrow and indicative of the mirror flow of the major flow . The minor flow is meant to represent a flow consistent with the flow characteristics of the detector .","It will be understood that various changes and details, steps and arrangement of parts and method steps, which have been described and illustrated in order to explain the nature of the invention, may be made by those skilled in the art within the principle and scope of the invention as expressed in the appended claims."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The appended claims particularly point out and distinctly claim the subject matter of this invention. The various objects, advantages and novel features of this invention will be more fully apparent from a reading of the following detailed description in conjunction with the accompanying drawings in which like reference numbers refer to like parts and in which:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":"10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 2"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":["FIGS. 4 and 5","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 1"],"b":"10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 11"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 12"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
