---
title: Selectable performance filter
abstract: RF programmable SAW filters, RF partially programmable SAW filters, RF fully programmable SAW filters and a method for making programmable RF SAW filters are provided.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07132908&OS=07132908&RS=07132908
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 07132908
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20040916
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["GOVERNMENT INTEREST","FIELD OF THE INVENTION","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS"],"p":["The invention described herein may be manufactured, used, and licensed by or for the United States Government for governmental purposes without payment to us of any royalties thereon.","The present invention relates to the field of radio frequency (RF) filters with application to RF receivers. More particularly, the present invention relates to a selectable performance filter based on surface acoustic wave transversal filters.","Rationale for a Selectable Performance Filter and Critical Characteristics Thereof","Surface Acoustic Wave (SAW) programmable transversal filters with a limited degree of selectable performance are well known in the art. A fixed input interdigitated transducer (hereinafter IDT) and an output array if individual finger taps are disposed on each SAW substrate of such filters. Selectable performance is attained by connecting each of the output finger taps through a corresponding array of variable gain amplifiers, and forming the overall filter output as the summed output of the amplifier array. Several significant limitations, disadvantages and shortcomings have been encountered with such prior art filters. Center frequency tunability is restricted to essentially the passband of the fixed input IDT. Bandwidth tunability is accomplished in a cumbersome manner by varying the effective length of the output array, and is limited to those bandwidths associated with the output array delay length. Furthermore, the weighting circuit must perform a complex multiplication to provide unaliased center frequency tuning.","Communications receivers are often faced with the problem of trying to receive a weak communications signal in the presence of one or more strong interfering signals. Whereas the receiver may have sufficient sensitivity to receive the weak signal against a \u201cquiet\u201d background, when the background includes one or more strong interfering signals, the receiver will be desensitized to a level determined by the strength of the largest interfering signal and the dynamic range of the receiver. In these situations, it is highly desirable to include some sort of RF filtering at the receiver front-end in order to attenuate the interfering signals prior to the first gain stage. The critical RF parameters of the selectable performance front-end filter can be derived through a simple analysis of a generic receiver circuit. The analysis begins by considering the signal set as illustrated in . Desired signal  and undesired higher power interference signal  are present simultaneously but at different frequencies. These signals are applied to a generic, wide-open receiver as shown in . The major components of the receiver are antenna , RF amplifier , detector , IF amplifier  and comparator . The input to RF amplifier  is considered to be hard limited to a maximum power level Psat. RF amplifier  is characterized by gain G, noise figure F and noise power bandwidth B. Detector  is characterized by a tangential signal sensitivity TSS.","In a \u201cquiet\u201d RF enviromment, one can use an amount of gain G given by\n\n\u2212()]\u2003\u2003(1)\n\nfor maximum system sensitivity to weak signals. With a strong interference signal of P>(Psat\u2212G), conventional automatic gain control (AGC) circuitry will reduce the system sensitivity by 1 dB for each 1 dB of P>(Psat\u2212G) up to the hard limit, i.e., there is a potential loss in sensitivity up to a value of G. This process is illustrated in . ) presents the power levels of desired signal  and undesired higher power interference signal  at the receiver input. These signals are compared to the thermal noise input to the receiver given by N=kTB, the thermal noise at the input to the detector given by N+F, the largest input signal level that maintains maximum signal sensitivity given by Psat\u2212G(ideal), the TSS of the detector and the hard limit Psat. Given that the power level of undesired higher power interference signal  exceeds Psat\u2212G(ideal), the AGC will reduce the gain to a value such that Psat\u2212G(actual) is equal to the input power level of interference signal . ) presents the resulting power levels of desired signal  and undesired interference signal  at the detector. These signals are compared to the same levels as in ), along with the minimum detectable signal level given by TSS-G(actual). Both desired signal  and undesired signal  are increased by the value of G(actual), however this reduced value of gain is not enough to raise desired signal  being above the minimum detectable signal level.\n","One can add an RF filter  to the receiver front-end as illustrated in . The other major components of the receiver are as before antenna , RF amplifier , detector , IF amplifier  and comparator . RF filter  is characterized by bandwidth B, insertion loss I, and sidelobe (rejection) level S. The power of the undesired interference signal  is reduced by S dB. If the sidelobe (rejection) level is greater than the gain, that is, for S>G, the undesired interference signal  does not desensitize the receiver. At the same time, the insertion loss of RF filter  reduces the power in desired signal  by I dB, which for a constant noise floor, reduces the receiver sensitivity by I dB. However, the noise floor is increased by a factor of (F\/I) arising from noise in RF amplifier  and decreased by a factor of 10log(B\/B) since the input thermal noise is band-limited by RF filter . If the decrease in noise floor due to the bandwidth reduction exceeds the noise increase due to the filter noise figure (\u22481\/I), then additional RF gain can be added for increased sensitivity. These considerations are illustrated in , wherein the signal power levels at the detector are illustrated for the receiver with front-end filter of . Desired signal  is first reduced by insertion loss I from an initial level of Psoi and then increased by gain G to a net power level of Psoi+G\u2212I at the detector. In contrast, undesired interference signal  is first reduced by sidelobe (rejection) level S from an initial level of Psoi and then increased by gain G to a net power level of Psnoi+G\u2212S at the detector. Thus, compared to a wide open system with RF bandwidth Bas illustrated in , the sensitivity in a quiet RF environment is degraded by I+(F\/I)\u221210log(B\/B), but the sensitivity in the presence of strong interference is improved by as much as G\u2212[I+(F\/I)\u221210log(B\/B)] provided that S>G. The net result is a figure of merit for the system performance improvement resulting from RF filter  essentially given by sidelobe level S, which establishes how well the desensitization is obviated, minus the insertion loss I, which establishes how much the quiescent performance is degraded.","History and Background of Programmable SAW Transversal Filters","The above considerations, of course, presuppose that the filter center frequency and bandwidth are chosen so as to include desired signal  in the passband, and to exclude the undesired interference signal . Taking all of these factors into account, if RF filter  included a selectable center frequency, a selectable bandwidth, a minimum insertion loss, a maximum sidelobe (rejection) level and a selectable filter transfer function (phase\/magnitude profile) the filter would seem to overcome the disadvantages, shortcomings and limitations of prior art devices. The ability of RF filter  to meet the performance goals depends in part on the choice of filter topology, and in part upon the technology used to implement RF filter . Prior developments in the field of programmable transversal filters based on surface acoustic wave devices and closely related fields that provide useful guidance on these choices are reviewed in \u201cDesign of a Selectable Performance Front End Filter Using Acoustic Surface Wave Resonators,\u201d by R. Pastore, J. A. Kosinski, W. N. Porter, and H. L. Cui, in Proceedings of the 1997 IEEE International Frequency Control Symposium, May 1997, pp. 858\u2013866.","Filter and device topologies considered previously include IDT arrays, filter banks, variable wave velocity devices, dispersive delay devices, convolvers, correlators, matched filters and transversal filters. These devices have been implemented primarily using SAW technology. A device based upon acoustic charge transport (ACT) technology is disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 5,225,798 titled \u201cProgrammable Transversal Filter\u201d issued Jul. 6, 1993 to B. J. Hunsinger and J. E. Bales. Devices based upon charge coupled device (CCD) technology are disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 4,612,522 titled \u201cMask Programmable Charge Coupled Device Transversal Filter\u201d issued Sep. 16, 1986 to R. H. Dyck, and U.S. Pat. No. 4,034,199 titled \u201cProgrammable Analog Transversal Filter\u201d issued Jul. 5, 1977 to D. R. Lampe, M. H. White, and J. H. Mims.","IDT arrays have been used to obtain selectable bandwidth. However, this technique requires unrealistically large delay paths to obtain narrow filter bandwidths. The filter bank approaches have achieved good electrical performance over limited ranges of center frequency and bandwidth. However, broadband tunability using this technique would require a substantial number of channels, also leading to prohibitively large devices.","Variable wave velocity has been used to obtain selectable delay time. However, this tuning is limited to a small fraction of the nominal wave velocity. Selectable center frequency also has been demonstrated using structures based on dispersive devices. However these structures are somewhat complicated and have inherent blanking time and bandwidth limitations.","Transversal filters have demonstrated selectable bandwidth and selectable center frequency as disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 5,387,887 titled \u201cMiniature Digitally Controlled Programmable Transversal Filter Using LSI GaAs Integrated Circuits\u201d issued Feb. 7, 1995 to D. E. Zimmerman, J. W. Colver, and C. M. Panasik. To date, however, this selectability has been over a limited range determined in part by the use of a conventional input IDT structure. Promising results have been reported in regards to insertion loss (10 dB) and dynamic range (>70 dB), with less promising results reported for sidelobe levels (35 dB).","The full range of physical implementations have been reported, including discrete piezoelectric devices, hybrid devices using thin film piezoelectrics deposited on semiconducting substrates, and monolithic implementations using piezoelectric semiconductors.","Silicon, silicon-on-sapphire (SOS), and gallium arsenide have been used to implement the required tap weight and control circuits. Silicon has advantages with respect to cost and processing, while gallium arsenide has advantages with respect to critical circuit parameters.","Both passive and active tap weight control elements have been implemented. Active tap weight control elements have been based primarily on FET's, with a lone reference to bipolar technology. An alternative approach for tap weight control using fixed gain amplifiers and switch arrays is disclosed in Kosinski U.S. Pat. No. 6,492,884, entitled \u201cProgrammable Transversal Filter,\u201d issued on Dec. 10, 2002.","A wide variety of piezoelectric materials have been used to date, including piezoelectric ceramics, piezoelectric semiconductors, piezoelectric thin films (polycrystalline) and conventional single crystals. The most popular material to date has been single crystal lithium niobate.","Operating Principles of the Prior Art SAW Filters","The performance goals for RF filter  can be obtained readily with an ideal transversal filter  as illustrated in . In transversal filter , the input signal is applied to an input terminal  and propagates through a series of N delay elements . The time delay through each delay element  is denoted \u03c4. The signal is sampled between the delay elements , with each such sample following a path through one of N corresponding gain or weight control element  and thence to a summation element . The filter output  thus is formed as a weighted sum of the N delayed signal samples. Transversal filter  is, in theory, capable of producing an arbitrary transfer function",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0017"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00001","num":"00001"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mi":"H","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"f"}},{"munderover":{"mo":"\u2211","mrow":{"mi":"n","mo":"=","mn":"1"},"mi":"N"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["a","n"]},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"msup":{"mi":"\u2147","mrow":{"mrow":{"mo":"-","mi":"j2"},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":[{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}],"mi":["\u03c0","f"],"msub":{"mi":["\u03c4","n"]}}},"mo":"."}}}],"mo":"="}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"2"}}]}}}}},"The implementation of transversal filter  as a tapped delay line using conventional SAW technology is illustrated in . SAW transversal filter  is comprised of input IDT  and output IDT  deposited on the surface of piezoelectric substrate . Each IDT is composed of interdigitated fingers  alternately connected to busbars . The delay times \u03c4are determined by the locations of the IDT fingers  along the propagation direction  and the SAW propagation velocity. The individual tap weights aare established by techniques such as overlap, withdrawal, or phase-reversal weighting, and are implemented as fixed weights determined by the geometry of the IDT fingers . The summation operation is performed by the busbars  connecting the IDT fingers .","The SAW device geometry is primarily defined by the finger locations xof the fingers  of input IDT  and by the finger locations yof the fingers  of output IDT  as defined in . The transfer function for SAW transversal filter  for the case of unapodized (equal finger length) IDTs can be written",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0020"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00002","num":"00002"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mi":"H","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"f"}},{"munderover":{"mo":"\u2211","mrow":{"mi":"n","mo":"=","mn":"1"},"mi":"N"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["I","n"]},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"msup":{"mi":"\u2147","mrow":{"mrow":{"mo":"-","mi":"j"},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mfrac":{"mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mi":["\u03c0","f"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}},"msub":{"mi":["v","s"]}},"msub":{"mi":["x","n"]}}},"mrow":{"munderover":{"mo":"\u2211","mrow":{"mi":"m","mo":"=","mn":"1"},"mi":"M"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["J","m"]},"mo":"\u2062","msup":{"mi":"\u2147","mrow":{"mi":"j","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mfrac":{"mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mi":["\u03c0","f"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}},"msub":{"mi":["v","s"]}},"msub":{"mi":["y","m"]}}}}}}}],"mo":"="},"mo":","}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"3"}}]}}}},"br":[{},{}],"sub":["n ","m ","n","m","in","out"],"in-line-formulae":[{},{}],"i":["H","f","H","f","H","f"]},"Note that generic transversal filter  provides for a baseband or lowpass filter response, whereas SAW transversal filter  produces a bandpass response. This is a result of the polar nature of the piezoelectric effect, which requires that IDT fingers  have alternating polarity, implemented via the alternating connections of fingers  to busbars . Consequently, the SAW tap weights incorporate a factor of",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0022"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00003","num":"00003"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":{"msup":{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mo":"-","mn":"1"}},"mi":"n"},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mrow":[{"mi":"cos","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mfrac":{"mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mi":"\u03c0","mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"msub":[{"mi":"f","mn":"0"},{"mi":["x","n"]}]},"msub":{"mi":["v","s"]}}}},{"mi":"cos","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mi":"\u03c0","mstyle":[{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}],"msub":[{"mi":"f","mn":"0"},{"mi":["\u03c4","n"]}]}}}],"mo":"="}},"mo":","}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"5"}}]}}}},"br":{},"sub":["0","c ","c","0","c","0"]},"The programmable SAW transversal filters reported to date such as that of U.S. Pat. No. 5,387,887 are only partially programmable, in that they use conventional, fixed input IDTs in combination with tunable output IDTs. This partially programmable SAW transversal filter topology is illustrated schematically in . ) illustrates the topology for the case of real tap weights, and ) illustrates the topology for the case of complex tap weights. In ), input signal  is applied to conventional IDT , which then generates an acoustic signal that passes to finger array . The electrical signals generated in finger array  are processed through tap weight network , and the output signal  is formed as the weighted sum via summation circuit . As shown in ), complex tap weights are implemented using two parallel channels coupled through 90\u00b0 hybrid couplers  at both input and output ports. In the SAW device implementation, input IDT  and finger array  are implemented as a piezoelectric device  as illustrated in . Piezoelectric device  is comprised of piezoelectric substrate , upon which are deposited conventional input IDT  and tunable output IDT . Conventional input IDT  is comprised of interdigitated fingers  alternately connected to busbars . Tunable output IDT  is comprised of independent fingers  each having a separate bonding pad  used to connect to the external tap weight circuitry. As in a conventional fixed SAW device, the partially programmable SAW transversal filter geometry is primarily defined by the finger locations xof the fingers  of input IDT  and by the finger locations yof the fingers  of output IDT  as defined in .","It is significant to note that, for the partially programmable SAW transversal filters considered to date, the periodicity of the fingers in both input and output IDTs is the same. That is, the input and output IDTs in the prior art share a common synchronous frequency. While promising in some aspects, the partially programmable SAW transversal filter topology of the prior art is inherently limited in meeting necessary performance goals such as selectable center frequency, selectable bandwidth, minimum insertion loss, maximum sidelobe (rejection) level and selectable filter transfer function (phase\/magnitude profile). Thus there has been a long-felt need for a filter that meets these requirements and does not suffer from the disadvantages, shortcomings and limitations of the prior art devices.","Limitations of the Prior Art and Approaches Considered to Overcome the Limitations","A first limitation on center frequency tunability arises from the use of a fixed input IDT, in that low insertion loss can only be obtained for center frequencies falling within the input IDT coupling bandwidth. This limitation is illustrated in ) for the case of complex tap weights implemented as illustrated in ). The transfer function  of the fixed input IDT and the untuned transfer function  of the tunable output IDT share a common synchronous frequency . The transfer function  of the fixed input IDT is maximum at the synchronous frequency , and since the total transfer function of the filter is the product of the input IDT transfer function  and the output IDT transfer function , the untuned filter transfer function is essentially the same as the transfer function  of the untuned output IDT. However, the application of frequency tuning to the output IDT results in a new, tuned output IDT transfer function  centered at a tuned frequency  different from the synchronous frequency . In this case, the product of the input IDT transfer function  and the tuned output IDT transfer function  results in a tuned filter transfer function  that is an attenuated and distorted version of the transfer function  of the untuned output IDT. A tunable input IDT would overcome this limitation, thus creating a fully programmable SAW transversal filter. The advantages of such an arrangement as well as the case for complex tap weights are illustrated in ). The untuned transfer function  of the tunable input IDT and the untuned transfer function  of the tunable output IDT share a common synchronous frequency . In the fully programmable SAW transversal filter, frequency tuning is applied to both input and output IDTs resulting in tuned input IDT transfer function  and tuned output IDT transfer function  both centered at a tuned frequency  different from the synchronous frequency . In this case, the product of the tuned input IDT transfer function  and the tuned output IDT transfer function  results in a tuned filter transfer function essentially the same as the tuned output transfer function  without the attenuation and distortion of the prior art partially programmable SAW transversal filter. However, it should be noted that the advantages illustrated in  accrue only for the case of complex tap weights, thus requiring a complicated dual channel hardware implementation.","The limitation inherent in single channel implementations of real tap weights is illustrated in  for both (a) partially programmable and (b) fully programmable SAW transversal filters. Whereas complex tap weights provide unambiguous frequency translation, the use of real tap weights results in aliasing of the tuned IDT passband. In the untuned partially programmable SAW transversal filter, the transfer function  of the fixed input IDT and the untuned transfer function  of the tunable output IDT share a common synchronous frequency . The untuned output IDT transfer function , and hence the untuned filter transfer function formed as the product of the input and output IDT transfer functions both feature a single passband. However, when frequency tuning is applied using real tap weights, the output IDT transfer function develops two allowed passbands  and , each of which is a copy of the original untuned output IDT transfer function  displaced symmetrically above and below the synchronous frequency to new passband center frequencies  and . In consequence, the tuned filter transfer function exhibits two allowed passbands  and , each an attenuated and distorted copy of the original untuned transfer function.","The situation is not significantly different for the simple fully programmable SAW transversal filter of . The simple fully programmable SAW transversal filter  is comprised of piezoelectric substrate , upon which are deposited tunable input IDT  and tunable output IDT . Tunable input IDT  is composed of independent fingers  each having a separate bonding pad  used to connect to the external input tap weight circuitry. Similarly, tunable output IDT  is also composed of independent fingers  each having a separate bonding pad  used to connect to the external output tap weight circuitry. As in conventional SAW devices and partially programmable SAW transversal filters, the fully programmable SAW transversal filter geometry is primarily defined by the finger locations xof the fingers  of input IDT  and by the finger locations yof the fingers  of output IDT  as defined in . It is significant to note that for the simple fully programmable SAW transversal filter as illustrated, the periodicity of the fingers in both input and output IDTs is the same. That is, the input and output IDTs in the prior art share a common synchronous frequency. As illustrated in ), the substitution of a tunable input IDT with untuned transfer function  simply leads to aliased tuned input IDT passbands  and . The shift from partial to full programmability reduces the attenuation and distortion of the overall filter transfer function, but does not eliminate the limitation of passband aliasing in the simpler and hence inherently more desirable single channel device using real tap weights.","The prior art also suffers from limitations on selectability of the passband bandwidth. The bandwidth of the IDT passband is approximately 1\/T where T is the delay time required for the acoustic wave to propagate across the IDT. A longer IDT has a longer delay time and hence a narrower bandwidth, while a shorter IDT has the opposite characteristics. By turning taps on and off, the active length of the tunable output IDT can be varied from as short as \u00bd wavelength to as long as (N\u22121)\/2 wavelengths where N is the number of active taps. Thus, the maximum active length of the tunable output IDT limits the minimum bandwidth of the prior art filter.","The general object of the present invention is to provide selectable filter performance. A specific object of the present invention is to achieve the general object without incurring the limitations of the prior art.","The present invention provides an improved RF filter capable of substantially reducing electromagnetic interference (EMI) associated with RF signals not of interest. In particular, the present invention relates to the field of tunable or variable RF filters, and even more specifically to those based upon surface acoustic wave (SAW) transversal filters.","The present invention obviates all of these limitations, disadvantages and shortcomings, providing simultaneously improved center frequency tunability, improved bandwidth tunability, and reduced passband aliasing. The rationale behind the present invention, its principles of operation, and its basic design criteria are presented fully in the following discussion. These and other objects are accomplished in accordance with the present invention by incorporating tunable IDT's at both the input and output of the filter, with the input and output IDT's having different synchronous frequencies. The scope of the present invention is only limited by the appended claims for which support is predicated on the preferred embodiments hereafter set forth in the following description and the attached drawings.","The limitations on center frequency and bandwidth tunability, as well as certain aspects of passband aliasing, can be overcome readily by the present invention using a more sophisticated fully programmable filter technique with different input and output IDT synchronous frequencies. The RF programmable SAW filter of the present invention is illustrated schematically in . In , input signal  is applied to a signal splitter  that divides the signal into multiple output signals along multiple signal paths. The outputs of the splitter are applied to a tap weight network  wherein the amplitude of each output signal may be varied individually. The individually weighted signal paths are then applied one each to individual fingers in a means for IDT input , which can be formed on a substrate as an array of independent electrode fingers. The IDT input means  is characterized by a synchronous frequency F. The IDT input means  generates an acoustic wave that propagates to a means for IDT output , which could also be formed on a substrate from an array of independent electrode fingers. The IDT output means  is characterized by a synchronous frequency F, where Fand Fare not the same. The electrical signals generated in the output IDT finger array  are processed through output tap weight network , and the output signal  is formed as a weighted sum via summation circuit .","The preferred embodiment of the present invention as a SAW device is illustrated in . The fully programmable SAW transversal filter  is comprised of piezoelectric substrate , upon which are deposited a means for tunable IDT input  and a means for tunable IDT output . The tunable IDT input means  is comprised of independent fingers  each having a separate bonding pad  used to connect to the external input tap weight circuit. The tunable IDT output means  is comprised of independent fingers  each having a separate bonding pad  used to connect to the external output tap weight circuit. As in conventional SAW devices and partially programmable SAW transversal filters, the fully programmable SAW transversal filter geometry is primarily defined by the finger locations xof the fingers  of tunable IDT input means  and by the finger locations yof the fingers  of tunable IDT output means  as depicted in . It is significant to note that the input and output IDT means in the present invention feature differing synchronous frequencies. The use of different IDT synchronous frequencies is critical to obtaining the advantages of the present invention. The two additional degrees of freedom incorporated in this invention's technique, i.e. 1) a tunable input IDT and 2) differing IDT synchronous frequencies, allow for an efficient answer to the previous limitations. The present invention also encompasses an RF partially programmable SAW filter and a method for making a programmable RF SAW filter.","Referring now to , ) depicts the untuned frequency response  of the tunable IDT input means occurring at a synchronous frequency  different from the synchronous frequency  of the frequency response  of the tunable IDT output means. The separation in the synchronous frequencies  and  is chosen large enough such that the IDT frequency responses  and  do not overlap. Since the IDT frequency responses  and  do not overlap, the net transfer function of the untuned filter is zero. ) depicts the frequency response  obtained by properly tuning both the input IDT means and output IDT means. The input IDT means is tuned using real tap weights such that aliased input IDT passbands  and  occur at tuned frequencies  and  symmetrically disposed about the untuned input IDT synchronous frequency . Similarly, the output IDT means is tuned using real tap weights such that aliased output IDT passbands  and  occur at tuned frequencies  and  symmetrically disposed about the untuned output IDT synchronous frequency . The key point is that the tuned frequency for the upper passband of one IDT is made to coincide with the tuned frequency for the lower passband of the other IDT. In this configuration, the overlapping passbands  and  yield a net tuned response  as desired, while attenuating the aliased passbands  and . As may be appreciated from , broadband center frequency tuning is obtained since the center frequency is no longer limited to the range defined by the coupling bandwidth of a fixed input IDT. Further, this improvement is obtained while using a single channel device structure and real tap weights.","The maximum possible filter bandwidth for a given insertion loss is determined by the piezoelectric coupling of the SAW substrate. However, this invention does yield additional flexibility with regard to the minimum possible filter bandwidth. The minimum bandwidth in a SAW transversal filter generally is considered to be the transition bandwidth, which is inversely proportional to the time delay through the SAW device. Thus, the physical length of the device fixes the minimum possible bandwidth in a conventional SAW filter. In a partially programmable SAW filter, the bandwidth can be varied either by varying the active device length by turning taps on or off, or through control of the weighting function. This is illustrated in ) for an IDT with synchronous frequency , where the frequency response  is shown under the conditions that all taps are active and the frequency response  is shown under the conditions that only a few taps are active.","In accordance with the present invention, somewhat narrower bandwidths are achievable through selective overlap of the input and output IDT transfer functions. This is illustrated in ). The input IDT has synchronous frequency  and untuned transfer function , while the output IDT has synchronous frequency  and untuned transfer function . The input IDT is tuned using real tap weights to obtain aliased transfer functions  and  centered at tuned frequencies  and  symmetrically displaced about the untuned input IDT synchronous frequency . The output IDT is tuned using real tap weights to obtain aliased transfer functions  and  centered at tuned frequencies  and  symmetrically displaced about the untuned output IDT synchronous frequency . The lower passband center frequency  of the input IDT differs from the upper passband center frequency  of the output IDT, resulting in a net filter passband  whose shape and center frequency  depend in detail upon the component input and output transfer functions  and  respectively. There are two important points to note regarding this option. First, this option requires nonuniform rolloff in the transition band; i.e. the transition band is composed of a shoulder followed by skirts that are somewhat narrower than the total transition bandwidth. This can be achieved through selection of an appropriate weighting function to shape the passband. The narrowest possible bandwidth is then limited by the steepness of the skirts. The second point is that narrowing the bandwidth incurs a penalty in increased insertion loss. At first glance, this may appear to be a significant drawback, and clearly this is undesirable in applications where the available gain is limited. However, narrowing the bandwidth also reduces the system noise floor at nearly the same rate as the insertion loss is increased, leading to an essentially unchanged signal-to-noise ratio as the bandwidth is narrowed. Hence, where gain is not limited, the selective overlap option provides a viable approach to achieving narrower filter bandwidths than those imposed by the transition bandwidth. By way of illustration, selective overlap using max-rolloff weighting allows a minimum filter bandwidth ten times narrower than the transition band, with 10 dB of additional insertion loss but unchanged signal-to-noise ratio.","The present invention also addresses minimizing triple-transit-echo (TTE). TTE arises from two effects, namely mechanical reflections from the periodic array of electrode fingers and electrical regeneration. The use of substantially differing synchronous frequencies for the input and output IDTs eliminates the component of TTE arising from mechanical reflections. Multiple variations of the invention are possible with respect to electrical regeneration effects. In one variation suitable for a pulse detection trigger circuit, minimum insertion loss with maximum TTE would be achieved by matching the output impedance of the individual output IDT fingers to the input impedance of the tap weight circuitry. Another variation suitable for IF filtering in a communications receiver would feature increased insertion loss with reduced TTE by implementing a substantially lower input impedance for the tap weight circuitry as compared to the output impedance of the output IDT fingers.","The present invention centers upon the combination of tunable IDT transfer functions with differing synchronous frequencies to obtain selectable center frequency, passband bandwidth, passband shape and so on but also encompasses a number of variations and extended applications. The considered SAW IDT structures are bi-directional, hence obvious variations include three transducer structures designed to recover a portion of the bi-directional transducer loss and other multi-transducer structures implementing cascaded transfer functions. Further, the present invention has application to prior art fixed and partially programmable filter structures wherein the IDTs feature differing synchronous frequencies for the reduction of mechanical TTE, elimination of passband aliasing, etc. as may be desired.","The preferred embodiment of the present invention is intended to be illustrative and not limiting with respect to the variety of possible embodiments. The present invention may be also implemented using any of the well known surface acoustic wave types including but not limited to Rayleigh waves, leaky SAW, surface transverse waves, high-velocity pseudo-SAW, and so on. The present invention may be implemented using IDTs formed directly on the surface of a piezoelectric substrate, on the surface of a non-piezoelectric substrate with piezoelectric thin films underlying the IDT regions, using a piezoelectric semiconductor, or any other such material system for transducing and propagating surface acoustic waves as is well known in the art. The present invention may be implemented using discrete components, hybrid circuits, or in a fully integrated circuit. The tap weight circuitry may be implemented using separate variable gain amplifiers for each signal path or using the fixed gain amplifier and switch array embodiment as disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 6,459,345 entitled \u201cProgrammable Transversal Filter Including Unidirectional Transducers,\u201d issued on Oct. 1, 2002 to co-inventors herein John A. Kosinski and Robert. A. Pastore, Jr., which is hereby incorporated by reference. It is noted that the present invention is significantly different from the programmable transversal filters disclosed in that patent because of the use of differing synchronous frequencies for the input and output IDT means in the present invention. While U.S. Pat. No. 6,459,345 addresses issues of minimum insertion loss by the use of multi-phase interdigital transducers, it does not in any way address the issues of limited tuning range and passband aliasing incumbent in the use of a common synchronous frequency for the input and output IDT means. Further, while U.S. Pat. No. 6,459,345 minimizes the electrical component of triple transit echo, it does not in any way address the mechanical component of triple transit echo incumbent in the use of a common synchronous frequency for the input and output IDT means.","The present invention also encompasses a method for making a programmable RF SAW filter comprising the steps of forming a means for IDT input from a group of IDT input electrode fingers with the IDT input means having an input synchronous frequency, F, and forming a means for IDT output from a plurality of IDT output electrode fingers, with the IDT output means having an output synchronous frequency, F, differing from said input synchronous frequency, F, positioning the IDT input means and the IDT output means on a substrate, dividing an input signal into a multitude of signal paths applied to an input tap weight network that generates an individually weighted signal path applied to each of the IDT input electrode fingers. In a generating step, a surface acoustic wave is generated by the IDT input means that propagates to the IDT output means and aliased input IDT passbands about an untuned input IDT synchronous frequency, in a sending step, a plurality of electrical signals are sent from the IDT output means to an output tap weight network, with the IDT output means providing a zero net transfer function and a plurality of aliased IDT output passbands are generated at a plurality of tuned output frequencies symmetrically disposed about an untuned IDT output synchronous frequency and an output signal, which causes a passband overlap when an upper tuned frequency of the aliased IDT output passbands coincides with a lower frequency of the aliased IDT input passbands, permitting a net tuned response with a broadband selectable center frequency and a narrower selectable bandwidth, and the IDT output means provides the output signal as a weighted sum by a summation circuit. Many of the variations that apply to the RF programmable SAW filters of the present invention also apply to this invention's method.","It is to be further understood that other features and modifications to the foregoing detailed description of the selectable performance filter are within the contemplation of the present invention, which is not limited by this detailed description. Those skilled in the art will readily appreciate that any number of configurations of the present invention and numerous modifications and combinations of materials, components, geometrical arrangements and dimensions can achieve the results described herein, without departing from the spirit and scope of this invention. Accordingly, the present invention should not be limited by the foregoing description, but only by the appended claims."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0032"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0033"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0034"},"figref":"FIGS. 3(","i":["a","b"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0037","num":"0035"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0036"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0039","num":"0037"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0040","num":"0038"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0041","num":"0039"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0042","num":"0040"},"figref":"FIG. 9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0043","num":"0041"},"figref":"FIGS. 10(","i":["a","b"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0044","num":"0042"},"figref":"FIGS. 11(","i":["a","b"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0045","num":"0043"},"figref":"FIG. 12"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0046","num":"0044"},"figref":"FIG. 13"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0047","num":"0045"},"figref":"FIG. 14"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0048","num":"0046"},"figref":"FIGS. 15(","i":["a","b"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0049","num":"0047"},"figref":"FIGS. 16(","i":["a","b"]}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
