---
title: Non-threaded structural insert for component attachment
abstract: The present invention provides a non-threaded insert operable to transfer or couple a mechanical load to a structure. This non-threaded insert includes an upper insert having a noncircular cross section and a lower insert. The coupled upper and lower insert are received within the structure and are operable to receive a mechanical load which is then distributed to the structure. The noncircular cross section of the upper insert is received within a noncircular receptacle wherein rotation of the upper insert within the receptacle is inhibited by mating the noncircular cross section of the upper insert within the noncircular receptacle. This allows mechanical loads to be distributed to be better coupled to materials such as composite materials wherein traditional thread fasteners would intensify mechanical stresses within the coupled threads.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07422178&OS=07422178&RS=07422178
owner: Lockheed Martin Corporation
number: 07422178
owner_city: Bethesda
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20041021
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"GOVINT":[{},{}],"heading":["GOVERNMENT INTEREST","TECHNICAL FIELD OF THE INVENTION","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION"],"p":["This invention was made with Government support under Contract Number N00019-02-C-3002 awarded by The Department of the Navy. The Government has certain rights in this invention.","The present invention relates generally to fasteners and more particularly, a non-threaded structural insert operable to couple a mechanical load to a composite material structure.","In recent years, the use of advanced composite structures has experienced tremendous growth in the aerospace, automotive, and many other commercial industries. While composite materials offer significant improvements in performance, they require strict control procedures in the manufacturing processes. The use of composite materials in military fighter aircraft has increased. For instance, in the F14, 0.8% of the total structural weight of the aircraft was made from composite. In the F15, F16 and F18, 1.6%, 2.5% and 9.5%, respectively, was composite. In the Joint Strike Fighter (JSF), composite materials comprise more than 50% of the aircraft structural weight. Similarly, large transport aircraft use of composites has increased as well. In 1985, 3% of the aircraft's structural weight was composite and this percentage has only increased.","Composite structures are typically held together by adhesives, but this has not always been found practical. In conventional aluminum aircraft, approximately 25 fasteners per square foot of external surface area are used. In one estimate, composite aircraft use approximately 12 fasteners per square foot of outside surface area.","Traditional fasteners require internal threads within the substructure. The use of threaded fasteners within composite material structures requires material changes to accept the fastener. Otherwise, component life of the composite is significantly reduced at the thread roots of the threaded fastener coupled to non-reinforced composite material. These internal threads require that the weight be increased due to material changes of the internal structure to a stronger material as well as increasing the size of the structure to limit crack initiation at the threaded roots of the mechanical fastener. Additionally, when composite materials are used, this results in a limited repair capability and reduced component life.","Traditional pylon attachment design have included a threaded structural insert serving as a repairable wear surface installed in the substructure and secured with securing adhesives. External load attachment creates areas of high structural stress and loading. For example, in an aircraft, pylon attachments experience high structural loading and stress, and may be located within areas of an aircraft that already experience high structural loading such as a wing-fold rib. The wingfold rib experiences high loading during flight, takeoff and landing.","Specially-shaped and modified metal fasteners have been used in composite structures previously. These fasteners result in increased weight by replacing portions of the composite structure. Additionally, the composite structure must be modified to accept these modified fasteners. These fasteners may be unnecessarily strong, heavy, expensive and undesirably reflective to radar detection devices. Thus, a need exists for improved fasteners for use with composite structures having the necessary strength characteristics.","The present invention provides a non-threaded structural insert that substantially addresses the above identified needs as well as others. More specifically, the present invention provides a non-threaded insert operable to transfer or couple a mechanical load to a structure, such as a composite structure. This non-threaded insert includes an upper insert having a noncircular cross section and a lower insert. The upper and lower insert mechanically couple via internal threads or other like means. The coupled insert may also receive within the structure a mechanical load which is then distributed to the structure. The noncircular upper insert is received within a noncircular receptacle wherein rotation of the upper insert within the receptacle is inhibited by mating the noncircular cross section of the upper insert to the noncircular receptacle. This fastener allows mechanical loads to be distributed to materials, such as composite materials, wherein traditional threaded fasteners would intensify mechanical stresses within the composite material.","A second embodiment provides a non-threaded insert operable to receive a mechanical load and couple the load to the structure. This non-threaded insert includes an upper and lower insert. The coupled non-threaded insert has a noncircular cross section that the structure receives within a noncircular receptacle to inhibit rotation of the non-threaded insert with respect to the structure. The contours of the upper surface of the upper insert and the lower surface of the lower insert conform to the contour of the upper surface or lower surface of the structure. This prevents discontinuities which would inhibit fluid flow over the structure such as an aircraft wing. Furthermore, aircraft pylons may couple to the structure, and receive mechanical loads and otherwise allow mechanical loads to be received by and distributed to the structure, without intensifying the localized stress often associated with threaded fasteners.","Yet another embodiment of a present invention provides a method of coupling the mechanical load to a structure such as an aircraft wing. This method involves mating an upper insert having a noncircular cross section to a noncircular receptacle located within the structure. Rotation of the upper insert within the noncircular receptacle is prevented by the mating of the upper insert to the noncircular receptacle. A lower insert mechanically couples to the upper insert. The coupled upper insert and lower insert are operable to couple to a mechanical load and mechanically couple and distribute that load to the structure while reducing localized stresses. The contour of the upper insert may match the contour of the upper surface of the structure in order to avoid discontinuities which would be experienced by fluid flow over the structure. The mechanical load may be mechanically coupled to the coupled upper and lower insert using a traditional mechanical fastener, such as a threaded fastener or other fastening system known to those skilled in the art.","The profile of the coupled upper and lower insert allow mechanical loads to be received and distributed across a structure without the structure experiencing the intense localized mechanical stresses often associated with threaded fasteners. This is particularly valuable when the structure is made from a material such as composite materials wherein localized regions of the composite material would experience significant stresses associated with the receiving of a threaded fastener. These stresses may significantly degrade the physical properties of the composite material.","The present invention provides significant advantages over the prior art, in that the present invention provides the ability to transfer loads from the attachment bolt to the structure without the need for internal threads within the structure as cracks in the structure often initiate from the thread roots. Additionally, the upper and\/or lower inserts may be machined to be flush with the structure. Further, the upper and\/or lower inserts may have a noncircular (i.e. non-symmetrical) cross section to prevent rotation of the non-threaded insert within the structure. Other features and advantages of the present invention will become apparent from the following detailed description of the invention made with reference to the accompanying drawings.","Preferred embodiments of the present invention are illustrated in the figures, like numerals being used to refer to like and corresponding parts of the various drawings.","The present invention provides an integrated fastener assembly having the ability to transfer mechanical loads from an attachment bolt to a composite structure without the need for internal threads within the composite material structure. In one embodiment, the integrated fastener may have machined outer surfaces designed to be flush with the structure and a noncircular profile (i.e., non-symmetrical) that prevents rotation of the non-threaded fastener within the structure.","One particular embodiment calls for the attachment of structural loads in areas of high structural loading or stress. For example, a pylon within an aircraft may be located at a wing fold rib and experiences high loading and stresses during flight, takeoff, and landing. Traditional attachments have required internal threads in the sub-structure. These internal threads cause weight increase due to material changes to stronger materials, weight increase due to sizing to prevent crack initiation at the thread roots, limited repair capabilities, and reduced component life. The present invention addresses this problem with the non threaded insert.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["10","12","14","10","12","10","16","12","12","14","12"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIGS. 4"],"b":["20","22","24","22","26","30","30","28","26","30","5","6","26","22","32","24","30","22","24","20","30","20","30","24","35"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 3"],"b":["20","26","22","30","32","34","37","22","26","37","20"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 5","FIGS. 4 and 5"],"b":["20","39","30","22","39","30","26","22","39","34","22","34","24","39","30","28","22","36","30","32","24","30","22","24","20","20","30","42","24","22","35","42","46"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":"FIG. 5","b":["20","30","28","36","26","20","30","22","28","36","30","30","26","22","38","22","22","39","30","22","24","42","42","22","24","46"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":"FIG. 6","b":["46","42","46","42","46","42"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":"FIG. 7","b":["20","30","50","22","24","34","34","52","54","30","20","20","30","56","58","50","20","52","54","30"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":["FIG. 8","FIG. 7"],"b":["70","72","74","52","54","50","76","78"]},"In summary, the present invention provides a non-threaded insert component with a countersunk upper or lower feature for part location and load transfer, along with internal threads that mechanically couple and secure an external load to a composite structure. The upper and lower surface of the non-threaded insert may have a contour that conforms to the surfaces of a composite material structure or other like structure which receives the non-threaded insert. This minimizes discontinuities in the surface for fluid flow purposes, as well as minimizing discontinuities for observability purposes or other known reasons. An attachment bolt or cover bolt may be mechanically coupled to the non-threaded insert depending on whether or not an external load is to be coupled via the non-threaded insert. The non-threaded insert, when applied to a vehicle such as an aircraft, may result in an overall reduced weight due to reduced fastener count and the ability to use maximum load carrying fasteners in a highly loaded area, such as the wing-fold of an aircraft. The internal receptacle of the non-threaded insert as well as the receptacle receiving the non-threaded insert provides adequate bearing surfaces for the external load. The residual benefit of this design is the creation of a compressive stress region between the upper and lower insert that minimizes cracking or loaded effects which can cause fracture within critical components.","The present invention provides a significant technical advantage in that the elimination of internal threads within a composite material reduces the potential for fracture within critical components, further reduces component sizing and weight requirements for load bearing purposes, and improves component life. This solution also reduces fatigue due to the compressive stress region created by the upper and lower countersunk features.","As one of average skill in the art will appreciate, the term \u201csubstantially\u201d or \u201capproximately\u201d, as may be used herein, provides an industry-accepted tolerance to its corresponding term. Such an industry-accepted tolerance ranges from less than one percent to twenty percent and corresponds to, but is not limited to, component values, integrated circuit process variations, temperature variations, rise and fall times, and\/or thermal noise. As one of average skill in the art will further appreciate, the term \u201coperably coupled\u201d, as may be used herein, includes direct coupling and indirect coupling via another component, element, circuit, or module where, for indirect coupling, the intervening component, element, circuit, or module does not modify the information of a signal but may adjust its current level, voltage level, and\/or power level. As one of average skill in the art will also appreciate, inferred coupling (i.e., where one element is coupled to another element by inference) includes direct and indirect coupling between two elements in the same manner as \u201coperably coupled\u201d. As one of average skill in the art will further appreciate, the term \u201ccompares favorably\u201d, as may be used herein, indicates that a comparison between two or more elements, items, signals, etc., provides a desired relationship. For example, when the desired relationship is that signal  has a greater magnitude than signal , a favorable comparison may be achieved when the magnitude of signal  is greater than that of signal  or when the magnitude of signal  is less than that of signal .","Although the present invention is described in detail, it should be understood that various changes, substitutions and alterations can be made hereto without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as described by the appended claims."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["For a more complete understanding of the present invention and the advantages thereof, reference is now made to the following description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings in which like reference numerals indicate like features and wherein:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 8"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
