---
title: Method of manufacturing and analyzing a composite building
abstract: The invention provides a method of manufacturing and analyzing a building made from Expanded PolyStyrene (EPS) which is coated on the inside and outside with Glass Fiber Reinforced Concrete (GFRC). The building is designed in a CAD program. Then, the building is divided up into small volumes in the CAD program or in a Finite Element Analysis program. Plates are added to the inner and outer surfaces of the volumes. Appropriate characteristics of the EPS and GFRC are assigned to the volumes and plates. A FEA analysis can then be run.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=06985832&OS=06985832&RS=06985832
owner: 
number: 06985832
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20040413
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","BRIEF SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION"],"p":["This application is a continuation of Ser. No. 10\/132,915 filed Apr. 26, 2002, now U.S. Pat. No. 6,721,684 granted Apr. 13, 2004. This application is related to U.S. patent regular applications Ser. No. 09\/563,142 filed May 2, 2000, now U.S. Pat. No. 6,308,490 granted Oct. 30, 2001 and Ser. No. 09\/563,241 filed May 1, 2000 and is a continuation-in-part of provisional applications Ser. No. 60\/287,240 filed Apr. 26, 2001 and Ser. No. 60\/340,974 filed Nov. 29, 2001.","In as far as possible, the disclosures of these applications are incorporated by reference in this application.","The idea of a building formed of a composite of foam coated with concrete or cement started over fifty years ago. The fact that such buildings are not in wide use is not because they are inferior structures to houses built from wood. Their scarcity is due to the fact that any new way of manufacturing buildings confronts the problem of proving to the various government organizations that such a house or building can meet the code requirements. This proof is not easily or inexpensively done. Further, each different design of house would be required to have a similar proof to be acceptable.","Many of the designs for foam-concrete composite buildings have not been cost effective. Other designs have not been able to span very large distances thereby severely limiting the size of their rooms.","These problems and others have been caused by the inability of the designers to analyze the strength of the composite buildings. Most conventional buildings, which have three components (structural framing, interior sheathing and exterior sheathing), fit into a simple mathematical format and can be analyzed by classical mathematical methods. Buildings using composite construction materials are complex to analyze and can not be solved classically.","The invention discloses how to analyze a building manufactured from a foam-concrete composite.","The invention also discloses structural designs discovered by the analysis to be of great strength and low mass.","Since the strength of these buildings can now be analyzed, the following objects can now be provided:","It is an object of the invention to provide low cost housing with an acceptable appearance.","It is an object to provide a method of manufacture requiring less skill in the work force.","It is another object of the invention to produce hoses that use easily assembled materials.","It is an object of the invention to provide a building that has a high insulation value to lower the energy consumption of the house.","It is a further object to provide a building that is better able to withstand the forces of an earthquake, and other forces of nature at an affordable price.","It is another object of the invention to provide a method of proving the strength of a composite structure to the government organizations requiring approval.","The manufacture or construction of the inventive building starts with the creation of a 3-Dimensional; \u201csolid\u201d model of the building in a computer assisted drafting (CAD) program in a computer. Suitable CAD programs are AutoCAD\u2122, ProE\u2122, Solid Works\u2122, Inventor\u2122, etc. The building is then sliced in parallel, usually vertical planes. These planes can correspond to various thicknesses of the slices, preferably of a size to be manhandled.","These slices of the building are then created by using foam, such as, expanded polystyrene (EPS). The foam elements that make up a slice can be cut from commercially available sizes of foam, such as slabs of 1 to 36 inches thick and 4 feet\u00d78 feet or 4 feet\u00d78 feet. The cutting can be performed by hand, machine or computer assisted manufacturing (CAM) program and a computer driven machine. The foam can be cut by hot wire or other suitable cutting process. The slice can be made by cutting elements which are then glued or otherwise joined together to form the slice.","The slices are then joined by adhesive to other slices to form the foam core of the building walls. It may be necessary to spray\/coat at least a portion of the slice with a material that will increase the strength of the slice to allow the slice to be moved without breaking. In this case, some or all of the non-abutting surfaces of the sides of the slice can be coated with a strengthening coat, such as glass fiber reinforced concrete (GFRC). Surfaces such as those indicated by C can be coated to strengthen the pieces forming the slice.","When multiple slices are joined, they become heavy. Therefore, it may be desirable to place the slice or slices in their final position on concrete footings before they become too heavy to move easily. The footing can be a standard footing. The foam pieces are adhered to the footing by using a layer of concrete to join the foam to the footing while also leveling the foam. The walls of the home are assembled by gluing cut foam pieces together.","The slices or sections are coated with adhesive on the abutting sides before being placed into position and joined to the previously positioned slice or section. A suitable adhesive would be either 3M\u2122 FASTBOND\u2122 Contact adhesive 30-NF or 2000-NF. The adhesive can be sprayed, rolled or applied to walls in any other way. The foam building or portions thereof can be sprayed with a coating to increase the stability of the building when desired. That is, after a few slices are in position and joined, a coating of glass fiber reinforced concrete (GFRC) can be added to the exposed surfaces of the joined slices. Alternatively, the coating can be added when the foam structure is fully in place.","The GFRC coating can be sprayed on the foam or applied in other ways. It can be reworked until it sets. A coating of 3\/16 inches thickness is usually adequate; however, a coating of varying thickness may be desirable. A suitable range for the coating can be 2\/16 to 8\/16 inches. More information concerning the GFRC coating and spray equipment can be obtained from the PRECAST\/PRESTRESSED CONCRETE INSTITUTE OF Chicago, Ill. As an example of the proportions, the coating would be made by mixing 3-5% Cem-FIL\u2122 fibers (glass fibers) from the VEROTEX COMPANY into a 1:1, cement: sand and water matrix and other additives.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0115","num":"0114"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":"2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0116","num":"0115"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":"3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0117","num":"0116"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIGS. 4-7","FIG. 3"],"b":["4","3","4","5","5","5","7","4","7","7","4","3","4"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0118","num":"0117"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":["5","4","4","4","10","8","9","4"]},"The foam pieces  are joined together by the use of adhesives previously disclosed. The I-beam is formed by web  and flanges .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0120","num":"0119"},"figref":"FIGS. 5-7","b":["4","4"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0121","num":"0120"},"figref":"FIG. 8","b":["4","4"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0122","num":"0121"},"figref":"FIG. 9","b":["4","20","1","20","8","20","4","12"]},"The side coatings of GFRC  of the upper flange are \/-\/. the web coatings are \/, \/. The coatings of the lower flange are \/-\/.","Any or many of the coatings \/-\/ can be omitted. Preferably, at least one surface is coated. That is only one of the coatings C-C may be needed to provide sufficient strength until the final coating of GFRC. In the proper circumstances, all of the coatings  can be omitted until the inner or outer coatings of GFRC.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0125","num":"0124"},"figref":"FIG. 10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0126","num":"0125"},"figref":"FIG. 11","b":["4","12","12"]},"The slices  can be assembled into a group of slices so that the group can be moved as one by cutting a hole through each slice and providing a tensioning member in the aligned holes such as a bolt, washers and a nut.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0128","num":"0127"},"figref":"FIG. 12","b":["4","19"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0129","num":"0128"},"figref":"FIG. 13","b":"7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0130","num":"0129"},"figref":"FIG. 14","b":["22","7","24"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0131","num":"0130"},"figref":"FIG. 15","b":["24","4","4","25","24","4"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0132","num":"0131"},"figref":"FIG. 16","b":["25","24","25","8","25","9","8","24"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0133","num":"0132"},"figref":"FIG. 17","b":["4","24","11","3"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0134","num":"0133"},"figref":"FIG. 18","b":["32","33","34","4","25","32","33","28","29","28","29","34","28","29","28","34","28","29","28","29","33","35","28","34","35","28","32","33"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0135","num":"0134"},"figref":"FIG. 19","b":["29","33","29","28","29","28","35","29","28","29"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0136","num":"0135"},"figref":"FIG. 20","b":"24"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0137","num":"0136"},"figref":"FIG. 21","b":["24","3"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0138","num":"0137"},"figref":"FIG. 22","b":["24","24","3"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0139","num":"0138"},"figref":["FIGS. 23 and 24","FIG. 24"],"b":["24","24","56","7"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0140","num":"0139"},"figref":"FIG. 25","b":["24","55","7"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0141","num":"0140"},"figref":"FIG. 26","b":["24","25","25","24","24","25","25","55"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0142","num":"0141"},"figref":"FIGS. 27-29","b":["4","25","25","25"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0143","num":"0142"},"figref":"FIG. 29A","b":["26","25"]},"The slice formed building of  can also be formed from a full C-Beam slice  instead of the I-Beam slice . The full C-Beam slice  is shown in . The full slice  can be made without the use of dowels. The slice  is built, coated with GFRC on some surfaces, if needed, raised and positioned on the footings as one piece.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0145","num":"0144"},"figref":"FIG. 30","b":"44"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0146","num":"0145"},"figref":["FIG. 31","FIGS. 18"],"b":["44","30","44","19","50","48","49","9","10","49","50","48"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0147","num":"0146"},"figref":["FIG. 32","FIG. 31"],"b":["44","7"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0148","num":"0147"},"figref":"FIG. 32A","b":"44"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0149","num":"0148"},"figref":"FIG. 33","b":"44"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0150","num":"0149"},"figref":["FIG. 34","FIG. 33"],"b":"48"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0151","num":"0150"},"figref":"FIG. 35","b":["44","3","6"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0152","num":"0151"},"figref":"FIG. 36","b":["44","3","44","44","49"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0153","num":"0152"},"figref":"FIG. 37","b":["44","3","44","3"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0154","num":"0153"},"figref":"FIG. 38","b":["52","53","53","53","53","44","39"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0155","num":"0154"},"figref":"FIG. 40","b":["2","55","56"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0156","num":"0155"},"figref":"FIG. 41","b":["2","7","7","2","44"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0157","num":"0156"},"figref":["FIG. 42","FIG. 41"],"b":"7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0158","num":"0157"},"figref":"FIG. 43","b":["2","57"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0159","num":"0158"},"figref":"FIG. 44","b":"62"},"There can be as many floors as desired built using the I or C-Beam technology of this invention.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0161","num":"0160"},"figref":"FIGS. 45 and 46","b":["64","62","10","8","9"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0162","num":"0161"},"figref":["FIGS. 47","FIG. 47A"],"b":["47","25","25","25"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0163","num":"0162"},"figref":"FIG. 48","b":"5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0164","num":"0163"},"figref":"FIG. 49","b":["50","44","49"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0165","num":"0164"},"figref":"FIG. 50","b":"44"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0166","num":"0165"},"figref":["FIG. 51","FIG. 49"],"b":"44"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0167","num":"0166"},"figref":"FIG. 52","b":"49"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0168","num":"0167"},"figref":"FIG. 53","b":"44"},"FEA Analysis","Calculation of deformation, strains, and stresses of buildings of conventional design is performed by classical methods of analysis by considering their framing structure as a continuum whose behavior is governed by partial or ordinary differential equations. Most conventional buildings, which have three components system (structural framing, interior, and exterior material) fit into simple mathematical modeling formats which, can be analytically solved by classical methods. However, the invention's structures using a composite of foam\u2014concrete in the construction are complex to analyze. They do not fit into a simple mathematical format and can not be solved classically. Therefore a finite element analysis which is a computerized method for predicting how an object will react to forces, heat, vibration, etc., will be employed. The finite element method works by breaking a real object down into a large number (1000 s or 100,000 s) of elements, such as little cubes. The behavior of each little element, which is regular in shape, is readily predicted by set mathematical equations. Then the computer adds up all the individual behaviors to predict the behavior of the actual object. The \u201cfinite\u201d in finite element analysis means there are a finite number of elements in a finite element model. A node is a coordinate location in space where the degrees of freedom (DOF) are defined. The DOF of this point represent the possible movement of this point due to the loading of the structure. The DOF also represents which forces and moments are transferred from one element to the next. Also, results of an FEA (deflections and stresses) are usually given at the nodes. An element is the basic building block of finite element analysis. There are several basic types of elements. Which type is used depends on the type of object that is to be modeled for finite element analysis and the type of analysis that is going to be performed. An element is a mathematical relation that defines how the degrees of freedom of a node relate to the next. These elements can be lines (beams), areas (2-D or 3-D plates) or solids (bricks). It also relates how the deflections create stresses.","The ceiling and roof and sometimes the walls of the inventive buildings  have two separate thick layers of EPS ,  connected with a third thick layer of EPS forming ribs  shown at () and (FIG. ). The behavior of such a system can only be analyzed by dividing the whole structure into discrete size elements called finite elements. Such finite elements are assumed to be connected together by the connection points, which are common to each element (FIG. ). Such connection points are called nodes  as seen in FIG. . Each finite element  is made of lines (mesh) connecting their nodes. The finite element method considers the structure to be an assembly of small finite-sized volumes or bricks. Through FEA method, the behavior of the volumes and the overall structure is obtained by application of algebraic equations of equilibrium with computers. In the FEA method of analysis the assembly of elements which makes up the structure is a continuum with physical properties such as weight, modulus of elasticity, coefficient of expansion, etc. To solve the composite building by finite element analysis involves seven steps. The seven steps are defined in the next sections. The rest of the steps are automatically performed by computer software. The steps of Finite Element Analysis for our purposes are as follows:\n\n","To predict the structural limits of the inventive buildings , the building is divided into small brick elements or volumes FIG. .","The 3-D model in the CAD program is divided into small volumes. The volumes can be on the order of 0.1-12 inch volumes of the actual or full sized building. That is, the model is sliced in close parallel planes in the x-y, x-z, and y-z planes of a Cartesian co-ordinate system using the CAD program. This process is called meshing.","The meshing can be done by exporting the CAD model of the inventive buildings  for example  in a format acceptable to a FEA (Finite Element Analysis) software program. After importing the CAD model, it must be cleaned by removing all duplicate lines automatically or manually. Some FEA software has features which allow meshing of the CAD models thereby providing the division into small volumes (discretization) of the entire model automatically. However, the results of automatic meshing in the case of the inventive buildings usually are unsatisfactory. The FEA software programs automatic meshing process creates many discrete volumes that are too thin and too long (slivers). Such slivers will not allow for an accurate solution to the analysis. In the future this may be possible, but for now, the buildings  of the invention must be manually meshed to discretize the model. Thus, it is necessary to divide the CAD model manually.","This could be accomplished in two ways. One way of subdividing the CAD model is to slice the model into discrete volumes within the CAD program software. The data representing the discrete volumes is \u201cexported\u201d into an interface program to reformat the discrete volumes data so that it can be read by a finite element analysis (FEA) program. Suitable interface programs are IGES T\u2122, ACIS\u2122 or Parasolid\u2122. The reformatted data is then \u201cimported\u201d into a FEA program. Suitable FEA programs are ME NASTRAN\u2122, ANSYS\u2122 or ALGOR FINITE ELEMENT\u2122.","The second method of dividing the inventive building  into finite elements is to draw up the building in the Finite Element Analysis software. This is accomplished by importing the outline of the inventive building in dfx format into the FEA software and then splitting it into smaller discrete sizes by manual manipulation. The building  shown in  is simplified before being imported by removing the decorative features of facade. For example, the meshing of building  of , is carried out by importing the 3D Cad model of  in a dfx format, which is a format recognized by the FEA software (in this case Algor 12 software). The CAD model  is shown in FIG. .","The next step is to group all walls, ceiling and roof sections of the structure into separate groups so that each group can be isolated for meshing. Each group is given a different color. There are 255 Groups in Algor 12 software. Each group is given a different color starting with Green as Group  and Red as Group . The first set of lines shown in  is chosen, as Group  colored green. This Figure represents the entire North wall  of the building. The North wall  is then divided into discrete elements by actually dividing each line. To make the division of the lines, each line is highlighted within the FEA program and the Divide Command is invoked after a number of divisions is entered. Dividing starts from the window areas  and working outward toward the boundaries of the wall . The results of the construction of FEA elements is shown in FIG. . The entire North wall  is made of discrete elements  having eight nodes  at the corners forming shapes resembling bricks, which are called brick elements. The elements  of the entire wall can be of equal or unequal size. Depending on the configuration of the wall or the component of the building that is being meshed, the FEA elements will be of varying size and shape. The elements will vary from three node elements to eight node elements.","Once the first wall (North)  is completed, it is used as the base for the adjacent wall , which is the West wall. All the neighboring nodes  of adjacent walls , and others have to precisely match, thereby becoming common nodes.","The combination of North and West walls  and  is shown in FIG. . The volumes or bricks  are made as wide as the walls in thickness. In the case of the model shown, the actual exterior walls are made from 8 inch Expanded Polystyrene (EPS) foam. Similarly, the South walls  and all other exterior walls ,  are shown in FIG.  and , respectively.","It is important to note that all of the nodes of adjacent elements must match. Otherwise, the application of mathematical equations constructed for the model by the FEA software will fail or go to a never ending loop without resulting in a solution.","The FEA elements of opposite walls must line up with each other. For example, the North and South walls  and  have exactly the same number of columns of bricks from the lowest part of the wall to the highest areas of the wall at the rooflines. This is because the roof elements have to match with the wall bricks everywhere and the mesh lines of the interior partitions must match the mesh lines of the exterior walls from the lowest bricks at the bottom of the walls to the highest mesh lines of the walls.","If an error in the dividing or meshing process has created a different number of bricks or elements at the roofline where the roof elements match the wall elements, then an adjustment is made to have all the nodes meet. This may occur because of an error which may happen during the process of meshing the components in different groups or it can occur because of the varying configurations of neighboring components. This adjustment can be performed by highlighting one of the nodes  and then moving that node over to the neighboring node  and dropping the moved node on top of the neighboring node. If the error is a space that should have a brick, then another way of making the adjustment is to insert a new brick element with a lesser number of line elements between the non-matching nodes.","In , the non-alignment error occurs in the North wall  of the garage . The North garage wall  must match with the roof of the house and the roof system of the garage, so manual manipulation has been made to place the nodes in the right place. Thus brick elements with skew configuration have resulted. When modeling a component of the structure, the connection between the components must be corrected many times. For example the interior side of the wall of  has parallel lines depicting where the north wall connects to the Roof Group, Ceiling Group and the Interior walls. This is done to insure that all nodes of the neighboring elements throughout the structure match exactly. Once the exterior walls - are modeled (FIG. ), next comes the first layer  of the ceiling. To do this we can select or highlight the outer face of line elements  of the West wall  () along the area in which the ceiling  will intersect the wall . When the line elements  are highlighted, a dot  is left on the highlighted line. Then by using the copy command the lines  are copied to a new position of a distance  in the X direction by moving the lines with the JOIN ALL COPIES feature turned ON in the Algor software (FIG. A). By performing this operation brick elements  () are created.","This process is repeated until all of the brick elements of the ceiling layer  are constructed (FIG. ). The same process is repeated similarly until the roof layer  () of the entire house () is completed. The Garage area ceiling  is made the same way by highlighting the wall nodes that are common with the Garage ceiling and the copying them to make an extrusion using the North wall of the garage as a guide template. The guide points are the common nodes between neighboring Groups. In this example, the bricks which make up the left half of the garage are designated as Group  and the right half is the Group  and the Garage North wall  is the Group  (FIG. ). The upper part of the roof is similarly formed (see FIG. ).","The Ribs which extend between the Ceiling layer and the Roof layer , are made by locating the common nodes between the ceiling and the connecting ribs . The mesh lines between the common nodes of the Ribs and the Ceiling layer are highlighted and selected and then copied upward with the Algor software feature of Join All Copies turned ON to construct rib brick elements between the North wall and the south walls (see FIG. ).  shows the ribs for the Main and the Garage roofs.  shows the construction of the upper component of the roof.","Next is the modeling of the partitions. Looking at , the left wall or the inside face of the house's West wall makes a good template for the North\/South partitions. All that needs to be done is highlighting the interior face of the West wall and moving it to the East West face location of the first interior North-South partition and filling the hole of the West wall window (see FIG. ). This 2-D wall is then selected and extruded to make the partition in (FIG. ). The next step is to select and remove the elements, which are located in the place of any opening on such a partition. To construct East\/West partitions, we must start with the bottom nodes on the ceiling layer, selecting them and coping them downward with Join All Copies feature turned ON (FIG. ).","At this point, the whole structure of EPS foam or the core part of the composite material has been constructed. Next, we must construct the outside coating of the composite structure. For this purpose we isolate each component group and select the exterior nodes of these components and copy them and assign them to a new group. We start with Group , or the North wall  as shown on FIG. . For a coating material, which is very thin in comparison to the EPS component, we use FEA plate elements. Plate elements are shown as having zero thickness, but within the program the actual thickness of the coating material, such as one quarter inch, is assigned to the Group. Similarly, , , and  show other Groups of coatings of the structure.  shows the plate elements, which depict the coating of the main part of the house roof ribs, which are made of glass reinforced concrete.","In situations where the structure has curved components such as curved roof or ceiling or walls (FIGS.  and ), a similar process is used as described above to create meshing for the curved structure. The curved components may have single, double or arbitrary curvatures. These types of curved components can not be easily modeled within the FEA software unless template configuration from the CAD program depicting their segmented shapes is imported into the FEA program. For this reason, it is necessary to slice the curved components of the structure within the CAD package before importing the CAD Wireframe Model of the building into the FEA Program. By slicing the curved structure in the CAD package we create, tessellation lines  (see FIGS.  and ). The tessellation lines  are imported into the FEA software along with the model of the building. The tessellation lines  are used to create brick elements  (FIG. ). The brick elements  accurately model the curved components of the structure. Curved components such as ceiling in () offer superior strength over flat components buildings. However, flat components can be wire cut EPS foam and as such are less costly to cut in comparison to curved 3-D components, which are cut by hot knife or CNC robotic cutters. Curved shapes also have more cutting waste, but they are more attractive.","Material Properties","Before FEA Analysis is made the type of element for each group must be identified. The mechanical properties of the material for each Group also must be specified (FIG. ). Algor and other FEA software have Material Libraries for most structural construction material. However, Expanded Polystyrene and the Glass Reinforced Concrete are not so common structural material and therefore, the properties of these materials have to be added and in the user of FEA program personal library (FIG.  and FIG. ).","Assemble the Element Stiffness Matrices","The stiffness matrix of an element consists of coefficient relating to force and strain and mechanical character of that particular element. In 17century Robert Hooke defined the basis for modern finite element stress analysis as Hooke's Law. Hooke proved that an elastic body stretches in proportion to the force applied on it. Mathematically:\n\nF=kx\n\nWhere F, K and x relate to force, spring constant and distance of stretching of the elastic body. In finite element analysis of all structures and in our case structures  FIG.  and other examples used the structures are broken to thousands of very small \u201cbrick\u201d elements. Each element has 8 corners, or nodes. All nodes on the fixed points where the structure is tied down are fixed and can not move. If a point or a node on the structure other than the fixed points is forced to move, the node will move a little because all materials have some elasticity. That movement would be described by F=kx for that element except that other elements are in the way or are tending to hold it back. Fundamentally as the force is exerted on the first element, it spreads out to other nodes, and so on. Without a computer, it would be impossible to track the events of movement of all connecting elements. In the finite element method, the overall behavior of the structure is defined by the process called \u201celement stiffness formulation\u201d. What happens is that a \u201ck\u201d is created for the relationship between every node on each element. Thus, every node is connected to every other node on each element by a hypothetical spring, which will behave like F=kx. By so doing, we reduce the structure to a large system of springs connecting the nodes. When the \u201canalysis\u201d is done, a step known as \u201cprocessing\u201d, a value for each \u201cx\u201d and \u201cF\u201d is determined for each node by the formula F=kx. \u201cF\u201d and \u201cx\u201d are vectors as each has a value and a direction. When using a FEA program, the user will go as far as doing the modeling and entering the mechanical properties of the elements. The computer program will establish and assemble the overall element stiffness matrices for the structure.\n\nDefine the Boundary Conditions\n","Typically all our examples and our composite structure  are fixed at the ground base. This fixity is set with global boundary conditions  (FIG. ), in which the fixity is totally rigid. Boundary points are used to simulate the constraints that actually occur at the ground line. In Algor software it is possible to have 6 constrains in x, y and x axis and rotational movement constrains about x, y and z axis.","With Algor software, we can also use boundary elements have an additional capability of imposing and enforced displacement upon our model. The force created by this imposed displacement would be calculated automatically. This comes particularly handy in case of varying soil conditions for application of earthquake foundation movement. Additionally, the forces generated at a boundary by forces on the model can be obtained as output using boundary elements.","Application of Forces:","The data involved in structural analysis relate to the following items:\n\n","In most, FEA programs the Dead Load effect is treated by entering the material mass density of the components of the structure (FIGS.  and ). In case of the invention's structure, there are only two materials EPS and the GFRC. The mass density and the mechanical properties of these materials are shown in FIGS. , as they were entered into the analysis.\n\n","Snow load is handled by calculating the projected area of roof snow coverage and it is multiplied by the snow intensity recommended by the Building Codes to get the total Snow Load. The total snow is the divided by the number of nodes in the structure where the snow force is applied.\n\n","The Wind load is similarly treated as in case of snow load except it is applied horizontally. Table of  shows the wind and snow nodal loads, the loaded projected area and the total number of nodes in the area of loading. In the stress displacement analysis of the examples, it is assumed that all elements have equal projected area normal to the wind or the snow direction. This is an approximation for the nodal forces. If more accurate results were needed. The areas subject to wind and snow can be broken into smaller segment and the nodal forces for the smaller segments maybe calculated to have better accuracy.\n\n","Earthquake is applied as movement of the base of the structure with respect to time. The movement is applied to the nodes that are connected to the foundation.","Nodal Thermal Temperatures","The thermal temperature change is applied as nodal temperature change. The program analyzes the effect of expansion or contraction of the house due to temperature changes.","The Analysis:","We are now ready to perform the FEA analysis cover the following categories and result in useful information in predicting the structural limits of the structure:\n\n","Several example problems were solved using the invention's technology to predict behavior of composite structure. ,  and  show Stress\/Displacement for both Curved and Flat component composite building for various loading including earthquake dynamic loading of the structures.","FEA software vary in terms of how they accept the force input data. Some program accept pressure normal or at an angle to the surfaces. In other cases, the pressure has to be broken into nodal normal and or tangential forces. In case of Algor the software used for the ensuing example, wind and snow forces are applied as nodal force applied to nodes (wind horizontally and snow vertically).","The distinct volumes are treated as \u201cbricks\u201d in the FEA program. The bricks have properties assigned to them that correspond to the properties of the foam material. There is a library of materials and their properties in the FEA program. The properties include Elasticity Properties: Modulus of Elasticity, Poisson's Ratio, Shear Modulus of Elasticity; Plastic Properties: Ultimate Sresss, Yield Stress, Elongation at 2 in.; General Properties: Damping; Densities: Mass Density; and Thermal Properties: Thermal Conductivity, Specific Heat. Then \u201cplates\u201d of zero thickness are created on the surfaces of the \u201cbricks\u201d that form the surface of the building model. The \u201cplates\u201d have properties assigned to them that correspond to the properties of the GFRC coating. The model is then analyzed for stress levels under various loads both static and dynamic, such as wind, gravity, snow, earthquake, etc.","Because the building is solely built from a composite material, foam coated on both sides with reinforced concrete (GFRC), it is possible to analyze the structure accurately. Because of the accuracy of the analysis of the inventive building, it is possible to reduce the amount of material needed to meet the predicted loading of the building. Further, because this building is constructed of inner and outer shells with foam therebetween, it is a very strong structure for its mass. Conversely, stick built buildings have a vast array of elements which make them very difficult to impossible to analyze. Therefore, to meet their loading requirements they have to be over designed. Further, their angles create high stresses at their joints during loading.","The composite building material formed from GFRC coated foam has many advantages. The foam thickness can be increased easily to increase the thermal insulation value of the composite. The GFRC coating is highly resistant to vapor and moisture penetration as also is the EPS foam core. The strength of the composite is greatly increased by the foam core since the strength is a function of the thickness of the foam core. The foam core acts as a moment arm between the coatings on its opposite sides. Thus, increasing the thickness of the foam increases the insulation value and the strength of the composite. The composite building material can be used to create flat walls since the composite exhibits enough strength to be used in that design. The composite material can be used to create a building without curved ceilings.","Solving the System of Linear Algebraic Equations","The user of the software program does not have to do anything for this section. The Software program performs this part.","Calculation of the Stresses and Displacement","The Software performs this function. The results of the solution for various examples are shown in ,  and . The results show that the inventive composite buildings are very strong and efficiently resist natural forces of wind, snow and earthquake.\n\n","Von Mises stresses for the 0.25 inch GFRC skins were maximum at \u02dc500 psi. These values for the 3\/16\u2033 skins only rose to \u02dc641 psi. This value generates a factor of safety of \u02dc3.1 based on a tensile strength limit of \u02dc2,000 psi. Some of the maximum von mises stress values occur in areas where the predominant stress state is compressive. As such the safety factor would increase even more, as the compressive strength is much greater than the tensile strength.","A nonlinear, transient dynamic, finite element (FE) analysis simulating the ground motions of the 1994 Northridge earthquake was performed on a portion of the structure of Example design, in order to verify the structural integrity and behavior of their new, composite building system. The results of this analysis indicate that the structure's stress levels were acceptable even for this severe dynamic excitation. It is also very, stiff and of light weight, and thus has a characteristically high natural frequency, which in itself tends to reduce the response to ground motions, except possibly where the soil stiffness might be very low. The results also verified that the entire structure, based on this system, is capable of being entirely modeled with a great degree of accuracy for advanced computer FE simulations with either static or dynamic loading.","A nonlinear time history direct integration was the type of analysis performed in this simulation. Such analysis is identified in the UBC as acceptable. Obviously, this approach together with the use of the severe ground motion accelerogram, is rather extreme for the Strata residential building analyzed. However, such an approach verifies the superior behavior of this lightweight, stiff building design for use in earthquake regions, and helps to clarify the structural load capacity available with this system (FIG. ).","Special Short Cut FEA Analysis","Please note FIG.  and  which show cross sectional cuts of the composite structure. It can be seen that at any point in the structure a slice segment of the structure resembles a traditional structural framing. The same sectional property is repeated through out the building. For this reason it is possible to select a slice section where the structure is weakest. If we preform an FEA structural analysis for this weak section and find it to have adequate strength, then the structure will pass saftey requirement as a whole. FIG.  and  show FEA results for a slice of the building under such a condition. This type of analysis can be used for the first pass at a design trial or in some cases maybe sufficient to prove the building is structurally safe.","Various changes and modifications to the embodiments herein chosen for purposes of illustration will readily occur to those skilled in the art. To the extent that such modifications and variations do not depart from the spirit of the invention, they are intended to be included within the scope thereof which is assessed only by a fair interpretation of the following claims."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":"3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIGS. 5-7","b":"4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 11"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 12"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":"FIG. 13"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":"FIG. 14"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIG. 15","b":"14"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":"FIGS. 16 and 17"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":"FIG. 18"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":"FIG. 19"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":"FIG. 20"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":"FIG. 21"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"figref":"FIG. 22"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0034"},"figref":"FIGS. 23 and 24"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"figref":"FIG. 25"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0037","num":"0036"},"figref":"FIG. 26"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0037"},"figref":"FIGS. 27-29"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0039","num":"0038"},"figref":"FIG. 29A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0040","num":"0039"},"figref":"FIG. 30"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0041","num":"0040"},"figref":"FIG. 31","b":"30"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0042","num":"0041"},"figref":"FIG. 32","b":"30"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0043","num":"0042"},"figref":"FIG. 32A","b":"30"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0044","num":"0043"},"figref":"FIG. 33"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0045","num":"0044"},"figref":"FIG. 34"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0046","num":"0045"},"figref":"FIG. 35"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0047","num":"0046"},"figref":"FIGS. 36 and 37"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0048","num":"0047"},"figref":"FIG. 38"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0049","num":"0048"},"figref":"FIG. 39"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0050","num":"0049"},"figref":"FIG. 40"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0051","num":"0050"},"figref":"FIG. 41"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0052","num":"0051"},"figref":["FIG. 42","FIG. 41"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0053","num":"0052"},"figref":"FIG. 43"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0054","num":"0053"},"figref":"FIG. 44"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0055","num":"0054"},"figref":"FIG. 45"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0056","num":"0055"},"figref":"FIG. 46","b":"45"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0057","num":"0056"},"figref":"FIGS. 47 and 47A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0058","num":"0057"},"figref":"FIG. 48"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0059","num":"0058"},"figref":"FIG. 49"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0060","num":"0059"},"figref":"FIG. 50"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0061","num":"0060"},"figref":"FIG. 51"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0062","num":"0061"},"figref":"FIG. 52"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0063","num":"0062"},"figref":"FIG. 53"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0064","num":"0063"},"figref":"FIG. 54"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0065","num":"0064"},"figref":"FIG. 55"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0066","num":"0065"},"figref":"FIG. 56","b":"55"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0067","num":"0066"},"figref":"FIG. 57"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0068","num":"0067"},"figref":"FIG. 58","b":"57"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0069","num":"0068"},"figref":["FIG. 59","FIG. 57"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0070","num":"0069"},"figref":"FIG. 60","b":["1","120"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0071","num":"0070"},"figref":"FIG. 61","b":["1","120"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0072","num":"0071"},"figref":"FIG. 62","b":["1","2","120","130"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0073","num":"0072"},"figref":"FIG. 63","b":["1","2","3"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0074","num":"0073"},"figref":"FIG. 64"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0075","num":"0074"},"figref":["FIG. 65","FIG. 57"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0076","num":"0075"},"figref":"FIG. 66"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0077","num":"0076"},"figref":"FIGS. 61A","b":["62","65","66"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0078","num":"0077"},"figref":"FIG. 67","b":"57"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0079","num":"0078"},"figref":"FIG. 68","b":"57"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0080","num":"0079"},"figref":"FIG. 69","b":"57"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0081","num":"0080"},"figref":"FIG. 70","b":"57"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0082","num":"0081"},"figref":"FIG. 71","b":"57"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0083","num":"0082"},"figref":["FIG. 72","FIG. 57"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0084","num":"0083"},"figref":["FIG. 73","FIG. 57"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0085","num":"0084"},"figref":["FIG. 74","FIG. 57"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0086","num":"0085"},"figref":["FIG. 75","FIG. 57"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0087","num":"0086"},"figref":["FIG. 76","FIG. 57"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0088","num":"0087"},"figref":"FIG. 77","b":"57"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0089","num":"0088"},"figref":"FIG. 78","b":"77"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0090","num":"0089"},"figref":["FIG. 79","FIG. 57"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0091","num":"0090"},"figref":["FIG. 80","FIG. 57"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0092","num":"0091"},"figref":"FIG. 81"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0093","num":"0092"},"figref":"FIG. 82","b":"81"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0094","num":"0093"},"figref":"FIG. 83"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0095","num":"0094"},"figref":"FIG. 84"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0096","num":"0095"},"figref":"FIG. 85","b":"57"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0097","num":"0096"},"figref":"FIG. 86","b":"57"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0098","num":"0097"},"figref":"FIG. 87"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0099","num":"0098"},"figref":"FIG. 88"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0100","num":"0099"},"figref":"FIG. 89","b":"57"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0101","num":"0100"},"figref":"FIG. 90","b":"57"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0102","num":"0101"},"figref":"FIG. 91","b":"57"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0103","num":"0102"},"figref":"FIG. 92","b":"57"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0104","num":"0103"},"figref":"FIG. 93"},"Table of  shows the Nodal forces calculated by hand and applied to the FEA model of the building of  for structural analysis.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0106","num":"0105"},"figref":"FIG. 95","b":"57"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0107","num":"0106"},"figref":"FIG. 96"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0108","num":"0107"},"figref":"FIG. 97"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
