---
title: Method and apparatus for controlling transmission power while in soft handoff
abstract: Method and apparatus for adjusting the transmission power of base stations in simultaneous communication with a mobile station. The methods described provide for the transmission power of the base stations to be aligned. In the first exemplary embodiment, the transmitters are attached to a separate control unit through communication links. The control unit then derives the most likely command stream and send that to the base stations. In the second exemplary embodiment, the control unit periodically receives the final or average transmit level in a period and an aggregate quality measure for the feedback during a period from each of the transmitters. The control unit determines the aligned power level and transmits a message indicative of the aligned power level to the transmitters.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08285318&OS=08285318&RS=08285318
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 08285318
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20041018
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CLAIM OF PRIORITY UNDER 35 U.S.C. \u00a7120","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["The present application for patent is a Continuation and claims priority to patent application Ser. No. 10\/286,285 entitled \u201cMethod and Apparatus for Controlling Transmission Power While in Soft Handoff\u201d filed Nov. 1, 2002, now U.S. Pat. No. 6,810,255 now allowed, which is a Continuation and claims priority to patent application Ser. No. 09\/204,803, filed Dec. 3, 1998, now U.S. Pat. No. 6,512,925, issued Jan. 28, 2003 all assigned to the assignee hereof and hereby expressly incorporated by reference herein.","1. Field","The present invention relates to communications. More particularly, the present invention relates to a novel and improved method and apparatus for gating the transmission of signals in a wireless communication system.","2. Background","The use of code division multiple access (CDMA) modulation techniques is one of several techniques for facilitating communications in which a large number of system users are present. Other multiple access communication system techniques, such as time division multiple access (TDMA) and frequency division multiple access (FDMA) are known in the art. However, the spread spectrum modulation technique of CDMA has significant advantages over these modulation techniques for multiple access communication systems. The use of CDMA techniques in a multiple access communication system is disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 4,901,307, entitled \u201cSPREAD SPECTRUM MULTIPLE ACCESS COMMUNICATION SYSTEM USING SATELLITE OR TERRESTRIAL REPEATERS,\u201d assigned to the assignee of the present invention, of which the disclosure thereof is incorporated by reference herein. The use of CDMA techniques in a multiple access communication system is further disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 5,103,459, entitled \u201cSYSTEM AND METHOD FOR GENERATING SIGNAL WAVEFORMS IN A CDMA CELLULAR TELEPHONE SYSTEM,\u201d assigned to the assignee of the present invention, of which the disclosure thereof is incorporated by reference herein.","CDMA by its inherent nature of being a wideband signal offers a form of frequency diversity by spreading the signal energy over a wide bandwidth. Therefore, frequency selective fading affects only a small part of the CDMA signal bandwidth. Space or path diversity is obtained by providing multiple signal paths through simultaneous links from a mobile user through two or more cell-sites. Furthermore, path diversity may be obtained by exploiting the multipath environment through spread spectrum processing by allowing a signal arriving with different propagation delays to be received and processed separately. Examples of path diversity are illustrated in U.S. Pat. No. 5,101,501 entitled \u201cMETHOD AND SYSTEM FOR PROVIDING A SOFT HANDOFF IN COMMUNICATIONS IN A CDMA CELLULAR TELEPHONE SYSTEM,\u201d and U.S. Pat. No. 5,109,390 entitled \u201cDIVERSITY RECEIVER IN A CDMA CELLULAR TELEPHONE SYSTEM,\u201d both assigned to the assignee of the present invention and incorporated by reference herein.","A method for transmission of speech in digital communication systems that offers particular advantages in increasing capacity while maintaining high quality of perceived speech is by the use of variable rate speech encoding. The method and apparatus of a particularly useful variable rate speech encoder is described in detail in U.S. Pat. No. 5,414,796, entitled \u201cVARIABLE RATE VOCODER,\u201d assigned to the assignee of the present invention and incorporated by reference herein.","The use of a variable rate speech encoder provides for data frames of maximum speech data capacity when said speech encoding is providing speech data at a maximum rate. When a variable rate speech coder is providing speech data at a less that maximum rate, there is excess capacity in the transmission frames. A method for transmitting additional data in transmission frames of a fixed predetermined size, wherein the source of the data for the data frames is providing the data at a variable rate is described in detail in U.S. Pat. No. 5,504,773, entitled \u201cMETHOD AND APPARATUS FOR THE FORMATTING OF DATA FOR TRANSMISSION,\u201d assigned to the assignee of the present invention, of which the disclosure thereof is incorporated by reference herein. In the above mentioned patent application a method and apparatus is disclosed for combining data of differing types from different sources in a data frame for transmission.","In frames containing less data than a predetermined capacity, power consumption may be lessened by transmission gating a transmission amplifier such that only parts of the frame containing data are transmitted. Furthermore, message collisions in a communication system may be reduced if the data is placed into frames in accordance with a predetermined pseudorandom process. A method and apparatus for gating the transmission and for positioning the data in the frames is disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 5,659,569, entitled \u201cDATA BURST RANDOMIZER,\u201d assigned to the assignee of the present invention, of which the disclosure thereof is incorporated by reference herein.","A useful method of power control of a mobile in a communication system is to monitor the power of the received signal from the mobile station at a base station. The base station in response to the monitored power level transmits power control bits to the mobile station at regular intervals. A method and apparatus for controlling transmission power in this fashion is disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 5,056,109, entitled \u201cMETHOD AND APPARATUS FOR CONTROLLING TRANSMISSION POWER IN A CDMA CELLULAR MOBILE TELEPHONE SYSTEM,\u201d assigned to the assignee of the present invention, of which the disclosure thereof is incorporated by reference herein.","In a communication system that provides data using a QPSK modulation format, very useful information can be obtained by taking the cross product of the I and Q components of the QPSK signal. By knowing the relative phases of the two components, one can determine roughly the velocity of the mobile station in relation to the base station. A description of a circuit for determining the cross product of the I and Q components in a QPSK modulation communication system is disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 5,506,865, entitled \u201cPILOT CARRIER DOT PRODUCT CIRCUIT,\u201d assigned to the assignee of the present invention, the disclosure of which is incorporated by reference herein.","There has been an increasing demand for wireless communications systems to be able to transmit digital information at high rates. One method for sending high rate digital data from a remote station to a central base station is to allow the remote station to send the data using spread spectrum techniques of CDMA. One method that is proposed is to allow the remote station to transmit its information using a small set of orthogonal channels, this method is described in detail in U.S. Pat. No. 6,396,804, entitled \u201cHIGH DATA RATE CDMA WIRELESS COMMUNICATION SYSTEM,\u201d assigned to the assignee of the present invention and incorporated by reference herein.","The present invention is a novel and improved method and apparatus for controlling the transmission power in a plurality of base stations simultaneously communicating with a mobile station in soft handoff. In a power controlled communication system where multiple transmitters at different physical locations are employed to transmit the same signal to a given receiver, the receiver measures the quality of the composite received signal from all transmitters and feeds back this observed quality to the transmitters. In the exemplary implementation, the feedback is a single stream of up or down commands from the receiver that is received by all transmitters involved. However, the reliability of the reception is not uniform across transmitters. Further, the reliability of the feedback to any given transmitter can change over time. As a result, the transmitters follow their individually received feedback and transmit at different power level at the same time.","It is usually advantageous to align the transmit power levels for a given receiver from all participating transmitters according to a desired pattern. For example, the transmitters can also send a fixed pilot channel at the same power level. Equating the traffic channel transmit levels imply the same traffic to pilot ratios across transmitters and the best maximal ratio combining can be achieved at the receiver by taking the inner product of the pilot and traffic. Another example is when the transmitters transmitter have different maximum power and send out pilot channel at different power levels. In this case, the alignment of traffic channel power means the transmitters set their traffic transmit levels proportional to their pilot levels. This also achieves the same traffic to pilot ratios across all transmitters. Yet another example of transmit power level alignment is a system where there is a desired transmit power level pattern based on the signal-to-noise ratio or SNR from each transmitter to the receiver. If transmitter 's pilot SNR is twice that of transmitter 's, then the traffic transmit level from transmitter  should be twice that of transmitter 's. This transmit level pattern can be followed by all transmitters as the overall transmit level changes according to the feedback command. The present invention proposes a series of methods that can be used to align the transmit power of transmissions to a mobile station in soft handoff.","In the first exemplary embodiment, the transmitters are attached to a separate control unit through communication links. This control unit receives the power control commands received at each base station and optionally a quality indicator for each command from each base station. The control unit then derives the most likely command stream and send that to the base stations. The base stations use this to override the transmit power level they were using, or use it plus the feedback commands it received during the processing and relaying of this most likely command to determine the transmit level.","In the second exemplary embodiment, the control unit periodically receives the final or average transmit level in a period and an aggregate quality measure for the feedback during a period from each of the transmitters. The control unit determines the aligned power level and transmits a message indicative of the aligned power level to the transmitters.","In the third exemplary embodiment, the transmitters send the control unit a message indicative of the transmit power of transmissions to the receiver. The control unit determines the aligned transmit power based on the current transmit power. For example, the control unit can inform all transmitters of the average value of the transmit traffic to pilot ratios it most recently received from the transmitters if the desired transmit power level pattern is to have all traffic to pilot ratios identical. The transmitters would then make corrections to its current transmit level by the delta between what it received from the control unit and what it actually used at the time corresponding to that.","In the fourth exemplary embodiment, transmitters send the control unit a message indicative of the transmit power of transmissions to the mobile station. The control unit determines the aligned transmit power based on the current transmit power. The correction is done only when the transmit levels diverge beyond a certain threshold from the desired pattern. This thresholding can lessen the backhaul loading. Also, the correction can be less than what is needed for full alignment to lessen the impact on the closed loop and outerloop operation. For example, assume the desired alignment pattern is to have all transmitters to transmit at identical traffic to pilot ratios, when the difference between the highest and the lowest transmit levels is less than X dB, the control unit sends no correction to the transmitters. (Or, it sends the individual corrections or the common desired level but the transmitters do not correct if the needed correction is less than Y dB.) When there is a difference equal to or larger than X dB, the control unit computes the average transmit traffic to pilot ratio and forwards it to the transmitters. The transmitters computes the necessary correction and applies it. Alternatively, the control unit can compute the amount of correction for all the transmitter and send them individually to the transmitters where they are applied. The correction can be a fixed percentage of the necessary amount to bring all transmitters together. Or the correction can be a fixed step, say Z dB; or a fixed percentage of the necessary step, say W %, regardless of what is necessary to get all transmitters aligned. In addition, this correction can be applied gradually over time. The full desired correction is achieved right before the next correction is received from the control unit.","In the fifth exemplary embodiment, similar to the previous two embodiments, the correction can be derived from the quality indicator of the feedback at each transmitter. For example, this quality indicator can be based on the strength of the reverse link pilot or the amount of time it is in lock at each of the transmitters. The quality indicator can also be based on reverse link frame erasures at the transmitters. It can also depend on the signal to noise and interference ratio (Ec_pilot\/Nt summed over all fingers locked on a given BTS) for each transmitter at the receiver. That is, when the control unit examines the transmit levels from the transmitters, the transmit levels or traffic to pilot ratios used by the transmitters that have better feedback quality, and by those transmitters whose signal is stronger at the receiver should be emphasized. The above will improve the \u2018correct\u2019 transmit level since the correlation between forward link and reverse link is usually positive, and a clear feedback indicates a stronger forward link at the receiver. Therefore, if the transmit level at the transmitter that has a better feedback quality is modified the least, the impact on the total received Eb\/Nt at the receiver would be less and the impact on the closed loop and outer loop is minimized.","In the sixth exemplary embodiment, the transmitters and\/or the control unit apply a soft mapping between the received feedback strength and the amount of transmit level adjustment. That is, the step size in the adjustment is a real number whose value depends on the value of the feedback command signal to noise ratio. A threshold can be set so that when the signal to noise ratio of the feedback is too low, the power control step size is zero. Additionally, when the feedback receiver at a transmitter is out of lock and no feedback SNR can be measured, there will be no corresponding adjustment for the transmit level. If a control unit has access to the quality of the feedback commands at the transmitters, it can use the same soft mapping to determine the most likely commands (for the first exemplary embodiment) or the most likely transmit level or traffic to pilot ratio based on the most recent feedback quality (for the second exemplary embodiment).","Turning to the figures,  illustrates mobile station  in soft handoff with base station  and base station . In soft handoff, base station  and base station  transmit identical information to mobile station . The path diversity provides improved estimation of the transmitted signal and reduces the probability of a dropped call. The exemplary embodiment for performing soft handoff is described in detail in the aforementioned U.S. Pat. No. 5,101,501.","In the exemplary embodiment of the present invention, aligning the transmit power of base station is equivalent to make certain that the traffic channel energy to pilot channel energy is equal in both base stations  and . In most cases, the base stations are transmitting their pilot channels at the same energy such that aligning the traffic channel energy will be equivalent to setting the traffic channel transmit power from the two base stations to mobile station  to be equal. The present invention is equally applicable to other power management strategies as long as the relationship between the transmit power of the two base stations is known in advance of the alignment procedure. This does not require that the power relationship be static.","The signals transmitted on the forward link from base stations  and  to mobile station . In base station , information to be transmitted to mobile station  is provided from base station controller  to backhaul transceiver . The information is provided to transmit system  which modulates the information and upconverts the information and transmits the resulting signal through antenna . Similarly, in base station , information to be transmitted to mobile station  is provided from base station controller  to backhaul transceiver . The information is provided to transmit system  which modulates the information and upconverts the information and transmits the resulting signal through antenna .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":["20","32"]},"A predetermined set of pilot symbols are provided to pilot modulator . In the exemplary embodiment, the signal is a QPSK (Quaternary Phase Shift Keying) modulated signal and as such the modulated signal comprises an inphase (I) component and an out of phase (Q) component. The modulated symbols are provided to channel gain element . Channel gain element  adjusts the amplitude of the pilot channel relative to the traffic channels. The in phase components of the modulated streams are provided to I channel summer  and the out of phase components of the modulated streams are provided to Q channel summer .","User specific traffic data is provided to traffic modulator bank . The backhaul transceiver ( and ) route the traffic data to the appropriate traffic modulator (-N). The data is modulated in such a fashion that the correct mobile station can receive the information. In the exemplary embodiment, the traffic data is modulated in accordance with a code division multiplexing or CDM modulation format.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":["106","106","200","202","202","202","202"],"i":"a"},"The encoded symbols are provided from encoder  to interleaver . Interleaver  reorders the encoded symbols in accordance with a predetermined interleaving format. The reordered symbols are then provided to QPSK mapper , which maps two bits into a four point I-Q constellation consisting of I and Q channel components. The I and Q channel components are provided to orthogonal covering elements  and  respectively.","In the exemplary embodiment, the I and Q components are covered using Walsh sequences or their derivatives such as the variable length orthogonal spreading functions described in U.S. Pat. No. 5,751,761, entitled \u201cSYSTEM AND METHOD FOR ORTHOGONAL SPREAD SPECTRUM GENERATION IN VARIABLE DATA RATE SYSTEMS,\u201d which is assigned to the assignee of the present invention and incorporated by reference herein. The orthogonal sequence is generated in Walsh generator  and provided to orthogonal covering elements  and . In the exemplary embodiment, orthogonal covering elements  and  are exclusive OR gates. In the exemplary embodiment, the orthogonal spreading is used for channelization. Thus, each user receives data spread by a unique orthogonal sequence.","The channelized data is provided to PN spreading element . In the exemplary embodiment, a complex PN spreading is performed on the channelized data. The complex spreading is performed using two separate PN spreading sequences (PNand PN), to provide two resultant sequences (I\u2032 and Q\u2032) of the form:\n\n\u2003\u2003(1)\n\n\u2003\u2003(2)\n\nwhere I and Q are the channelized information sequences into the PN spreading element .\n","Returning to , the traffic modulated data from each of modulators -N is provided to a corresponding channel gain element -N. The channel gain elements individually control the transmission to each of the mobile station being served by the base station. Each of channel gain elements -N receive a signal from the control processor ( or ) in the base station and adjust the gain of the modulated signal in accordance therewith.","The gain adjusted I-components of the modulated signals are provided to I channel summing element , which sums the I components of all of the modulated signals and provide the summed signal to in-phase upconverter . The gain adjusted Q-components of the modulated signals are provided to I channel summing element , which sums the I components of all of the modulated signals and provide the summed signal to in-phase upconverter .","Upconverter  upconverts the signal to the carrier frequency (f) in accordance with the carrier function (sin2\u03a0f). Upconverter  upconverts the signal to the carrier frequency (f) in accordance with the carrier function (cos2\u03a0f). The upconverted signals are provided to summer  which adds the inphase signal to the out of phase signal. The summed signal is provided to RF Amp . RF Amp  amplifies the signal and referring back to  provides the signal for transmission through antenna  or .","The signals transmitted by base stations  and  are received at antenna  of mobile station . The received signals are provided through duplexer  to receive subsystem . Receive subsystem  downconverts the signal to base band and demodulates the signals. The demodulated signals are soft combined and decoded and provided to the user of mobile station . In addition, receive subsystem  provides a set of parameters indicative of the quality of the received signals to control processor . Control processor  determines a power control message and provides the power control message to transmit subsystem .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0044","num":"0043"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":["46","48","302","302","304","304","216"]},"The PN despread I and Q components of the signal are provided to control processor , pilot filter  and Walsh despreader . In the exemplary embodiment, pilot filter  is a low pass filter that is provided to remove noise from the received pilot signal. Walsh despreader  uncovers the traffic channel data in accordance with the orthogonal channel sequences allocated for dedicated transmissions to mobile station . Walsh despreader  multiplies the PN despread sequences by the orthogonal code and integrates the result over the Walsh symbol length, which is the exemplary embodiment, is 128 Walsh chips in length.","The Walsh uncovered data is provided to dot product circuit . Dot product circuit  computes the dot product between the received pilot channel and the received Walsh despread data. This removes phase errors from the data which occur during transmission through the propagation path. An exemplary implementation of dot product circuit  is described in detail in aforementioned U.S. Pat. No. 5,506,865.","The result from dot product circuit  is provided to control processor  and to de-interleaver . Deinterleaver  reorders the demodulated symbols in accordance with a predetermined de-interleaving format and provides the result to decoder . Decoder  decodes the received data to provided forward error correction on the received data.","Control processor  determines the adequacy of the received signals from base stations  and . The PN despread data provided to pilot variance element  computes an estimate of the noise on the received signal. In the exemplary embodiment, the noise on the received signal is estimated by computing the variance in the received pilot signal. This variance is attributable to the noise on the signal and is provided to Eb\/N calculator . The signal from dot product circuit  is provided to integrator . In the exemplary embodiment, the bit energy of the received signal is computed by integrating the received traffic signal over the power control group duration. The result of the integration process is normalized and provided to Eb\/N calculator .","Eb\/N calculator  divides the bit energy computed in integrator  by the noise energy computed in pilot variance element , the result is provided to threshold compare . In the exemplary embodiment, the computed Eb\/N value is compared against a nominal threshold value and the result is provided as a signal bit output from control processor  to transmit subsystem .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0050","num":"0049"},"figref":"FIG. 5","b":["50","8","4"]},"Power control commands and pilot symbols are provided to multiplexer (MUX) . In the exemplary embodiment, the power control commands are provided to multiplexer  at a rate of 800 bits per second. Multiplexer  combines the pilot symbols with the power control commands and provides the combined data to channelization element . Channelization element  covers the data using a short orthogonal sequence (W). The Walsh covered sequence is provided to summer .","The control channel provides a means for sending control messages from mobile station  back to base stations  and . The control messages are provided to channelization element . Channelization element  covers the data using a short orthogonal sequence (W). The Walsh covered sequence is provided to gain element  which adjusts the gain of the control channel relative to the gain of the pilot channel. The gain adjusted control channel signal is provided to a second input to summer .","The supplemental channel provides a means for sending information in excess of the capacity of the fundamental channel from mobile station  back to base stations  and . The supplemental channel data is provided to channelization element . Channelization element  covers the data using a short orthogonal sequence (W). The Walsh covered sequence is provided to gain element  which adjusts the gain of the control channel relative to the gain of the pilot channel. The gain adjusted control channel signal is provided to a first input to summer .","The fundamental channel provides a means for sending primary information from mobile station  back to base stations  and . The fundamental channel data is provided to channelization element . Channelization element  covers the data using a short orthogonal sequence (W). The Walsh covered sequence is provided to gain element  which adjusts the gain of the control channel relative to the gain of the pilot channel. The gain adjusted control channel signal is provided to a second input to summer .","The summed signals from summer  and  are provided as I and Q signals to complex PN spreader . Complex PN spreader  spreads the input sequences in accordance with two PN sequences PNand PNas described in equations (1) and (2) above. The complex PN spread sequences (I\u2032 and Q\u2032) are provided to baseband filters  and . Baseband filters  and  filter the sequences and provided the filtered results to upconverters  and  which upconvert the signals in accordance with a QPSK modulation format. The in-phase and out-phase components are provided to summing element . The resulting summed signal from summer  is provided to RF amplifier  which amplifies the signal for transmission.","Referring back to , the amplified signal is provided through duplexer  for transmission through antenna . In base station , the signal transmitted by mobile station  is received at antenna  and provided to receive subsystem , which downconverts and demodulates the received signal. Similarly, in base station , the signal transmitted by mobile station  is received at antenna  and provided to receive subsystem , which downconverts and demodulates the received signal.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0057","num":"0056"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 6"],"b":["26","38","8","500","542","542"],"sub":["I ","Q"]},"Within PN despreader , the I channel component is provided to multipliers  and . Multiplier  multiplies the I component of the received signal by PN, and provides the result to a summing input of summer . Multiplier  multiplies the I component of the received signal by PNand provides the result to a subtracting input of summer . The Q channel component is provided to multipliers  and . Multiplier  multiplies the Q component of the received signal by PN, and provides the result to a summing input of summer . Multiplier  multiplies the Q component of the received signal by PNand provides the result to a summing input of summer .","The resultant sequence from summer  is provided to channel despreader  and accumulator . In channel despreader , the sequence is multiplied by a short Walsh sequence to remove the channelization. The resultant product sequence is provided to accumulator  which accumulates the product sequence over the short Walsh sequence interval and provides the result to dot product elements  and .","The resultant sequence from summer  is provided to channel despreader  and accumulator . In channel despreader , the sequence is multiplied by a short Walsh sequence to remove the channelization. The resultant product sequence is provided to accumulator  which accumulates the product sequence over the short Walsh sequence interval and provides the result to dot product elements  and .","In accumulator , the I component of the PN despread sequence is summed over the short Walsh sequence interval and the result is provided to pilot filter . Pilot filter  is a low pass filter that reduces the noise on the pilot signal and provides the result to a second input of multipliers  and . Similarly, in accumulator , the Q component of the PN despread sequence is summed over the short Walsh sequence interval and the result is provided to pilot filter . Pilot filter  is a low pass filter that reduces the noise on the pilot signal and provides the result to a second input of multipliers  and .","The product sequence from multiplier  is provided to a first summing input of summer . The product sequence from multiplier  is provided to a second input of summer . The resultant sum from summer  is output as soft decision data. The product sequence from multiplier  is provided to a first summing input of summer . The product sequence from multiplier  is provided to a subtracting input of summer . The resultant difference from summer  is output as soft decision data.","In addition, the outputs of pilot filters  and  are provided to demultiplexer . Demultiplexer  removes the estimates of the power control bits from the combined pilot and power control bit channel.","II. Centralized Power Control Based on Power Control Command Feedback","In the first exemplary embodiment for aligning the transmission power levels, base stations  and  are controlled by base station controller . In the first exemplary embodiment, the base station  receives the power control commands from mobile station  and provides the power control commands to backhaul transceiver . Backhaul transceiver  transmits the power control commands and the quality indicators to base station controller . Base station controller  is connected to base stations  and  by means of wireline connection, fiber optic connection or wireless connection.","Base station controller  receives the power control commands from base station  and base station  at base station controller receiver (BSC RCVR) . The power control commands are provided to power control processor . Power control processor determines the correct power control command by a number of possible methods: majority vote (where a tie can be broken by giving one transmitter a higher weight), dominant transmitter (where one transmitter's command is always used), averaging, or weighted averaging (based on a set of static or dynamic weights determined by the short-term or long-term SNR for each transmitter's signal at the receiver). If averaging or weighted averaging is used, the resulting command can be mapped to the actual adjustment by one of the methods in . Power control processor  then provides the command to packetizer . Packetizer  incorporates the power control command into outgoing commands and provides the packet to router . Router  routes the power control command to base station  and base station .","In base station , the power control command is received by backhaul transceiver . Backhaul transceiver  provides the power control command to control processor . Control processor  generates a command to adjust the transmit power of the transmitter sending traffic signals to mobile station  and provides the command to transmit subsystem . This command can be a direct application of what is sent by base station controller , or it can be a mapping similar to  from what was sent by base station controller  if the latter just provides a common command. Similarly, in base station , the power control command is received by backhaul transceiver . Backhaul transceiver  provides the power control command to control processor . Control processor  generates a command to adjust the transmit power of the transmitter sending traffic signals to mobile station  and provides the command to transmit subsystem . By providing the power control commands from base station controller , it is assured that the power control commands executed by base station  and base station  will be the same commands which will keep the transmit power from the two base stations aligned according to the desired pattern.","In a modified version of the fist exemplary embodiment of the present invention, base stations  and  send an indication of the quality of the reverse link back to base station controller . Note that the quality indicator can be one or multiple of the following: the reverse link SNR, signal power, reverse frame erasure, reverse link re-encoded symbol error rate, or number of iterations by the reverse Turbo decoder). Note also that the quality indicator can be sent at a different rate from the rate of feedback commands. For example, there can be only one multiple-bit SNR value sent from the base stations to the base station controller  for every frame of 16 feedback commands. Power control processor  uses the reverse link quality measurement in determining the correct power control command by a number of different methods. It can choose the command corresponding to the best quality indicator value, choose the average of the multiple commands that all corresponding to the best quality indicator value, or use a quality-indicator weighted average of the commands as the \u2018correct\u2019 command. It can then use one of the hard or soft mappings in  to determine the actual power control adjustment step. For example, if base station  received an \u201cup\u201d command from base station  and a \u201cdown\u201d command from base station  then there would be a conflict as to which command to send. In this case power control processor  selects the power control command provided from the base station receiving the stronger reverse link signal. If multiple transmitters have quality indicators with the same highest value, power control processor  can use the average of the corresponding commands.","In a second modified version of the first exemplary embodiment, the base station receiving the power control command acts on the basis of the command that it receives and subsequently adjusts its power after receiving the power control command from base station controller , when it has made an error in the reception of the power control command. So for example, if base station  receives a reverse link frame of data from mobile station  and erroneously detects an \u201cUP\u201d command. The \u201cUP\u201d command is provided from receive subsystem  to control processor  which sends a command to transmit subsystem  to turn up its power.","In addition, base station  provides the power control command to backhaul transceiver  which relays this command to base station controller . At base station controller , power control processor  determines that the power control command should have been a \u201cDOWN\u201d command. The down command is provided through packetizer  and router  and sent to base stations  and . In base station , control processor  determines that the command that it sent to transmit subsystem  was in error. In response to this determination, control processor  issues a command to transmit subsystem  to reduce the transmission power of signals to mobile station  to the level the power would have been at were the power control command received correctly.","III. Centralized Power Control Based on Reduced Power Control Command Feedback","In the second exemplary embodiment of the present invention, base station controller  periodically receives a final transmit level and an aggregate quality measure from each of the base stations. For example, assume that base station controller  is only asked to provide centralized power control once every 20 ms. In the exemplary embodiment, 800 power control commands are sent from mobile station  every second. Thus, 16 commands are received and acted on by base stations  and  for each time that base station controller  intervenes to change the transmit power.","In base station , power control commands are received from mobile station . The power control commands are provided to control processor . Control processor generates a power adjustment command and provides the command to transmit subsystem . This adjustment command can be generated by one of the hard or soft mappings in . In response to the power adjustment command from control processor , transmit subsystem  turns up, down, or let stay the transmit power of transmission to mobile station . In addition, control processor  generates a running metric indicative of the quality of the reverse link feedback channel since the last time it sent power control information back to base station controller . Note that the quality indicator can be one or multiple of the following: the reverse link SNR, signal power, reverse frame erasure, reverse link re-encoded symbol error rate, or number of iterations by the reverse Turbo decoder). At the end of a predetermined time interval, control processor  generates a power control message containing the accumulated reverse link quality metric and the current transmit power of transmissions to mobile station . The message is provided to backhaul transceiver  and sent to base station controller .","Similarly, in base station , power control commands are received from mobile station . The power control commands are provided to control processor . Control processor  generates a power adjustment command and provides the command to transmit subsystem . In response to the power adjustment command from control processor , transmit subsystem  turns up or down the transmit power of transmission to mobile station . In addition, control processor  generates a running metric indicative of the quality of the reverse link feedback channel since the last time it sent power control information back to base station controller . At the end of a predetermined time interval, control processor  generates a power control message containing the accumulated reverse link quality metric and the current transmit power of transmissions to mobile station . The message is provided to backhaul transceiver  and sent to base station controller .","Base station controller  receives the power control message from base station  and base station  at base station controller receiver (BSC RCVR) . The power control commands are provided to power control processor . Power control processor  determines the correct transmit power for base station  and base station  and provides this transmit power level to packetizer . Power control processor's determination of the proper transmit levels can be achieved by a number of different methods. It can choose the command corresponding to the best quality indicator value, choose the average of the multiple commands that all corresponding to the best quality indicator value, or use a quality-indicator weighted average of the commands as the \u2018correct\u2019 command. It can then use one of the hard or soft mappings in  to determine the actual power control adjustment step. Packetizer  incorporates the power control command into outgoing commands and provides the packet to router . Router  routes the power control command to base station  and base station .","In base station , the power control command is received by backhaul transceiver . Backhaul transceiver  provides the power control command to control processor . Control processor  generates a command to adjust the transmit power of the transmitter sending traffic signals to mobile station  and provides the command to transmit subsystem . This adjustment is the difference between the \u2018correct\u2019 level from control processor  and the level actually used by transmit subsystem  at the same time. Similarly, in base station , the power control command is received by backhaul transceiver . Backhaul transceiver  provides the power control command to control processor . Control processor  generates a command to adjust the transmit power of the transmitter sending traffic signals to mobile station  and provides the command to transmit subsystem .","IV. Centralized Power Control Based on Base Station Transmit Power and Divergence Thresholds","In the fourth exemplary embodiment of the present invention, base station controller  periodically receives the transmit level of transmissions from base station  and . However, base station controller  will only send the transmit power correction message when the transmission power of signals to mobile station  have diverged beyond a threshold value.","In base station , power control commands are received from mobile station . The power control commands are provided to control processor . Control Processor generates a power adjustment command and provides the command to transmit subsystem . In response to the power adjustment command from control processor , transmit subsystem  turns up or down the transmit power of transmission to mobile station . At the end of a predetermined time interval, control processor  generates a message indicative of the current transmit power of transmission to mobile station . The message is provided to backhaul transceiver  and sent to base station controller .","Similarly, in base station , power control commands are received from mobile station . The power control commands are provided to control processor . Control processor  generates a power adjustment command and provides the command to transmit subsystem . In response to the power adjustment command from control processor , transmit subsystem  turns up or down the transmit power of transmission to mobile station . At the end of a predetermined time interval, control processor  generates a message indicative of the current transmit power of transmission to mobile station . The message is provided to backhaul transceiver  and sent to base station controller .","Base station controller  receives the power control messages from base station  and base station  at base station controller receiver (BSC RCVR) . The messages indicative of the transmit power of transmission to mobile station  are provided to power control processor . Power control processor  determines whether the transmit power of base station  and the transmit power of base station  have diverged beyond a threshold value X. If the transmit power of base station  and the transmit power of base station  have not diverged beyond a threshold value X, then base station controller  sends no power correction message.","If the transmit power of base station  and the transmit power of base station  have diverged beyond a threshold value X, then power control processor  computes the aligned transmit power for base station  and base station  and provides this transmit power level to packetizer . In the exemplary embodiment, power control processor  computes the average transmit power and transmits this average energy value to base stations  and . In a first alternative implementation, power control processor  computes the change needed in base station  and base station  and transmits the necessary change to each of base stations  and . In a second alternative embodiment, base station controller  provides a simple power modification command to either base station  or base station , in response to which base station  or  adjusts its transmit power by a fixed amount. Packetizer  incorporates the power control command into outgoing commands and provides the packet to router . Router  routes the power control command to base station  and base station .","In base station , the power control command is received by backhaul transceiver . Backhaul transceiver  provides the power control command to control processor . Control processor  generates a command to adjust the transmit power of the transmitter sending traffic signals to mobile station  and provides the command to transmit subsystem . Similarly, in base station , the power control command is received by backhaul transceiver . Backhaul transceiver  provides the power control command to control processor . Control processor  generates a command to adjust the transmit power of the transmitter sending traffic signals to mobile station  and provides the command to transmit subsystem .","In an alternative implementation, the correction to the transmit power is made incrementally over the time interval between adjustment commands. In the exemplary embodiment of this implementation, the adjustment is made during the period between receipt of adjustment commands from base station controller  and is made such that the adjustment is completed just prior to receiving the subsequent power adjustment command from base station controller .","V. Improved Method for Determining Aligned Transmit Power Level","In a first improved method for determining the aligned transmit power level, the computed aligned transmit power level is determined in accordance with a quality indicator for the reverse link power control feedback. The quality indicator can be based on the strength of the received reverse link pilot signal or alternatively on the time the pilot is in lock at each of the base stations. Alternatively, the quality indicator is based on the number of reverse link frame erasures at a given base station or the signal to interference ratio at mobile station  such as pilot E\/Nt summed over all fingers locked on a given base station.","In these improved methods of determining the aligned power level, base station controller  computes a weighted average of the different transmit powers from base stations  and . Power control processor  computes the weighted average and sends this weighted average to base stations  and . These methods improve the estimate of the aligned transmit power because they emphasize the transmit power of the base stations that have superior reverse link characteristics. Although, not perfectly correlated, the correlation between the forward link and the reverse link path losses is positive. In this weighted averaging fashion, the transmitter in the base station receiving the strongest reverse link is corrected the least.","VI. Soft Mapping Between Feedback Commands and Transmit Power Adjustment","In the sixth exemplary embodiment, the transmitters and\/or the control unit apply a soft mapping between the received feedback strength and the amount of transmit level adjustment. That is, the step size in the adjustment is a real number whose value depends on the value of the feedback command signal to noise ratio. A threshold can be set so that when the signal to noise ratio of the feedback is too low, the power control step size is zero. Additionally, when the feedback receiver at a transmitter is out of lock and no feedback SNR can be measured, there will be no corresponding adjustment for the transmit level. If a control unit has access to the quality of the feedback commands at the transmitters, it can use the same soft mapping to determine the most likely commands (for the first exemplary embodiment) or the most likely transmit level or traffic to pilot ratio based on the most recent feedback quality (for the second exemplary embodiment).","Turning to , the horizontal axis represents the signal to noise ratio (SNR) of the received reverse link feedback commands and the y axis is indicative of the amount of adjustment to the transmission power that is made in response to the power control command received at that level of SNR.  illustrates the general method where regardless of the signal to noise ratio of the feedback commands the transmission power is adjusted by a fixed amount.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0086","num":"0085"},"figref":"FIG. 7B"},"Referring to , if the soft mapping is performed in base station , then upon receipt of the power control command, control processor  would determine the signal to noise ratio of the reverse link signal at the time of receipt of the power control command. If the computed SNR exceeds the threshold then a signal indicative of power adjustment is provided from control processor  to transmit subsystem  indicating the adjustment of the transmission level. If the measured SNR falls below the threshold T, the transmission power is not adjusted.","If this soft mapping is performed in control unit , then base stations  and  send indications of the SNR of the power control commands back to control unit . Control unit  can either combine the SNR values of the two received signals and then map that into a computed adjustment or control unit  can compute the adjustment indicated for each of the received signals and combine the result. This computed adjustment is then provided to base stations  and .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0089","num":"0088"},"figref":"FIG. 7C"},"Referring to , if the soft mapping is performed in base station , then upon receipt of the power control command, control processor  would determine the signal to noise ratio of the reverse link signal at the time of receipt of the power control command. If the computed SNR exceeds the threshold then a signal indicative of power adjustment is provided from control processor  to transmit subsystem  indicating the adjustment of the transmission level. If the measured SNR falls below the threshold T, the transmission power is not adjusted.","If this soft mapping is performed in control unit , then base stations  and  send indications of the SNR of the power control commands back to control unit . Control unit  can either combine the SNR values of the two received signals and then map that into a computed adjustment or control unit  can compute the adjustment indicated for each of the received signals and combine the result. This computed adjustment is then provided to base stations  and .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0092","num":"0091"},"figref":"FIG. 7D"},"Referring to , if the soft mapping is performed in base station , then upon receipt of the power control command, control processor  would determine the signal to noise ratio of the reverse link signal at the time of receipt of the power control command. If the computed SNR exceeds the threshold then a signal indicative of the fixed power adjustment is provided from control processor  to transmit subsystem  indicating the adjustment of the transmission level. Otherwise a signal indicative of the varying transmission power adjustment is provided to transmit subsystem .","If this soft mapping is performed in control unit , then base stations  and  send indications of the SNR of the power control commands back to control unit . Control unit  can either combine the SNR values of the two received signals and then map that into a computed adjustment or control unit  can compute the adjustment indicated for each of the received signals and combine the result. This computed adjustment is then provided to base stations  and .","The previous description of the preferred embodiments is provided to enable any person skilled in the art to make or use the present invention. The various modifications to these embodiments will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art, and the generic principles defined herein may be applied to other embodiments without the use of the inventive faculty. Thus, the present invention is not intended to be limited to the embodiments shown herein but is to be accorded the widest scope consistent with the principles and novel features disclosed herein."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The features, objects, and advantages of the present invention will become more apparent from the detailed description set forth below when taken in conjunction with the drawings in which like reference characters identify correspondingly throughout and wherein:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":"FIGS. 7A-7D"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
