---
title: Dynamically customizing a user interface for the aggregation of content
abstract: Enabling dynamic aggregation of content from a plurality of content providers. The invention stores references associated with specific display areas in a document for a particular data source. Responsive to a request for the document, the invention retrieves the references associated with the data source and dynamically inserts the references into the appropriate display area of the document. A client renders the document by obtaining the content associated with the references. In an embodiment, the invention includes a web service for cobranding a login user interface for a user authentication system. The web service places cobranding content provided by an affiliate content provider and sign-in user interface content provided by a user authentication service into different frames of a single web page.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07293034&OS=07293034&RS=07293034
owner: Microsoft Coporation
number: 07293034
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20040223
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["TECHNICAL FIELD","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION"],"p":["Embodiments of the present invention relate to the field of user interfaces. In particular, embodiments of this invention relate to the dynamic aggregation of content from multiple content providers into separate display areas in a user interface.","Existing web pages use frames to separate the display of content in a web browser. The web pages are statically defined in that associations between the content and the appropriate frame are hard-coded into the definition of the web page. For example, a reference (e.g., a hyperlink) to a table-of-contents may be associated with a frame on the left side of the web page while a reference to a particular chapter may be associated with a frame on the right side of the web page. A web browser renders the web page by retrieving and displaying the table-of-contents in the left side frame and retrieving and displaying the particular chapter in the right side frame.","Altering the web page for another use requires manual intervention. For example, an administrator may wish to use the layout as described in the above example for a parts catalog. The administrator wants to display a list of parts in the left side frame and a specific part in the right side frame. The administrator has to manually edit the web page from the above example to remove the existing references to the table-of-contents and to the particular chapter and add the references to the list of parts and to the specific part. The existing systems fail to enable the dynamic insertion of references into a web page.","Accordingly, a system for dynamically generating a web page with specified references is desired to address one or more of these and other disadvantages.","Embodiments of the invention enable the dynamic generation of a document for aggregating content from a plurality of content providers. In an embodiment, the invention includes defining for a particular content provider a document having a plurality of display areas, receiving at least one content reference from a content provider, and associating the received reference with a display area identifier related to at least one of the plurality of display areas in the defined document. The embodiment of the invention further stores the associated reference, the display area identifier, and a content provider identifier associated with the content provider in a memory area. Responsive to a request from the particular content provider including the content provider identifier, the embodiment of the invention accesses the memory area to retrieve the stored reference and display area identifier. The embodiment of the invention inserts the retrieved reference into the document based on the retrieved display area identifier and sends the document with the inserted reference to the content provider or directly to a user.","In accordance with one aspect of the invention, a method includes defining a web page having a plurality of frames. The method further includes receiving a hyperlink from a content provider. The hyperlink identifies content associated with the content provider. The content provider has a content provider identifier associated therewith. The method also includes associating the received hyperlink with a frame identifier related to one of the plurality of frames in the defined web page. The method further includes storing the associated hyperlink, the frame identifier, and the content provider identifier in a memory area.","In accordance with another aspect of the invention, one or more computer-readable media have computer-executable components. The components include a template component, an interface component, and a memory component. The template component defines a document having a plurality of display areas. The interface component receives a reference from a content provider. The reference identifies content. The content provider has a content provider identifier associated therewith. The interface component associates the received reference with a display area identifier related to at least one of the plurality of display areas in the document defined by the template component. The memory component stores the reference, the display area identifier, and the content provider identifier in a memory area.","In accordance with yet another aspect of the invention, a system enables the dynamic aggregation of content from a plurality of content providers. The system includes a first memory area to store a document defining a plurality of display areas. The system also includes a second memory area to store a plurality of references each identifying content associated with a content provider. Each of the plurality of references is associated with one of the plurality of display areas in the document stored by the first memory area. The system also includes a computing device to dynamically insert each of the plurality of references stored in the second memory area into the associated display area of the document stored in the first memory area responsive to a request for the document.","In accordance with still another aspect of the invention, a web service provides a cobranded login user interface. The web service includes a web page defining a plurality of frames. The web service also includes a plurality of hyperlinks each identifying content associated with a content provider. Each of the plurality of hyperlinks is associated with one of the plurality of frames defined in the web page. The content for one of the plurality of hyperlinks includes a user name text box and a password text box. The web service further includes computer-executable instructions to dynamically insert each of the plurality of hyperlinks into the associated frame in the web page responsive to a request for the web page.","Alternatively, the invention may comprise various other methods and apparatuses.","Other features will be in part apparent and in part pointed out hereinafter.","Corresponding reference characters indicate corresponding parts throughout the drawings.","A portal web site offers computer-based services, such as e-mail, instant messaging, calendar, and portfolio tracking, and routes a user to affiliated web sites for performing the desired services. Users need to register at certain web sites to access services. Centralized password registration services enable a user to register at one place to access many sites. When a user subsequently visits a web site for which the user has registered, the web site performs user authentication. Although presently available multi-site user authentication systems or login services permit a web user to maintain a single login identifier and associated password for accessing multiple affiliated web servers or services, further improvements are desired.","Part of the typical process for authentication involves collecting credentials from the user. One approach for collecting credentials includes a web-based interface using hypertext markup language (HTML), hosted by the same web property operating the login service. One of the usability problems in some multi-site user authentication systems is the conceptual disconnect between the task that the user is trying to accomplish and the authentication process. For example, a user may be trying to access electronic mail at an electronic mail service, but clicking on a sign-in button takes the user out of this flow and into a page controlled by an authentication service. Such discontinuity in the user experience may lead to confusion. In addition to credential collection, other aspects of identity-management such as registering for a new account, password change, and editing data in user profile may be cobranded. The user may be more likely to proceed with an initial sign-in or registration process if the user can identify a connection with a known site and, thus, verify the implicit trust between affiliate and authentication web sites.","To avoid this problem, previous systems employed \u201ccobranding\u201d in which affiliated sites customize elements of the user experience associated with authentication. Presently available techniques for web sites to aggregate content (e.g., cobranding) between the sites require one site to physically host elements for the affiliated site. The hosting site must then render these elements from the centralized location. For services, which have many affiliates with diverse needs, the infrastructure needed to support such cobranding is extensive and costly to maintain. Inasmuch as conventional cobranding calls for the affiliate content to be maintained at the central site, affiliate sites also lack control and flexibility with respect to their cobranding elements. The prior systems also lack support for more advanced style features. Previous cobranding designs display the content from all data sources in a single frame in the web browser.","Some previous cobranding implementations also created a security vulnerability. The prior systems also display the content from all data sources in a single frame in the web browser that allows malicious content from the data sources to interact with other content in the frame. These prior systems execute a script in a web page aggregating the content to include content from an affiliate. Executing the script places unverified HTML content (e.g., active content such as JAVASCRIPT) from the affiliate in a web page. Scripting allows malicious interaction in the web page between content from different sources. For example, scripting allows a malicious or compromised affiliate to interfere with data collection by another web site by harvesting credentials, profile information, or credit card information from content associated with another affiliate.","Embodiments of the invention enable the dynamic aggregation of content from a plurality of content providers into a single document while maintaining separation between the content from different content providers. For example, a system according to an embodiment of the invention permits an affiliated site to dynamically insert its own branding elements and messaging with the centralized interfaces, or pages, provided by the multi-site user authentication system. This is referred to generally as cobranding and allows a web site to provide a consistent look and feel to the user even though the user has been routed from one site to another site to obtain a service (e.g., sign in, e-mail, calendar, etc.). The invention provides cobranding between affiliates while eliminating the need for extensive infrastructure at a central location for physically hosting elements for the other sites.","Distributed cobranding in this manner permits a centralized service to be seamlessly integrated with one or more affiliate services by dynamically inserting branding elements and messaging with the centralized pages. Cobranding allows affiliate websites partial control over the user interface of another web service to create a relatively seamless transition between affiliate websites when a user is directed between sites to complete a task such as authentication. Cobranding according to embodiments of the invention further provides flexibility to affiliates that want their brand and look-and-feel to be visible to the user during various operations or tasks (e.g., login).","Moreover, embodiments of the invention permit more advanced style features such as nested frames or customization functions (e.g., cascading style sheets). Rather than merely displaying the content from all data sources in a single frame in the web browser, aspects of the invention involve allowing third parties to author HTML content to be rendered in separate frames in a web browser to improve security.","In one embodiment, references (e.g., hyperlinks) to content from each content provider are dynamically inserted into a top-level document (e.g., a template document). A web site according to the invention stores the references to the content in a database. Responsive to a user request, the references are retrieved from the database and inserted into the top-level document dynamically. The invention determines which references to retrieve from the database using query string parameters (e.g., CBID, ID, or a default identifier, in that order) in the user request.","The invention in this embodiment renders a participating site's cobranding content in its own frame (or frames) via references such as hyperlinks. The content may include, but is not limited to, JAVASCRIPT, applets, and hypertext markup language (HTML) form controls. Also, because the content for each frame is loaded independently, each frame may use its own style sheet or background image. Further, code executing in one frame cannot access the contents of another frame unless the access attempt satisfies a security policy. For example, the security policy may include a comparison of the references of each frame involved in the access attempt to determine if the references are directed to the same content provider or web site. In this manner, two frames from the same web site may interact.","Further, the HTML seen by the user is exactly the HTML provided in the cobranding file. These features expand the flexibility of cobranding while greatly easing the time and effort needed to develop and debug cobranding content.","In an embodiment, the invention includes a web service for cobranding a login user interface for a user authentication system. The web service places cobranding content provided by an affiliate content provider and sign-in user interface content provided by a user authentication service into separate and different frames of a single web page. In one embodiment, the use of hypertext markup language (HTML) frames in a web browser achieves content separation and independence and prevents cross-domain access between frames so that content from one affiliate content provider cannot access content from another affiliate content provider. Another aspect of the invention allows each cobranded frame to specify its own encoding instead of formatting all cobranding content using the same character encoding as the login user interface. Specifying the encoding per frame increases the variety of content types to be aggregated in a single document.","Another aspect of the invention further provides security under various attack scenarios while maintaining superior flexibility (e.g., supporting many HTML features) and enabling the aggregation of unverified content from multiple content providers. In an embodiment, the invention provides a cobranding service that is secure against several attacks including, but not limited to, a man-in-the-middle attack against the user and an attack involving a compromised affiliate content provider serving malicious content. Embodiments of the invention meet the cobranding needs of affiliated sites, minimize the burden of hosting content at a centralized site, improve the security of cobranded pages, eases the development and debugging of cobranding content, enable flexible internationalization of cobranding, and are compatible with existing web browsers.","Cobranding with Frames","Referring first to , an exemplary embodiment of a cobranded document is shown. In this example, a top-level document  such as a web page defined by an extensible markup language template (XML) file displays a cobranded login user interface. In one embodiment, the top-level document is a self-contained piece of work created and saved as a file and a template is a specific example of a document. The web page, when loaded, displays a frameset containing multiple inline frames (e.g., iframes) as defined by the XML template file. The XML template file includes frameset dimensions and properties of the login frame. The appearance of a login frame  is modifiable via the XML template file.","The inline frameset isolates content from the various data sources. One of these frames includes the login frame  displaying user name and password fields. The content for the login frame  is obtained from a user authentication service. The cobranding frames  may include, for example, a participating web site's cobranding content that is loaded from the web site's server. The frames ,  and frame fragments are downloaded in parallel in one web browser implementation via a protocol such as hypertext transfer protocol secure (HTTPS).","Referring next to , a block diagram illustrates the relationship between a hypertext document and frames therein. A top-level document  such as top-level document  includes references such as hyperlinks to multiple frames (e.g., cobranding frames) such as frames , , and . Frame  may include references to other frames such as frames A and B. The functionality and operation of web browser frames are well known in the art.","The content of the cobranding frames is stored in one or more files hosted by the participating web site. The participating web site has control over the format (e.g., colors and fonts) and data (e.g., text, graphics, audio, and video) included in these files including the use of cascading style sheets (CSS), scripting, and other elements such as applets or form controls. A participating web site specifies character encoding and incorporates images, graphic elements, and text to surround the login frame and make the web page blend into the graphical scheme of the rest of the web site. The participating web site also has a limited ability to manipulate the appearance of the login frame to further improve the flow of the sign-in experience. In one embodiment, an inheritance mechanism enables the participating web site to inherit some or all of the properties of the top-level document or other containing frame. For example, properties that may be inherited include, but are not limited to, style properties such as color, font, and character encoding.","In a web browser embodiment, the invention provides backwards compatibility for web browsers, support for inline and regular frames depending on browser version, navigation buttons such as backward and forward buttons, explicit links in HTML for navigating backward and forward, and event handlers for script navigation. The invention prevents the harvesting of user-credentials or profile data assuming that the underlying protocols such as secure sockets layer are cryptographically secure and that the client web-browser is secure. The strict frame layout assigns each frame a specific location, size and z-index for controlling background versus foreground rendering on the page. Further, the invention may register an event handler on the top-level document that is triggered on navigation to further ensure separation of content.","According to an embodiment of the invention, the affiliated site dynamically inserts its own branding elements and\/or messaging with the centralized pages via hyperlinks, which may include authentication interfaces, provided by the multi-site user authentication system. This may also include areas, such as textboxes, where the user can interact with the user interface (UI), and it may also include hidden elements, and\/or code that the user does not see directly, but is used to communicate with the central system. For example, the central server content includes centralized registration, sign in, express purchase service pages, and the like. The affiliate site preferably specifies many aspects of the layout and content of the central network pages, with the exception of specific UI areas designated for use by the central pages. For example, specific UI areas are set aside to display forms used for the actual sign-in or registration process. Although described herein in connection with service cobranding in a multi-site user authentication system such as illustrated in , it is to be understood that the present invention is suitable for use in any number of environments. Centralized network environments generally benefit from aspects of the invention, allowing a distributed set of affiliate sites to aggregate content through the client browser as if it were a single site (or page). Thus, the invention provides a powerful tool for quickly building highly dynamic content without burdening the aggregating site with the cost of supporting the bandwidth required for serving the content.","Exemplary Network Environment","Referring next to , a block diagram illustrates one example of a suitable network environment in which the invention may be implemented.  illustrates an exemplary network environment in which the present invention is utilized. The invention relates to cross-network collaboration between web sites as part of a distributed, multi-site user authentication system. Such services provide a user with the ability to access one or more participating web sites or resources with a single sign-in. Although the participating, or affiliate, sites still maintain control over permissions, they use the authentication service rather than hosting and maintaining their own proprietary authentication systems. Although the invention is described in terms of a multi-site user authentication system, the invention is operable with any type and number of authentication systems.","In , one or more client computer systems  are coupled to a data communication network . In this example, the network  is the Internet (e.g., supporting the World Wide Web). However, the teachings of the present invention can be applied to any data communication network. Multiple affiliate servers  are also coupled to network . In turn, the client computer systems  can access the affiliate servers  via network . Affiliate servers  are also referred to as web servers or network servers.","Although authentication database  is shown separately from authentication server , it is to be understood that in other embodiments of the invention, authentication database  may be contained within authentication server . In a federated environment, for example, a plurality of authentication servers  may be used to provide authentication.","In one embodiment, the invention provides client aggregation of content between web sites, such as those hosted by affiliate servers  and by authentication server  as part of a distributed, multi-site user authentication system. In general, cobranding is a process by which the affiliate server  provides its own content to customize network pages provided by a central site such as the authentication server . The authentication server  displays pages that include both its own content and cobranded network server content from affiliate servers . An embodiment of the invention defines templates for each page that include cobranded content. The templates assign portion(s) of the user interface for content from the affiliate server  and portion(s) of the user interface for content from the authentication server .","Creating the Template","Referring next to , an exemplary flow chart illustrates operation of a procedure allowing a content provider to submit content references for dynamic inclusion in a template document. An embodiment of the invention includes a method of enabling the dynamic aggregation of content from a plurality of content providers. In particular, the method includes defining a document (e.g., a web page) having a plurality of display areas (e.g., frames) at . Defining includes specifying the size and positioning of each of the display areas as well as assigning a display area identifier (e.g., a string HTML ID) to each display area. In one implementation, an automated tool enables design and creation of this document as well as template files for each of the display areas. The defined document acts as a centralized web page in which portions (e.g., the display areas) are specified to receive content (e.g., a logo) from a participating affiliate server.","In one embodiment, the frames are adjacent. In other embodiments, the frames exhibit overlap or space exists between the frames. In a web browser embodiment, the frames are rectangular. In other embodiments, the frames take the form of other shapes as supported by the particular markup language implementing the invention.","The method further includes receiving at least one reference from at least one content provider at . In one embodiment, the method includes receiving content from a plurality of content providers. The received reference, or set of references, identifies content hosted by an affiliate server. The affiliate server updates or modifies the content. In one embodiment, the reference is a hyperlink comprising a network address such as a uniform resource locator (URL). In one example, the affiliate server may also provide cascading style sheets (CSS) to modify the appearance of the HTML in the affiliate display areas on the defined document at a style level as desired by the affiliate servers. The CSS file allows the affiliate server to change basic style elements such as text colors, fonts, and vertical spacing between paragraphs for the display areas associated with the affiliate. In one example, the CSS URL that is registered with the invention may also have query string parameters added to it thus allowing the affiliate server to dynamically change the styles defined by the cascading style sheet. In addition, the affiliate server may supply some CSS attributes to modify the style of the display areas associated with the central site. These attributes are \u201csafe\u201d attributes including, but not limited to, font type, font size, and color. Responsive to a request from the affiliate server, an embodiment of the invention automatically generates an inline CSS on the fly based on the information that the affiliate server has provided. This improves security by ensuring that the content provided by the affiliate server is safe to include within the document.","An affiliate sets the style for the display areas associated with the affiliate by providing the content (e.g., HTML) for the display areas. However, the content provided by the affiliate does not influence the style for the display areas associated with the central site. Instead, the affiliate may express various preferences such as frame sizes, positioning, z-index, and customizable attributes for the display areas provided by the central site. For example, the affiliate may ask the central site to use a font consistent with the affiliate's content. The preferences (along with the references for each display area) are expressed in a file such as shown below. In the example below, the file is an XML document provided to the central site by the affiliate server during setup. The central site stores the preferences including the references. A portion of an exemplary XML document specifying preferences is shown below:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0048","num":"0047"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00001","num":"00001"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"49pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"168pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"<LayOut ident=\u201cLogin\u201d>"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003<TopLevel>Design#1<\/TopLevel>"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003<FrameSrc name=\u201cHeader\u201d>"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003http:\/\/pageA.net\/welcome"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003<\/FrameSrc>"]},{"entry":[{},"<\/LayOut>"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}}}}},"The method also includes receiving a content provider identifier associated with the content provider at . The method further includes associating the received reference with a display area identifier related to at least one of the plurality of display areas in the defined document at . The method also includes storing the associated reference, the display area identifier, and the content provider identifier in a memory area such as a database at .","When the affiliate server redirects the user to the defined document (e.g., hosted by another web server such as an authentication server), the affiliate server identifies a set of references stored in the memory area (e.g., through the user of query string parameters). The defined document is populated with the identified set of references. The user's web browser or other user interface operates to retrieve the content specified by the set of references (see ).","For example, an XML document populated with the references specific to the affiliate server may appear as follows:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0052","num":"0051"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00002","num":"00002"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"189pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"<HTML>"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003<FRAME src= http:\/\/pageA.net\/welcome>"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003<FRAME src= http:\/\/pageB.net\/header?cb=...>"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003..."]},{"entry":[{},"<\/HTML>"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}}}}},"In a particular embodiment, the method includes defining a web page having a plurality of frames and receiving a hyperlink from a content provider. The hyperlink identifies content associated with the content provider. The method also includes associating the received hyperlink with a frame identifier related to one of the plurality of frames in the defined web page. The method includes storing the associated hyperlink, the frame identifier, and the content provider identifier in a memory area.","One or more computer-readable media have computer-executable instructions for performing the method illustrated in .","Dynamically Creating the Document","Referring next to , an exemplary flow diagram describes the dynamic aggregation of content from multiple content providers into a single document. In general, the method includes receiving a request for the document at . The request comprises the content provider identifier. Responsive to the received request, the method includes retrieving the stored reference and display area identifier based on the content provider identifier at . The method also includes inserting the retrieved reference into the document based on the retrieved display area identifier at . The method further includes sending the document with the reference to a client computing device at . An application program (e.g., a web browser) executing on the client computing device renders the document with the reference by retrieving the content from the content provider via the reference and displaying the retrieved content in the display area identified by the display area identifier. In an alternative embodiment, the method sends the document to the content provider for delivery to the client computing device.","One or more computer-readable media have computer-executable instructions for performing the method illustrated in .","Referring next to , an exemplary flow diagram illustrates the interaction between a client computer such as client computer  executing a client web browser , an affiliate server  such as affiliate server , and an authentication server  such as authentication server  when a user of the client computer seeks access to the affiliate server . According to the invention, the affiliate server  registers information with the authentication server  prior to the process flow shown in  to permit the authentication server  to obtain the branding content desired by the affiliate server . The lines in  labeled \u201cA\u201d through \u201cF\u201d represent the flow of information or activities during the cobranding process. The arrows on the lines indicate the direction of the process flow. The label \u201cA\u201d represents the beginning of the process and the label \u201cF\u201d represents the end of the process. In an embodiment, process flows indicated by lines B-F occur sequentially in a single page render to the client browser  resulting from the process flow indicated by line A.","In the exemplary process flow of , the user of the client browser  seeks access to the affiliate server . In this example, the user initiates an HTTP GET command to a selected site hosted by the affiliate server  (see flow indicated by reference character A in ). The affiliate server  redirects the client browser  to a centralized page at the authentication server  via an HTTP or HTTPS link. In an embodiment of the invention, the link includes the keywords ID={registered affiliate identification} and CB={callback string given to client to allow cobranding at page level}. During registration, the affiliate server  provided the authentication server  (or other server) with references linked to content provided by the affiliate server . The authentication server  previously stored the references using an identifier associated with the affiliate server  as an index to later retrieve the references.","The affiliate server  redirects the client browser  to the authentication server  with the CB query string parameter set to a chosen string or character value, passing this information as strings in the URL. (See B). The client browser  responds by issuing an HTTP or HTTPS GET command to the authentication server . (See C). The authentication server  uses the ID keyword for the particular affiliate server  to look up the references stored by the authentication server  (or other server). The authentication server  performs a lookup based on the value of the incoming ID=keyword on the query string to obtain the references stored for the affiliate server . The authentication server  dynamically inserts the stored references into a web page and delivers the dynamically created web page to the client browser . (See D). When rendering the web page received from the authentication server , the client browser  downloads content (e.g., from the affiliate server ) associated with the references in the web page. (See E and F).","This technique provides the impression that the page is fully rendered by the affiliate server  when portions are actually rendered by the authentication server . Moreover, the central site need not host all cobranding elements for every affiliate server , which reduces its infrastructure needs.","Exemplary System Structure","Referring next to , a block diagram illustrates the relationships between a client computing device , a web service computing device , and memory areas ,  for implementing the invention. The components illustrated in  may be located on one computer-readable medium and\/or computing device. Alternatively, the components may be distributed across any quantity of computer-readable media and\/or computing devices communicating via a network .","The exemplary system of  enables the dynamic aggregation of content from a plurality of content providers. The system includes a first memory area , a second memory area , the web service computing device , and the client computing device . The first memory area  stores a document (e.g., a template web page ) defining a plurality of display areas. The second memory area  stores a list  or plurality of references and associated frame identifiers. The references each identify content associated with a content provider. Each of the plurality of references is associated with one of the plurality of display areas via the frame identifiers in the document stored by the first memory area . In one embodiment, the second memory area  stores a list of the references and frame identifiers indexed by content provider identifier. The first memory area  and the second memory area  may be the same or different databases and may be located within the same or different computer-readable media.","The web service computing device  dynamically inserts each of the plurality of references stored in the second memory area  into the associated display area of the document stored in the first memory area  responsive to a request for the document from the client computing device . The web service computing device  sends the document with the references to the client computing device . The client computing device  includes a client application program  (e.g., a web browser) executing to render the document received from the web service computing device  by retrieving content via the references.","In one embodiment, the web service computing device  has associated therewith at least one computer-readable medium  having computer-executable components for enabling the dynamic aggregation of content from a plurality of content providers. The components include a template component , an interface component , a memory component , and a generation component . The template component  defines the document (e.g., the template web page ) with the plurality of display areas and stores the document in a memory area such as the first memory area . The interface component  receives a reference from a content provider and associates the received reference with a display area identifier related to at least one of the plurality of display areas in the document defined by the template component . The memory component  stores the reference, the display area identifier, and the content provider identifier in a memory area such as the second memory area .","The interface component  further receives a request for the document. The request includes a content provider identifier. The memory component , responsive to the request received by the interface component , retrieves the stored reference and display area identifier from the second memory area  based on the content provider identifier. The generation component  inserts the reference retrieved by the memory component  into the document based on the display area identifier retrieved by the memory component . The interface component  sends the document with the reference inserted by the generation component  to the client computing device . An application program executing on the client computing device  renders the document with the reference by retrieving the content from the content provider via the reference and displaying the retrieved content in the display area identified by the display area identifier.","Exemplary Operating Environment",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0066","num":"0065"},"figref":"FIG. 8","b":["130","130","130","132","134","136","134","132","136"]},"The computer  typically has at least some form of computer readable media. Computer readable media, which include both volatile and nonvolatile media, removable and non-removable media, may be any available medium that may be accessed by computer . By way of example and not limitation, computer readable media comprise computer storage media and communication media. Computer storage media include volatile and nonvolatile, removable and non-removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions, data structures, program modules or other data. For example, computer storage media include RAM, ROM, EEPROM, flash memory or other memory technology, CD-ROM, digital versatile disks (DVD) or other optical disk storage, magnetic cassettes, magnetic tape, magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices, or any other medium that may be used to store the desired information and that may be accessed by computer . Communication media typically embody computer readable instructions, data structures, program modules, or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and include any information delivery media. Those skilled in the art are familiar with the modulated data signal, which has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. Wired media, such as a wired network or direct-wired connection, and wireless media, such as acoustic, RF, infrared, and other wireless media, are examples of communication media. Combinations of the any of the above are also included within the scope of computer readable media.","The system memory  includes computer storage media in the form of removable and\/or non-removable, volatile and\/or nonvolatile memory. In the illustrated embodiment, system memory  includes read only memory (ROM)  and random access memory (RAM) . A basic input\/output system  (BIOS), containing the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within computer , such as during start-up, is typically stored in ROM . RAM  typically contains data and\/or program modules that are immediately accessible to and\/or presently being operated on by processing unit . By way of example, and not limitation,  illustrates operating system , application programs , other program modules , and program data .","The computer  may also include other removable\/non-removable, volatile\/nonvolatile computer storage media. For example,  illustrates a hard disk drive  that reads from or writes to non-removable, nonvolatile magnetic media.  also shows a magnetic disk drive  that reads from or writes to a removable, nonvolatile magnetic disk , and an optical disk drive  that reads from or writes to a removable, nonvolatile optical disk  such as a CD-ROM or other optical media. Other removable\/non-removable, volatile\/nonvolatile computer storage media that may be used in the exemplary operating environment include, but are not limited to, magnetic tape cassettes, flash memory cards, digital versatile disks, digital video tape, solid state RAM, solid state ROM, and the like. The hard disk drive , and magnetic disk drive  and optical disk drive  are typically connected to the system bus  by a non-volatile memory interface, such as interface .","The drives or other mass storage devices and their associated computer storage media discussed above and illustrated in , provide storage of computer readable instructions, data structures, program modules and other data for the computer . In , for example, hard disk drive  is illustrated as storing operating system , application programs , other program modules , and program data . Note that these components may either be the same as or different from operating system , application programs , other program modules , and program data . Operating system , application programs , other program modules , and program data  are given different numbers here to illustrate that, at a minimum, they are different copies.","A user may enter commands and information into computer  through input devices or user interface selection devices such as a keyboard  and a pointing device  (e.g., a mouse, trackball, pen, or touch pad). Other input devices (not shown) may include a microphone, joystick, game pad, satellite dish, scanner, or the like. These and other input devices are connected to processing unit  through a user input interface  that is coupled to system bus , but may be connected by other interface and bus structures, such as a parallel port, game port, or a Universal Serial Bus (USB). A monitor  or other type of display device is also connected to system bus  via an interface, such as a video interface . In addition to the monitor , computers often include other peripheral output devices (not shown) such as a printer and speakers, which may be connected through an output peripheral interface (not shown).","The computer  may operate in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers, such as a remote computer . The remote computer  may be a personal computer, a server, a router, a network PC, a peer device or other common network node, and typically includes many or all of the elements described above relative to computer . The logical connections depicted in  include a local area network (LAN)  and a wide area network (WAN) , but may also include other networks. LAN  and\/or WAN  may be a wired network, a wireless network, a combination thereof, and so on. Such networking environments are commonplace in offices, enterprise-wide computer networks, intranets, and global computer networks (e.g., the Internet).","When used in a local area networking environment, computer  is connected to the LAN  through a network interface or adapter . When used in a wide area networking environment, computer  typically includes a modem  or other means for establishing communications over the WAN , such as the Internet. The modem , which may be internal or external, is connected to system bus  via the user input interface , or other appropriate mechanism. In a networked environment, program modules depicted relative to computer , or portions thereof, may be stored in a remote memory storage device (not shown). By way of example, and not limitation,  illustrates remote application programs  as residing on the memory device. The network connections shown are exemplary and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers may be used.","Generally, the data processors of computer  are programmed by means of instructions stored at different times in the various computer-readable storage media of the computer. Programs and operating systems are typically distributed, for example, on floppy disks or CD-ROMs. From there, they are installed or loaded into the secondary memory of a computer. At execution, they are loaded at least partially into the computer's primary electronic memory. The invention described herein includes these and other various types of computer-readable storage media when such media contain instructions or programs for implementing the steps described below in conjunction with a microprocessor or other data processor. The invention also includes the computer itself when programmed according to the methods and techniques described herein.","For purposes of illustration, programs and other executable program components, such as the operating system, are illustrated herein as discrete blocks. It is recognized, however, that such programs and components reside at various times in different storage components of the computer, and are executed by the data processor(s) of the computer.","Although described in connection with an exemplary computing system environment, including computer , the invention is operational with numerous other general purpose or special purpose computing system environments or configurations. The computing system environment is not intended to suggest any limitation as to the scope of use or functionality of the invention. Moreover, the computing system environment should not be interpreted as having any dependency or requirement relating to any one or combination of components illustrated in the exemplary operating environment. Examples of well known computing systems, environments, and\/or configurations that may be suitable for use with the invention include, but are not limited to, personal computers, server computers, hand-held or laptop devices, multiprocessor systems, microprocessor-based systems, set top boxes, programmable consumer electronics, mobile telephones, network PCs, minicomputers, mainframe computers, distributed computing environments that include any of the above systems or devices, and the like.","The invention may be described in the general context of computer-executable instructions, such as program modules, executed by one or more computers or other devices. Generally, program modules include, but are not limited to, routines, programs, objects, components, and data structures that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. The invention may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment, program modules may be located in both local and remote computer storage media including memory storage devices.","An interface in the context of a software architecture includes a software module, component, code portion, or other sequence of computer-executable instructions. The interface includes, for example, a first module accessing a second module to perform computing tasks on behalf of the first module. The first and second modules include, in one example, application programming interfaces (APIs) such as provided by operating systems, component object model (COM) interfaces (e.g., for peer-to-peer application communication), and extensible markup language metadata interchange format (XMI) interfaces (e.g., for communication between web services).","The interface may be a tightly coupled, synchronous implementation such as in Java 2 Platform Enterprise Edition (J2EE), COM, or distributed COM (DCOM) examples. Alternatively or in addition, the interface may be a loosely coupled, asynchronous implementation such as in a web service (e.g., using the simple object access protocol). In general, the interface includes any combination of the following characteristics: tightly coupled, loosely coupled, synchronous, and asynchronous. Further, the interface may conform to a standard protocol, a proprietary protocol, or any combination of standard and proprietary protocols.","The interfaces described herein may all be part of a single interface or may be implemented as separate interfaces or any combination therein. The interfaces may execute locally or remotely to provide functionality. Further, the interfaces may include additional or less functionality than illustrated or described herein.","In operation, computer  executes computer-executable instructions such as those illustrated in  and  to implement the invention.","While the invention is described with reference to authentication and cobranding, the invention is limited to neither. The invention is applicable to any environment in which content is aggregated from multiple content providers into separate display areas in a single document. The display areas have certain properties as described herein. For example, one implementation of the invention uses frames in a web browser as supported by a hypertext markup language (HTML), but other implementations may use other features of other markup languages not specifically described herein.","Further, the client through which the content is communicated to the user may be a computing device such as computer , an application program, or both. Any clients exhibiting content separation properties such as those associated with web browser frames are suitable for use with the invention. Exemplary clients include a cellular telephone (e.g., a smartphone device), a pager, and a handheld computing device (e.g., a personal digital assistant or a Pocket PC device). Further, the client may include any of the above exemplary devices enabled with an information service such as a SMART PERSONAL OBJECTS TECHNOLOGY (SPOT) brand of telecommunication service and\/or devices. The information service comprises a computing infrastructure (e.g., a telecommunication service) for sending data and information to personal and home devices via computer networks, wireless networks and the Internet. The clients which may be enabled with the information service include, but are not limited to, the following devices: clocks, alarm clocks, radios incorporating clocks, watches, billfolds, wallets, checkbook and passbook wallets, purses, pens, metal key rings, key holders, wireless devices, computer hardware (e.g., peripherals, monitors, and displays), electronic calendar devices, and refrigerator magnets. Further, magazines, books, and user manuals relating to computers, computer programs, personal information devices and wireless communications may also incorporate the information service. The information service enables billions of devices to communicate with each other. For example, customers select the type of information and services they want to receive on the enabled devices via a configuration web page. This content is subsequently beamed to and displayed on the device. Information available to users on devices using the information service includes personal messages, calendar updates, and customized news, weather, financial and sports information.","The order of execution or performance of the methods illustrated and described herein is not essential, unless otherwise specified. That is, elements of the methods may be performed in any order, unless otherwise specified, and that the methods may include more or less elements than those disclosed herein.","When introducing elements of the present invention or the embodiment(s) thereof, the articles \u201ca,\u201d \u201can,\u201d \u201cthe,\u201d and \u201csaid\u201d are intended to mean that there are one or more of the elements. The terms \u201ccomprising,\u201d \u201cincluding,\u201d and \u201chaving\u201d are intended to be inclusive and mean that there may be additional elements other than the listed elements.","In view of the above, it will be seen that the several objects of the invention are achieved and other advantageous results attained.","As various changes could be made in the above constructions, products, and methods without departing from the scope of the invention, it is intended that all matter contained in the above description and shown in the accompanying drawings shall be interpreted as illustrative and not in a limiting sense."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 8"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
