---
title: Computer game development factory system and method
abstract: A system and method are disclosed for facilitating development of computer games that depict or represent actual geographic locales or imaginary locales as part of the play scenarios of the games. A computer game factory system includes inventories of map data products, road models, 3D models, game shells, and game engines. Configuration parameters identify which components to select from the inventories to produce games for various different computer platforms. The selected components are combined with a geographic data API and geographic data tools to produce computer games.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07967678&OS=07967678&RS=07967678
owner: Navteq North America, LLC
number: 07967678
owner_city: Chicago
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20040311
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PRESENTLY PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS"],"p":["The present application is related to copending patent applications entitled \u201cMETHOD AND SYSTEM FOR USING GEOGRAHIC DATA IN COMPUTER GAME DEVELOPMENT\u201d Ser. No. 10\/798,459, \u201cAPPLICATION PROGRAMMING INTERFACE FOR GEOGRAPHIC DATA IN COMPUTER GAMES\u201d, Ser. No. 10\/798,531, and \u201cGEOGRAPHIC AREA TEMPLATES FOR COMPUTER GAMES\u201d, Ser. No. 10\/798,632, the entire disclosures of which are incorporated by reference herein.","The present invention relates to a system and method that facilitate development of computer games and more particularly, a system and method that facilitate development of computer games that include representations of geographic areas, including such features as the road networks in the geographic areas.","Computer games have developed in sophistication and commercial importance. Improvements in computer hardware and software have enabled computer games to provide realistic graphics and sound. With these advances, computer game users have come to expect that games meet high standards for richness and attention to detail. Some computer games, such as road race games, represent real world places as part of the playing scenarios of the games. With these types of games, users expect convincing depictions of the real world with attention to accuracy and detail.","Computer game developers have recognized the need to provide realistic depictions of actual real world places in computer games. This has placed a burden on computer game developers to obtain the data needed to portray geographic places with realistic detail and accuracy. The collection of such detailed geographic data about real world roads, places, etc., is time-consuming and expensive. Further, the collection of detailed real world data diverts the resources of computer game developers away from other important aspects of computer game creation, such as characters, story lines, and strategies. Thus, there exists a need to facilitate the collection and use of geographic data by game developers.","Another consideration related to the development of computer games that depict geographic places relates to providing a variety of different locales. Even if a computer game developer collects all the data needed to depict a particular real world locale (such as a city) with the richness and detail expected by game players, the game play scenario is limited to only that particular locale. This may limit the appeal of the computer game. Therefore, it may be advantageous for a computer game developer to provide games that depict a variety of different real world locales. However, if a computer game developer wants to provide a game with different real world locales, the developer is required to collect geographic data for each different locale, thus incurring further considerable expense.","Still another consideration related to the development of computer games that depict geographic places concerns providing games on a variety of different hardware platforms. There exist a variety of different hardware platforms on which computer games are played. These different hardware platforms have different resources, such as memory, processor speed, user interface, etc. In addition, there are multi-player games that can involve a variety of different platforms intended to work together. Developing games that utilize the available resources of different computer platforms also presents a challenge to game developers.","Accordingly, it is an objective to provide ways to make computer games that represent actual real world places.","It is another objective to facilitate the representation of actual physical real world places or imaginary places in computer games.","To address these and other objectives, the present invention includes a system and method for facilitating development of computer games that depict or represent actual geographic locales or imaginary locales as part of the play scenarios of the games. A computer game factory system includes inventories of map data products, road models, 3D models, game shells, and game engines. Configuration parameters identify which components to select from the inventories to produce computer games for various different computer platforms. The selected components are combined with a geographic data API and geographic data tools to produce computer games.","I. Source Geographic Database","The embodiments disclosed herein relate to computer games that depict real or imaginary geographic locales as part of the play scenarios of the computer games. For example, the play scenarios may involve a car chase through the streets of Miami, Fla., a treasure hunt through the countries of Europe, a flight simulator game over Texas, and so on. Game play scenarios may also involve imaginary places, such as a southern California-style city. Game play scenarios may also involve playing in real world places in time periods other than the current (e.g., London 1500 A.D. or Chicago 2150 A.D.). In the embodiments disclosed herein, geographic data used in the computer games is obtained from a map data developer (also referred to as a \u201cgeographic database developer\u201d or the like). In these embodiments, the map data developer collects, confirms, updates, processes and distributes geographic data for other, non-game related purposes, such as navigation-related purposes.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["100","101","100","102","104","104","104","104","100","100","104","104"]},"The master version of the geographic database  includes data about a road network  located in the coverage area . The data about the road network  include various kinds of information, such as the geographic coordinates of positions of the roads, street names of the roads, addresses ranges along the roads, turn restrictions at intersections of roads, and so on. The master version of the geographic database  also includes data about points of interest in the covered area . Points of interest may include hotels, restaurants, museums, stadiums, offices, automobile dealerships, auto repair shops, etc. The master version of the geographic database  may include data about the locations of these points of interests. The master version of the geographic database  may also include data about places, such as cities, towns, or other communities, and other geographic features, such as bodies of water, mountain ranges, etc. The master version of the geographic database  may include other kinds of information.","There are different ways used by the geographic database developer to collect data. These ways include obtaining data from other sources, such as municipalities. In addition, the geographic database developer may employ field personnel to travel by vehicles along roads throughout the geographic region to observe features and record information about them. The data collected by the geographic database developer are stored in the master version of the geographic database .","The geographic database developer  continues to collect data that represent the features in the geographic coverage area  on an ongoing basis. One reason that the geographic database developer continues to collect data is that the features in the coverage area  change over time. Accordingly, the geographic database developer collects data about the same features in order to update or confirm the previously collected data about the features. Another reason that the geographic database developer continues to collect data is to expand the coverage and\/or detail of the master version of the geographic database . For example, at one point in time the master version of the geographic database  may include data that represents only a portion of the entire coverage area . After that point in time, the geographic database developer collects data about features in areas that were not previously represented in order to expand the coverage of the master version of the geographic database .","The master version of the geographic database  is maintained as the copy that has the most up-to-date data relating to the coverage area . Accordingly, the master version of the geographic database  is updated, expanded, and\/or otherwise modified on a regular and continuing basis. To facilitate these operations, the master version of the geographic database  is stored in a format that facilitates updating, maintenance, and development. For example, the data in the master version  may be uncompressed. Examples of suitable formats include the VSAM format and the GDF format, although other kinds of formats, both proprietary and non-proprietary, may be suitable. In general, the format of the master database  is not suitable for use in navigation systems.","A copy of the master version of the geographic database  is physically located at a first location . In one embodiment, the master version of the geographic database  is stored on one or more hard drives, tapes or other media, and accessed with an appropriate computer . Any suitable computer may be used, such as a mainframe computer, a plurality of networked microcomputers, etc.","Referring to , the master version of the geographic database  is used to make database products  for navigation purposes and database products  for computer games. The database products  and  are made using a compiler . The compiler  is a software program run on an appropriate computer platform. In the present embodiment, the database products  used for computer games are made using the same compiler used to make geographic databases  used for navigation purposes. In alternative embodiments, separate compilers are used to make the map database products  used for navigation purposes and the map database products  used for computer games.","The database products  and  may include only portions of all the data in the master version of the geographic database . For example, the database products  and  may include data that relate to only one or more specific sub-areas within the coverage area  of the master version of the geographic database . Further, the database products  and  may include fewer than all the data attributes that describe geographic features represented in the master version of the geographic database .","The database products  and  are used on various kinds of computing platforms. The computing platforms  used for navigation purposes include in-vehicle navigation systems, hand-held portable navigation systems, personal computers (including desktop and notebook computers), and other kinds of devices, such as personal digital assistant (PDA) devices, pagers, telephones, cell phones, etc. The compiled database products  are also used on networked computing platforms and environments, including systems connected to the Internet.","The database products  that are used for navigation purposes are stored on suitable media in their respective computing platforms. For example, the database products  may be stored on CD-ROM disks, hard drives, DVD disks, flash memory, or other types of media that are available now or that become available in the future.","On the computing platforms  used for navigation, the database products  are used by various software applications. For example, the database products  may be used by software applications that provide navigation-related functions, such as route calculation, route guidance, vehicle positioning, map display, and electronic yellow pages, as well as other kinds of functions.","As stated above, in addition to producing database products  for use in computing platforms used for navigation, the geographic database developer  produces database products  for use in computer games. The database products  are provided to one or more computer game developers  (only one of which is shown in ). The database product  used by the computer game developer  may be the same or similar to the database products  used for navigation. The database products  used by the computer game developer  may be provided on a suitable media, such as one or more CD-ROM disks, DVD disks, or hard drives. Alternatively, the database products  used by the computer game developer  may be provided over a network connection.","The computer game developer  uses data from the geographic database products , along with other data and components (as explained below), to create one or more computer games . The computer games  created by the computer game developer  may include some or all the data from the database products . Alternatively, the computer games  may include data derived from or based on the data from the database products . The geographic data in the computer games  may be in a different format than the data contained in the database products .","The computer games  created using the data from the database products  provide for representing geographic features in play scenarios of the computer games. The geographic features represented in the computer games  produced using the database products  include features located in the respective coverage areas of the database products . These geographic features may include some or all the road networks represented by the geographic databases . The computer games  are installed on appropriate computer platforms . The computer platforms  on which the computer games  are installed may include personal computers, game consoles, PDAs, handheld game devices, mobile phones, networked computers, and so on. Users access the computer games  on the computer platforms  to play.","II. Computer Games Factory System",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 2","FIG. 3","FIG. 3"],"b":["150","130","132","150","150","160","178","180","190","200","150","210"]},"The map products inventory  includes the database products  for games provided by the map data developer . In the embodiment of , the map products inventory  includes a plurality of the different map database products . The map database products  include representations of geographic features in different locales. The types of geographic features that are represented include, for example, the road networks, points of interest, lakes, administrative boundaries, and other geographic features. In the embodiment of , the map products inventory  includes separate map products  (i.e., geographic databases) that represent the road networks and other geographic features in different geographic locales. For example, the map products inventory  includes geographic database products that represent the different locales of New York, Chicago, Los Angeles, and Paris. (There may be map products that represent various other locales in addition to these.) Furthermore, for some of the locales, the map products inventory  includes separate map products that represent features in that locale differently. For example, for some of the locales there are separate database products that represent the features with high accuracy, with medium accuracy, with low accuracy, for pedestrians, for aircraft, and for bicycles. (There may be map products that represent various other types in addition to these.) The high accuracy database products include a relatively large amount of detail about the geographic features in the respective locales and also represent the geographic features relatively accurately. The medium accuracy database products include a relatively lesser amount of detail about the geographic features in the respective locale and represent the features with a relatively lower accuracy. The low accuracy database products include an even lesser amount of detail about the geographic features in the respective locale and represent the features with an even relatively lower accuracy. The pedestrian database products include geographic data pertinent to travel on foot in the respective locale. For example, the pedestrian map database products include information about sidewalks, footpaths, hiking trails, etc., but may not include information about expressways. The aircraft database products may include information about terrain, airport runways, building heights, etc., but may exclude street names, address ranges, etc. The bicycle database products may include information about bike paths, etc., but exclude airport runways. As stated above, there may be map products for many other locales and many other types of map products in the map products inventory .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0037"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":["166","118","166","101","166","130"]},"In a first step of the process , a geographic locale is selected (Step ). The locale may be a metropolitan area, a state, province, or country. Alternatively, the locale may be an arbitrarily defined area, e.g., an area defined by specified geographic boundaries.","After the locale is selected, a type is selected (Step ). The type may include standard (auto), pedestrian, aircraft, bicycle, etc. Other types may be defined.","After the type is specified, an accuracy level is selected (Step ). Levels may be specified in general terms (e.g., \u201chigh\u201d, \u201cmedium\u201d or \u201clow\u201d) or specific terms (e.g., 1 meter, 5 meter, 100 meter).","Once the locale, type, and accuracy levels are specified, data are retrieved from the master geographic database  that match the specified criteria (Step ). For example, a spatial query is used to identify and retrieve data records that represent geographic features located in the specified locale. Similarly, other queries are used to limit the retrieved data to only those records of the specified type and accuracy.","Once the data that meet the specified criteria have been obtained from the master database , the data are organized into an appropriate format (Step ). This may include compiling the data into a format in which it can be accessed and used in a computer game running on a given hardware platform. This process may include the formation of new types of data, the addition of indexes, parcelization, spatial organization and compression. Processes for forming a compiled database product are described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 5,974,419, 5,953,722, 5,968,109 and 6,047,280, the entire disclosures of which are incorporated by reference herein.","(In addition to including map database products that represent actual, real world locales, the map products inventory may include map products that represent imaginary locales. These imaginary locales may be produced using the embodiments described in the copending application entitled \u201cGEOGRAPHIC AREA TEMPLATES FOR COMPUTER GAMES\u201d, Ser. No. 10\/798,632, the entire disclosure of which is incorporated by reference herein.)","Referring again to , the game factory system  also includes the road models inventory . The road models inventory  includes a plurality of road model databases. The data in the road model databases include representations used for visual appearance and rendering of road-related things, such as road colors, road pavement, lane stripes, curbs, sidewalks, signs, lampposts, lane dividers, traffic signals, speed bumps, crosswalks, and so on. When forming a computer game, these road model representations are associated with the data representation of the road network obtained from one of the geographic databases . The reason for this is that the data in the geographic database  is (or is derived from) a representation of a road network used for navigation. As such, the data in the geographic database  may not indicate what roads, or things associated with a road, look like. For example, in the geographic database , a data representation of a road may indicate the locations (e.g., geographic coordinates) of intersections, and possibly the locations of points along a road segment between intersections, the legal (and illegal) connections between roads, the names of roads, the addresses ranges along roads, the type of road surface, and so on. However, in the geographic database , a data representation of a road may not contain information that indicates the actual visual shapes, colors, dimensions, etc., of these road-related things. For example, in the geographic database , a data representation of a road may not indicate the colors of a road, curbs, sidewalks, what a sign looks like, and so on. The road model databases include these types of information.","The data representations of road-related things in the road models database are also used for providing other properties of the represented things, such as the physical and audio properties. For example, causing a simulated vehicle to move over a simulated curb causes the simulated vehicle to \u201cbump.\u201d Similarly, a simulated vehicle \u201chitting\u201d a simulated lamppost causes a simulated crashing sound.","Each road model database may include a variety of different data models for some types of road-related things. For example, a road models database include several different types of traffic signal configurations. These different types of traffic signal configurations are used to provide variety and to make the representation of the road network appear more realistic, i.e., so that all the traffic signal configurations do not look the same.","The road models inventory  includes a plurality of different road model databases. Each of these different road models databases includes models that are appropriate for a different type of locale. For example, a road models database for London will include data models for the way road signs look in London, whereas a road models database for New York will includes data models for the way road signs look in New York. Similarly, a road models database for an aircraft simulator game will include models for the way airports look from overhead, whereas a road models database for a pedestrian game will include data models for the way an airport looks on foot.","The 3D model inventory  includes a plurality of 3D model databases. The 3D model data in the 3D model databases includes representations used for visual appearance and rendering of cityscape and landscape-related things, such as buildings, fences, trees, shrubbery, lawns, fences, clouds, scenery, and so on. Like the road models, these 3D model representations are associated with locations along the road network data as represented by data from the geographic database . Furthermore, like the road models databases, there are a plurality of 3D models databases that include 3D models appropriate for different types of locales. For example, a 3D models database for Paris will include 3D data models for the way buildings look in Paris, whereas a 3D models database for Texas will include data models for the way buildings look in Texas.","The data representations of cityscape and landscape-related things in the 3D models database are also used for providing the other properties (e.g., physical and audio) of the represented things. For example, causing a simulated vehicle to strike a simulated building causes the simulated vehicle to stop and make a crashing sound. As another example, a simulated vehicle can drive over a simulated shrub, but not a simulated tree.","The game shells inventory  includes a plurality of different game shells. A game shell is a data structure and\/or program that includes the basic logic, rules, strategy, characters, vehicles, etc., for a game. In the embodiment of , the game shells include a road rally game shell, a police chase game shell, a location quiz game shell, a \u201cbot\u201d fighter game shell, a flight simulator game shell, a \u201cfirst-person-shooter\u201d game shell, an auto theft game shell, and an urban development simulator game shell. There may be other type of game shells in addition to these.","The game factory system  also includes a game engines inventory . The game engines inventory  includes a plurality of different game engines. Game engines are software programs (e.g., including applications or routines and\/or their associated libraries) that are included inside (made a part of) the computer game. In general, the game engines perform specific, regularly performed tasks and operate on an as-needed basis (e.g., continuously) during game play. A game engine program may run continuously waiting to receive some input (e.g., from another program, from a game player, etc.) and, in response to the input, may change some output. Examples of game engines include audio engines, logic engines, rules engines, animation engines, graphics engines, user interface engines, navigation engines (application) and so on. The game engines inventory  includes several different engines of a given type. For example, there are several different audio engines, several different graphics engines, etc. The navigation engines include applications that make specific use of geographic data, such as a route calculation application that determines a route for part of a play scenario of the game. Each of these different engines of a given type is suitable for a different kind of computer platform and\/or game shell. For example, an audio engine for a game to be played on a personal computer may be more robust and sophisticated than an audio engine for a game to be played on a cell phone. Even though there may be several different engines of a given type, each of these different engines of a given type may share some components, functions, etc.","The game factory system  also includes the platform configuration parameters repository . The platform configuration parameters repository  includes a plurality of entries specifying configuration parameters for different computer platforms.  shows several general categories of computer platforms in the platform configuration parameters repository . These general categories include PC (personal computers), game consoles, cell phones, hand held devices, and networks. (The platform configuration parameters repository  may include additional categories.) Within each category, the platform configuration parameters repository  includes entries for different computer platforms of the type corresponding to that category. Each entry matches an associated computer platform with one or more game shells, one or more map product types, one or more game engines, one or more road models, and one or more 3D models. Each of the entries in the platform configuration repository is matched with suitable components from each inventory based on the hardware and software resources of the associated platform.","III. Operation of the Computer Games Factory System",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0054","num":"0053"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 3","FIG. 2"],"b":["300","150","300","130","300"]},"In a first step of the process , a game type is selected (Step ). The game type is selected from the types for which a game shell exists in the game shells inventory  in . The game shell data structure corresponding to the selected type is retrieved from the game shells inventory  (Step ).","Next, a locale is selected (Step ). The locale is selected from the available locales represented by map products in the map products inventory  in .","Next, a platform is selected (Step ). The platform is selected from the available platforms listed in the platform configuration parameters repository  in . The entry in the platform configuration parameters repository  that corresponds to the selected type of platform is retrieved (Step ).","Based on the parameters information in the platform configuration entry about the requirements of the selected platform and the selected locale, appropriate selections are retrieved from the map database inventory , the road models inventory , the 3D models inventory and the game engines inventory  (Step ). In addition to these selections, a geographic data API (application programming interface)  and geographic tools programs  are retrieved (Step ). These components are combined (e.g., compiled and\/or linked together) to form the computer game  (Step ). In the computer game product, the geographic data may be integrated into the code base or may exist separately. The computer game  is distributed (and\/or sold or licensed) to end users (Step ).","IV. Computer Game Structure and Operation","A. Overview",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0060","num":"0059"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 5","FIG. 6","FIG. 5","FIG. 6"],"b":["132","300","300","132"]},"In , game engines are provided for basic game play operations, including audio, graphics, rules, logic, animation, and user interface. There may be more engines in addition to these. The engines operate in accordance with input from the game shell, which provides the characteristics of the game that uniquely identify the game. Operation of the engines is also modified by the user who provides input via a user interface of the game.","B. Geographic data API","During playing scenarios, geographic data in the game is accessed. The geographic data is obtained from the geographic database , which had been obtained from the map products inventory  during formation of the game. (Note that the geographic data may be in a different format or structure after it has been included in the computer game.) The geographic data API  is used by a requesting game engine to obtain needed geographic data from the geographic database. In general, the geographic data API  provides a structured, relatively high-level interface by which the game engines can request geographic data. In one embodiment, the geographic data API provides a set of function calls and queries in a programming language, such as C, by which the game engines can request geographic data. In one embodiment, the geographic database API  is similar or identical to the interface layer described in U.S. Pat. No. 6,047,280, the entire disclosure of which is incorporated by reference herein.","Among the functions provided by the geographic data API is a spatial query function . The spatial query function  returns data records of a specified type (e.g., data that represent road segments) based on location criteria included in the query. For example, a spatial query may request all the data records that represent road segments that are within 5 km of a given latitude and longitude. Another spatial query may request all the data records that represent restaurants that are within a rectangular area having specified geographic boundaries. The spatial search function  in the geographic data API  returns to the requesting component (e.g., a game engine) the data records that meet these criteria.","C. Geographic data tools","In addition to the geographic data API , one or more sets of geographic tools  are also included in the computer game . The geographic data tools  are used in combination with the geographic data API to manage and process geographic data accessed from the geographic database.\n\n","One of the functions provided by the geographic tools programs  is an integration function . The integration function  provides for associating data from the road model database with data from the geographic database  that represents the road network. The integration function  may associate road model data with specific locations along a road segment (as represented by data from the geographic database ) or with lengths along a road segment. As an example, the integration function  may provide for showing curbs (using a model for what a curb looks like from the road model database) along all side streets (represented by data from the geographic database ). In another example, the integration function  may provide for showing barriers along all the sides of expressways (using a model for barriers from the road model database) as represented by data from the geographic database . The integration function  may also provide for associating data models for traffic signals at intersections.","The computer game uses the integration function  in the geographic tools programs  to combine data from the road model database with data from the geographic database  to provide a realistic appearing road network. The road model database is not necessarily intended to represent actual road-related things, such as the exact locations of or text on signs, or the exact configuration of traffic signals, etc. Neither the geographic database  nor the road model database may contain information that represents the actual location of signs or the exact configuration of traffic signals. However, the road model database provides data for visually representing these road-related things in a manner that would be typical for the geographic area. So, for a residential neighborhood, the road model database would include models for sidewalks, cross walks, stop signs, etc., which would be associated with appropriate locations along the road network as defined by the geographic database . The integration function  and the road model database provide for both the density (how many signs per mile or how many lampposts per block) and the style (shape, height, sign text wording) of these road related things.\n\n","The geographic data tools  also include a 3D conversion function . The 3D conversion function  supports conversion of the data obtained from the geographic database  so that it can be displayed as a 3D (perspective view) image. The 3D image may represent the geographic area from the point of view of the game player or may be from the point of view of another, e.g., a spectator. The view may be an overhead view.\n\n","In addition to the integration function and the 3D function, the geographic tools may include other functions for handling the geographic data retrieved from the geographic database through the Geographic Data API.","V. Alternative Embodiments for Operation","The embodiments disclosed herein provide for the efficient and flexible development of a variety of different computer games. The embodiments enable developing computer games for a variety of platforms. The embodiments also provide for ways of meeting the expectations and desires of users who want different kinds of games. Further, the embodiments provide for ways of meeting the desires of users who want to choose a particular locale for a game playing scenario or change the locales. Some of the ways in which the embodiments fulfill these expectations are set forth below.","A. Selection of locales, platforms by game developer",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0073","num":"0075"},"figref":"FIG. 7","b":"600"},"B. Selection of locales, platforms by end users","In the embodiment  of , the game developer allows each end user to choose a game type, a locale, and a platform. Then, based on the end user's selections, the computer game developer uses the game factory system to produce the computer game, which is then sold and delivered to the end user. According to one version of this embodiment, the end user may, at a later time, obtain a different set of geographic data for the previously purchased computer game. The different set of data may represent the geographic features in a different locale. The different set of data would be provided from the map products inventory in the game factory system to the end user. In the end user's computer game, the new set of geographic data would be accessed using the same geographic API and set of geographic tools programs. Changing the locale in this manner may enhance the value of the game. (Alternatively, the geographic data in the computer game may not be changeable, i.e., without replacement of the entire game.)","C. End user obtains game and geographic data separately","In the embodiment  of , the computer game developer produces the computer games, including the game engines, APIs, game tools, and game shells, but without the geographic data. Then, the user separately selects the desired locale at the time of purchase and obtains geographic data for the selected locale. The end user may obtain the geographic data from the game developer or from another source, such as the map developer. In the end user's computer game, the set of geographic data would be accessed using the geographic API and set of geographic tools programs, as described in the previous embodiments. As in the previous embodiment, one alternative enables the end user, at a later time, to obtain a different set of geographic data for the previously purchased computer game.","VI. Other Alternative Embodiments","As mentioned above, the game development system includes a map products inventory that contains maps for different locales and for different representations of the geographic features in some of the locales. Some of the different locales represented by map data products may overlap each other. For example, there may be separate map data products for Los Angeles, Calif., and the United States.","In the embodiment of , it was described how a game factory system included a map products inventory that included a plurality of map databases that represented different geographic locales or that represented some locales differently. In an alternative embodiment, a game factory system includes a map database products generator instead of (or in addition to) having a map products inventory. An embodiment of a game factory  having a map products generator  is shown in . The embodiment of the game factory system  shown in  is similar to the embodiment shown in  and like components are indicated by the same numerals as in the previous embodiment.","In the embodiment of , the game factory  includes (or uses) a geographic database . The geographic database  may be the same as or similar to the master version  of the geographic database shown in , or alternatively, may be a database derived from the master version  of the geographic database. The map products generator  uses data from the geographic database  to produce a map database product for use in a computer game during the process of creating the computer game. The embodiment of  has the advantage that the need to maintain an inventory of map database products is reduced. In a further alternative, the embodiment of  may be combined with the embodiment of  so that a map database products inventory is maintained that contains some products and a map generator is used to produce other map products.","The embodiments disclosed herein describe use of geographic data in computer games. The embodiments disclosed herein can be adapted for using geographic data for other non-navigation-related purposes. Among these other, non-navigation purposes are simulations and movie making. For example, the embodiments disclosed herein can be adapted for using geographic data for simulation systems. Simulation systems that can use geographic data include systems that simulate emergency operations (such as evacuation procedures or emergency vehicle deployment and routing), driver education systems, etc.","The embodiments disclosed herein can also be used in movie making. Many movies use compute-generated images of real (or imaginary) locations, instead of actual images. The embodiments disclosed herein can be adapted for creating realistic-looking geographic locations, including features such as road networks, for use in movie making. When using any of the disclosed embodiments for movie making, a relatively high visual accuracy may be required and therefore attributes that provide for relatively high visual accuracy may be needed. However, fewer attributes of some types may not be required.","The embodiments disclosed herein can be used on various different types of computer platforms, including client-server platforms and peer-to-peer platforms. The embodiments disclosed herein can be used with streaming or other technologies.","The embodiments disclosed herein may also be used for games that use geographic data obtained from multiple sources, e.g., more than one source geographic database. In these embodiments, the data from the multiple source geographic databases may be combined by the game developer or by another party.","In some of the embodiments disclosed above, it was described how a game developer could use the game factory system to make various different kinds of games, which could then be sold to end users. In an alternative embodiment, the game factory system could be provided to end users to allow the end users to make various different games for themselves.","VII. Examples","The following are examples of different types of computer games and\/or applications that can be developed using the disclosed embodiments. (Note that some of the games are new and some are updates and\/or improvements of prior games.)","A. City development simulation game","Geographic data that represents actual, real-world locales can be used in a type of computer game in which players simulate growth of an urban (or other regional) environment. In this kind of game, players simulate building cities or other places (such as towns, countries, rural areas) by designing roads, utilities (e.g., electrical, sewage, water) and other infrastructure elements for a geographic area. Then, the computer game allows a virtual city to develop based on the designs. The virtual cities can be detailed including individual zoning requirements (e.g., residential, commercial, industrial, etc.), crime layers (i.e., that can be changed by implementing police stations), traffic, unemployment and other realistic features.","Geographic data that represents actual, real-world locales can be used in this type of game to provide a high level of realism thereby allowing game players to build cities based on real world city models. In this type of game, players may choose a specific city model (e.g., Paris), and attempt to improve or replicate it. The inclusion of real time traffic, weather, points of interest (periodically updated or real time) and other real world content would serve to increase the realism of such a virtual city. This improvement could add realism, player loyalty, recognition, and an alternative goal to this popular type of game.","B. Virtual person development simulation game","Geographic data that represents actual, real-world locales can be used in a type of computer game in which game players simulate development of a virtual person (e.g., a \u201csim\u201d). In this kind of computer game, players build a virtual person by managing that virtual person's habits, tendencies, house, family, job and interactions with other virtual people. In prior simulation games of this type, the locales in which virtual people live were non-specific. In prior simulation games of this type, the locales were modeled from the view of the player's virtual house and may have included some features specific to the game manufacturer.","Data from a source of geographic data that represents actual, real-world locales can be used in this type of game to provide a high level of realism, thereby allowing players to build virtual characters in models of real cities, with models of actual real-world points of interest, streets, landmarks and neighborhoods. When starting this type of game, which has been enhanced by the addition of geographic data that represents actual, real-world locales, a player chooses a real world city. Once the city has been chosen, neighborhoods from the city become available for the player to select (e.g., Chicago's Gold Cost, Lincoln Park, Rogers Park, River North, or specific suburbs). Once the player selects a neighborhood, the player's virtual person would be able to simulate visits to virtual attractions based on real world local attractions, e.g., go to popular restaurants and bars, work in local businesses, and reflect how life is lived in that specific area almost as if he\/she were living there.","C. \u201cBot-fighter\u201d game","Geographic data that represents actual, real-world locales can be used as a backbone for a \u201cbot-fighter\u201d-type game. This enhances the bot-fighter-type game by incorporating detailed spatial data that represents real world locales. A \u201cbot-fighter\u201d-type game can be played on mobile phones. In this game, players build \u201cwarrior robots\u201d on their mobile phones using credits (e.g., virtual money) from battles won against other players. All firing between warriors is done via SMS messaging over the mobile phones. With mobile phone technology, a player may be given rough coordinates to his or her player-enemies or be warned when a player-enemy has entered his\/her area or turf via mobile phone positioning technology.","The addition of geographic data that represents actual, real-world locales can give this type of game greater appeal. Specific route data and location details or spotting could be provided instead of simple proximity alerts. The addition of geographic data that represents actual, real-world locales would enable this type of game to support more precise boundaries. Further, with the addition of geographic data that represents actual, real-world locales, a game player's weapons could be given more accurate range limitations, rather than rough limitations available with existing games.","In addition, game credits (e.g., virtual money) could be spent on routes, enemy interception (based on known movements or historical patterns) courses, or enemy spotting locations.","D. Traffic management game\/application","In this computer game\/application, data that represents the road network in the real world is used in combination with traffic feeds and models in order to simulate a real city with its existing traffic patterns. Once a model of an actual city with its road network and traffic patterns is created, predictive modeling and comparisons to other cities allow the user to tweak, re-model, or re-design traffic architecture to improve the road network with the objective to create the most efficient traffic system or to make the most improvements to an existing system.","This computer game\/application can include a vehicle fleet management feature. According to this feature, the game player is given a virtual fleet of vehicles (e.g., starting with two trucks) in an initially chosen city and an overlay of existing traffic conditions. The goal of the game with the fleet management feature would be to provide service to a customer base (i.e., based on real world businesses represented in the real world geographic database and some zoning data). Time of day for delivery, fleet routing, fuel expenditures, pickup points and schedules etc., would all be managed by the game player.","Traffic flow, incidents, bottlenecks and other traffic data would be displayed. Wired or live devices would also have the ability to add live or updated data. Traffic would be made up from individual vehicles, following typical vehicle movement patterns (e.g., gapers, cars driving down the shoulder, etc.) or could be built from scratch.","E. Emergency services and law enforcement games","Geographic data that represents actual, real-world locales can be used in emergency services scenario-type games or law enforcement scenario-type games. These games include themes related to fire fighting, medical emergency services (e.g., ambulance, search and rescue), police chases, etc. Game developers who make these kinds of games can use the disclosed embodiments to provide realistic looking locales, possibly with the addition of location-based content (e.g., actual buildings, businesses etc.), traffic, weather, points of interest, etc., as part of the playing scenarios of these games.","F. Location quiz game","Geographic data that represents actual, real-world locales can be used in a location quiz-type of computer game. In this type of game, game players are provided with clues about a game character's secret location and attempt to determine the secret geographic location. Using geographic data that represents actual, real-world locales adds a measure of realism to this type of game and increases its educational value.","One feature of this game is the ability to personalize the game to a player's locale. Players would be able to search for the secret location in their own city or neighborhood. For example, parents could use the game to teach their children how to get around in their own neighborhoods. According to this example, parents could set up the game to include the route that their child takes to and from school. Also, if a family moves to a new neighborhood, the parents could obtain up-to-date digital map data that represents the new neighborhood in order to teach their children about the new neighborhood.","Adding digital map data to the game would also provide the capability to play it anywhere the player is located. For example, a child from Chicago who is on vacation in Paris could search for the game character in Paris and thereby learn about the city.","G. Children's atlas","Another computer game\/application that can use geographic data that represents actual, real-world locales is a children's atlas game\/application. This computer game\/application can be used by families on long car trips. In one embodiment, this game\/application could be used to answer children's questions such as \u201cAre we there yet?\u201d or \u201cWhere are we?\u201d with distances and times to destinations.","One version of this game includes a communications feature that allows a child to communicate with other children who have games with the same feature. Another version of this game\/application allows a game player to create a virtual travelogue that describes and records travels in real time.","In one embodiment, a children's atlas game\/application would be developed as a travel companion game that obtains location information from an in-vehicle navigation system or remote server. As a car in which the child is a passenger drives through a specific locale (e.g., a town or attraction) or a more general area (e.g., a state), the children's atlas application would display images and use voice narration to provide facts about the area. The children's atlas game\/application would also provide well-known stories or legends about an area (e.g., Johnny Appleseed as the child is traveling through the Appalachians).","In another alternative embodiment, the children's atlas includes a travel pal feature. This feature allows a child traveling through an area to connect online with other children who located in the area. In one version of this feature, children can communicate with other traveling children or with other children located in the area a child is passing through using instant messaging. A buddy list may be formed and used for this purpose. Children could access this service while traveling or at home. For example, children could exchange information about their travels or play games. Children passing through a particular place could instant message with children living in the area and ask questions about the area, e.g., what do the locals think about the best places to eat, what is the best radio station, etc.","According to another alternative embodiment, the children's atlas application includes a virtual travelogue feature. The virtual travelogue feature allows a child to collect, store, and send information about his or her travels as a trip is taking place. The child could take information provided by the atlas game\/application, annotate it with personal experiences and observations, and send it to friends and relatives, or to a home website that eventually turns into a scrapbook of the entire trip (or perhaps a report on a school field trip), complete with maps, pictures and postcards from the area, voice narration, and any other data collected along the way.","The virtual travelogue feature could also catalogue and automatically store every place the child has traveled. The child could then display or print out a map that shows all the places he or she has been and how he or she got there.","H. Simulated tour","Another application that can use geographic data that represents actual, real-world locales is a simulated tour application. This simulated tour application uses geographic data, POI data, 3D modeling, and other data, such as weather, traffic, crime statistics, and restaurant guides, to build a realistic view of a city or other locale for virtual touring. The simulated tour application could be used by people considering moving to a new area, or could be hosted by realtors, or used by travelers, or simply used by individuals to learn more about different locations.","With this application, one can learn, understand, explore, or market a specific area. This application would portray an area visually, textually, and possibly even audibly. Smells (e.g., heavy fog, chocolate factory nearby\u2014pervasive) could be provided using appropriate technology or described textually.","One use for this application is to provide a way for a person to become familiar with driving in an unfamiliar city. Some cities may have driving conventions that are unfamiliar to some people. For example, speed limits are painted on the road in California and Hawaii whereas they are located on little signs in Illinois. According to another example, traffic is particularly aggressive in Rome and lanes are viewed as guidelines, not rules etc.","I. Car rally challenge game","Another computer game that can be improved using geographic data that represents real world places is a car rally challenge-type game. This game can be played in single player or multi-player versions. In this type of game, teams of game players travel actual routes that are sent to them from a central server. The server would store a number of car rally routes and attribute scenarios (e.g., points of interest as checkpoints) for a specific area (e.g., state, city, neighborhood, etc.), and these virtual rally instructions would be sent to the participating drivers and navigators.","An organizer's kit could also be offered that would cater to amateur car rally organizations or clubs. The kit would allow an individual or organization to create a customized car rally specific to a city or area. The rally information could be created on the rally organizer's personal computer within a program, or via download from a website. It could then be printed out and handed to the racers or downloaded to a device such as a PDA.","The difference between the game and the kit is that the game would send out pre-determined routes and rally features. The routes and features might change regularly but the players would not have a hand in planning or creating the rally scenarios. The kit would provide the basic tools and content to create a rally, thereby allowing the user to add local flavor, degrees of difficulty, or to even recreate a well-known rally course.","J. Location-based virtual monopoly game","Geographic data that represents real world places can be used in a computer game based on the Monopoly board game. In one version of this game scenario, a game player's positions and movements in the real world are tracked, using positioning equipment such as GPS, cell phone triangulation, etc. These movements would be used to define game routes for that player. Then, the routes would be used to identify properties (e.g., actual or fictional) along that route the game player could virtually purchase, rent, etc., as in the classic board game. Real world conditions, such as traffic restrictions, road construction, tolls, etc., would be factored into the game play scenario.","K. Promotional games and contests","Geographic data that represents real world places can be used for promotional concepts (e.g., contests, sales events, and so on). Businesses, such as retailers or restaurant franchises, frequently use special promotions or contests to attract business. Adding location-based data and services to these promotions would allow businesses to better target, reach, and track potential customers, and also add an extra dimension. Promotional tie-ins to location-based data could be developed using a variety of approaches.","L. Spatial simulator for exercise","Data that represents actual, real world places can be used with sports or exercise-related events or equipment. For example, geographic data can be used to enhance simulators (e.g., monitors) used on or with exercise equipment. Geographic data that represents real places can be used with a treadmill or exercise bicycle to simulate the experience of running or biking along a route. The route would be projected on a monitor or screen in front of the person on an exercise machine such as a treadmill or exercise bicycle.","Use of data that represents actual, real world places could allow users to feel as if they were running through the streets of a major city, e.g., along a marathon or 10K route, or biking the route of the Tour de France. The simulator could also be used to keep track of long-term training goals, such as running virtually across the entire United States.","A basic simulation would consist of a display of a basic overview map based on a route. For example, the user would ask for a route within a city and a basic map would be displayed showing the streets of the city with a mark on the map indicating the virtual position of the runner or bicyclist. The runner's progress along the route would be based on the runner's pace. The degree or category of simulation offered could vary depending on the level of realism desired. For example, details such as road elevation could be added to the simulation. This would allow the person exercising to experience the feeling of running or biking in the Rocky Mountains or through the plains of Nebraska.","A detailed simulation would use 3D data and give a full picture on a monitor of the buildings and landmarks along the route. This would give the runner or bicyclist a realistic feeling of running or biking along the route.","M. Classic computer games","Geographic data that represents actual, real-world locales can be advantageously used to make new versions of classic computer games like Snake and Pacman. In these new versions of these games, game players assume the identities of characters in the game. A player uses positioning equipment that determines the player's actual physical positioning the real world. The player also has equipment that provides for wireless communication with a central database. This player becomes a virtual player in a classic game such as PacMan or Snake. The games would be played in either an online competitive mode or a single player (player versus machine) mode. In either case, the player acts as a character in the game. The distance and speed moved by the player would be translated to movement and speed in a virtual world, where the player may accomplish goals within the game or defeat other players. The system would be set up in translated \u201cvirtual boards\u201d where a game would consist of an area regulated by the speed of transportation (a \u201cboard\u201d for a vehicle can be significantly larger than one for a pedestrian).","N. Location based cannonball run car racing game","Another computer game that can use embodiments of the disclosed system and method for providing geographic data is a \u201ccannonball run\u201d car racing game. This game may be played in multi-player or single player mode. The multi-player mode game may be played online. In the game playing scenario, players compete against each other to race vehicles (e.g., cars, bikes, etc.) across a geographical area. Data that represent actual, real-world places would be used to add realism to the game, e.g., actual legal and physical restrictions. Alternative features include the addition of real-time traffic and weather conditions.","One scenario for a multi-player online version of the game would feature a community where players start out with a specific mode of transportation. This version of the game would provide an online culture and goal of being with the best group and driving the best vehicle. Players would start with a certain amount of virtual cash and a basic vehicle. Some races would be pre-defined events, whereas other races would be random city races with a user defined start and end points. The selection of routes for races would be based on real map data. The game would be based on winning virtual money by winning races, but winning a race could cost the player due to traffic tickets, illegal traffic maneuvers or other expenses. All fines would be based on legal restriction data and statistics of the percentage of drivers caught. Suggested routes would be provided in all races, and the amount of virtual cash used to buy a route would vary the quality or speed of the route.","Game players would have the option of racing through their hometowns, or through the streets of their favorite cities or countries all over the world. These would attract a larger demographic, and interest the casual game player as well.","O. Virtual trip planner and simulation","Data that represents actual, real world places can be used for a computer simulation application that would allow a user to preview a trip or specific route by virtually driving it on his or her personal computer or game console. The simulation would be based on a representation of the geographic database that included 3D renderings of buildings, signs, topographical features, and other related attributes. The simulation software could be provided on media, through an online vendor, or rented to users on an as-needed basis. Users would enter a route request via their personal computers or consoles and could use gaming steering wheels, joysticks, voice commands, or keyboards to drive the routes. A fast forward function could be used to skip the obvious or mundane sections of the trip or to speed up the pace.","To make the simulation more realistic, traffic features, such as vehicles coming and going on the route, could be included. These could perhaps even be based on actual traffic patterns or real-time traffic for a selected time of day.","A feature of this simulation application would be as a form of trip planner. The planner would provide information about an area to which one is traveling, such as local history, area specific trivia games, and point of interest descriptions and recommendations. Users would have the option of using this information while driving the area in advance (e.g., using the simulation application, described above), printing out the planner in advance as a reference, or loading it onto a device and accessing it during an actual trip (e.g., going on a long trip and using the planner interactively to keep children amused and informed). For example, if a family was traveling on vacation from Chicago to Miami by car, the parents could research and preview the attractions, hotels, and restaurants at which the family may want to stop along the way. They could also preview the route and create their own form of trip ticket to plan the best route. The parents could then set up an itinerary that would include games, information, quizzes etc., that would occupy the children throughout the trip.","It is intended that the foregoing detailed description be regarded as illustrative rather than limiting and that it is understood that the following claims including all equivalents are intended to define the scope of the invention."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 2"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 3"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 3"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 5"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 3"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":["FIG. 8","FIG. 3"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":["FIG. 9","FIG. 3"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":["FIG. 10","FIG. 2"]}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
