---
title: Systems and methods for manufacturing customized prefabricated buildings including arbitrarily modularizing a building specification without using any pre-defined modules
abstract: Systems and methods for designing and manufacturing customized prefabricated buildings in optimized modules. In one embodiment, a system for manufacturing a customized prefabricated building includes a computer-usable medium having a sequence of instructions which, when executed by a processor, causes said processor to execute a process including receiving a specification for a customized prefabricated building that identifies components for the prefabricated building and the dimensions of the components, modularizing the specification into modules meeting overall length, width, and height limitations, and optimizing the modularization; a programmable manufacturing system controller coupled to the computer-usable medium and configured to generate instructions for manufacturing the said optimized modules having the plurality of components identified in the specification received by the computer-usable medium; and a manufacturing system coupled to the programmable manufacturing controller configured to execute the instructions generated by the programmable manufacturing controller for building the said optimized modules having the specified plurality of components.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07292908&OS=07292908&RS=07292908
owner: Robotic Built Structures, Inc.
number: 07292908
owner_city: Irvine
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20041013
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["FIELD OF THE INVENTION","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS"],"p":["The field of the invention generally relates to the design, manufacture, and construction of buildings, and more particularly to systems and methods for manufacturing customized prefabricated buildings.","Prefabricated buildings, such as commercial structures and residential homes, have become a popular alternative to \u201cbuilt-on-site\u201d buildings. Prefabricated buildings include manufactured buildings, wherein the building is built in a factory setting, and prefabricated buildings, wherein the components of the building are prefabricated and precut in a factory setting. Companies, such as Fleetwood Enterprises, Inc., have factories organized in an assembly line fashion to build the individual components for a prefabricated home, such as the panels and the framework. The components are precut at the factory and shipped via truck to the site of the home for assembly.","One significant drawback to existing prefabricated building systems is that existing systems are only able to accommodate a single design or single model without having to significantly change the assembly line(s), which can be very expensive. Thus, consumers who desire to invest in prefabricated homes are only provided with a limited number of design options set by the manufacturers and lack the ability to select their own custom, or mixed-model, designs.","Another significant drawback to existing prefabricated building systems is that they require a significant amount of manual labor in the fabrication process, resulting in high fabrication costs per square foot.","Yet another significant drawback is that in order to ship the buildings, the buildings must be split into appropriate sized \u201cmodules\u201d to fit on the back of a truck and fit within the typical dimensions of a highway lane. In order to create appropriate sized modules for shipping, a building is typically \u201cforward engineered\u201d in parts, wherein each part is designed to fit within the maximum allowable shipping limits, or envelope. In other words, consideration of the size and the dimensions of the shipping modules may override those of the consumer's desires in the design of the building. This may place undesirable limitations on the design of the building.","There are companies that offer \u201csystem-built\u201d homes, such as those offered by All American Homes, which allow a user to create a custom design for a home using model rendering software, such as Chief Architect\u00ae or 3D Studio Viz\u00ae, and then build the home in a manufacturing facility. However, the manufacturing facilities used by these companies require a substantial amount of manual labor, again, resulting in high fabrication costs per square foot.","Accordingly, an improved system and method for manufacturing prefabricated building would be desirable.","The present invention generally relates to the design, manufacture, and construction of buildings, and more particularly to systems and methods for manufacturing customized prefabricated buildings. In one embodiment, a system for manufacturing a customized prefabricated building includes a computer-usable medium having a sequence of instructions which, when executed by a processor, causes said processor to execute a process including receiving a specification for a customized prefabricated building that identifies components for the prefabricated building and the dimensions of the components, modularizing the specification into modules meeting overall length, width, and height limitations, and optimizing the modularization; a programmable manufacturing system controller coupled to the computer-usable medium and configured to generate instructions for manufacturing the said optimized modules having the plurality of components identified in the specification received by the computer-usable medium; and a manufacturing system coupled to the programmable manufacturing controller configured to execute the instructions generated by the programmable manufacturing controller for building the said optimized modules having the specified plurality of components.","Other systems, methods, features and advantages of the invention will be or will become apparent to one with skill in the art upon examination of the following figures and detailed description. It is intended that all such additional systems, methods, features and advantages be included within this description, be within the scope of the invention, and be protected by the accompanying claims.","Described below are systems and methods for manufacturing prefabricated buildings. One such system  is shown in . The system  includes a Configuration Client , a Design System , building model manager , and a manufacturing system . These components are all configured to communicate with one another. The system  and its components \/\/\/ may be implemented with one or more computers networked together, on a local area network, a wide area network, and\/or the Internet. Generally, the Configuration Client  includes components that are used to directly interface with a user, such as a customer or client, and may include lead generation and sales tools as well as web-site and client based design tools. The Design System  includes software for generating a building design and generating the details of the design and may include a user interface for architects and designers. The building model manager  includes software that provide the infrastructure for communication between the different components \/\/ of the system  and storage of building design data. The manufacturing system  includes software components for managing inventory and time resources for manufacturing as well as software used for controlling machine tools, such as computerized numerically controlled (\u201cCNC\u201d) machining equipment, and a plurality of assembly lines. CNC generally refers to the computer control of machine tools for the purpose of manufacturing complex parts in metal, wood, and other materials, using a notation known in the art as \u201cG-code\u201d, or \u201cCNC code.\u201d","As mentioned above, both the Configuration Client  and the Design System  include user interfaces. The user interface for the Configuration Client is generally used by a customer or client, whereas the user interface for the Design System  is generally used by an architect, engineer, or designer. Turning to , an implementation of the Configuration Client  and a user interface for the Design System  is shown. The user interface of the Design System  may be implemented as a computer aided drafting (\u201cCAD\u201d) program or design system , such as AutoCAD\u00ae, which enables an architect, designer, or engineer to create one or more designs for custom prefabricated homes. The CAD design system  generates a CAD file , which contains the design in the form of objects with building blocks of points and edges. For programs such as AutoCAD\u00ae, these CAD files  are known as DXF files.","As mentioned above, the Configuration Client  also includes a User Interface , generally for a customer or a client. The User Interface  reads the CAD file  and then creates a viewable model based on data from the CAD file . The model may be 2D or 3D. The User Interface  is used by an architect\/engineer\/designer to create an option sheet , which is a file or database record that contains all the options that a user may select from in deciding the design and features of a prefabricated home, such as the geometry, dimensions, features, fixtures, windows, materials, floors, etc. The User Interface  further includes a graphical user interface (\u201cGUI\u201d) for a user to select its desired design and features for a prefabricated building. The User Interface  may present the options from the options sheet  to the user for selection within the GUI. The User Interface  may incorporate the user's selection into the model for the user's review. The User Interface  may further allow a user to move window and door openings and to customize the interior space. In one preferred embodiment, the User Interface  may be accessible over the Internet, and the GUI is provided as an active web page.","The user's selection of the options may be saved in a user selection sheet , which is also a file or database record(s). These options may be used to generate a building specification file  stored in the building model database  of the building model manager , described below and shown in . As will be described below, the user selection sheet  may be combined with the building specification file  and read by the 3D modeling software to generate a full 3D model of the design for architectural review and generation of CNC code.","In one implementation, an Internet based sales tool called Systemacasa\u2122 may be used to allow users to select their options and further may be used to provide the 3D modeling.","The User Interface  may be coupled to a manufacturing resource planner (\u201cMRP\u201d) , which may be located in the manufacturing system  and is described in more detail below and is shown in . The MRP  manages the inventory for building components and costing and may also function as a clearing-building and authorizing agent for all manufacturing operations. Thus, after the user selects options and a design for a building, the user may receive approximate cost for the design and options as well as shipping date in a short time after the user's selection is made. Further, from user's selection, the User Interface  may calculate estimated energy costs on heating\/cooling a building assembled from the design based on design aspects, such as cubic volume of design and selected fixtures, e.g., solar-panel roofing and energy efficient light fixtures, and the location (of the site) aspects, such as average historical temperatures.","Turning to , an implementation of the Design System  is shown. In addition to a user interface, as described above, the Design System , further includes a data input  to receive the user specifications and\/or design for a building, which define the details of the building, including the shape, dimensions, and components of the building, including the floors, walls, windows and openings. The user specification and\/or design may further provide the details for plumbing, electricity, finishes, materials, and fixtures, such as cabinets, closets, and lighting. The user specification and\/or design may be in the form of text and\/or a graphical model, preferably a 3D model generated by a CAD program compatible with the AutoCAD\u00ae and Architectural DeskTop (\u201cADT\u201d) environments. In a preferred embodiment, the Design System  receives the user specification from the Configuration Client , shown in , in the form of an user selection sheet , described above. The Design System  preferably includes a modeler , which may generate a model of the design, preferably a 3D model, based on the user's specification, which may be reviewed by the user, by means of the User Interface  of the Configuration Client . In one implementation, the modeler  will access and utilize an user selection sheet  and the appropriate building specification file  from the building model database  to generate a 3D model. The modeler  may operate within the AutoCAD\u00ae\/ADT environment and use programs and standards for structuring 3D modeling of building components, e.g., windows, plumbing, material, such as those provided by modules of the hsbCAD\u2122 design tool. For standard units of measurement, the metric system is preferably adopted.","The Design System  further includes a framer , which generates the construction details for the design, such as the framing requirements and the components of the building. For example, the framer  may generate details for the roof, plumbing, electrical, ductwork, i.e., heating, ventilating, and air conditioning (\u201cHVAC\u201d), and fixtures, such as cabinets and lighting. Preferably, the framer  operates within the 3D modeling environment described above, e.g., AutoCAD\u00ae\/ADT. The framer  further may include and\/or utilize hsbFrame\u2122, an hsbCAD\u2122 module, compatible with the AutoCAD\u00ae\/ADT environment, that automates wood framing and detailing as well as light steel. In addition to wood framing and light steel framing, the framer  may generate construction details for steel framing.","As can be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art, details of the framing of the roof structure and walls may be generated based on approximated dead and live structural loads in accordance with government codes and information provided by the load tester , described below.","As can be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art, the Design System  further includes a load tester , which simulates the structural soundness of the details generated by the framer . The load tester  may include an option that allows a user to select a site upon which the desired building is intended to be assembled. The site may include geographical information, such as the city of the site, as well as geological information, such as type of foundation, e.g., type of ground. With the geographical information, such as the local city, the system  may retrieve appropriate municipal codes that specify structure requirements. From this information, as one of ordinary skill in the art may appreciate, the load tester  may apply a computer simulated load to the structural details of the design and determine the structural soundness of the design. If the simulated test fails, then the user may be prompted to correct any inadequacies in the design.","In one implementation, databases of government building codes requirements are acquired from third-party inspection agencies, such as TR Arnold. The data is stored in a database application, such as Microsoft's Access\u2122. An interface for the display and access of the local information from within AutoCAD\u00ae may be developed using Visual Basic\u2122. Finite Element Analysis (FEA) software known in the art may be used for structural testing of computer models. Many FEA programs are capable of importing \u201cDXF\u201d files generated by AutoCAD\u00ae. As can be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art, VBA scripts and macros may be developed to manage the DXF files and FEA program(s).","The Design System  further includes a modulizer , which subdivides the design of the building into modules and elements of a size suitable for manufacturing and shipment. For example, in accordance with the Department of Transportation, the maximum size for a load on a truck on a public road is approximately sixty feet long, fifteen feet wide, and sixteen feet high, wherein the height is measured from the ground to the top of the load when placed on the truck. The modulizer  reverse engineers the design into appropriate sized modules. Thus, the modulizer  allows for designs to be created without having to take shipment issues into account, which allows for more home designs.","Currently, reverse engineering home designs are typically done manually by architects, which may be a tedious process of trial-and-error, wherein the architect separates the design into modules by hand in a drawing or a CAD program. To resolve this issue, the modulizer  of an embodiment of the present invention preferably includes an optimizer , which optimizes the subdivision process. The optimizer  will recursively subdivide the design, varying orientation and size of the subdivided modules and elements to provide absolution with the minimum number of modules and elements for production. This is an example of an optimal solution because by having the minimum number of modules and elements for production, production costs are minimized. In addition, the number of trucks required for shipment may be minimized, thus reducing shipping costs. The subdivision may preferably be performed iteratively, using a genetic algorithm to intelligently vary the subdivision method during each iteration, allowing the optimizer  to search for an optimal solution. A genetic algorithm is known in the art as a rules based algorithm derived from biological aspects of genetics that heuristically reduces iterations of a \u201cbrute force\u201d or exhaustive method.","One approach to implementing an optimizer is shown in -. Turning to , a 3D model of the design is generated, preferably by the modeler  (action block ) (and show an example 3D model ). The model  may be described as an ordered set of points and edges as is known in 3D CAD applications. It is first determined whether the design comprises of multiple floors (decision ). If so, then the modulizer  will subdivide the design by each floor  (action block ), and a 3D model of each floor  will be generated (action block ) (an example is shown in ). Subsequently, the optimizer  will then perform its algorithm on each generated model . For each 3D model , optimizer  determines the overall envelope  of the model  (action block ). The envelope  is the maximum extent of the model  in all three dimensions, which will result in a rectangular shape, as shown in . This envelope  may be determined by checking every point within the 3D model  and recording the maximum and minimum point in each direction. This envelope  is used as the boundary for subdividing the model  into modules  and elements, as shown in ","If the envelope  is of appropriate size, i.e., if the size of the envelope  is less than the maximum dimensions for shipping a module , (decision block ), then the optimization process is complete (termination block ). If not, then turning to , the model  must be subdivided. An edge E of the product envelope is selected, and a direction D for the subdivision process is determined (action block ). The direction D is determined by the edge E, as the sub-division is made from the edge E into the mass of the model . The selection of the edge E can be done using alternative approaches, including:","(1) The edge E an be selected by a user prior to action block . If an edge is selected by the user, then the sub-division process derives an initial direction based on the edge and modularizes the entire model  based on that direction;","(2) The edge E can be selected at random. If the edge is selected randomly, then the direction may be changed with each subdivision, allowing the model  to be modularized in more than one direction. When the edge is selected randomly, the optimizer  may produce a variety of results from which the optimal solution may be selected; and","(3) As one of ordinary skill in the art may appreciate, the edge E can be selected by a genetic algorithm. The optimizer  may produce a series of results, from which the optimal solution may be selected. The direction and edge information, as well as the method for selecting break points (action block ) from the optimal solution, may be slightly varied to produce other results from which a user may select a modularizing solution.","Once the edge E and direction D are selected, all points from within the 3D model  may be loaded into the optimizer  (action block ). The optimizer  then selects from all the points within the model  a break point to define a module envelope  (action block ). This point can be selected in alternative approaches, including approaches shown in -","Turning to , an approach to selecting a break point (action block ) is shown. The optimizer  orders all the points in a random order (action block ), and iteratively selects each point (action block ) in order to test the points' distance d from the edge E (action block ). As the optimizer  checks each point, it finds the one furthest from the edge E yet within the maximum limits allowable as a module  for shipment (decision block ). This point is used as the breakpoint (action block ). If the point evaluated does not meet this criteria, then the next point is checked (decision block , action block ).","Turning to , an alternative approach to selecting a break point (action block ) is shown. The optimizer  orders all the points based on proximity to the initial edge E (action block ) and iteratively selects each point (action block ) in order to test the point's distance d from the edge E (action block ). As the optimizer  checks each point, it finds the one furthest from the edge E yet within the maximum limits allowable as a module  for shipment (decision block ). This point is used as the breakpoint (action block ). If the point evaluated does not meet this criteria, then the next point is checked (decision block , action block ).","Turning to , another alternative approach to selecting a break point (action block ) is shown. The optimizer  orders all points based on based on proximity to the initial edge E (action block ), and selects a point n based on instructions from a genetic algorithm (action block ). The distance from the point n is measured from the edge E (action block ). If the distance is larger than the maximum allowable length as a module  for shipment (decision block ), then the optimizer  will stop processing (termination block ). If the distances is less, then the point n will be used for the breakpoint b (action block ).","Once the break point b is selected (action block ), then it is used to establish an envelope for the module . The module envelope  is a 3D rectangle with edge E and a parallel edge through the selected breakpoint b (action block ). This envelope  is subtracted from the product envelope  and the 3D model  (action block ). The remainder of the 3D model  is then used to as a new product envelope  and 3D model  (action block ). The portion of the 3D model  that was subtracted and contained within the module envelope  is then stored as a subdivided module  by the modulizer  (action block ). Action blocks  to  are repeated until the remaining product envelope  and 3D model  are within the maximum allowable size as module  for shipment.","The entire process may be executed repeatedly with all the results collected. After a fixed number of iterations, the iteration with the least number of modules may be selected as the optimal modulization solution. In one implementation, the algorithm described above may be developed as a plug in for AutoCAD\u00ae\/ADT using C++ or Visual Basic\u2122.","Turning back to , the Design System  further includes a specification generator  that generates the details, preferably in the form of a data file or a database record, which herein may be referred to as the \u201cbuilding specification file\u201d  (see ), for implementation of the design. The details include the geometry of the design, including window and door opening position and sizes. The details also include allowable fixtures for plumbing and electricity and finishes for each surface, e.g., wall, floor, and ceiling. As mentioned above, the building specification file  may be read by the 3D modeling software to generate a full 3D model of the design for architectural review and generation of CNC code. The building specification file  is stored in the building model database  of the building model manager  shown in . In one implementation, the building specification file  utilizes an existing format developed by hsbCAD that stores a comprehensive description of a building, including options, using an AutoCAD\u00ae file and an additional proprietary data file.","After a plurality of modules  (see ) have been created by the modulizer , an inventory of connectors for the plumbing, electricity, fixtures and ductwork that span across the plurality of modules  need to be generated. The specification generator  may generate schemas for fabrication details, including, e.g., ductwork , plumbing , electrical , and fixtures , which include the connector information. Others  may be included as well. The ductwork  schema includes an inventory of ducts and diffusers for instructions for the manufacture. A cut-sheet of duct sizes and lengths may be generated for instructions, such as CNC code, for manufacture. The plumbing schema  may include an inventory of plumbing parts and pipe lengths for instructions, such as CNC code, for manufacture. The electrical schema  may include an inventory of electrical outlets and switches, conduit lengths and joints, and a total wire length for instructions for manufacture. The individual lengths of wire may also be calculated and recorded in a cut-sheet for instructions for manufacture. In one implementation, the specification generator  may be developed as plug-ins for AutoCAD\u00ae\/ADT, using C++ or Visual Basic\u2122. The components generated within the specification generator  may be labeled with a part number within the MRP , described below and shown in .","Turning to , an implementation of a building model manager  is shown. The building model manager  includes a building model database  and a database  that stores the users' option sheets . The building model database  includes the building specifications files generated by specification generator  of the Design System , and provides the necessary data for the moduler  and\/or the User Interface  to construct a 3D model. The building specification file  further provides the information for the generation of CNC code.","In one implementation, the building model database  and the database  that stores the option sheets  may be implemented using standard database methods and systems, such as Microsoft's Access\u2122. As described above, the building specification file  utilizes an existing format developed by hsbCAD that stores a comprehensive description of a building, including options, using an AutoCAD\u2122 file and an additional proprietary data file. Because these files may be several megabytes in size, standard compression systems are preferably used when sending these files over a network. An user selection sheet  implementation is based on the existing file format used by Systemacasa\u2122, and is preferably Extensible Markup Language (\u201cXML\u201d) based.","Turning to , an implementation of a manufacturing system  is shown. The manufacturing system  includes manufacturing resource planning (\u201cMRP\u201d) and supply chain management (\u201cSCM\u201d)  components. These components manage the material inventory for the building components, and are accessible by the Design System  to verify inventory and costs and are accessible by the User Interface  to provide cost and inventory information to the user. As mentioned above, the MRP and SCM  may also function as a clearing-building and authorizing agent for all manufacturing operations. In one implementation, software for the MRP and SCM  is implemented using commercially available Enterprise Resource Planning applications, such as Macola\u2122 and SAP\u2122. Such applications may be augmented by using scheduling and production management applications, such as Preactor\u2122, sold by BCT. Because the MRP and SCM  communicate with components operating within a 3D environment, such as AutoCAD\u00ae\/ADT, it is preferable to utilize programs that allow these components to communicate with each other. In one preferred embodiment, products from Aimasoft are used, which allow AutoCAD\u00ae based programs to directly communicate with Macola\u2122 programs.","The manufacturing system  further includes an architectural review module  having a user interface. This module will load an user selection sheet  from the database  of users' option sheets  and combine the user selection sheet  with the appropriate building specification file , which may be loaded from the building model database  to create a complete model, preferably a 3D model, of the building design. An architect or engineer may review the design and make adjustments and utilize the tools available in the Design System , such as the framer  or the load tester  (see ) via the user interface of the architectural review module . The architect or engineer may then print a full set of contract documents for filing with local government and for construction purposes. Any changes may require the reallocation of resources within the MRP . In one implementation, the 3D model is generated by hsbCAD and the architectural review module  may be implemented using C++ or VBA, accessing AutoCAD's\u00ae Application Programming Interface (\u201cAPI\u201d).","As mentioned above, instructions are generated to manufacture the components of the designed building. The manufacturing system  includes a code generator  that generates the instructions based on the building specification file  from the Design System \/building model manager  and information from the MRP and SCM . The code generator  preferably generates CNC code in the form of a data file. In a preferred embodiment, the CNC code is generated and mapped for each machine tool in the manufacturing system . The instructions preferably includes a visual description of where each manufactured part is located within the building design. The visual description may include a series of vector graphic images and\/or look-up tables that associate each part with an X-Y coordinate within the one or more images. Commercial CNC code generators may be used in one implementation, e.g., hsbCAD. Some CNC code generators simply generate CNC code from AutoCAD\u00ae or from file formats such as IGES or DXF.","The manufacturing system  further includes an identification (\u201cID\u201d) generator , which generates IDs, such as barcodes or Radio Frequency IDs (\u201cRFIDs\u201d), for each of the building elements and components. Preferably, the ID generator  will generate IDs to send to specific machine tools used in the manufacturing system  for printing\/producing and labeling. For the case where the machine tool does not produce IDs or for elements such as wiring, where manual cutting is involved, the ID may be sent to an ID generator at the proper location for placement on the element. In the case of barcode IDs, the generator may be a printer. For the case of RFIDs, the generator may be a machine that produces RFID tags.","The manufacturing system  may include a plurality of machine tools and\/or an array of assembly lines , each comprising one or more machine tools or workstations and each configured to manufacture one or more components of a building, such as the wood or steel beams, the dry walls, the ducts, etc. These assembly lines  may be controlled by a production manager . The production manager  manages the machine tools within the assembly lines , controls the code, such as CNC code, generated by the code generator , and releases the code to the appropriate machine tools. The production manager  is configured to receive any number of different sets of instructions, e.g., different CNC code files, and essentially functions as a programmable logic controller, capable of providing instructions for the manufacture of components, modules, and elements for a plurality of building designs, based on the information provided by the Design System  and the building model manager . Preferably, the production manager  communicates with the MRP  to coordinate scheduling and resources.","The manufacturing system  further includes a manufacturing optimizer , which will optimize the arrangement of the components for a building to minimize cutting time and material. For example, the optimizer  may optimize the arrangement of pieces of carpet onto a strip of standard width carpet roll. During this step, individual wall elements may be combined into a single wall piece to optimize the handling of the material.","In the case where barcode is used, the manufacturing system  further includes scanners, such as hand scanners (not shown), used by workers to scan building elements and parts to call up its description and assembly instructions. The manufacturing system  further includes an ID proxy server , such as a barcode proxy server, which provides a communication bridge between the hand-scanners (not shown) and the MRP  to update status of the inventory and completion status of modules. The ID proxy server  may also communicate with the production manager  to request information about part locations within a building module or element. The ID proxy server  may also be accessible over the Internet, allowing off-site users, such as building contractors assembling the building, to use similar scanning devices to scan the components on the construction site and request information and diagrams assisting in building assembly. In one implementation, Scanco barcode products are utilized. In the case where RFID is used, the appropriate RFID equipment is utilized to identify parts and location, and the ID proxy server  supports RFID technology.","One advantage of the system  is that the system  is capable of building prefabricated components for custom building designs without having to significantly modify the assembly lines or the layout of the assembly lines. A custom design for a building may be entered into the Design System , the Design System  will enter the details of the design into the manufacturing system  to build the appropriate components for assembly in accordance with the design.","Thus, a consumer interested in investing in a prefabricated home may select a custom design, as opposed to limited choices provided by the manufacturer, yet still maintain the economic benefits of investing in a prefabricated building.","In the foregoing specification, the invention has been described with reference to specific embodiments thereof. It will, however, be evident that various modifications and changes may be made thereto without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention. For example, the reader is to understand that the specific ordering and combination of process actions described herein is merely illustrative, and the invention can be performed using different or additional process actions, or a different combination or ordering of process actions. For example, this invention is particularly suited for applications involving prefabricated building, but can be used on any design involving prefabricated structures in general. As a further example, each feature of one embodiment can be mixed and matched with other features shown in other embodiments. Additionally and obviously, features may be added or subtracted as desired. Accordingly, the invention is not to be restricted except in light of the attached claims and their equivalents."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["In order to better appreciate how the above-recited and other advantages and objects of the inventions are obtained, a more particular description of the embodiments briefly described above will be rendered by reference to specific embodiments thereof, which are illustrated in the accompanying drawings. It should be noted that the components in the figures are not necessarily to scale, emphasis instead being placed upon illustrating the principles of the invention. Moreover, in the figures, like reference numerals designate corresponding parts throughout the different views. However, like parts do not always have like reference numerals. Moreover, all illustrations are intended to convey concepts, where relative sizes, shapes and other detailed attributes may be illustrated schematically rather than literally or precisely.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 2","i":"a "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 2","i":"b "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIGS. 3","i":["a","b "],"b":"3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIGS. 4","i":["a","c "],"b":"4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIGS. 5","i":["a","e "],"b":"5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 7"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
