---
title: System and method for managing transfer of ownership rights to access to a venue and allowing access to the venue to patron with the ownership right
abstract: Certain embodiments of a multi-input access device and method for using which allow access to an event or venue include a detector for detecting authentication data for a person and a processor for authenticating the authentication data to verify that the person is allowed to access the event. The authentication data includes at least paperless authentication data for the person. The authentication data may include a printed ticket, a magnetic strip, a bar code, a credit card, an identification card, a smart card, a radio frequency identifier, an electronic device, biometric data, a signal, and/or other authentication data. The access device may include an access gate, a turnstile, a handheld access device, a retrofit unit, and/or other access device. In an embodiment, the access device includes a verification module generating access verification data for the person.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08346580&OS=08346580&RS=08346580
owner: Flash Seats, LLC
number: 08346580
owner_city: Livonia
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20040813
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["RELATED APPLICATIONS","FEDERALLY SPONSORED RESEARCH OR DEVELOPMENT","MICROFICHE\/COPYRIGHT REFERENCE","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","BRIEF SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION"],"p":["The present application is a continuation-in-part, and claims priority from U.S. Patent Application No. 10\/320,287 filed on Dec. 16, 2002, now U.S. Pat. No. 8,131,572 and entitiled \u201cElectronic Ticketing System and Method\u201d, which is a Continuation of application Ser. No. 09\/590,455 now U.S. Pat. No. 6,496,809,filed on Jun. 9, 2000.","[Not Applicable]","[Not Applicable]","The present invention generally relates to a system and method for real-time sales and distribution of tickets.","Paper tickets are widely used to grant access to patrons to sporting and general entertainment events. The ticket is a contract which grants the holder the right to attend the event and, normally, to sit in a particular seat. By transferring possession of the physical ticket, a ticket holder has transferred the right to attend the event.","However, many problems are associated with the transfer of paper tickets. In order to issue the ticket, the event promoter must organize the delivery of thousands of tickets. Additionally, if a purchaser wishes to transfer the ticket to a subsequent purchaser, the buyer and seller must be geographically proximate to physically transfer the ticket. With the advent of the Internet, buyers and seller have been able to locate each other in order to transfer tickets. However, the paper ticket still stands as an impediment to the efficient transfer of the right to attend an event because the seller must ship the ticket to the seller. By shipping the ticket the buyer and seller incur additional costs and require a greater lead time to allow the transfer to occur before the event. Each party must also have enough trust that the other party will deliver as agreed. Frequently, because of the impediments of sale, tickets are not widely transferred by geographically remote buyers and sellers. Additionally, there is a need for a system to assist in a transition away from paper tickets.","Another type of impediment stands in the way of the efficient transfer of tickets. Most states have laws which prevent the sale of tickets for more than the face value of the ticket unless the seller has the consent of the event sponsor. To sell the ticket above face value, it is impractical for an individual seller to attempt to obtain permission from an event sponsor prior to selling a ticket. Because an event sponsor makes no money on the transaction, it has very little incentive to grant consent.","In a few other states laws allow a ticket broker to sell tickets at a price above the face value of the ticket, but not buy tickets above face value. Therefore, ticket brokers must obtain a ticket at the face value from the event sponsor and resell the ticket at a higher price. The ticket broker is violating the law if he purchases the ticket at a higher value from someone who is not a ticket broker. Finally, the ticker broker must still physically transfer the ticket to the buyer.","The present invention is a system and method which provides a legal, efficient way to transfer the right to attend an event at the market value of that right and to determine the market value. The present invention eliminates the disadvantages of the prior art.","Certain embodiments of the present invention provide a method and system for access to an event or venue using at least one of a plurality of authentication data. Certain embodiments of an access system include authentication data identifying a patron having access to a venue and an access device allowing the patron access to the venue based on the authentication data. The authentication data comprises at least paperless data, and the access device verifies the patron's access to the venue based on the authentication data for the patron.","In an embodiment, the access device accepts a plurality of forms of the authentication data to allow access to the venue. The access device may include an access gate or a handheld access device, for example. In an embodiment, the authentication data is paper-based authentication data and\/or paperless authentication data. In an embodiment, the access device grants access to the venue by verifying the authentication data with data at a database. The access device may also generate access verification for the patron.","In an embodiment, the system further includes a transfer event for access to the venue from an owner to the patron using patron ownership information. The authentication data may be based on the patron ownership information.","Certain embodiments of a method for accessing a venue using authentication data include obtaining access to a venue, associating paperless authentication data with authorization for a patron to access the venue, and authorizing access to the venue based on the paperless authentication data. In an embodiment, the authentication data includes printed authentication data and non-printed authentication data. Access may be authorized by verifying the authentication data with data at a database. Access may be authorized based on the authentication data using an access device capable of accepting multiple forms of paper and paperless authentication data. In an embodiment, the method further includes transmitting the authentication data to a processing system for verification of access by the patron. The method may also include generating access verification for the patron at the venue. Additionally, the method may include transmitting a right to access the venue from a prior owner to the patron.","Certain embodiments of a multi-input access device which allows access to an event include a detector for detecting authentication data for a person and a processor for authenticating the authentication data to verify that the person is allowed to access the event. The authentication data includes at least paperless authentication data for the person. The authentication data may include a printed ticket, a magnetic strip, a bar code, a credit card, an identification card, a smart card, a radio frequency identifier, a mobile access device, a wireless access device, a signal, an electronic device, biometric data, and\/or other authentication data. The access device may include an access gate, a turnstile, a handheld access device, a retrofit unit, and\/or other access device. In an embodiment, the access device includes a verification module generating access verification data for the person.","The foregoing summary, as well as the following detailed description of certain embodiments of the present invention, will be better understood when read in conjunction with the appended drawings. For the purpose of illustrating the invention, certain embodiments are shown in the drawings. It should be understood, however, that the present invention is not limited to the arrangements and instrumentality shown in the attached drawings.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["2","4","6","2","4","6","8","6"]},"Referring to , the data center  preferably comprises database servers , web servers , a load balancing router  and a firewall  connected to the Internet . The firewall  receives messages from the Internet  and forwards the messages to the load balancing router  and likewise receives messages from the load balancing router  and forwards them to the Internet . The firewall  preferably performs a number of filtering functions and network address translation in order to safeguard the data center  from unauthorized access. The firewall  also preferably encrypts the messages using known public key\/private key encryption methods. The load balancing router  forwards messages received from the firewall  and forwards the messages to one of the plurality of web servers . The load balancing router  also forwards messages received from the web servers  to the firewall . In this manner, the load balancing router  distributes tasks to be performed to one of the plurality of web servers  in order to distribute processing demands. The web servers  access the database servers  to retrieve and store information in response to received messages from the terminals  and transmits reply messages to the terminals . The database servers  store data tables which contain information about various venues, events, ticket resources, user roles, ticket status, ticket holders and ticket bidders, as will be explained in greater detail below.","Referring to , within each venue  are a plurality of turnstiles , a venue database server  and a venue firewall  connected to the Internet  for communicating to the data center . The turnstile  of the venue  comprises an authentication reader , a printer , a network connection , a display  and a processor . The authentication reader  is preferably a magnetic card reader. However, other types of cards may be used, such as cards incorporating single- or multi-dimensional bar codes or wireless methods of communication, without departing from the scope of the present invention. The network connection  allows the turnstile  to communicate with the venue database server  in order to provide information about the card being scanned and to receive information about whether to grant or deny entry to the venue . The turnstile  preferably is a compact unit which runs from embedded software within the turnstile or from a server located on site or remotely . While the turnstile  is described as being connected to the venue database server  with a wire, one of ordinary skill in the art can easily recognize that communication between the turnstile and database server can be implemented by radio frequency, optical communication or any other method of wireless communication without departing from the scope of the present invention. The venue database server  maintains a record of the tickets that have been sold, the ticketholders that have passed through the turnstile , and which ticketholders have not yet arrived. The database server is preferably a computer running UNIX, Windows NT, Java or Sparc and having an Oracle, Informix, Sysbase or SQL Server database.","In order to implement the present invention, an end user can access the data center  by using a standard web browser on the terminal . However, non-standard, custom software can also be implemented or web browser software on a wireless device, such as a personal digital assistant. Terminals  can log into the data center  to view events which will take place in the future, purchase tickets in the primary market from the event sponsor, offer tickets for sale in the secondary market, purchase tickets in the secondary market and purchase merchandise or services related to the event. When the user has entered the appropriate address of a desired data center , e.g., an on-line ticketing web page, the user can view a calendar of events to search for a desired event or choose a venue to see what events will be appearing at the venue in the future. After selecting an event which the user desires to attend, the user may purchase tickets for the event from the event sponsor. Additional products and services can also be offered at the time of ticket sales. After the ticket is sold and before the time of the event, the ticket can be transferred by the ticket owner to subsequent ticket buyer.","Referring to , the ticket has a determined life cycle which is tracked by the system of the present invention. The steps of the life cycle are: ticket setup , primary market  and secondary market . In the ticket setup step, the ticket is assigned a venue  and an event . Also, ticket pricing rules  are associated with the ticket. Additionally, brokers may be assigned to the ticket  in order to transfer the ticket in a multi-broker environment. In the primary market step , the ticket is offered for sale. If the ticket is sold , the ticket becomes an \u201cowned ticket\u201d . If the ticket is used  by the person it is sold to, the patron is allowed to enter the event  and the ticket's life cycle ends in the primary market. If the ticket is not sold before the time of the event , the ticket's life cycle ends having been unsold in the primary market.","If the ticket is not used in the primary market, it may be traded in the secondary market . There is no limit as to how many times the ticket may be traded in the secondary market before the time of event. Many options are available for sales of tickets in the primary and secondary market. Sales of tickets can be made using traditional methods, such as by offering a ticket for a fixed price or a scaled price (i.e., student and senior citizen discounts). Tickets can also be offered using a non-traditional format, such as in an auction-type format, a reverse auction-type format or in an exchange-type format. In an auction-type format, event sponsors can place groups of tickets on sale and sell them to the highest bidder after a fixed period of time. Many different options are available for the auction-type format, such as allowing users to place bids for groups of tickets. If the user's bid cannot be satisfied at the present price for all seats, the bid fails. Alternatively, users can place a bid for which, if the bid cannot be fulfilled for the quantity of seats of the bid, the number of seats in the bid is reduced. Using the auction type format, the event sponsor realizes the maximum profit for the event because tickets are sold for their true market value. A reverse auction type format is similar to an auction-type format with the caveat that the event sponsor \u201cbids\u201d to sell the ticket rather than users bidding for the right to buy the ticket.","In an exchange type format, tickets are sold in the primary market by event sponsors who advertise an ask price for a particular ticket. At the same time, users advertise a bid price in order to purchase a particular ticket in a particular section of the venue. Both the ask price and the bid price remain valid for a particular period of time. If the ask price advertised by event sponsors is higher than the bid price advertised by any particular user, no ticket is sold. However, the moment a bid price equals an ask price, a sale of a ticket is made. Additionally, bids can specify quantities of contiguous seats as well as a bid price. In a like manner, event sponsors can specify quantities of contiguous seats along with the ask price. An event sponsor may wish to specify a minimum or maximum number of contiguous tickets to prevent large blocks of seats from being broken up or to force the sale of an exact number of seats in order to prevent a single seat in a block from being unsold (i.e., to prevent selling two seats of a block of three unsold seats). When a user's bid price and quantity of seats for an event equal a sponsor's ask price and is within the sponsor's minimum and maximum quantity of seats, a sale is made. Therefore, the main difference between an auction type format or a reverse auction-type format is that sales are made instantaneously when a bid price equals an ask price for a ticket.","Alternatively, for different classes of seating at the venue, a combination of sales formats can be implemented. For example, for a sporting event, seats which have the best view, such as box seats and luxury boxes, an event sponsor can implement a non-traditional format which seeks to secure the highest market price and implement a traditional format of ticket sales for the remaining seats. Also, tickets may be sold in the primary market by a particular method and sold in the secondary market by another method. Tickets may also be sold in the primary market by one method and sold in the secondary market by one of multiple available methods.","During the step of offering the ticket , a price is associated with the ticket. Depending on the format the price has a different significance. For example, the price may be a first bid price or, in an exchange type format, the price may be an ask price. Next bids are placed on the ticket  until the ticket is sold . If the ticket is sold the ticket is now owned by the new buyer  who may use the ticket and enter the event  or offer the ticket for resale . If the ticket remains unsold , the ticket may be used in the primary market . Additionally, unsolicited bids can be placed for a ticket. Anyone seeking to buy a ticket can specify the price at which he or she is willing to buy and wait to see if a ticket owner is willing to sell at that price.","Each time a ticket is transferred new ownership information is associated with the ticket. Ownership information could be credit card numbers used to purchase the ticket, a cell phone number, a digital encryption on a personal digital assistant, or a single- or multi-dimensional bar code. The two dimensional bar code can be printed by the user in order to provide a physical indication of ticket ownership. In order to provide an incentive for event sponsors to grant permission to sell the tickets in the secondary market, the present system provides that for sales in the secondary market the event sponsor will receive a royalty. Royalties can be a flat fee or a fee based on the sales price of the ticket in the secondary market.","Referring to , upon arriving at the venue to attend an event, the ticket owner authenticates himself to the event sponsor in order to gain entry to the venue. Authentication can occur in a variety of ways including infra-red wireless scanning. In one example, the ticket owner slides the credit card  associated with the ticket through the authentication reader  on a turnstile . Alternative methods for authentication could be implemented such as bar coded authentication tickets, as described above. If the authentication reader  unsuccessfully scans the authentication , the reader signals the display  to indicate that the authentication was not successfully scanned . If the authentication is successfully scanned the reader queries the venue database server  to determine whether the ticket is valid . If the ticket is not valid, the venue database server  returns an error  and the display is signaled  and message displayed . If the ticket is valid, the venue database server  returns a message indicating the ticket is valid .","Next, the venue database server  marks the ticket as used  within the database and signals the printer  to print a receipt  and the printer responds by printing a receipt . The authentication reader  also releases the turnstile  (step ) and signals the display  which displays a message . Next, the ticket owner passes through the turnstile  to allow the ticket owner to enter the venue .","In order to implement the present system, user roles are implemented, such as: venue management, event management, event marketing, ticket owner, ticket buyer and administration. The roles may interact with the system in order to fulfill necessary tasks by either using terminals  connected via the Internet  or directly to the data center  or venue . A user fulfilling a venue management role can enter information regarding the venue such as seating charts, directions to the venue and entrance gate information. A user fulfilling an event management role can enter information about an event to take place at the venue, such as the name, time, date, seating configuration of the venue, ticket pricing for the event and merchandise to be offered to ticket purchasers. A user fulfilling an event marketing role can enter information pertaining to products and services that are offered to users upon offer or completion of a ticket sale. A user fulfilling the role of a ticket owner can enter information regarding the price (first auction bid or ask price, as appropriate) and identity of the ticket or tickets. A user fulfilling the role of ticket buyer can enter information regarding the quantity and price (an \u201cauction bid\u201d price or an \u201cexchange bid,\u201d as appropriate). A user fulfilling the role of administrator preferably has the rights of all roles and any additional task necessary for maintenance of the system.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0037"},"figref":"FIG. 6","b":["600","600","610","620","630","610","18","610","610","610"]},"The access device  may be a standalone unit or may be one of a plurality of access devices . The plurality of access devices  may be networked. The one or more access device(s)  may communicate with a remote server or other data storage and\/or processing system. The access device  may include a detector to detect data and a processor to process that data. In an embodiment, a plurality of access devices  may be grouped in rows, according to function. For example, one row of turnstiles may accommodate paper tickets while another row of turnstiles or scanners accommodates electronic identification or access cards.","The access device  verifies authentication data to allow a ticket owner  to access a venue . The access device  may accept a printed ticket, an access card, an identification card (such as a driver's license, state identification card, student ID, smart card, or membership card), a credit or debit card, a biometric identifier, a barcode, a magnetic strip, a wireless transmitter, a radio frequency identification device (RFID), an electronic key, or other such authentication\/access data. The authentication data verifies that the bearer  is allowed to access the venue . The bearer  may not necessarily be the original purchaser of admission to the event. In an embodiment, the access device  is a multi-input access device. That is, the access device  is capable of accepting one or more of the above methods of access authentication, for example.","In an embodiment, an access device , such as a multi-input turnstile, accepts both paper and paperless tickets. A scanner or other detector on the access device  verifies the authentication data and allows access to the venue . A magnetic strip may be scanned to determine access, for example. A bar code may also be scanned to verify access. Alternatively, a picture or digitally encrypted facsimile of a ticket may be transmitted to the access device  and displayed on a screen of the device . A digital code may be sent to an interface on the access device  to allow entry. A wireless or infrared link may be used to transmit the digital code to a receiver at the access device . In another embodiment, a transmitter at the access device  may transmit a pulse to an RFID device, which returns a response to authenticate the bearer . Biometric data, such as a fingerprint, retinal scan, or voiceprint may also be used to authenticate an individual  seeking access to a venue . An electronic device, such as a handheld computer, personal digital assistant, cellular phone, or wireless transmitter may transmit a paperless ticket or access key to the access device  for entry into a venue .","Verification of an individual for admission to a venue may be accomplished in a variety of ways. Thus, certain embodiments provide an access device that allows verification using a plurality of techniques. As venues transition from paper tickets to paperless tickets, certain embodiments accommodate paper tickets while also accepting forms of paperless entry, such as an electronic ticket. That is, certain embodiments may allow admission through surrender of a tangible item and\/or with requiring surrender of a tangible item. In an embodiment, verification of a patron's seat may be generated in paper and\/or paperless form upon access to the venue.","Certain embodiments provide a venue with new access devices, such as new turnstiles to allow access to the venue. Other embodiments provide a retrofit module to modify existing access devices, such as turnstiles or scanners, to accept paperless tickets and authentication data. In an embodiment, a retrofit system allows a turnstile to communicate with an access computer system to allow admission to a venue using paperless and\/or printed forms of authentication.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0044","num":"0043"},"figref":"FIG. 7","b":["700","710","720"]},"Next, at step , the authentication data is transmitted to a processing system, such as a processor at the access device or a verification computer located remotely from the access device. At step , the processing system verifies that the authentication data allows the patron into the venue. For example, the processing system may compare the authentication data to entries a database. Then, at step , the patron is admitted or denied access to the venue based on a result returned by the processing system.","In an embodiment, before arriving at the venue, upon gaining access to the venue or after gaining access to the venue, a verification of the patron's access may be generated in paper and\/or paperless form. In many venues or for many events, entrants to a venue must be able to produce verification of his or her particular seating location. Such verification or receipt may be used to confirm access to a certain section or tier in a venue or access to certain benefits or features of an event or venue, for example. The verification may be a printed receipt and\/or a paperless verification of the patron's right of access. For example, paperless verification may be a bar code or magnetic encoding, a smart card, a wireless or infrared or other signal transmission, etc. In another embodiment, a patron's authentication may be entered into a database and verified via biometric identification, card identification, personal transmitter, encoded magnetic strip, and\/or bar code, for example. In an embodiment, verification may be transmitted via email or facsimile to a patron prior to arrival at an event or venue, for example. The patron may then print the verification, for example.","The access verification\/receipt may be generated by the access device, such as the turnstile. Additionally, the verification\/receipt may be generated by a transmitter, printer, kiosk or station inside or outside the venue. The verification\/receipt may be transmitted, printed and\/or encoded as described above. In an embodiment, a verification generation module or receipt unit, such as a turnstile, computer, mobile device or standalone kiosk, for example, prints or uploads a receipt, ticket, or other access verification for a patron.","Thus, control may be maintained over a venue allowing paper-based and\/or paperless tickets by providing a system for seating or access verification inside the venue. Through presentation of a paper receipt or paperless verification, an entrant's area or level of access may be confirmed by staff and\/or electronic systems at the venue.","For example, the access device is a wireless handheld device, such as a personal digital assistant. Authentication data, such as a smart card, is used by a patron to gain access to a concert venue. Once inside the venue, the patron's smart code includes seat verification information. An usher or other staff member may use another handheld device, such as a wireless personal digital assistant, to scan the smart card to determine that the patron is allowed to sit in a certain section of the concert venue and\/or a particular seat in the section.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0050","num":"0049"},"figref":"FIG. 8","b":["800","810","820"]},"Next, at step , a staff member checks the patron's authorization for access to the area. For example, an usher with a handheld wireless device may scan the magnetic strip of the patron's credit card or otherwise verify that the patron is allowed to sit in the section of the stadium. That is, in order to regulate patron traffic and restrict access to certain areas, venue staff ensure that a patron is entitled to access a given area. Use of paperless seat verification eliminates the need for presentation of a paper ticket inside the venue. Alternatively, a paper ticket or seat verification may be generated at the venue, even if the patron used paperless authentication data to access the venue. Finally, at step , the patron accesses the area after approval by the staff member. Verification may be used to confirm access to a particular seat, a particular seating area, a particular event within the venue, and\/or a particular service within the venue, for example.","Alternatively, an automated scanning system may check the patron's authorization and allow access. For example, a patron may have a transmitter, RFID device or other mobile device which broadcasts a signature when triggered by a scanner. A scanner at the venue verifies that the person bearing the signature is authorized to access the area and then allows the patron to proceed.","Thus, certain embodiments provide a system and method for paperless ticket exchange. Certain embodiments allow paperless authentication data, such as biometric data, credit card or identification data, or transmission data to be used to access a venue. Certain embodiments provide a multi-use access device which accepts physical and\/or non-physical authentication data to allow a bearer into a venue. Certain embodiments allow a verification of access to be generated for a patron upon access to the venue. The verification may be used as a receipt and\/or as verification of a right to access a particular feature and\/or area at a venue.","While the invention has been described with reference to certain embodiments, it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes may be made and equivalents may be substituted without departing from the scope of the invention. In addition, many modifications may be made to adapt a particular situation or material to the teachings of the invention without departing from its scope. Therefore, it is intended that the invention not be limited to the particular embodiment disclosed, but that the invention will include all embodiments falling within the scope of the appended claims."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF SEVERAL VIEWS OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 8"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
