---
title: Methods and systems for controlling motion of and tracking a mechanically unattached probe
abstract: Methods and systems for controlling motion of and tracking a mechanically unattached magnetic probe are disclosed. One system for controlling motion of mechanically unattached magnetic probe may include a magnetic coil and pole assembly. The magnetic coil and pole assembly includes at least one pole carrier. The pole carrier includes a light transmissive substrate and a plurality of magnetic poles being patterned on the substrate for applying force to a mechanically unattached magnetic probe. A magnetic drive core provides a return path for magnetic flux flowing between the poles. A plurality of magnetic coils are wound around the magnetic drive core for conducting current and applying magnetic force to the probe through the pole pieces. A computer maintains the position of the probe within a volume defined by an optical tracking system by moving the probe and the system under test.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07119645&OS=07119645&RS=07119645
owner: The University of North Carolina
number: 07119645
owner_city: Chapel Hill
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20040225
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["RELATED APPLICATIONS","GOVERNMENT INTEREST","TECHNICAL FIELD","BACKGROUND ART","DISCLOSURE OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION","High NA Lenses","Hexapole Geometry for Magnetic Coil and Pole Assembly","Alternate Pole Piece Geometries","Imaging Optics","Tracking Optics","Optical Tracking Theory and Equations"],"p":["This application claims the benefit of U.S. provisional patent application No. 60\/449,930, filed Feb. 25, 2003, the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.","This work was supported by NIH Grant Number 1R01EB000761-01. Thus, the U.S. Government has certain rights to this invention.","The present invention relates to methods and systems for controlling motion of and tracking a mechanically unattached probe. More particularly, the present invention relates to magnetic structures for magnetically controlling the motion of a mechanically unattached probe in one, two, or three dimensions, where the magnetic structures are compatible with high resolution optics used for imaging and tracking.","In the field of scanning probe microscopy, small probes interact with samples under test to measure mechanical properties of the samples under test. For example, in atomic force microscopy, a small probe (typically sub-micrometer sized) is attached to the end of a cantilever. As the probe is scanned across the surface of a sample under test, such as the membrane of a cell, surface irregularities impose a varying force on the probe, which, in turn, results in a bending or deflection of the cantilever. An optical sensor senses the deflection of the cantilever based on light reflected from the cantilever and thereby determines changes in normal position of the probe as it is scanned across the surface of the sample under test. The changes in normal position of the probe are used to map the surface of the sample under test.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0006","num":"0005"},"figref":["FIG. 1A","FIG. 1A","FIG. 1B"],"b":["100","102","104","104","100","102","100","102"]},"One way to measure properties of structures inside of cells and other enclosed environments is to mechanically decouple the probe from the remainder of the system. However, once the probe is mechanically decoupled from the remainder of the system, tracking and controlling movement of the probe become problematic. One known technique of applying force to a mechanically decoupled probe is referred to as \u201coptical tweezers.\u201d This technique requires high optical field intensities that interact strongly with many materials and may produce undesirable side effects on experiments in biological samples.","Commonly-assigned, co-pending international patent application number PCT\/US02\/30853 describes a magnetic coil and pole assembly with four pencil-shaped pole pieces that converge from the vertices of an equilateral tetrahedron. Although such an assembly is useful in many environments, it may be desirable to control the motion of a probe in microscopes having high numerical aperture (NA) objective lenses with short focal distances. For example, some lenses may have numerical apertures greater than or equal to one at focal distances on the order of millimeters. Such lenses typically have large diameters and thus limit the space for placement of magnetic pole pieces used to control the motion of mechanically unattached probes. The space for placing pole pieces is even further limited when high NA objective lenses are placed both above and below the sample under test. In addition, at some positions within the volume defined by the pole pieces in a four-pole system, moving the probe in certain directions can be difficult.","Another factor to be considered in designing and placing magnetic pole pieces to control motion of a mechanically unattached magnetic probe is that the magnetic force on the probe for a given magnetic field varies inversely with r, where r is the distance from the pole tip applying the magnetic force to the magnetic probe. Thus, in order to apply strong magnetic forces to a probe, it is desirable that the pole tips be kept as close as possible to the probe. However, because the pole tips compete for space with imaging and tracking optics, designing a system that achieves desired magnetic forces and that is compatible with high-resolution optics is difficult.","Accordingly, there exists a long felt need for improved magnetic structures for applying magnetic force to a mechanically unattached probe that are suitable for use with high resolution optics or in other space-constrained environments.","The present invention includes methods and systems for controlling and tracking the motion of a mechanically unattached probe. By mechanically unattached, it is meant that the probe is not mechanically attached to its motion control system. The present invention is not limited to controlling the motion of a probe that is not mechanically attached to anything. For example, a probe may be weakly bound to a surface of a sample under test and be allowed to diffuse on the surface. In another example, a probe may be bound to the surface of a sample under test and forces may be applied to the probe in a direction normal to the surface to measure the forces that bind the probe.","According to one aspect of the invention, a magnetic coil and pole assembly for controlling motion of a mechanically unattached probe is provided. The assembly includes at least one magnetic pole carrier. The pole carrier includes a light transmissive substrate and a plurality of magnetic pole pieces being patterned on the substrate in a manner for applying force to a mechanically unattached magnetic probe. A magnetic drive core is magnetically coupled to the magnetic poles to provide a low reluctance return path for the magnetic flux induced between the poles. A plurality of magnetic coils is wound around the drive core for conducting current and applying magnetic force to the probe.","In one implementation, the magnetic pole carrier comprises a slide cover slip and the magnetic poles are thin film structures patterned on the cover slip. Using a slide cover slip is advantageous because it is thin and light transmissive. Using thin film magnetic poles is also advantageous due to the thinness of the poles and the ability to fabricate the poles using semiconductor manufacturing processes. However, the present invention is not limited to using a slide cover slip for the pole plate or using thin film magnetic poles. Any light transmissive substrate and pole structure suitable for use with high numeral aperture lenses in an optical microscope are intended to be within the scope of the invention. For example, in an alternate implementation, the pole pieces may be laminated foil structures cut from a sheet of magnetic material rather than thin film structures manufactured using semiconductor manufacturing techniques.","If three dimensional motion control is desired, a hexapole pole piece arrangement may be used for the magnetic coil and pole assembly. In alternate arrangements, thin film magnetic poles may be formed in arbitrary patterns on a substrate to apply desired magnetic forces to one or more mechanically unattached magnetic probes in one, two, or three dimensions. For example, if motion in a single direction is desired, a magnetic pole and coil assembly of the present invention may include a single thin film or thin foil pole piece located on a light transmissive substrate. Locating any number of pole pieces on a light transmissive substrate is intended to be within the scope of the invention.","Accordingly, it is an object of the invention to provide magnetic structures for controlling motion of a mechanically unattached magnetic probe.","It is another object of the invention to provide a magnetic coil and pole assembly for controlling motion of a mechanically unattached magnetic probe and that is suitable for use with high numerical aperture lenses.","Some of the objects of the invention having been stated hereinabove, and which are addressed in whole or in part by the present invention, other objects will become evident as the description proceeds when taken in connection with the accompanying drawings as best described hereinbelow.","The methods and systems for controlling motion of and tracking a mechanically unattached magnetic probe may be implemented in 3D force microscopes with high numerical aperture lenses.  is a block diagram of an exemplary 3D force microscope in which a magnetic coil and pole assembly of the present invention may be used. Referring to , the system includes magnetic coil and pole assembly  for controlling the force applied to a mechanically unattached magnetic probe . The magnetic force supplied by assembly  is controlled by a computer . More particularly, D\/A board  converts the digital coil control signal output from computer  into analog format. Power amplifiers  amplify the signal voltages output from D\/A board  and output the amplified signals to magnetic coil and pole assembly  as pole magnetizing currents. Magnetic coil and pole assembly  transduces the pole magnetizing currents to magnetomotive forces which induce a magnetic field that is coupled to probe , thereby generating a magnetic force on probe .","The system also includes a piezoelectric (x, y, z) translation stage  controlling position of sample under test (SUT) , which physically contains probe . The motion of SUT  is coupled to probe  by the viscoelastic properties of SUT , thereby also affecting the motion of probe . A position control feedback loop comprises position gauge , PID controller , and high voltage driver  in controller module ; and piezoelectric actuators  and capacitive position sensors  in translation stage . This feedback loop is used to rapidly and accurately cause the position of SUT  to follow a position control signal from computer , and to feed back a stage position signal to computer  representing the measured position of SUT .","In order to image and track probe , the system illustrated in  includes various optical components. These components may include laser , optics , and optics . Laser  generates light to be scattered from probe  and used to track probe . Optics  includes a series of lenses used for both tracking and imaging. Optics  collect light scattered by probe , light scattered by the sample being monitored, and light transmitted directly from laser . A quadrant photodiode  (QPD) converts the light collected by optics  into electronic signals used to determine the position of probe . Transimpedance amplifiers  convert the currents output by QPD  into voltages indicative of probe position. An A\/D board  converts the voltages output from transimpedance amplifiers  into digital signals indicative of probe position. Computer  executes codes, which transform the probe position signals from A\/D board  into estimates of the (x, y, z) position of probe  relative to the center of the beam waist of laser  at the focus of optics . The functional range of this method is limited to a radius of approximately one wavelength of the light of laser  from the center of the beam waist.","Maintaining the probe within this functional range is essential to the operation of the system. This is accomplished using feedback methods in various operational modes. In all modes, the feedback minimizes the estimated (x, y, z) position of probe  relative to the center of the beam waist of laser  at the focus of optics .","One mode in which the system illustrated in  may be operated is position control mode. In position control mode, computer  provides a desired position control signal to cause the position of SUT  to follow a predetermined trajectory. Computer  also executes feedback code driving the force control signal to cause probe  to remain fixed relative to the beam waist. This is equivalent to causing probe  to move relative to SUT  in a trajectory that is exactly opposite the predetermined trajectory of SUT . The force control signal represents the forces applied to probe  to cause it to follow this trajectory. This mode is useful for measuring viscoelastic properties such as fluid viscosity in SUT .","Another mode is force control mode. In force control mode, computer  provides a desired force control signal to apply a predetermined force profile to probe  over time. Computer  also executes feedback code driving the position control signal to cause probe  to remain fixed relative to the beam waist. This is equivalent to causing probe  to move relative to SUT  in a trajectory that is exactly opposite the motion caused by the position control signal. The position control signal represents the trajectory followed by probe  in response to the applied force signal.","A mode closely related to position control mode is velocity control mode. In velocity control mode, Computer  calculates a position trajectory satisfying initial conditions and a predetermined desired velocity profile, and uses position control mode to cause probe  to follow this position trajectory.","The present invention is not limited to these operational modes. Any combination of feedback from stage position and probe position signals to force control and position control signals is intended to be within the scope of the invention. In addition, the present invention is not limited to using the forward light scattering method described with respect to  to measure probe position. In an alternate implementation, video imaging may be used to track the position of probe  without departing from the scope of the invention. Using video imaging may provide further operational modes.","As stated above, the present invention preferably includes magnetic structures that are suitable for use with high numerical aperture objective lenses.  illustrate lenses with different numerical apertures. In , a lens  is spaced from a sample under test  by the focal distance of lens . The angle \u03b1, which is one half of the angle from the sample to the outside edges of lens , determines the numerical aperture. Assuming that the medium between lens  and sample  has an optical index of refraction \u03b7, the numerical aperture is equal to \u03b7 sin(\u03b1). In , another lens  has a larger diameter and shorter focal length than lens . As a result, the angle \u03b1 and hence the numerical aperture of lens  is larger than that of lens . As the diameter of a lens increases and the focal length decreases, the numerical aperture approaches one. For lenses with a numerical aperture of one or greater, the space for placing magnetic pole pieces is limited. Accordingly, the present invention preferably includes pole piece structures that are capable of controlling motion of a magnetic probe near high numerical aperture lenses or in other space-constrained environments.","In some applications, it may be desirable to control the motion of a mechanically unattached probe in any direction in three dimensions. One design for magnetic coil and pole assembly  that is suitable for three dimensional motion control is a hexapole design. In the hexapole design, six thin film or laminated foil poles are used to control the motion of a mechanically unattached probe in three dimensions.  illustrates the concept behind pole placement for the hexapole design. In , if a sample under test is placed at the center of a cube , the sample is equidistant from the midpoints of each face of cube . In addition, the lines that connect the midpoints of opposite faces of cube  are orthogonal to each other. These lines form a Cartesian coordinate system. Thus, the midpoints of the faces are ideal locations for placement of the magnetic pole tips.","If the midpoints of adjacent faces of cube  are connected as shown in , two equilateral triangles  and  are formed. The equilateral triangles are parallel to each other and are rotated with respect to each other by 60\u00b0.  illustrates triangles  and  looking along dashed line  shown in . In , it can be seen that the vertices of triangles  and  are equidistant from the center of cube  in . In addition, triangles  and  define a cylindrical working volume  between them. This working volume represents the area in which motion of probe  can be controlled in three dimensions. However, the present invention is not limited to controlling the motion of probe  in cylindrical working volume . For instance, it may be desirable to apply increased force on the probe at the expense of force symmetry. In such an instance, the sample may be placed near one of the pole tips for increased magnetic force.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0054","num":"0053"},"figref":["FIG. 4C","FIGS. 4A and 4B","FIG. 4C"],"b":["402","404","410","402","412","404","410","412","402","404","410","412"]},"In one exemplary implementation, the hexapole design may be implemented by providing pole pieces  and  on upper and lower carriers and providing pairs of magnetizing coils for magnetizing each pole piece.  is a perspective view of magnetic pole and coil assembly  where the assembly includes a hexapole geometry as illustrated in . Referring to , assembly  includes an upper pole carrier  and a lower pole carrier . Upper pole carrier  includes pole pieces  located on an upper surface thereof. Lower pole carrier  includes pole pieces  located on a lower surface thereof.","In order to apply magnetic force to a mechanically unattached probe, assembly  includes upper and lower magnetic coil assemblies  and . Assemblies  and  each include a plurality of magnetic coils  being wound around tabs  on upper and lower magnetic drive ring cores A and B. Assembly  may also include a mounting stage  for holding the cores, coils, carriers, and the sample. In the illustrated example, mounting stage  includes a hinged portion  for holding upper magnetic coil assembly . In operation, hinged portion  is closed to bring assembly  in close proximity to the pole pieces located on upper pole carrier .","The surface of each tab  that faces one of the pole pieces  or  is referred to as a pole face. When hinged portion  is closed, there may be air gaps between the pole faces and the pole piece that each pole face pair is magnetizing.  illustrates this concept. Referring to , coils  and associated tabs  are located on opposite sides of pole piece . The distance between the lower face of upper tab  and pole piece  is illustrated as h. The distance between lower tab  and pole piece  is illustrated by h. In order to ensure a low reluctance path for flux emanating from tabs  to pole piece , it is preferable that the distances hand hbe much less than the cross sectional area formed by the intersection of the pole faces formed by tabs  and pole piece . For example, the cross sectional area formed by the intersection of the pole face and pole piece  is preferably at least one order of magnitude and even more preferably at least two orders of magnitude greater than hand h. Providing a large cross sectional area relative to hand hcompensates for the increase in reluctance caused by the air gap and glass material between the pole faces and pole piece .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0058","num":"0057"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 6"],"b":["512","512","512","512","512","512","510","508","510","512","512","510","512","512"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0059","num":"0058"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 7"],"b":["508","510","512","512","508","700"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0060","num":"0059"},"figref":["FIG. 8","FIG. 8","FIG. 5A"],"b":["502","412","412","502","410","412","500","502","410","412","500","502","500","502"]},"The present invention is not limited to using glass for pole carriers  and . Any material that is transmissive to electromagnetic energy at the wavelengths used for imaging and\/or tracking is intended to be within the scope of the invention. The present invention is likewise not limited to using permalloy for pole pieces  and . Any suitable magnetic material with low hysteresis, low eddy currents, high saturation flux, and high permeability may be used without departing from the scope of the invention.","The thicknesses of pole pieces  and  may be selected based on a variety of engineering trade-offs. For example, in a configuration in which pole pieces  and  are sandwiched between upper and lower high NA objective lenses, the focal distances of the lenses, the space required for the sample slide, and the space required for pole carriers  and  limit the thicknesses of pole pieces  and . Pole pieces  and  are preferably made thick enough so that they do not saturate with magnetic flux before the flux reaches the pole tips. In a high force application where increased magnetic force is more important than three dimensional motion control symmetry, pole pieces  and  can be made thicker and located in the same plane.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0063","num":"0062"},"figref":["FIG. 9","FIG. 9","FIG. 9"],"b":["502","512","508","412","502","510","512","410","500"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0064","num":"0063"},"figref":["FIG. 10","FIG. 10","FIG. 11"],"b":["512","510","512","412","500","510","510","412","502","410","412","510"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0065","num":"0064"},"figref":["FIG. 11","FIG. 11","FIG. 11"],"b":["500","502","512","512","500","502","410","412","500","502","410","412"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0066","num":"0065"},"figref":["FIG. 12","FIG. 12"],"b":["500","502","518","1200","1202","200","1200","1202","502","1200","502","500","1202"]},"In order to drive one of the pole pieces  or , it is desirable to magnetize the upper and lower coils  above and below the pole piece being magnetized so that each coil has the same magnetic sense in the direction of the pole piece. That is, the upper and lower coils for a particular pole piece are preferably magnetized so that the north poles or the south poles of the coils face each other. This may be accomplished by wiring coils in the same vertical stack in series and winding the coils in opposite directions so that a current flowing in a given direction in each coil pair results in either the north or south poles facing each other.","Magnetizing the coils so that like poles face each other directs magnetic flux in the direction of the pole tip of the pole piece and into the sample. The flux may return through the other pole tips and the drive ring cores. It should be noted that it is not desirable to magnetize coils in the same vertical stack so that unlike poles face each other. For example, if a north pole in a vertical coil stack faces a south pole, flux emanating from the north pole will terminate in the south pole, rather than flowing through the pole piece. This is undesirable since less flux will reach the magnetic probe.","In order to effect motion towards one of the pole pieces, the pole piece may be energized with a magnetic force that is stronger in magnitude than the magnetic force of the other pole pieces. In addition, the magnetic sense of the pole piece towards which motion is desired is preferably opposite that of the other pole pieces.  illustrates this concept. Referring to , one pole piece  is preferably magnetized with a magnetizing force of 5N, indicating a strong magnetic force with a north magnetic sense. The remaining pole pieces are preferably magnetized with weak south fields S, where S represents a field that is equal in magnitude to N. Probe  will travel in the direction of increasing magnetic flux. In , the probe will travel in the direction of the 5N pole piece. By utilizing different magnetizing currents and the geometry illustrated in , motion of probe  in three dimensions can be achieved.","Although the examples described above with regard to  illustrate a hexapole design, the present invention is not limited to using a hexapole design. Forming any thin film or thin foil pole piece structure on a pole carrier to achieve a desired magnetic force on one or more mechanically unattached probes is intended to be within the scope of the invention.  is a top view of a pole carrier  with an alternate pole piece configuration.  is a close-up view of the pole pieces and pole carrier illustrated in . In , pole carrier  may be a glass substrate, as described above. In , pole carrier  includes pole pieces  and . Pole pieces  and  may be thin films or thin foils formed in a peaked or sawtooth pattern to form a plurality of opposing pole tips  for applying forces over a wide area of a sample. Pole pieces  and  may be coupled to coil and pole assembly  at locations indicated by dotted lines in . Pole tips  may be magnetized in any suitable manner to apply force to a plurality of mechanically unattached probes. For example, pole tips  on pole piece  may be initially magnetized to have a north magnetic sense and pole tips  on pole piece  may be initially magnetized to have a south magnetic sense. A plurality of magnetic probes may be placed between the pole tips in the sample under test. The magnetic polarity of the pole tips may be alternated over time and the force response of the sample under test may be measured over a period of time.","As discussed above, the present invention may include imaging optics for viewing probe  in the sample under test.  is an optical schematic diagram of exemplary imaging optics suitable for use with the methods and systems of the present invention. Referring to , the imaging optics include a light source  for illuminating the object being imaged. Light source  may be any suitable light source capable of uniform illumination of an object. In a preferred embodiment, light source  is a fiber light consisting of a halogen lamp and a bundle of optical fibers with the output coupled to the lower end of the imaging optics. An exemplary commercially available light source suitable for use with the present invention is the M1000 Fiber Light available from Edmond Optics.","In a preferred embodiment of the invention, Koehler illumination is used to illuminate the subject. In Koehler illumination, light from the light source is focused by a collector lens to form an image of the light source on the back focal plane of a condenser. Accordingly, in , collector lenses  form an image of light source  on the back focal plane of a condenser . Condenser  is an objective lens that corrects for spherical aberration, coma, and chromatic aberration and is optimized for bright field illumination. Probe  being imaged is located at the focal point of condenser  in a sample chamber . Upper objective lens  forms an image. A tube lens  focuses the lights rays exiting objective  onto the image plane of a CCD camera . A filter  filters the light entering CCD camera . CCD camera  converts the incident photons into an electronic signal and produces an electronic image of probe  and the sample under test.","The imaging system illustrated in  is referred to as a bright field imaging system. However, the present invention is not limited to using bright field imaging. For example, in an alternate embodiment of the invention, fluorescent imaging can be used to produce electronic images of probe  and the sample under test.","One problem with any magnetic pole and core assembly in which the pole pieces intrude in the optical path is that the pole pieces may adversely affect imaging and tracking because the pole pieces block light rays that would otherwise be collected by the objective lenses.  illustrates this concept.  is a schematic diagram illustrating an exemplary view of the system as seen through upper objective lens . In , upper pole pieces  appear as fuzzy opaque regions in the scene because they are out of focus. Lower pole pieces  also appear as out of focus images, since they are outside the focal length of objective lens . In order to compensate for the effect of pole pieces  and  on imaging and tracking, the optical signal exiting lenses  and  can be post processed using a filter function to account for any distortion caused by the pole pieces. The filter function may be the inverse of the transfer function caused by the interference of pole pieces  and  on incident light. Such a transfer function may be experimentally determined and programmed into computer  illustrated in .","In order to control the position of a mechanically unattached probe in three dimensions, it is necessary to be able to track the probe in three dimensions. Additional reasons for and advantages of tracking the probe in three dimensions are that such tracking allows mapping of surfaces within a tracked volume, and when coupled with applied force measurements, viscoelastic properties of samples under test can be determined. For example, three-dimensional optical tracking while applying forces in three dimensions can be used to determine mechanical properties of structures within a cell, within a cell culture, or in any other biological sample. Selective binding of the probe to specific organelles and large macromolecules can be used to determine binding coefficients.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0076","num":"0075"},"figref":["FIG. 16","FIG. 16"],"b":["214","1600","1602","1600","1200","518","1202","1604","1202","220","220","220"]},"Optical tracking equations based on intensity measurements made by quadrant photodiode  are theoretically based on Maxwell's Wave Equations. The following assumptions were made in order to perform the optical tracking calculations:\n\n",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0078","num":"0079"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00001","num":"00001"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mi":"\u03b1","mo":"=","mrow":{"msup":{"mi":"a","mn":"3"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"msubsup":{"mi":["\u03b7","solvent"],"mn":"2"},"mo":"\u00b7","mfrac":{"mrow":[{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msup":{"mi":"m","mn":"2"},"mo":"-","mn":"1"}},{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msup":{"mi":"m","mn":"2"},"mo":"+","mn":"2"}}]}}}}}},"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0003","list-style":"none"},"li":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0003-0001","num":"0000"},"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0004","list-style":"none"},"li":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0004-0001","num":"0000"},"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0005","list-style":"none"},"li":"Where"}}}}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0079","num":"0081"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00002","num":"00002"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mi":"m","mo":"=","mfrac":{"msub":[{"mi":["\u03b7","probe"]},{"mi":["\u03b7","solvent"]}]}}}},"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0006","list-style":"none"},"li":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0006-0001","num":"0000"},"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0007","list-style":"none"},"li":[{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0007-0001","num":"0000"},"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0008","list-style":"none"},"li":"and \u03b7and \u03b7are the refractive indices of the probe and the solvent in which the probe is floating, and a is the radius of the probe. To simplify the math, the probe position r\u2032 is described in cylindrical coordinates z\u2032, \u03c1\u2032=x\u2032+y\u2032,\u03a6\u2032=a tan(y\u2032\/x\u2032), while the detected interference at point r is described in spherical coordinates (r, \u03c5, \u03a6) around the optical axis.  illustrates the spherical and cylindrical coordinates used in the probe position calculations."}},"3. The propagating electromagnetic field generated by the laser is modeled as a Gaussian beam with a scalar wavenumber k\n\n\/\u03bb\n\nthe radius of curvature of the Gaussian beam is\n"]}}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0080","num":"0084"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00003","num":"00003"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mi":"R","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"z"}},{"mi":"z","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"mrow":{"mn":"1","mo":"+","msup":{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mfrac":{"msub":{"mi":"z","mn":"0"},"mi":"z"}},"mn":"2"}}}}],"mo":"="}}},"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0009","list-style":"none"},"li":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0009-0001","num":"0000"},"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0010","list-style":"none"},"li":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0010-0001","num":"0000"},"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0011","list-style":"none"},"li":"the beam waist radius in the focal plane is"}}}}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0081","num":"0086"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00004","num":"00004"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"\u03c9","mn":"0"},"mo":"=","msqrt":{"mrow":{"mi":"\u03bb","mo":"\u2062","mfrac":{"msub":{"mi":"z","mn":"0"},"mi":"\u03c0"}}}}}},"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0012","list-style":"none"},"li":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0012-0001","num":"0000"},"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0013","list-style":"none"},"li":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0013-0001","num":"0000"},"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0014","list-style":"none"},"li":"and the phase is"}}}}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0082","num":"0088"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00005","num":"00005"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mi":"\u03b6","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"z"}},{"mi":"a","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mrow":{"mrow":{"mi":"tan","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mfrac":{"mi":"z","msub":{"mi":"z","mn":"0"}}}},"mo":"."}}],"mo":"="}}}},"At the focus (i.e., the sample under test), the field generated by laser  undergoes the Gouy-phase jump, resulting in a ninety-degree phase shift between the focused laser field and a simple plane wave description of the phase of the light. The complex amplitude of the incident Gaussian electromagnetic field on the probe is given by",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0084","num":"0090"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00006","num":"00006"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":["E","i"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"r"}},{"msub":{"mi":"E","mn":"0"},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mfrac":{"msub":{"mi":"w","mn":"0"},"mrow":{"mi":"w","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"z"}}},"mrow":[{"mi":"exp","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"mrow":{"mo":"-","mfrac":{"msup":{"mi":"\u03c1","mn":"2"},"mrow":{"msup":{"mi":"w","mn":"2"},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"z"}}}}}},{"mi":"exp","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mrow":{"mo":"-","mi":"\u2148"},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":[{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}],"mi":["k","z"]},{"mi":["\u2148","k"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mfrac":{"msup":{"mi":"\u03c1","mn":"2"},"mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mrow":{"msup":{"mi":"R","mn":"2"},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"z"}}}}},{"mi":"\u2148\u03b6","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"z"}}],"mo":["-","+"]}}}]}],"mo":"="}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"1"}}]}}}}},"When the field at quadrant photodiode  is observed, far from the focal plane (r>>z), the following approximations can be used:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0086","num":"0092"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00007","num":"00007"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mrow":[{"mi":"\u03b6","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"z"}},{"mrow":{"mi":"arctan","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mfrac":{"mi":"z","msub":{"mi":"z","mn":"0"}}}},"mo":"\u2248","mfrac":{"mi":"\u03c0","mn":"2"}}],"mo":"="},{"mi":["z","r"],"mo":"\u2248"},{"mrow":{"mi":"R","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"z"}},"mo":"\u2248","mi":"\u221e"}],"mo":[",",","]}}},{"mtd":{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mrow":{"mi":"\u03c9","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"z"}},"mo":"\u2248","mfrac":{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"\u03c9","mn":"0"},"mo":"\u2062","mi":"z"},"msub":{"mi":"z","mn":"0"}}},{"mrow":{"mi":"sin","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"\u03c5"}},"mo":"\u2248","mi":"\u03c5"},{"mi":"\u03c1","mo":"<","msub":{"mi":"\u03c9","mn":"0"}},{"mrow":{"mi":"exp","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mo":"-","mfrac":{"msup":[{"mi":"\u03c1","mn":"2"},{"mrow":{"mi":"\u03c9","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"z"}},"mn":"2"}]}}}},"mo":"\u2248","mn":"1"}],"mo":[",",",",","]}}}]}}},"br":{}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0087","num":"0093"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00008","num":"00008"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":["E","u"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"r"}},{"mi":"i","mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"msub":{"mi":"E","mn":"0"},"mfrac":{"mrow":[{"mi":"k","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"msub":{"mi":"\u03c9","mn":"0"}},{"mn":"2","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mi":"r"}]},"mrow":{"mi":"exp","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mi":["\u2148","k","r"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":[{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}]},{"mfrac":{"mn":["1","4"]},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"msup":[{"mi":"k","mn":"2"},{"mi":"\u03c5","mn":"2"}],"msubsup":{"mi":"\u03c9","mn":["0","2"]}}],"mo":"-"}}}}],"mo":"="},"mo":","}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"2"}}]}}}},"br":{}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0088","num":"0094"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00009","num":"00009"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"E","mn":"0"},"mo":"=","mfrac":{"mn":"2","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"\u03c9","mn":"0"},"mo":"\u2062","msqrt":{"mrow":{"mi":"\u03c0","mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"msub":[{"mi":["\u025b","S"]},{"mi":["c","S"]}]}}}}}},"mo":","}}},"br":{},"sub":["s ","0 "]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0089","num":"0095"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00010","num":"00010"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":["E","S"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":"r","mo":",","msup":{"mi":["r","\u2032"]}}}},{"mfrac":{"mrow":{"msup":{"mi":"k","mn":"2"},"mo":"\u2062","mi":"\u03b1"},"mi":"r"},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mrow":[{"mi":"E","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"msup":{"mi":["r","\u2032"]}}},{"mi":"exp","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"mrow":{"mi":["\u2148","k"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mrow":{"mo":["\uf603","\uf604"],"mrow":{"mi":"r","mo":"-","msup":{"mi":["r","\u2032"]}}}}}}]}],"mo":"\u2248"}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"3"}}]}}}},"br":{},"sup":"2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0090","num":"0096"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00011","num":"00011"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mi":["\u03b4","I"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}},{"mrow":[{"mfrac":{"mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":["\u025b","s"]},{"mi":["c","s"]}],"mo":"\u2062"},"mn":"2"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msup":[{"mrow":{"mo":["\uf603","\uf604"],"mrow":{"mi":"E","mo":"+","msup":{"mi":["E","\u2032"]}}},"mn":"2"},{"mrow":{"mo":["\uf603","\uf604"],"mi":"E"},"mn":"2"}],"mo":"-"}}},{"msub":[{"mi":"\u025b","mn":"2"},{"mi":["c","s"]}],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mrow":{"mi":"Re","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"msup":{"mi":["EE","\u2032"]}}}}],"mo":"\u2248"}],"mo":"="}}},"br":{},"b":["1202","1202"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0091","num":"0097"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00012","num":"00012"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mfrac":{"mrow":{"mi":"\u03b4","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mrow":{"mi":"I","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":"r","mo":",","msup":{"mi":["r","\u2032"]}}}}},"msub":{"mi":["I","tot"]}},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mrow":[{"mi":"J","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":"r","mo":",","msup":{"mi":["r","\u2032"]}}}},{"mi":"sin","mo":"[","mrow":{"mi":"k","mo":["(","]"],"mrow":{"mi":"r","mo":["-","-","-","+"],"mrow":{"mo":["\uf603","\uf604"],"mrow":{"mi":"r","mo":"-","msup":{"mi":["r","\u2032"]}}},"msup":{"mi":["z","\u2032"]},"mfrac":[{"msup":{"mi":["\u03c1","\u20322"]},"mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mi":"R","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"msup":{"mi":["z","\u2032"]}}}}},{"mrow":{"mi":"\u03b6","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"msup":{"mi":["z","\u2032"]}}},"mi":"k"}]}}}],"mo":"\u2062"}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"4"}}]}}}},"br":{}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0092","num":"0098"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00013","num":"00013"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mi":"J","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":"r","mo":",","msup":{"mi":["r","\u2032"]}}}},{"mfrac":{"mrow":[{"mn":"2","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"msup":{"mi":"k","mn":"3"},"mi":"\u03b1"},{"mi":"\u03c0","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"msup":{"mi":"r","mn":"3"}}]},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"msup":{"mrow":[{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mn":"1","mo":"+","msup":{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msup":{"mi":["z","\u2032"]},"mo":"\/","msub":{"mi":"z","mn":"0"}}},"mn":"2"}}},{"mrow":{"mo":"-","mn":"1"},"mo":"\/","mn":"2"}]},"mrow":{"mi":"exp","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mo":"-","mfrac":{"msup":[{"mi":["\u03c1","\u20322"]},{"mrow":{"mi":"\u03c9","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"msup":{"mi":["z","\u2032"]}}},"mn":"2"}]}},{"msup":[{"mi":"k","mn":"2"},{"mi":"\u03d1","mn":"2"}],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"msubsup":{"mi":"\u03c9","mn":["0","2"]}}],"mo":"-"}}}}],"mo":"="}}},"br":{},"b":"1202"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0093","num":"0099"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00014","num":"00014"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mfrac":{"msub":{"mi":["I","z"]},"mi":"I"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"msup":{"mi":["z","\u2032"]}}},{"mfrac":{"mrow":[{"mn":"8","mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mi":["k","\u03b1"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}},{"mi":"\u03c0","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"msubsup":{"mi":"\u03c9","mn":["0","2"]}}]},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"msup":{"mrow":[{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mn":"1","mo":"+","msup":{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msup":{"mi":["z","\u2032"]},"mo":"\/","msub":{"mi":"z","mn":"0"}}},"mn":"2"}}},{"mrow":{"mo":"-","mn":"1"},"mo":"\/","mn":"2"}]},"mrow":{"mi":"sin","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":"arctan","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mfrac":{"msup":{"mi":["z","\u2032"]},"msub":{"mi":"z","mn":"0"}}}}}}}],"mo":"="}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"5"}}]}}}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0094","num":"0100"},"figref":["FIG. 18A","FIG. 18A"],"b":["220","220","220","220","202"]},"The lateral probe displacement (i.e., displacement in a plane parallel to the surface of QPD ), may be determined by the difference in intensity between two halves of QPD . Thus, it is necessary to integrate half of the detection area to obtain the lateral signals. The two-dimensional result for a probe displacement, p\u2032, in the focal plane at an angle \u03a6\u2032 is",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0096","num":"0102"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00015","num":"00015"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mfrac":{"msub":{"mi":["I","x"]},"mi":"I"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msup":[{"mi":["p","\u2032"]},{"mi":["\u03c6","\u2032"]}],"mo":","}}},{"mfrac":{"mrow":{"mn":"16","mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mi":["k","\u03b1"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}},"msqrt":{"mrow":{"mi":"\u03c0","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"msubsup":{"mi":"\u03c9","mn":["0","2"]}}}},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mrow":[{"mi":"cos","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"msup":{"mi":["\u03c6","\u2032"]}}},{"mo":["(",")"],"mfrac":{"msup":{"mi":["\u03c1","\u2032"]},"msub":{"mi":"\u03c9","mn":"0"}}},{"mi":"exp","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mo":"-","msup":{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mfrac":{"msup":{"mi":["\u03c1","\u2032"]},"msub":{"mi":"\u03c9","mn":"0"}}},"mn":"2"}}}}]}],"mo":"="}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"6"}}]}}}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0097","num":"0103"},"figref":["FIG. 18B","FIG. 18A","FIG. 18B","FIG. 18B"],"b":["220","220","220","220","220"]},"Equations (5) and (6) or approximations of Equations (5) and (6) may be implemented as a position calculator in hardware and\/or software in computer  illustrated in . Such a position calculator receives the signals output from quadrant photodiode  and calculates position, velocity, and\/or acceleration of probe  in the sample under test.","Thus, the present invention includes methods and systems for controlling motion of and tracking a mechanically unattached probe. In one implementation, the invention includes a magnetic pole and coil assembly suitable for use in space-constrained environments, such as optical microscopes with high numerical aperture lenses. In order to effect motion of a mechanically unattached probe in three dimensions, upper and lower pole carriers may be patterned with a plurality of pole pieces. Upper and lower magnetic drive ring cores include coils that magnetize the pole pieces to apply magnetic force to the probe. The pole pieces may be manufactured using any suitable manufacturing technique for making thin magnetic materials in predetermined patterns. Examples of fabrication techniques include any semiconductor fabrication techniques or cutting the pole piece patterns from thin foils.","It will be understood that various details of the invention may be changed without departing from the scope of the invention. Furthermore, the foregoing description is for the purpose of illustration only, and not for the purpose of limitation, as the invention is defined by the claims as set forth hereinafter."],"GOVINT":[{},{}],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["Preferred embodiments of the invention will now be explained with reference to the accompanying drawings of which:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIGS. 1A and 1B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIGS. 3A and 3B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 4A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":["FIG. 4B","FIG. 4A"],"b":["402","404","406"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 4C"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 5A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":"FIG. 5B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":"FIG. 9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":"FIG. 10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":"FIG. 11"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":"FIG. 12"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"figref":"FIG. 13"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0034"},"figref":"FIG. 14A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"figref":["FIG. 14B","FIG. 14A"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0037","num":"0036"},"figref":"FIG. 15A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0037"},"figref":"FIG. 15B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0039","num":"0038"},"figref":"FIG. 16"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0040","num":"0039"},"figref":"FIG. 17"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0041","num":"0040"},"figref":"FIG. 18A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0042","num":"0041"},"figref":"FIG. 18B"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
