---
title: Cooling scheme for scramjet variable geometry hardware
abstract: A cooling system for use in an engine having an element to be cooled includes at least one cooling channel on a first side of the element, at least one cooling channel on a second side of the element, and the at least one cooling channel on the first side communicating with the at least one channel on the second side in a nose region of the element so as to form a cooling circuit. The cooling system has particular utility in cooling interior and exterior surfaces of a movable cowl inlet flap used in a scramjet engine.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07117680&OS=07117680&RS=07117680
owner: United Technologies Corporation
number: 07117680
owner_city: Hartford
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20040422
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"GOVINT":[{},{}],"heading":["STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENT INTEREST","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENT(S)"],"p":["The Government of the United States of America may have rights in the present invention as a result of Contract No. F33615-96-C-2694 awarded by the U.S. Department of the Air Force.","(1) Field of the Invention","The present invention relates to a cooling system for use in an engine having a movable element which requires cooling. The cooling system of the present invention has particular utility in scramjet engines where a movable cowl inlet flap requires cooling.","(2) Prior Art","As supersonic combustion ram jet (scramjet) engine technology continues to develop, an important goal will be to improve the propulsion system's operability and performance. One method of achieving this goal is to incorporate variable geometry into the engine flowpath design. Variable geometry allows for real time optimization of the engine flowpath lines for varying flight conditions. Incorporating a movable cowl inlet flap is one method of achieving variable geometry in a scramjet engine.","The operating environment of the cowl flap requires the metallic flowpath surface of the flap to be actively cooled. Since the flight trajectory of a hypersonic vehicle can include a number of different cowl flap positions, a significant heat load can be generated on the exterior surface as well. As a result, both interior and exterior surfaces of the flap require active cooling.","Designing a movable cowl flap for a scramjet engine presents many challenges. Actively cooling the flap structure represents one of these challenges.","Accordingly, it is an object of the present invention to provide a system for actively cooling an element on an engine.","It is a further object of the present invention to provide a cooling system which allows substantially uniform coolant flow distribution and collection through a movable element with substantially no stagnant or cooling starved areas.","It is still a further object of the present invention to provide a cooling system which has particular utility in cooling a movable cowl inlet flap used in a scramjet engine.","The foregoing objects are attained by the cooling system of the present invention.","In accordance with the present invention, a cooling system for use in an engine having an element to be cooled is provided. The cooling system broadly comprises at least one cooling channel on a first side of the element, at least one cooling channel on a second side of the element, and the at least one cooling channel on the first side communicates with the at least one channel on the second side in a nose region of the element so as to form a cooling circuit.","The cooling system of the present invention has particular utility in cooling interior and exterior surfaces of a movable cowl inlet flap used in a scramjet engine.","Other details of the cooling scheme for scramjet variable geometry hardware of the present invention, as well as other objects and advantages attendant thereto, are set forth in the following detailed description and the accompanying drawings, wherein like reference numerals depict like elements.","Referring now to the drawings,  illustrates a scramjet engine  having a movable cowl inlet flap .","As can be seen in , the movable cowl inlet flap  is a wedge shaped structure having actively cooled internal and external flowpath panels  and  respectively. A passively cooled composite structure  comprises the flap leading edge. Sandwiched between the actively cooled internal and external panels  and  are laterally and axially directed stringers (not shown). The stringers interface with a torque tube  to form the primary structural components of the flap .","In addition to being a structural member, the torque tube  features a geometry that allows its internal volume to double as both an inlet and exit coolant manifold  and  respectively (see ). Torque arms , which attach to opposite sides of the torque tube , are used to move the movable cowl inlet flap  through its intended range of motion. The movable cowl inlet flap  rotates on bearings  positioned on a cylindrical axis of the torque tube  and housed in the torque arms . Plumbing type fittings  located at the back of the torque tube  provide inlet and exit ports  and  respectively for coolant used to actively cool the movable cowl inlet flap . Flexible plumbing tubes (not shown) attach to the fittings  and carry coolant to and from the movable cowl inlet flap . Caps , located at both ends of the torque tube , form the sidewalls of the torque tube  and the manifolds  and . Due to the limited volume of the fixed cowl structure  behind the torque tube , the fittings  must be transversely aligned and positioned at a specific radial angle to accommodate the flap's range of motion. Properly positioned fittings prevent interference with surrounding hardware as the flap is articulated to its fully open or fully closed position.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 3"],"b":["12","14","14","16","14","16"]},"In , both coolant inlet and exit fittings  and  respectively can be seen. Coolant enters and exits the flap cooling circuit exclusively through the fittings  and  via flexible tubing (not shown) attached to the fittings. The internal volume of the torque tube  is preferably split into a top manifold  and a bottom manifold  configuration. The top manifold  is used as a coolant supply manifold and the bottom manifold  is used as a return manifold. The volume restrictions behind the torque tube  dictate that the fittings  and  be aligned at the same radial angle. These restrictions make it difficult to find a solution that allows each fitting exclusive access to its intended manifold. Typically, the fittings  and  would be in a skewed configuration so as to be positioned directly opposite their respective manifolds. Since volume restrictions prohibit this, a solution has been devised which allows each fitting  and  to separately access its particular manifold. Additionally, space restrictions strictly limit maximum plumbing line diameters. These restrictions ordinarily negatively impact flow distribution characteristics within the coolant inlet manifold. However, internal features have been incorporated into the torque tube  to eliminate these adverse characteristics.","As can be seen from , the torque tube  has a top manifold  which acts as a coolant distribution\/supply manifold and a bottom manifold  which acts as a collection\/return manifold. This is accomplished by incorporating a partitioning wall  positioned approximately through the center of the tube . The wall  may be triangular in shape and roughly aligns with the angles of the fittings  and . The shape of the wall  should be such that it allows the fittings  and  exclusive access to their respective coolant manifolds  or  despite intersecting the torque tube  along the same radial plane.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0034"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 5"],"b":["20","32","20","32","42","40","32","42","44","20","44","42","32","44"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"figref":"FIG. 6","b":["36","46","42","46","36"]},"Referring now to , as the inlet manifold  fills, coolant is delivered to the inlet of each cooling channel  through a small hole  in the torque tube  at the base (initiation\/termination) of each cooling channel . Once in the cooling channel , the coolant travels forward (away from the torque tube ) through the flowpath panel  to the nose region  of the movable cowl inlet flap .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0037"},"figref":"FIG. 9","b":["12","54","14","16","54","54","18","14","16","62","62","64","16","20","16","12","14","12"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0039","num":"0038"},"figref":"FIG. 10","b":["20","34","38","34","34","38","66","40","68","40","38","36","68"]},"Referring now to , sheet metal caps  weld in place at each end of the torque tube . As previously discussed, these end caps  form the sidewalls of the manifolds  and . Each cap  is located roughly an inch inboard from an outside edge  of the torque tube . Locating the caps  inboard creates a cavity which may be used for installation of the torque arm . This approach to torque arm attachment prevents the entire length of the torque tube  from being used as a manifold. As a result, a special outer channel geometry has been developed to directly feed and collect coolant from the outermost cooling channels.","Referring now to , each of the manifolds  and  is provided with feed holes  for communicating with the outermost coolant channels . A set of feed holes  may be located at each outer end of the manifolds  and . The feed holes  in the supply manifold  form the inlets for the outer coolant channels  communicating with the supply manifold  so that coolant may be supplied to these channels. The feed holes  in the collection\/return manifold  form the outlets for the outer coolant channels  delivering coolant to the collection\/return manifold . As can be seen from these figures, this arrangement allows coolant from the supply manifold  to be distributed to the outermost cooling channels on each side of the internal panel  and allows coolant to be received in the collection\/return manifold  from the outermost cooling channels in the external panel .","The principal advantage to the cooling scheme or system of the present invention is that coolant flow distribution and collection through the flap is uniform across all cooling channels with no stagnant or cooling starved areas.","While the cooling scheme or system of the present invention has been described in the context of cooling a movable inlet cowl flap used in a scramjet engine, the cooling scheme or system could be used on a wide range of movable propulsion hardware requiring active cooling.","It is apparent that there has been provided in accordance with the present invention a cooling scheme for scramjet variable geometry hardware which fully satisfies the objects, means, and advantages set forth hereinbefore. While the present invention has been described in the context of specific embodiments thereof, other alternatives, modifications, and variations will become apparent to those skilled in the art having read the foregoing description. Accordingly, it is intended to embrace those alternatives, modifications, and variations which fall within the broad scope of the appended claims."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 4"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 5"],"b":["6","6"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":["FIG. 11","FIG. 10"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":["FIG. 12","FIG. 10"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":["FIG. 13","FIG. 10"]}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
