---
title: Pattern-free method of making line gratings
abstract: In accordance with the invention, substrate-supported linear arrays are formed by the steps of adhering a thin layer of polymer between a pair of substrates and separating the substrates perpendicular to the layer. The polymer layer separates to form substrate-supported polymer gratings on both substrates, each grating having a period proportional to the thickness of the layer. The process has been used to make gratings with periods in the sub-micron range or larger over areas covering square centimeters.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07588657&OS=07588657&RS=07588657
owner: Princeton University
number: 07588657
owner_city: Princeton
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20040929
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS","GOVERNMENT INTEREST","FIELD OF THE INVENTION","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION","EXAMPLE 1"],"p":["This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60\/506,789 filed by the present inventors on Sep. 29, 2003 and entitled \u201cNanopatterning in Stressed Materials\u201d, which application is incorporated herein by reference.","This invention was made with government support from the Department of Defense through a NDSEG fellowship (F46920-99-C-0054), the NSF MRSEC Program (NSF-DMR-0213706) and DARPA (DAAD 19-99-1-0219). The government has certain rights to this invention.","This invention relates to methods of making devices having patterns and, in particular, to a method of making devices having one or more linear arrays without the use of patterned masks or molds.","Methods of patterning devices with linear arrays are of great importance in the fabrication of a wide variety of electronic, optical and micro-mechanical devices. Such patterning is typically achieved by photolithography (exposing photoresist through a patterned mask), or by imprint lithography (imprinting a resist by a patterned mold). (See Reference 1 of Appendix A, hereinafter [1]).","Unfortunately both techniques depend on patterned masks or molds which must be precisely fabricated. The fabrication of such tools is expensive and time-consuming.","Linear arrays are basic components in many devices. Such arrays, typically comprised of narrow protruding line regions spaced apart by narrow recessed regions, can be used in the fabrication of optical gratings, optical filters, microcircuits, MEMs devices, micro\/nano fluidic devices, interconnects and devices for processing long chain polymers such as biological molecules. Processes to make linear devices are also used to make memory devices, magnetic storage devices, and templates for cell growth and adhesion. New methods of making linear arrays inexpensively, especially in large areas, would be highly desirable.","In accordance with the invention, substrate-supported linear arrays are formed by the steps of adhering a thin layer of polymer between a pair of substrates and separating the substrates perpendicular to the layer. The polymer layer separates to form substrate-supported polymer gratings on both substrates, each grating having a period proportional to the thickness of the layer. The process has been used to make gratings with periods in the sub-micron range or larger, over areas covering square centimeters.","It is to be understood that these drawings are for purposes of illustrating the concepts of the invention and, except for graphs and photographs, are not to scale.","This description is divided into two parts. Part I describes the basic process of the invention, and Part II, written for those skilled in the art, describes applicants' best current understanding of the physical mechanisms underlying the operation of the invention.","I. The Basic Processes","Referring to the drawings,  is a schematic block diagram of the steps involved in fabricating a linear array in accordance with the invention. The first step, shown in Block A, is to provide a workpiece comprising a thin layer of polymer sandwiched between a pair of substrates. Preferably the substrates have smooth, continuous contact surfaces. They are preferably planar or curved. While patterning is not necessary to form the gratings because this method not a molding process, so long as the polymer is adhered to the surfaces, it is possible to use topologically patterned surfaces to modulate the configuration of the surface on which the gratings are formed.","The preferred method of providing the sandwich structure is to coat a thin layer of polymer on one substrate (the initial substrate) and to apply a second substrate (the masking substrate) into continuous contact with the coating. The polymer can be coated by spin coating, dip coating or any of a variety of other known techniques for applying thin polymeric layers. The polymer can also be applied as a pre-existing thin sheet. Preferably the polymer layer (coating or sheet) has a thickness in the range 50-1,000,000 nanometers.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":"FIG. 2A","b":["20","21","22","23","21","23"]},"The polymer  can be chosen from a wide variety of adherent polymeric materials including polystyrene, poly (methyl methacrylate), polycarbonate, poly-L-lactide and polystyrene blends. Glassy polymers, whether brittle or ductile, can be used to produce gratings, and it is believed that molecular glasses and crystalline polymers will also produce gratings. Grating formation appears independent of polymer molecular weight.","An advantageous specific combination of materials comprises polystyrene (PS) sandwiched between silicon substrates.","The next step (Block B) is to assure adhesion of the polymer to the substrates. This can be affected by pressing the substrates together against the polymer layer. Optionally the polymer can also be heated, preferably above its glass transition temperature. Typical pressures are in the range of ten psi to several hundred psi. After several minutes, the pressure can be relieved. If heated above the glass transition temperature, the system should be cooled below the transition temperature before the substrates are separated. Typical material combinations require some pressing. Experiments have successfully been conducted with only pressing at room temperature, so heating is, in some cases, optional.","The third step (Block C) is to mechanically separate the substrates. Preferably the separation is substantially normal to the polymer layer. The separation is advantageously effected starting along one edge, with tensile stress perpendicular to the surface of the polymer layer. Separation can be facilitated by inserting a blade (e.g. razor blade) between the two substrates to wedge them apart. After separation, both substrates have linear gratings of polymeric material on the surfaces that contacted the polymer layer. The periods of the gratings are uniform and substantially equal. The periods are directly proportional to the thickness of the film. Specifically the period is about four times the film thickness (4\u00b11). Remarkably, the grating lines are regularly spaced over a large area encompassing ten to tens of thousands of periods, e.g. from about 10 to about 100,000 periods.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":["FIGS. 2B","FIG. 2B","FIG. 2C"],"b":["2","2","22","21","23","24","24","24","24","21","23"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":["FIG. 3A","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":["FIG. 3B","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"figref":"FIG. 3C","b":["24","24"]},"The final step (Block E) is to form a finished product. For example, a reflection grating can be finished by coating the polymer grating surface with reflective metal or by using the polymer grating as a mask for the deposit of the metal on the substrate and removing the polymer. Or a grating mold can be finished by using the array of polymer lines as an etch mask to etch recessed regions in the substrate between the polymer masked lines. To make other optical or semiconductor devices, the polymer lines can be used as masks for doping, for depositing materials such as metals, dielectrics, polysilicon or silicides, or for growing materials such as semiconductors, oxides or nitrides.","It is also noteworthy that one can control the portions of the substrate where polymer grating lines are formed. Such control can be achieved by coating the masking substrate with a pattern of mold release agent (MRA). Grating lines form only on the regions that are not coated with MRA.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0037","num":"0036"},"figref":["FIGS. 7 and 8","FIG. 7A","FIG. 7B","FIG. 1"],"b":["23","70","71","70"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0037"},"figref":["FIG. 8A","FIG. 8B","FIG. 8C"],"b":["80","80","82","81"]},"The inventive method can also be used to form two dimensional arrays by plural applications of the  process to form plural linear arrays oriented in different directions.  illustrate steps in the formation of an exemplary two-dimensional array.  illustrate a first  process including provision of a workpiece  having a polymer film  between two substrates (, ) (), adhering the film  to the substrates () and separating the substrates to leave one or more substrates  with a linear array  of polymer (). As an exemplary next step, metal or polysilicon lines  can be deposited using the polymer array  as a mask and the polymer can be removed to leave a linear array of metal or polysilicon lines  on the substrate () For some applications, such as the formation of crossover connectors, it may be desired to form insulative coatings (not shown) on the metal or polysilicon lines , as by deposition or growth of oxide. Alternatively, the polymer array  can be used as a mask for doping lines or for etching or epitaxial growth of linear regions.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0040","num":"0039"},"figref":["FIGS. 9E through 9G","FIG. 1","FIG. 9E","FIG. 9F","FIG. 9G"],"b":["21","90","20","22","21","23","25","90"]},"As an exemplary next step, the polymer lines  can be used to as a mask for the deposit of a second array of metal or polysilicon lines  intersecting the first array of metal or polysilicon lines . If the first array has been insulated, a two dimensional array of crossover connectors is formed (). While lines  and  are oriented at 90\u00b0 in this example, the direction of separation of the substrates can be chosen to produce any desired relative orientation angle between lines  and . Also the polymer array  could alternatively be used as a mask for doping, etching or growth of linear regions.","The invention can now be more clearly understood by consideration of the following specific example.","The pattern-free masks and substrates (WaferNet, prime grade) were made of p-type silicon (100) with boron doping (17-23 ohm-cm) and were covered with a layer of native oxide (approximately 20 to 30 angstroms). Substrates and masks were first cleaned with a high purity COjet. The wafers were dowsed in isopropanol and blown dry with a nitrogen gun. The mask wafer was spin coated with a 53 to 937 nm layer of 15K PS (Polymer Source). The mask was then laid over the substrate and placed in a press set to between 100 to 200 psi. The press was heated to a temperature between room temperature and 170\u00b0 C., though 100\u00b0 C. was most typical, for 15 minutes. After the temperature returned to ambient, the sample was removed from the press. The mask and substrate wafers were separated by applying a razor blade at one corner.","Samples heated at different temperatures ranging from 50\u00b0 C. to 100\u00b0 C. (\u00b15\u00b0) were placed on a hot plate for several minutes and likewise separated. Taping the sample to two metal plates and lifting one while holding the other obtained similar separation. Film thicknesses were measured via ellipsometry with confirmation from profilometry. Gratings, which appear on both the mask and the substrate, were examined with scanning electron (LEO), atomic force (Digital Instruments) and optical microscopies (Nikon) as appropriate. At temperatures above 100\u00b0 C., no gratings were formed.","II. The Underlying Physical Mechanisms",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0045","num":"0044"},"figref":["FIGS. 4A","FIG. 1","FIGS. 4A through 4D","FIG. 4D"],"b":["4","4","4"]},"The gratings shown in  reflect the curved topology of the sample. The lines come in two primary morphologies. On one substrate the gratings appear as v-shaped crevices that penetrate some distance into the film but not necessarily down to the substrate. The corresponding region of the other substrate has a complementary morphology that interlocks with the v-shaped crevices (See ). Careful registration of AFM scans of the mask and substrate shows that the profiles interlock. Clearly the film failed cohesively. This interlocking registry contrasts with viscous and viscoelastic [8] and possibly elastic [9, 10] fingering mechanisms.","The flat AFM profile in  also suggests adhesive failure. Metal evaporated onto the gratings lifts off in the presence of solvents that dissolve the polymer intervening between the metal and the silicon.  shows lines of chromium that adhered to the silicon between stalactite-like ridges after the polymer was dissolved away confirming the additional mechanism of adhesive failure in the grating formation process.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0048","num":"0047"},"figref":"FIGS. 5A through 5F"},"The temperature of separation is quite significant (). To ascertain its effects, the separation temperature was varied from that of boiling liquid nitrogen up to melting temperature of the polymer. At or below the glass transition temperature, gratings formed consistently. However, at temperatures greater than the glass transition temperature the gratings are completely absent. If the PS (T\u02dc92\u00b13\u00b0 C.) polymer is heated to 195\u00b0 C. the silicon mask and substrate do not separate, but merely slide. When this same sample cooled back down to room temperature, the areas exposed during the slide were absent of lines but the regions of polymer bounded by the mask and substrate yielded large regions of regularly spaced lines. The annealing temperature affects neither the regularity nor periodicity of the gratings, neither does the pressure of the press so long as good contact is made. From these observations we conclude that the instability mechanism is primarily elastic and that the features are formed not prior to but upon lift off. Replacing the silicon mask with a clear piece of glass further supports these observations. Lines were absent from the samples prior to separation, but readily visible thereafter.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0050","num":"0049"},"figref":["FIGS. 6A","FIG. 6A"],"b":["6","6"],"br":{},"in-line-formulae":[{},{}]},"where \u03bb is the period, h is the thickness, and k is a constant in the range of 3 to 5 inclusively. The period appears to be independent of the molecular weight, temperatures and pressure used to prepare the sample so long as good adhesion was achieved. The lines are remarkably regular over ten to hundreds of thousands of periods. Harmonics of this period appear, particularly near the edges of a region of gratings where line splitting and merging are not uncommon. The spacing reported here is absent of these harmonics and is remarkably repeatable from sample to sample.","Controlling the direction of the lines is nontrivial. The lines appear to develop from regions of higher stress to lower stress, which is generally from the edge of separation inward. Crazing can be distinguished from the parallel lines reported here, for crazing is absent when samples are separated under boiling liquid nitrogen; furthermore models[14] predict a period scaling as the square root of the film thickness in contrast to our experiments.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0053","num":"0052"},"figref":"FIG. 6C"},"One of the more remarkable features is the long-range quality of the gratings. The lines remain straight and parallel for hundreds of microns. They extend, in some cases, up to tens of thousands of periods and can remain parallel for centimeters, though occasionally domains appear. Some areas exceeding two square centimeters have been observed.","Control of the adhesive properties of the mask may lead to better control of which interface separates first and provide more useful features and applications. For example, masks patterned with a mold release agent[18] (MRA) everywhere except the shape yield gratings only within the shapes (). Conversely, if the MRA is in the shape, then lines form only external to the shape (). The corners reflect the curvature of the patterning on the masking substrate, suggesting an exact duplication is possible. Control of the pattern location opens up many opportunities to study crack development, the profile may be amenable to index matching[19] and the patterning technique itself, capable of generating thin films with deep sub-micron gratings, may be of interest to the fabrication and scientific communities. Others [17] have suggested patterning via cracking.","It is to be understood that the above described embodiments are illustrative of only a few of the many embodiments which can represent applications of the invention. Numerous and varied other arrangements can be made by those skilled in the art without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention."],"GOVINT":[{},{}],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The advantages, nature and various additional features of the invention will appear more fully upon consideration of the illustrative embodiments now to be described in detail in connection with the accompanying drawings. In the drawings:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":["FIGS. 2A","FIG. 1"],"b":["2","2","2"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":["FIGS. 3A","FIG. 1"],"b":["3","3"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":["FIGS. 4A","FIG. 1"],"b":["4","4","4"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIGS. 5A through 5E"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 6A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 6B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 6C"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIGS. 7A and 7B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIGS. 8A and 8B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 8C"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIGS. 9A through 9H"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
