---
title: Anti-arrhythmic and heart failure drugs that target the leak in the ryanodine receptor (RyR2) and uses thereof
abstract: The present invention provides methods for limiting or preventing a decrease in the level of RyR2-bound FKBP12.6 in a subject. The present invention further provides methods for treating and preventing atrial and ventricular cardiac arrhythmias, heart failure, and exercise-induced sudden cardiac death in a subject. Additionally, the present invention provides use of JTV-519 in a method for limiting or preventing a decrease in the level of RyR2-bound FKBP12.6 in a subject who has, or is a candidate for, atrial fibrillation. Also provided are uses of 1,4-benzothiazepine derivatives in methods for treating and preventing atrial and ventricular cardiac arrhythmias and heart failure in a subject, and for preventing exercise-induced sudden cardiac death. The present invention also provides methods for identifying agents for use in treating and preventing atrial fibrillation and heart failure, and agents identified by these methods.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07718644&OS=07718644&RS=07718644
owner: The Trustees of Columbia University in the City of New York
number: 07718644
owner_city: New York
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20040325
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["RELATED APPLICATIONS","STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENT INTEREST","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION","EXAMPLES","Example 1","FKBP12.6-Deficient Mice","Example 2","Telemetry Recording and Exercise Testing in Mice","Example 3","Expression of Wild-Type and RyR2-S2809D Mutants","Example 4","RyR2 PKA Phosphorylation and FKBP12.6 Binding","Example 5","Immunoblots","Example 6","Single-Channel Recordings","Example 7","Rat Model of Heart Failure","Example 8","Canine Model of Atrial Fibrillation","Example 9","Synthesis of 1,4-Benzothiazepine Intermediate and JTV-519","Example 10","Synthesis of Radio-Labeled JTV-519","Example 11","Novel 1,4-Benzothiazepine Derivatives and Methods for their Synthesis","Example 12","Assay for High-Throughput Screening","Example 13","Novel 1,4-Benzothiazepine Derivatives Allow Rebinding of FKBP12.6 TO RYR2","Example 14","Telemetry Recording and Exercise\/EKG Testing in Mice","Example 15","JTV-519 Improves Cardiac Contractility in a Rat Model of Heart Failure"],"p":["This application is a continuation-in-part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10\/763,498, filed on Jan. 22, 2004, now abandoned, the contents of which is hereby incorporated by reference herein.","This invention was made with government support under NIH Grant No. PO1 HL 67849-01. As such, the United States government has certain rights in this invention.","Despite advances in treatment, congestive heart failure remains an important cause of mortality in Western countries. Heart failure affects 5 million individuals in the United States alone, and is characterized by a 5-year mortality rate of \u02dc50% (Levy et al., Long-term trends in the incidence of and survival with heart failure. 347:1397-402, 2002).","An important hallmark of heart failure is reduced myocardial contractility (Gwathmey et al., Abnormal intracellular calcium handling in myocardium from patients with end-stage heart failure. 61:70-76, 1987). In healthy heart muscle, and in other striated muscle, calcium-release channels on the sarcoplasmic reticulum (SR), including ryanodine receptors (RyRs), facilitate coupling of an action potential to a muscle cell's contraction (i.e., excitation-contraction (EC) coupling). Contraction is initiated when calcium (Ca) is released from the SR into the surrounding cytoplasm. In heart failure, contractile abnormalities result, in part, from alterations in the signaling cascade that allows the cardiac action potential (AP) to trigger contraction. In particular, in failing hearts, the amplitude of the whole-cell Ca transient is decreased (Beuckelmann et al., Intracellular calcium handling in isolated ventricular myocytes from patients with terminal heart failure. 85:1046-55, 1992; Gomez et al., Defective excitation-contraction coupling in experimental cardiac hypertrophy and heart failure. 276:800-06, 1997), and the duration is prolonged (Beuckelmann et al., Intracellular calcium handling in isolated ventricular myocytes from patients with terminal heart failure. 85:1046-55, 1992).","Cardiac arrhythmia, a common feature of heart failure, is known to be associated with SR Ca leaks in structurally-normal hearts. In these cases, the most common mechanism for induction and maintenance of ventricular tachycardia is abnormal automaticity. One form of abnormal automaticity, known as triggered arrhythmia, is associated with aberrant release of SR Ca, which initiates delayed after-depolarizations, or DADs (Fozzard, H. A., After depolarizations and triggered activity. 87:105-13, 1992; Wit and Rosen, Pathophysiologic mechanisms of cardiac arrhythmias. 106:798-811, 1983). DADs are abnormal depolarizations in cardiomyocytes that occur after repolarization of a cardiac action potential. The molecular basis for the abnormal SR Ca release that results in DADs has not been fully elucidated. However, DADs are known to be blocked by ryanodine, providing evidence that RyR2 may play a key role in the pathogenesis of this aberrant Ca release (Marban et al., Mechanisms of arrhythmogenic delayed and early afterdepolarizations in ferret ventricular muscle. 78:1185-92, 1986; Song and Belardinelli, ATP promotes development of afterdepolarizations and triggered activity in cardiac myocytes. 267:H2005-11, 1994).","The most common cardiac arrhythmia in humans is atrial fibrillation (AF). It represents a major cause of morbidity and mortality (Chugh et al., Epidemiology and natural history of atrial fibrillation: clinical implications. 37:371-78, 2001; Falk, R. H., Atrial fibrillation. 344:1067-78, 2001). Despite its clinical importance, however, treatment options for AF have been limited\u2014due, in part, to the fact that its underlying molecular mechanisms are poorly understood.","Approximately 50% of all patients with heart disease die from fatal cardiac arrhythmias. Such fatal cardiac arrhythmias are often ventricular in nature. In some cases, a ventricular arrhythmia in the heart may be rapidly fatal\u2014a phenomenon referred to as \u201csudden cardiac death\u201d (SCD). Fatal ventricular arrhythmias (and SCD) may also occur in young, otherwise-healthy individuals who are not known to have structural heart disease. In fact, ventricular arrhythmia is the most common cause of sudden death in otherwise-healthy individuals.","Catecholaminergic polymorphic ventricular tachycardia (CPVT) is an inherited disorder in individuals with structurally-normal hearts. It is characterized by stress-induced ventricular tachycardia\u2014a lethal arrhythmia that may cause SCD. In subjects with CPVT, physical exertion and\/or stress induce bidirectional and\/or polymorphic ventricular tachycardias that lead to SCD in the absence of detectable structural heart disease (Laitinen et al., Mutations of the cardiac ryanodine receptor (RyR2) gene in familial polymorphic ventricular tachycardia. 103:485-90, 2001; Leenhardt et al., Catecholaminergic polymorphic ventricular tachycardia in children: a 7-year follow-up of 21 patients. 91:1512-19, 1995; Priori et al., Clinical and molecular characterization of patients with catecholaminergic polymorphic ventricular tachycardia. 106:69-74, 2002; Priori et al., Mutations in the cardiac ryanodine receptor gene (hRyR2) underlie catecholaminergic polymorphic ventricular tachycardia. 103:196-200, 2001; Swan et al., Arrhythmic disorder mapped to chromosome 1q42-q43 causes malignant polymorphic ventricular tachycardia in structurally normal hearts. 34:2035-42, 1999).","CPVT is predominantly inherited in an autosomal-dominant fashion. Individuals with CPVT have ventricular arrhythmias when subjected to exercise, but do not develop arrhythmias at rest. Linkage studies and direct sequencing have identified mutations in the human RyR2 gene, on chromosome 1q42-q43, in individuals with CPVT (Laitinen et al., Mutations of the cardiac ryanodine receptor (RyR2) gene in familial polymorphic ventricular tachycardia. 103:485-90, 2001; Priori et al., Mutations in the cardiac ryanodine receptor gene (hRyR2) underlie catecholaminergic polymorphic ventricular tachycardia. 103:196-200, 2001; Swan et al., Arrhythmic disorder mapped to chromosome 1q42-q43 causes malignant polymorphic ventricular tachycardia in structurally normal hearts. 34:2035-42, 1999).","There are three types of ryanodine receptors, all of which are highly-related Ca channels. RyR1 is found in skeletal muscle, RyR2 is found in the heart, and RyR3 is located in the brain. The type 2 ryanodine receptor (RyR2) is the major Ca-release channel required for EC coupling and muscle contraction in cardiac striated muscle.","RyR2 channels are packed into dense arrays in specialized regions of the SR that release intracellular stores of Ca, and thereby trigger muscle contraction (Marx et al., Coupled gating between individual skeletal muscle Ca release channels (ryanodine receptors). 281:818-21, 1998). During EC coupling, depolarization of the cardiac-muscle cell membrane, in phase zero of the AP, activates voltage-gated Ca channels. In turn, Ca influx through these channels initiates Ca release from the SR via RyR2, in a process known as Ca-induced Ca release (Fabiato, A., Calcium-induced release of calcium from the cardiac sarcoplasmic reticulum. 245:C1-C14, 1983; Nabauer et al., Regulation of calcium release is gated by calcium current, not gating charge, in cardiac myocytes. 244:800-03, 1989). The RyR2-mediated, Ca-induced Ca release then activates the contractile proteins which are responsible for cardiac muscle contraction.","RyR2 is a protein complex comprising four 565,000-dalton RyR2 polypeptides in association with four 12,000-dalton FK506 binding proteins (FKBPs), specifically FKBP12.6 (calstabin). FKBPs are cis-trans peptidyl-prolyl isomerases that are widely expressed, and serve a variety of cellular functions (Marks, A. R., Cellular functions of immunophilins. 76:631-49, 1996). FKBP12 proteins are tightly bound to, and regulate the function of, the skeletal ryanodine receptor, RyR1 (Brillantes et al., Stabilization of calcium release channel (ryanodine receptor) function by FK506-binding protein. 77:513-23, 1994; Jayaraman et al., FK506 binding protein associated with the calcium release channel (ryanodine receptor). 267:9474-77, 1992); the cardiac ryanodine receptor, RyR2 (Kaftan et al., Effects of rapamycin on ryanodine receptor\/Ca(2+)-release channels from cardiac muscle. 78:990-97, 1996); a related intracellular Ca-release channel, known as the type 1 inositol 1,4,5-triphosphate receptor (IP3R1) (Cameron et al., FKBP12 binds the inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor at leucine-proline (1400-1401) and anchors calcineurin to this FK506-like domain. 272:27582-88, 1997); and the type I transforming growth factor \u03b2 (TGF\u03b2) receptor (T\u03b2RI) (Chen et al., Mechanism of TGFbeta receptor inhibition by FKBP1216:3866-76, 1997). FKBP12.6 binds to the RyR2 channel (one molecule per RyR2 subunit), stabilizes RyR2-channel function (Brillantes et al., Stabilization of calcium release channel (ryanodine receptor) function by FK506-binding protein. 77:513-23, 1994), and facilitates coupled gating between neighboring RyR2 channels (Marx et al., Coupled gating between individual skeletal muscle Ca release channels (ryanodine receptors). 281:818-21, 1998), thereby preventing aberrant activation of the channel during the resting phase of the cardiac cycle.","It is clear that leaks in RyR2 channels are associated with a number of pathological states\u2014in both diseased hearts and structurally-normal hearts. Accordingly, methods to repair the leaks in RyR2 could treat or prevent heart failure, cardiac arrhythmias, and sudden cardiac death in millions of patients.","The 1,4-benzothiazepine derivative, JTV-519, or 4-[3-(4-benzylpiperidin-1-yl)propionyl]-7-methoxy-2,3,4,5-tetrahydro-1,4-benzothiazepine monohydrochloride (also known as k201 or ICP-Calstan 100), is a new modulator of calcium-ion channels. In addition to regulating Ca levels in myocardial cells, JTV-519 also modulates the Na current and the inward-rectifier K current in guinea pig ventricular cells, and inhibits the delayed-rectifier K current in guinea pig atrial cells. Studies have shown that JTV-519 has a strong cardioprotective effect against catecholamine-induced myocardial injury, myocardial-injury-induced myofibrillar overcontraction, and ischemia\/reperfusion injury. In experimental myofibrillar overcontraction models, JTV-519 demonstrated greater cardioprotective effects than propranolol, verapamil, and diltiazem. Experimental data have also suggested that JTV-519 effectively prevents ventricular ischemia\/reperfusion by reducing the level of intracellular Ca overload in animal models.","The present invention is based upon the surprising discovery that RyR2 is a target for treating and preventing heart failure and cardiac arrhythmias, including atrial fibrillations, ventricular arrhythmias, and exercise-induced cardiac arrhythmias. As described herein, the inventors made mutant RyR2 channels with 7 different CPVT mutations, and studied their functions. All 7 mutants had functional defects that resulted in channels that became leaky (a calcium leak) when stimulated during exercise. The inventors' study is the first to identify a mechanism by which the SR calcium leak causes DADs. Remarkably, the defect in the mutant CPVT channels made the channels look like the leaky channels in the hearts of patients with end-stage heart failure\u2014a disorder characterized by a high incidence of fatal cardiac arrhythmias. Therefore, the inventors have shown that the mechanism for the VT in CPVT is the same as the mechanism for VT in heart failure.","The inventors also disclose herein that JTV-519 (k201 or ICP-Calstan 100), and other novel 1,4-benzothiazepine derivatives, repair the leak in RyR2 channels. As the inventors have shown, JTV-519 and related derivatives enhance binding of FKBP12.6 to PKA-phosphorylated RyR2, and to mutant RyR2s that otherwise have reduced affinity for, or do not bind to, FKBP12.6. This action fixes the leak in RyR2 which triggers fatal cardiac arrhythmias (sudden cardiac death (SCD)) and contributes to atrial\/ventricular fibrillations and heart-muscle dysfunction in heart failure.","Accordingly, in one aspect, the present invention provides a method for limiting or preventing a decrease in the level of RyR2-bound FKBP12.6 in a subject who has, or is a candidate for, atrial fibrillation, by administering to the subject an amount of JTV-519 effective to limit or prevent a decrease in the level of RyR2-bound FKBP12.6 in the subject, wherein the RyR2 is atrial RyR2. Also provided is a use of JTV-519 in a method for limiting or preventing a decrease in the level of RyR2-bound FKBP12.6 in a subject who has, or is a candidate for, atrial fibrillation.","In another aspect, the present invention provides a method for treating or preventing atrial fibrillation in a subject, by administering to the subject an amount of JTV-519 effective to limit or prevent a decrease in the level of RyR2-bound FKBP12.6 in the subject, thereby treating or preventing atrial fibrillation in the subject. In one embodiment, the amount of JTV-519 effective to limit or prevent a decrease in the level of RyR2-bound FKBP12.6 in the subject is an amount of JTV-519 effective to treat or prevent atrial fibrillation in the subject.","In still another aspect, the present invention provides a method for limiting or preventing a decrease in the level of RyR2-bound FKBP12.6 in a subject, by administering a 1,4-benzothiazepine derivative to the subject, in an amount effective to limit or prevent a decrease in the level of RyR2-bound FKBP12.6 in the subject, wherein the 1,4-benzothiazepine derivative is selected from the group consisting of:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"chemistry":{"@attributes":{"id":"CHEM-US-00001","num":"00001"},"img":{"@attributes":{"id":"EMI-C00001","he":"31.41mm","wi":"56.98mm","file":"US07718644-20100518-C00001.TIF","alt":"embedded image","img-content":"chem","img-format":"tif"}}},"br":{},"sub":["2","n","2","2","n"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"chemistry":{"@attributes":{"id":"CHEM-US-00002","num":"00002"},"img":{"@attributes":{"id":"EMI-C00002","he":"31.41mm","wi":"59.77mm","file":"US07718644-20100518-C00002.TIF","alt":"embedded image","img-content":"chem","img-format":"tif"}}},"br":{},"sub":["2","n","2","2","n"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"chemistry":{"@attributes":{"id":"CHEM-US-00003","num":"00003"},"img":{"@attributes":{"id":"EMI-C00003","he":"37.34mm","wi":"54.10mm","file":"US07718644-20100518-C00003.TIF","alt":"embedded image","img-content":"chem","img-format":"tif"}}},"br":{},"sub":["2","n","2","2","2","n","2","2","2","n","2"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"chemistry":{"@attributes":{"id":"CHEM-US-00004","num":"00004"},"img":{"@attributes":{"id":"EMI-C00004","he":"31.41mm","wi":"59.77mm","file":"US07718644-20100518-C00004.TIF","alt":"embedded image","img-content":"chem","img-format":"tif"}}},"br":{},"sub":["2","n","2","2","n"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"chemistry":{"@attributes":{"id":"CHEM-US-00005","num":"00005"},"img":{"@attributes":{"id":"EMI-C00005","he":"35.56mm","wi":"55.80mm","file":"US07718644-20100518-C00005.TIF","alt":"embedded image","img-content":"chem","img-format":"tif"}}},"br":{},"sub":["1","2","3"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"chemistry":{"@attributes":{"id":"CHEM-US-00006","num":"00006"},"img":{"@attributes":{"id":"EMI-C00006","he":"38.95mm","wi":"55.80mm","file":"US07718644-20100518-C00006.TIF","alt":"embedded image","img-content":"chem","img-format":"tif"}}},"br":{}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"chemistry":{"@attributes":{"id":"CHEM-US-00007","num":"00007"},"img":{"@attributes":{"id":"EMI-C00007","he":"37.42mm","wi":"56.64mm","file":"US07718644-20100518-C00007.TIF","alt":"embedded image","img-content":"chem","img-format":"tif"}}},"br":{},"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0001","list-style":"none"},"li":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0001-0001","num":"0000"},"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0002","list-style":"none"},"li":"(h) any oxidized form thereof. Also provided are uses of these 1,4-benzothiazepine derivatives in methods for limiting or preventing a decrease in the level of RyR2-bound FKBP12.6 in a subject."}}}},"In yet another aspect, the present invention provides a method for treating or preventing a cardiac arrhythmia, heart failure, and\/or exercise-induced sudden cardiac death in a subject, comprising administering a 1,4-benzothiazepine derivative to the subject, in an amount effective to limit or prevent a decrease in the level of RyR2-bound FKBP12.6 in the subject, wherein the 1,4-benzothiazepine derivative is selected from the group consisting of:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0029"},"chemistry":{"@attributes":{"id":"CHEM-US-00008","num":"00008"},"img":{"@attributes":{"id":"EMI-C00008","he":"31.41mm","wi":"56.98mm","file":"US07718644-20100518-C00008.TIF","alt":"embedded image","img-content":"chem","img-format":"tif"}}},"br":{},"sub":["2","n","2","2","n"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0030"},"chemistry":{"@attributes":{"id":"CHEM-US-00009","num":"00009"},"img":{"@attributes":{"id":"EMI-C00009","he":"31.41mm","wi":"59.69mm","file":"US07718644-20100518-C00009.TIF","alt":"embedded image","img-content":"chem","img-format":"tif"}}},"br":{},"sub":["2","n","2","2","n"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0031"},"chemistry":{"@attributes":{"id":"CHEM-US-00010","num":"00010"},"img":{"@attributes":{"id":"EMI-C00010","he":"37.34mm","wi":"54.10mm","file":"US07718644-20100518-C00010.TIF","alt":"embedded image","img-content":"chem","img-format":"tif"}}},"br":{},"sub":["2","n","2","2","2","n","2","2","2","n","2"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0032"},"chemistry":{"@attributes":{"id":"CHEM-US-00011","num":"00011"},"img":{"@attributes":{"id":"EMI-C00011","he":"31.41mm","wi":"59.69mm","file":"US07718644-20100518-C00011.TIF","alt":"embedded image","img-content":"chem","img-format":"tif"}}},"br":{},"sub":["2","n","2","2","n"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0033"},"chemistry":{"@attributes":{"id":"CHEM-US-00012","num":"00012"},"img":{"@attributes":{"id":"EMI-C00012","he":"23.96mm","wi":"55.37mm","file":"US07718644-20100518-C00012.TIF","alt":"embedded image","img-content":"chem","img-format":"tif"}}},"br":{},"sub":["1","2","3"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0034"},"chemistry":{"@attributes":{"id":"CHEM-US-00013","num":"00013"},"img":{"@attributes":{"id":"EMI-C00013","he":"33.95mm","wi":"55.37mm","file":"US07718644-20100518-C00013.TIF","alt":"embedded image","img-content":"chem","img-format":"tif"}}},"br":{}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0035"},"chemistry":{"@attributes":{"id":"CHEM-US-00014","num":"00014"},"img":{"@attributes":{"id":"EMI-C00014","he":"35.31mm","wi":"56.22mm","file":"US07718644-20100518-C00014.TIF","alt":"embedded image","img-content":"chem","img-format":"tif"}}},"br":{},"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0003","list-style":"none"},"li":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0003-0001","num":"0000"},"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0004","list-style":"none"},"li":"(h) any oxidized form thereof."}}}},"In a further aspect, the present invention provides a method for treating or preventing a cardiac arrhythmia, heart failure, and\/or exercise-induced sudden cardiac death in a subject, comprising administering a 1,4-benzothiazepine derivative to the subject, in an amount effective to treat or prevent the cardiac arrhythmia, heart failure, and\/or exercise-induced sudden cardiac death in the subject, wherein the 1,4-benzothiazepine derivative is selected from the group consisting of:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0037","num":"0038"},"chemistry":{"@attributes":{"id":"CHEM-US-00015","num":"00015"},"img":{"@attributes":{"id":"EMI-C00015","he":"31.41mm","wi":"56.90mm","file":"US07718644-20100518-C00015.TIF","alt":"embedded image","img-content":"chem","img-format":"tif"}}},"br":{},"sub":["2","n","2","2","n"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0039"},"chemistry":{"@attributes":{"id":"CHEM-US-00016","num":"00016"},"img":{"@attributes":{"id":"EMI-C00016","he":"31.41mm","wi":"59.77mm","file":"US07718644-20100518-C00016.TIF","alt":"embedded image","img-content":"chem","img-format":"tif"}}},"br":{},"sub":["2","n","2","2","n"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0039","num":"0040"},"chemistry":{"@attributes":{"id":"CHEM-US-00017","num":"00017"},"img":{"@attributes":{"id":"EMI-C00017","he":"29.63mm","wi":"54.10mm","file":"US07718644-20100518-C00017.TIF","alt":"embedded image","img-content":"chem","img-format":"tif"}}},"br":{},"sub":["2","n","2","2","2","n","2","2","2","n","2"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0040","num":"0041"},"chemistry":{"@attributes":{"id":"CHEM-US-00018","num":"00018"},"img":{"@attributes":{"id":"EMI-C00018","he":"31.41mm","wi":"59.77mm","file":"US07718644-20100518-C00018.TIF","alt":"embedded image","img-content":"chem","img-format":"tif"}}},"br":{},"sub":["2","n","2","2","n"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0041","num":"0042"},"chemistry":{"@attributes":{"id":"CHEM-US-00019","num":"00019"},"img":{"@attributes":{"id":"EMI-C00019","he":"23.88mm","wi":"55.46mm","file":"US07718644-20100518-C00019.TIF","alt":"embedded image","img-content":"chem","img-format":"tif"}}},"br":{},"sub":["1","2","3"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0042","num":"0043"},"chemistry":{"@attributes":{"id":"CHEM-US-00020","num":"00020"},"img":{"@attributes":{"id":"EMI-C00020","he":"32.94mm","wi":"55.37mm","file":"US07718644-20100518-C00020.TIF","alt":"embedded image","img-content":"chem","img-format":"tif"}}},"br":{}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0043","num":"0044"},"chemistry":{"@attributes":{"id":"CHEM-US-00021","num":"00021"},"img":{"@attributes":{"id":"EMI-C00021","he":"33.27mm","wi":"56.22mm","file":"US07718644-20100518-C00021.TIF","alt":"embedded image","img-content":"chem","img-format":"tif"}}},"br":{},"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0005","list-style":"none"},"li":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0005-0001","num":"0000"},"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0006","list-style":"none"},"li":"(h) any oxidized form thereof. Also provided are uses of these 1,4-benzothiazepine derivatives in methods for treating or preventing a cardiac arrhythmia, heart failure, and\/or exercise-induced sudden cardiac death in a subject."}}}},"In still another aspect, the present invention provides a method for identifying an agent for use in treating or preventing atrial fibrillation or heart failure, by: (a) obtaining or generating a culture of cells containing RyR2; (b) contacting the cells with a candidate agent; (c) exposing the cells to one or more conditions known to increase phosphorylation of RyR2 in cells; and (d) determining if the agent limits or prevents a decrease in the level of RyR2-bound FKBP12.6 in the cells. In one embodiment, this method further comprises the step of: (e) determining if the agent has an effect on an RyR2-associated biological event in the cells. Also provided are an agent identified by this method, and a use of the agent in methods of treating and preventing atrial fibrillation and heart failure.","In yet another aspect, the present invention provides a method for identifying an agent for use in treating or preventing atrial fibrillation or heart failure, by: (a) obtaining or generating an animal containing RyR2; (b) administering a candidate agent to the animal; (c) exposing the animal to one or more conditions known to increase phosphorylation of RyR2 in cells; and (d) determining if the agent limits or prevents a decrease in the level of RyR2-bound FKBP12.6 in the animal. In one embodiment, this method further comprises the step of: (e) determining if the agent has an effect on an RyR2-associated biological event in the animal. Also provided are an agent identified by this method, and a use of the agent in methods of treating and preventing atrial fibrillation and heart failure.","Additional aspects of the present invention will be apparent in view of the description which follows.","Phosphorylation of cardiac RyR2 by protein kinase (PKA) is an important part of the \u201cfight or flight\u201d response; it increases cardiac EC-coupling gain by augmenting the amount of Ca released for a given trigger (Marks, A. R., Cardiac intracellular calcium release channels: role in heart failure. 87:8-11, 2000). This signaling pathway provides a mechanism by which activation of the sympathetic nervous system, in response to stress, results in increased cardiac output required to meet the metabolic demands of the stress responses. Upon binding of catecholamines, \u03b21- and \u03b22-adrenergic receptors activate adenylyl cyclase via a stimulatory G-protein, G\u03b1. Adenylyl cyclase increases intracellular cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) levels, which activate the cAMP-dependent PKA. PKA phosphorylation of RyR2 increases the open probability of the channel by dissociating calstabin2 (FKBP12.6) from the channel complex. This, in turn, increases the sensitivity of RyR2 to Ca-dependent activation (Hain et al., Phosphorylation modulates the function of the calcium release channel of sarcoplasmic reticulum from cardiac muscle. 270:2074-81, 1995; Valdivia et al., Rapid adaptation of cardiac ryanodine receptors: modulation by Mg and phosphorylation. 267:1997-2000, 1995; Marx et al., PKA phosphorylation dissociates FKBP12.6 from the calcium release channel (ryanodine receptor): defective regulation in failing hearts. 101:365-76, 2000).","Failing hearts (e.g., in patients with heart failure and in animal models of heart failure) are characterized by a maladaptive response that includes chronic hyperadrenergic stimulation (Bristow et al., Decreased catecholamine sensitivity and beta-adrenergic-receptor density in failing human hearts. 307:205-11, 1982). The pathogenic significance of this stimulation in heart failure is supported by therapeutic strategies that decrease beta-adrenergic stimulation and left ventricular myocardial wall stress, and potently reverse ventricular remodeling (Barbone et al., Comparison of right and left ventricular responses to left ventricular assist device support in patients with severe heart failure: a primary role of mechanical unloading underlying reverse remodeling. 104:670-75, 2001; Eichhorn and Bristow, Medical therapy can improve the biological properties of the chronically failing heart. A new era in the treatment of heart failure. 94:2285-96, 1996). In heart failure, chronic beta-adrenergic stimulation is associated with the activation of beta-adrenergic receptors in the heart, which, through coupling with G-proteins, activate adenylyl cyclase and thereby increase intracellular cAMP concentration. cAMP activates cAMP-dependent PKA, which has been shown to induce hyperphosphorylation of RyR2. Thus, chronic heart failure is a chronic hyperadrenergic state (Chidsey et al., Augmentation of plasma norepinephrine response to exercise in patients with congestive heart failure. 267:650, 1962) that results in several pathologic consequences, including PKA hyperphosphorylation of RyR2 (Marx et al., PKA phosphorylation dissociates FKBP12.6 from the calcium release channel (ryanodine receptor): defective regulation in failing hearts. 101:365-76, 2000).","The PKA hyperphosphorylation of RyR2 has been proposed as a factor contributing to depressed contractile function and arrhythmogenesis in heart failure (Marks et al., Progression of heart failure: is protein kinase a hyperphosphorylation of the ryanodine receptor a contributing factor? 105:272-75, 2002; Marx et al., PKA phosphorylation dissociates FKBP12.6 from the calcium release channel (ryanodine receptor): defective regulation in failing hearts. 101:365-76, 2000). Consistent with this hypothesis, PKA hyperphosphorylation of RyR2 in failing hearts has been demonstrated in vivo, both in animal models and in patients with heart failure undergoing cardiac transplantation (Antos et al., Dilated cardiomyopathy and sudden death resulting from constitutive activation of protein kinase A. 89:997-1004, 2001; Marx et al., PKA phosphorylation dissociates FKBP12.6 from the calcium release channel (ryanodine receptor): defective regulation in failing hearts. 101:365-76, 2000; Ono et al., Altered interaction of FKBP12.6 with ryanodine receptor as a cause of abnormal Ca release in heart failure. 48:323-31, 2000; Reiken et al., Beta-adrenergic receptor blockers restore cardiac calcium release channel (ryanodine receptor) structure and function in heart failure. 104:2843-48, 2001; Semsarian et al., The L-type calcium channel inhibitor diltiazem prevents cardiomyopathy in a mouse model. 109:1013-20, 2002; Yano et al., Altered stoichiometry of FKBP12.6 versus ryanodine receptor as a cause of abnormal Ca leak through ryanodine receptor in heart failure. 102:2131-36, 2000).","In failing hearts, the hyperphosphorylation of RyR2 by PKA induces the dissociation of the regulatory FKBP12.6 subunit from the RyR2 channel (Marx et al., PKA phosphorylation dissociates FKBP12.6 from the calcium release channel (ryanodine receptor): defective regulation in failing hearts. 101:365-76, 2000). This causes marked changes in the biophysical properties of the RyR2 channel. Such changes are evidenced by increased open probability (Po), due to an increased sensitivity to Ca-dependent activation (Brillantes et al., Stabilization of calcium release channel (ryanodine receptor) function by FK506-binding protein. 77:513-23, 1994; Kaftan et al., Effects of rapamycin on ryanodine receptor\/Ca-release channels from cardiac muscle. 78:990-97, 1996); destabilization of the channel, resulting in subconductance states; and impaired coupled gating of the channels, resulting in defective EC coupling and cardiac dysfunction (Marx et al., Coupled gating between individual skeletal muscle Ca release channels (ryanodine receptors). 281:818-21, 1998). Thus, PKA-hyperphosphorylated RyR2 is very sensitive to low-level Ca stimulation, and this manifests itself as an SR Ca leak through the hyperphosphorylated channel.","The maladaptive response to stress in heart failure results in depletion of FKBP12.6 from the channel macromolecular complex. This leads to a shift to the left in the sensitivity of RyR2 to Ca-induced Ca release, resulting in channels that are more active at low-to-moderate [Ca](Marx et al., PKA phosphorylation dissociates FKBP12.6 from the calcium release channel (ryanodine receptor): defective regulation in failing hearts. 101:365-76, 2000; Yamamoto et al., Abnormal Ca release from cardiac sarcoplasmic reticulum in tachycardia-induced heart failure. 44:146-55, 1999; Yano et al., Altered stoichiometry of FKBP12.6 versus ryanodine receptor as a cause of abnormal Ca leak through ryanodine receptor in heart failure. 102:2131-36, 2000). Over time, the increased \u201cleak\u201d through RyR2 results in resetting of the SR Ca content to a lower level, which in turn reduces EC coupling gain and contributes to impaired systolic contractility (Marx et al., PKA phosphorylation dissociates FKBP12.6 from the calcium release channel (ryanodine receptor): defective regulation in failing hearts. 101:365-76, 2000).","A subpopulation of RyR2 channels that are particularly \u201cleaky\u201d can release SR Ca during the resting phase of the cardiac cycle, diastole. This results in depolarizations of the cardiomyocyte membrane known as delayed after-depolarizations (DADs), which are known to trigger fatal ventricular cardiac arrhythmias (Wehrens et al., FKBP12.6 deficiency and defective calcium release channel (ryanodine receptor) function linked to exercise-induced sudden cardiac death. 113:829-40, 2003).","In structurally-normal hearts, a similar phenomenon may be at work. Specifically, it is known that exercise and stress induce the release of catecholamines that activate beta-adrenergic receptors in the heart. Activation of the beta-adrenergic receptors leads to hyperphosphorylation of RyR2 channels. Evidence also suggests that the hyperphosphorylation of RyR2, resulting from beta-adrenergic-receptor activation, renders mutated RyR2 channels more likely to open in the relaxation phase of the cardiac cycle, increasing the likelihood of arrhythmias.","The inventors have shown herein that JTV-519 prevents heart failure in a rat model of post-MI heart failure. In this animal model, JTV-519 improved cardiac function, in terms of reduced diastolic dysfunction and improved systolic function. Furthermore, the inventors have demonstrated that the skeletal-muscle form of the RyR channel, RyR1, is also defective (or leaky) in heart-failure skeletal muscle, due to PKA-hyperphosphorylation (Reiken et al., PKA phosphorylation dissociates FKBP12 from the calcium release channel (ryanodine receptor) in skeletal muscle: defective regulation in heart failure. 160:919-28, 2003). Therefore, it is expected that JTV-519 will also improve skeletal-muscle function in patients with heart failure. As such, JTV-519 provides a novel therapeutic approach to treat two major symptoms in heart failure\u2014early fatigue and shortness of breath \u2014which are caused by skeletal-muscle weakness in the extremities and in the diaphragm, respectively.","As discussed above, catecholaminergic polymorphic ventricular tachycardia (CPVT) is an inherited disorder in individuals with structurally-normal hearts. It is characterized by stress-induced ventricular tachycardia, a lethal arrhythmia that may cause sudden cardiac death (SCD). Mutations in RyR2 channels, located on the sarcoplasmic reticulum (SR), have been linked to CPVT.","All individuals with CPVT have exercise-induced cardiac arrhythmias. The inventors previously showed that exercise-induced arrhythmias and sudden death (in patients with CPVT) result from a reduced affinity of FKBP12.6 for RyR2. Herein, the inventors have demonstrated that exercise activates RyR2 as a result of phosphorylation by adenosine-3\u2032, 5\u2032-monophosphate-dependent protein kinase (PKA).","To determine the molecular mechanisms underlying the fatal cardiac arrhythmias in CPVT, the inventors studied CPVT-associated mutant RyR2 channels (e.g., S2246L, R2474S, N4104K, R4497C). Mutant RyR2 channels, which had normal function in planar lipid bilayers under basal conditions, were more sensitive to activation by PKA phosphorylation\u2014exhibiting increased activity (open probability) and prolonged open states, as compared with wild-type channels. In addition, PKA-phosphorylated mutant RyR2 channels were resistant to inhibition by Mg, a physiological inhibitor of RyR2 channels, and showed reduced binding to FKBP12.6 (which stabilizes the channel in the closed state). These findings indicate that, during exercise, when the RyR2 channels are PKA-hosphorylated, the mutant CPVT channels are more likely to open in the relaxation phase of the cardiac cycle (diastole), increasing the likelihood of occurrence of arrhythmias triggered by the SR Ca leak. Since heart failure is a leading cause of death worldwide, methods to repair the leak in RyR2 could prevent fatal arrhythmias in millions of patients.","The inventors have further demonstrated herein that the experimental drug, JTV-519, a 1,4-benzothiazepine derivative, prevents lethal ventricular arrhythmias in mice heterozygous for the FKBP12.6 gene. It has recently been shown that JTV-519 reduces diastolic SR Ca leak in an animal model of heart failure (Yano et al., FKBP12.6-mediated stabilization of calcium-release channel (ryanodine receptor) as a novel therapeutic strategy against heart failure. 107:477-84, 2003; Kohno et al., A new cardioprotective agent, JTV519, improves defective channel gating of ryanodine receptor in heart failure. 14:14, 2002). In the present study, the inventors examined JTV-519's efficacy and mechanism of action in a cardiac arrhythmia model. For their in vivo experiments, the inventors required gram quantities of JTV-519 (4-[3-(4-benzylpiperidin-1-yl)propionyl]-7-methoxy-2,3,4,5-tetrahydro-1,4-benzothiazepine monohydrochloride).","To test for cardiac arrhythmias, FKBP12.6 and FKBP12.6 mice were subjected to a previously-described exercise protocol (Wehrens et al., FKBP12.6 deficiency and defective calcium release channel (ryanodine receptor) function linked to exercise-induced sudden cardiac death. 113:829-40, 2003; Mohler et al., Ankyrin-B mutation causes type 4 long-QT cardiac arrhythmia and sudden cardiac death. 421:634-39, 2003). While 88% of the FKBP12.6 mice (7 of 8) displayed ventricular tachyarrhythmias (VT) or syncopal events during the protocol, none of the FKBP12.6 mice (0 of 6) pretreated with JTV-519 developed arrhythmias or syncopal events (). Furthermore, 90% of FKBP12.6 mice (9 of 10) died during or following exercise, whereas none of the JTV-519-treated FKBP12.6 mice (0 of 9) died (). In contrast to pretreated FKBP12.6 mice, 100% of the FKBP12.6 mice (5 of 5) treated with JTV-519 developed VT during the stress protocol and died, despite JTV-519 treatment (). Taken together, these data suggest that FKBP12.6 is required for the anti-arrhythmic actions of JTV-519.","In order to characterize further the anti-arrhythmic properties of JTV-519, the inventors subjected FKBP12.6, FKBP12.6, and FKBP12.6 mice to programmed electrical stimulation protocols. VTs were induced by rapid overdrive pacing in 71% of FKBP12.6 mice (5 of 7), but not in wild-type FKBP12.6+\/+mice (P<0.05, n=5), following injection of 0.5 mg\/kg isoproterenol. FKBP12.6 mice pretreated with JTV-519 (0.5 mg\/kg\/h) were significantly less susceptible to overdrive-pacing-induced VTs, as compared with untreated FKBP12.6 mice (1 of 7 vs. 5 of 7; P<0.05). Contrastingly, 67% of FKBP12.6 mice (4 of 6) pretreated with JTV-519 developed VTs during overdrive pacing.","VTs could be induced with a single premature beat in 71% of FKBP12.6 mice (5 of 7). No VTs were observed in the 7 FKBP12.6 mice pretreated with JTV-519. Using a double premature beat protocol (S1-S2-S3), VTs were reproducibly induced in 100% of untreated FKBP12.6 mice (7 of 7). Treatment with JTV-519 completely eliminated inducible VTs in FKBP12.6 mice (7 of 7). JTV-519 treatment did not prevent VTs in FKBP12.6 mice, supporting the concept that FKBP12.6 is required for the anti-arrhythmic actions of JTV-519.","Previously, the inventors demonstrated that PKA phosphorylation of RyR2 at Ser2809 causes dissociation of FKBP12.6 from the RyR2 channel (Marx et al., PKA phosphorylation dissociates FKBP12.6 from the calcium release channel (ryanodine receptor): defective regulation in failing hearts. 101:365-76, 2000). In the present study, pretreatment with JTV-519 (0.5 mg\/kg\/h) did not affect the degree of PKA phosphorylation of RyR2 in FKBP12.6 and FKBP12.6 mice (). Compared to FKBP12.6 mice, RyR2 complexes from FKBP12.6 mice were significantly more depleted of FKBP12.6 following exercise (*P<0.05). Pretreatment with JTV-519, however, prevented the loss of FKBP12.6 from the RyR2 macromolecular complex in FKBP12.6 mice during exercise (; *P<0.05).","The open probabilities (Po) of RyR2 channels from FKBP12.6 mice subjected to exercise were significantly increased, as compared with channels from exercised FKBP12.6 mice (+\/\u2212: 0.47\u00b10.12, n=11; +\/+: 0.04\u00b10.01, n=13; P<0.05). Treatment of exercised FKBP12.6 mice with JTV-519 (0.5 mg\/kg\/h) significantly reduced the channel Po (0.02\u00b10.01, n=13), as compared with non-treated exercised mice (). This observation is consistent with increased amounts of FKBP12.6 in the RyR2 complex (). In contrast, JTV-519 treatment of exercised FKBP12.6 mice did not result in channels with a low Po.","RyR2 single channels were examined with low cis (cytosolic) [Ca] of 150 nM, using Ca as the charge carrier. These conditions simulate those in the heart during diastole, when the RyR2 channels should have a low open probability in order to prevent the diastolic SR Ca leak that can trigger cardiac arrhythmias. Thus, the significant reduction in the RyR2 Po, as observed in JTV-519-treated exercised FKBP12.6 mice, suggests that the RyR2 channels will not be \u201cleaky\u201d during diastole d, which is consistent with the absence of observed arrhythmias.","To further examine the mechanism by which JTV-519 prevents VTs, the inventors simulated the conditions of exercise using PKA phosphorylation of wild-type RyR2 (RyR2-WT) channels. PKA-phosphorylated RyR2 channels were then incubated with FKBP12.6 (250 nM), in the presence of increasing concentrations of JTV-519. Incubation with 100 nM or 1000 nM JTV-519 induced the binding of FKBP12.6 to PKA-phosphorylated RyR2 (). JTV-519 also induced FKBP12.6 binding to mutant RyR2-S2809D channels that mimic constitutively-PKA-phosphorylated RyR2 channels ().","The affinity of FKBP12.6 for PKA-phosphorylated RyR2 channels was significantly increased by addition of JTV-519. The dissociation constants (Ks) for FKBP12.6 binding to the channels were: 148\u00b159.0 nM for RyR2-WT+PKA+PKI(PKA inhibitor); 1972\u00b139.9 nM for RyR2-WT+PKA; 158\u00b156.4 nM for RyR2+PKA+JTV-519 (P<0.05, n=2 for PKA-phosphorylated channels vs. PKA-phosphorylated channels with JTV-519) (). Similar results were obtained using RyR2-S2809D mutant channels (that mimic constitutively-PKA-phosphorylated channels). The Ks for FKBP12.6 binding were: 2123\u00b1104 nM for RyR2-S2809D; and 428\u00b139 nM for RyR2-S2809D+JTV-519. PKA phosphorylation of RyR2 activated the channel (Po=0.01\u00b10.002 (PKA+PKI; n=11) vs. Po=0.40\u00b10.02 (PKA; n=12; P<0.05). Addition of FKBP12.6 (250 nM) to the PKA-phosphorylated RyR2-WT channels did not lower the Po. However, addition of 1 \u03bcM JTV-519 plus FKBP12.6 reduced the Po to levels comparable to the non-PKA-phosphorylated channels (Po=0.002\u00b10.001; n=13; P<0.05).","Taken together, the inventors' results show that depletion of FKBP12.6 from the RyR2 macromolecular complex\u2014which is associated with increased RyR2 open probability, ventricular tachycardias, and sudden cardiac death in FKBP12.6 mice\u2014is reversed by treatment with the 1,4-benzodiazepine derivative, JTV-519. Therefore, the inventors have identified a novel molecular mechanism for treating ventricular arrhythmias: increases in the affinity of RyR2 for FKBP12.6 prevent diastolic SR calcium leaks that trigger arrhythmias. Since FKBP12.6 deficiency in the RyR2 macromolecular complex is a common feature in heart failure (Marx et al., PKA phosphorylation dissociates FKBP12.6 from the calcium release channel (ryanodine receptor): defective regulation in failing hearts. 101:365-76, 2000) and in inherited exercise-induced ventricular arrhythmias (Wehrens et al., FKBP12.6 deficiency and defective calcium release channel (ryanodine receptor) function linked to exercise-induced sudden cardiac death. 113:829-40, 2003), it is expected that JTV-519 will provide a novel and specific way to treat the molecular defect in RyR2 which triggers sudden cardiac death.","As discussed above, atrial fibrillation is the most common form of cardiac arrhythmia in humans. To date, it has been established that structural remodeling and electrical remodeling\u2014including shortening of atrial refractoriness, loss of rate-related adaptation of refractoriness (Wijffels et al., Atrial fibrillation begets atrial fibrillation: a study in awake chronically instrumented goats. 92:1954-68, 1995; Morillo et al., Chronic rapid atrial pacing: structural, functional, and electrophysiological characteristics of a new model of sustained atrial fibrillation. 91:1588-95, 1995; Elvan et al., Pacing-induced chronic atrial fibrillation impairs sinus node function in dogs: electrophysiological remodeling. 94:2953-60, 1996; Gaspo et al., Functional mechanisms underlying tachycardia-induced sustained atrial fibrillation in a chronic dog model. 96:4027-35, 1997), and shortening of the wavelength of re-entrant wavelets\u2014accompany sustained tachycardia (Rensma et al., length of excitation wave and susceptibility to reentrant atrial arrhythmias in normal conscious dogs. 62:395-410, 1988). This remodeling is likely important in the development, maintenance, and progression of atrial fibrillation. It has also been suggested that calcium handling may play a role in electrical remodeling in atrial fibrillation (Sun et al., Cellular mechanisms of atrial contractile dysfunction caused by sustained atrial tachycardia. 98:719-27, 1998; Goette et al., Electrical remodeling in atrial fibrillation: time course and mechanisms. 94:2968-74, 1996; Daoud et al., Effect of verapamil and procainamide on atrial fibrillation-induced electrical remodeling in humans. 96:1542-50, 1997; Yu et al., Tachycardia-induced change of atrial refractory period in humans: rate dependency and effects of antiarrhythmic drugs. 97:2331-37, 1998; Leistad et al., Atrial contractile dysfunction after short-term atrial fibrillation is reduced by verapamil but increased by BAY K864493:1747-54, 1996; Tieleman et al., Verapamil reduces tachycardia-induced electrical remodeling of the atria. 95:1945-53, 1997).","A variety of mechanisms, based on altered ion-channel function, have been proposed for AF. For example, studies have shown a reduction in the L-type Ca current (I) and transient outward current (I), in the setting of prolonged atrial tachycardia (Yue et al., Ionic remodeling underlying action potential changes in a canine model of atrial fibrillation. 81:512-25, 1997). The observed downregulation of Iis likely to explain, at least in part, shortening of AERP and the loss of rate-related adaptation of refractoriness\u2014both of which are hallmarks of the electrical remodeling process that accompanies AF (Yue et al., Ionic remodeling underlying action potential changes in a canine model of atrial fibrillation. 81:512-25, 1997). In experimental animal models of rapid atrial pacing, and in clinical studies of humans with AF, verapamil has been shown to inhibit electrical remodeling, thereby suggesting that Ca overload is involved (Daoud et al., Effect of verapamil and procainamide on atrial fibrillation-induced electrical remodeling in humans. 96:1542-50, 1997; Leistad et al., Atrial contractile dysfunction after short-term atrial fibrillation is reduced by verapamil but increased by BAY K864493:1747-54, 1996).","While sarcolemmal ion channels clearly play an important role in the remodeling that accompanies atrial tachycardia and AF, the contribution of intracellular Ca handling has not been thoroughly explored. Evidence exists, however, to suggest that aberrant intracellular Ca handling does play a role in the remodeling process. Previous studies have demonstrated, for example, that loss of rate adaptation cannot be fully explained by altered sarcolemmal ion currents, such as Iand I(Ramirez et al., Mathematical analysis of canine atrial action potentials: rate, regional factors, and electrical remodeling. 279:H1767-85, 2000; Kneller et al., Remodeling of Ca-handling by atrial tachycardia: evidence for a role in loss of rate-adaptation. 54:416-26, 2002). Studies have also shown that tachycardia-induced changes in intracellular calcium handling also contribute significantly to loss of rate adaptation, which is believed to be critical to the pathogenesis of AF (Sun et al., Cellular mechanisms of atrial contractile dysfunction caused by sustained atrial tachycardia. 98:719-27, 1998; Kneller et al., Remodeling of Ca-handling by atrial tachycardia: evidence for a role in loss of rate-adaptation. 54:416-26, 2002; Hara et al., Steady-state and nonsteady-state action potentials in fibrillating canine atrium: abnormal rate adaptation and its possible mechanisms. 42:455-69, 1999).","In previous studies, atria from a canine model of pacing-induced AF demonstrated a loss of AP-duration-rate adaptation, and altered AP characteristics, which could be reversed by the presence of ryanodine. These observations suggest that the changes result, at least in part, from an intracellular-Ca-dependent process (Hara et al., Steady-state and nonsteady-state action potentials in fibrillating canine atrium: abnormal rate adaptation and its possible mechanisms. 42:455-69, 1999). Furthermore, in the atria of canines with sustained pacing-induced atrial tachycardia, there is a significant reduction in Ca transients (Sun et al., Cellular mechanisms of atrial contractile dysfunction caused by sustained atrial tachycardia. 98:719-27, 1998).","Because Ca transients result from sarcolemmal Ca entry that triggers Ca-induced Ca release from the SR through RyR2, the results of previous studies suggest that alterations in intracellular-calcium handling accompany the tachycardia-induced remodeling process. Such aberrantly-decreased Ca transients have been associated with depressed shortening of isolated atrial myocytes, indicating that calcium handling contributes to the atrial contractile dysfunction accompanying AF (Sun et al., Cellular mechanisms of atrial contractile dysfunction caused by sustained atrial tachycardia. 98:719-27, 1998).","As disclosed herein, the inventors' studies provide convincing evidence that calcium homeostasis plays an important role in the electrical and contractile remodeling that accompanies sustained atrial tachycardia and AF. Release of SR Ca stores by RyR2 stands as an integral component of myocardial Ca homeostasis. The regulation of RyR2 has been well characterized in ventricular tissue of canines and humans, and RyR2 has been implicated in diseases of the ventricular myocardium, including heart failure and sudden cardiac death (Marx et al., PKA phosphorylation dissociates FKBP12.6 from the calcium release channel (ryanodine receptor): defective regulation in failing hearts. 101:365-76, 2000; Wehrens et al., FKBP12.6 deficiency and defective calcium release channel (ryanodine receptor) function linked to exercise-induced sudden cardiac death. 113:829-40, 2003; Reiken et al., Beta-blockers restore calcium release channel function and improve cardiac muscle performance in human heart failure. 107:2459-66, 2003). Despite the evidence that Ca handling plays a role in atrial arrhythmias, the regulation and function of the atrial ryanodine receptor has not been well characterized in this setting. In particular, prior to the present invention, the role of this channel in AF was not known.","The inventors confirm herein that, as in the ventricular myocardium, atrial intracellular-calcium-release channels exist as macromolecular complexes. The results of the inventors' co-immunoprecipitation experiments indicate that atrial RyR2 is physically associated with the major regulatory subunit, calstabin2 (FKBP12.6); with the phosphatases, PP1 and PP2A; and with the regulatory and catalytic subunits of PKA. Furthermore, the inventors have demonstrated that endogenous PKA specifically phosphorylates RyR2 in atrial sarcoplasmic reticulum, resulting in a depletion of calstabin2 (FKBP12.6) in the channel complex. These findings suggest that regulation of contractile function in the atrium could be modulated by PKA phosphorylation of atrial RyR2, in a manner similar to that observed in the ventricular myocardium (Brillantes, et al., Stabilization of calcium release channel (ryanodine receptor) function by FK-506 binding protein, 77:513-523, 1994).","In the current study, the inventors observed that PKA hyperphosphorylation of RyR2 was associated with depletion of calstabin2 (FKBP12.6) in canine AF atria. Similarly, the inventors observed PKA hyperphosphorylation, with associated depletion of calstabin (FKBP12.6), in atrial tissue from humans with AF in the setting of heart failure. The functional consequence of this abnormal PKA hyperphosphorylation of RyR2 was increased open probability at conditions that simulate diastole in the heart (low cytosolic Ca). Such functional abnormalities are characteristic of channels that have been depleted of calstabin2 (FKBP12.6) (Brillantes, et al., Stabilization of calcium release channel (ryanodine receptor) function by FK-506 binding protein, 77:513-523, 1994). This abnormal channel function in AF is consistent with previous studies demonstrating that the loss of calstabin2 (FKBP12.6) from RyR2, in the setting of PKA hyperphosphorylation, results in \u201cleaky channels\u201d which are predisposed to a diastolic Ca leak that is secondary to an increased sensitivity to Ca-induced Ca release (Brillantes et al., Stabilization of calcium release channel (ryanodine receptor) function by FK506-binding protein. 77:513-23, 1994; Kaftan et al., Effects of rapamycin on ryanodine receptor\/Ca-release channels from cardiac muscle. 78:990-97, 1996). In the absence of calstabin2 (FKBP12.6), channels are also known to open and close (gate) stochastically, rather than in unison (coupled gating) (Marx et al., Coupled gating between individual skeletal muscle Ca release channels (ryanodine receptors). 281:818-21, 1998).","Evidence suggests that AF is typically initiated by premature atrial extrasystoles (Bennett and Pentecost, The pattern of onset and spontaneous cessation of atrial fibrillation in man. 41:981-88, 1970), which are known to result from after-depolarizations (Cranefield, P. F., Action potentials, afterpotentials, and arrhythmias. 41:415-23, 1977). Reinitiation of AF by atrial extrasystoles, immediately following termination of the arrhythmia, has been observed (Timmermans et al., Immediate reinitiation of atrial fibrillation following internal atrial defibrillation. 9:122-28, 1998; Wellens et al., Atrioverter: an implantable device for the treatment of atrial fibrillation. 98:1651-56, 1998), and has been specifically linked to early after-depolarizations (Burashnikov and Antzelevitch, Reinduction of atrial fibrillation immediately after termination of the arrhythmia is mediated by late phase 3 early afterdepolarization-induced triggered activity. 107:2355-60, 2003). Extrasystoles are particularly likely to give rise to AF in the setting of a shortened atrial effective refractory period (Wang et al., Regional and functional factors determining induction and maintenance of atrial fibrillation in dogs. 271:H148-58, 1996), similar to that which accompanies atrial electrical remodeling.","As discussed above, there is evidence that the aberrant diastolic Ca release from \u201cleaky\u201d PKA-hyperphosphorylated RyR2 results in delayed after-depolarizations (DADs) sufficient to trigger lethal ventricular arrhythmias (Wehrens et al., FKBP12.6 deficiency and defective calcium release channel (ryanodine receptor) function linked to exercise-induced sudden cardiac death. 113:829-40, 2003). It is believed that dysfunctional RyR2 calcium handling may also serve to initiate AF in a similar manner. The abnormal channel function observed by the inventors may contribute to the pathogenesis of AF by providing a source of DADs necessary for triggering AF, in addition to contributing to the dysfunctional calcium handling that is integral to the remodeling process associated with the arrhythmia. Given the evidence presented herein that atrial myocardium from humans with AF, in the setting of heart failure, is PKA-hyperphosphorylated and depleted of calstabin2 (FKBP12.6), dysfunctional RyR2 function may explain, in part, the frequency of atrial arrhythmias in AF patients.","JTV-519's ability to repair a specific molecular-level defect in RyR2 calcium handling makes it an intriguing candidate for a novel therapeutic agent. JTV-519's potential is underscored by the growing number of important cardiac diseases, including heart failure and fatal ventricular arrhythmias, that involve dysfunctional regulation of RyR2 (i.e., PKA hyperphosphorylation and loss of calstabin2 (FKBP12.6) from the channel complex may be important contributors to their pathogenesis).","Initial studies of JTV-519 focused on its anti-ischemic properties (Personal Communication, Aetas). More recently, however, JTV-519 has been shown to inhibit induction of AF in a canine sterile pericarditis model of atrial fibrillation (Kumagai et al., Antiarrhythmic effects of JTV-519, a novel cardioprotective drug, on atrial fibrillation\/flutter in a canine sterile pericarditis model. 14:880-84, 2003). This study did not, however, define the mechanism through which JTV-519 impacted the inducibility and maintenance of AF.","As demonstrated herein, the inventors have determined that treatment with JTV-519 (1 \u03bcM) allows recombinant calstabin2 (FKBP12.6) to bind to PKA-phosphorylated RyR2 that has been isolated from normal canine myocardium in vitro. Association of calstabin2 (FKBP12.6) with PKA-phosphorylated RyR2 did not occur with untreated channels. Re-association of calstabin2 (FKBP12.6) with the channel complex restores normal function in PKA-hyperphosphorylated channels. Thus, restoration of RyR2-channel function may play a role in the ability of JTV-519 to inhibit the inducibility and maintenance of AF, as observed by Kumagai et al. (Antiarrhythmic effects of JTV-519, a novel cardioprotective drug, on atrial fibrillation\/flutter in a canine sterile pericarditis model. 14:880-84, 2003).","Atrial fibrillation is a complex electrophysiological process; its molecular pathogenesis is likely to be multifactorial. Aberrant myocardial Ca handling appears to contribute significantly to the disease process. The inventors' studies suggest that abnormal intracellular-Ca-release channel function, which results from PKA hyperphosphorylation of RyR2, may contribute to the remodeling process in AF, and could potentially serve as a trigger for arrhythmia.","Novel Methods of Treatment and Prevention Using JTV-519","In accordance with the foregoing, the present invention provides a method for limiting or preventing a decrease in the level of RyR2-bound FKBP12.6 in a subject. As used herein, \u201cFKBP12.6\u201d includes both an \u201cFKBP12.6 protein\u201d and an \u201cFKBP12.6 analogue\u201d. Unless otherwise indicated herein, \u201cprotein\u201d shall include a protein, protein domain, polypeptide, or peptide, and any fragment thereof. An \u201cFKBP12.6 analogue\u201d is a functional variant of the FKBP12.6 protein, having FKBP12.6 biological activity, that has 60% or greater amino-acid-sequence homology with the FKBP12.6 protein. As further used herein, the term \u201cFKBP12.6 biological activity\u201d refers to the activity of a protein or peptide that demonstrates an ability to associate physically with, or bind with, unphosphorylated or non-hyperphosphorylated RyR2 (i.e., binding of approximately two fold, or, more preferably, approximately five fold, above the background binding of a negative control), under the conditions of the assays described herein, although affinity may be different from that of FKBP12.6.","In addition, as used herein, \u201cRyR2\u201d includes both an \u201cRyR2 protein\u201d (e.g., atrial RyR2 protein or ventricular RyR2 protein) and an \u201cRyR2 analogue\u201d. An \u201cRyR2 analogue\u201d is a functional variant of the RyR2 protein, having RyR2 biological activity, that has 60% or greater amino-acid-sequence homology with the RyR2 protein. As used herein, the term \u201cRyR2 analogue\u201d includes RyR1\u2014the skeletal-muscle isoform of RyR2\u2014and RyR3. The RyR2 of the present invention may be unphosphorylated, phosphorylated (e.g., by PKA), or hyperphosphorylated (e.g., by PKA); preferably, the RyR2 is phosphorylated or hyperphosphorylated. As further used herein, the term \u201cRyR2 biological activity\u201d refers to the activity of a protein or peptide that demonstrates an ability to associate physically with, or bind with, FKBP12.6 (i.e., binding of approximately two fold, or, more preferably, approximately five fold, above the background binding of a negative control), under the conditions of the assays described herein, although affinity may be different from that of RyR2.","As described above, the cardiac ryanodine receptor, RyR2, is a protein complex comprising four 565,000-dalton RyR2 proteins in association with four 12,000-dalton FKBP12.6 proteins. FK506 binding proteins (FKBPs) are cis-trans peptidyl-prolyl isomerases that are widely expressed, and serve a variety of cellular functions. FKBP12.6 protein is tightly bound to, and regulates the function of, RyR2. FKBP12.6 binds to the RyR2 channel, one molecule per RyR2 subunit, stabilizes RyR2-channel function, and facilitates coupled gating between neighboring RyR2 channels, thereby preventing aberrant activation of the channel during the resting phase of the cardiac cycle. Accordingly, as used herein, the term \u201cRyR2-bound FKBP12.6\u201d includes a molecule of an FKBP12.6 protein that is bound to an RyR2 protein subunit or a tetramer of FKBP12.6 that is in association with a tetramer of RyR2. The term \u201cRyR2-bound FKBP12.6\u201d also includes an RyR2 protein subunit that is bound to a molecule of an FKBP12.6 protein, or a tetramer of RyR2 that is in association with a tetramer of FKBP12.6. Thus, \u201ca decrease in the level of RyR2-bound FKBP12.6 in a subject\u201d includes a decrease in the level of FKBP12.6-bound RyR2 in a subject, and a decrease in the level of a FKBP12.6-RyR2 complex in a subject.","In accordance with the method of the present invention, a \u201cdecrease\u201d in the level of RyR2-bound FKBP12.6 in a subject refers to a detectable decrease, diminution, or reduction in the level of RyR2-bound FKBP12.6 in the subject. Such a decrease is limited or prevented in the subject when the decrease is in any way halted, hindered, impeded, obstructed, or reduced by the administration of JTV-519 (as described below), such that the level of RyR2-bound FKBP12.6 in the subject is higher than it would otherwise be in the absence of JTV-519. The \u201clevel\u201d of RyR2-bound FKBP12.6 in a subject refers to the overall level in the subject, including the level of RyR2-bound FKBP12.6 in the blood (circulation), tissues, and cells (e.g., cytoplasm or nucleus) of the subject. By way of example, then, a decrease in the overall level of RyR2-bound FKBP12.6 in the subject may be accomplished by a decrease in the level of RyR2-bound FKBP12.6 in the blood, in a tissue, and\/or in cells of the subject.","The level of RyR2-bound FKBP12.6 in a subject may be detected by standard assays and techniques, including those readily determined from the known art (e.g., immunological techniques, hybridization analysis, immunoprecipitation, Western-blot analysis, fluorescence imaging techniques, and\/or radiation detection, etc.), as well as any assays and detection methods disclosed herein. For example, protein may be isolated and purified from cells of a subject using standard methods known in the art, including, without limitation, extraction from the cells (e.g., with a detergent that solubilizes the protein) where necessary, followed by affinity purification on a column, chromatography (e.g., FTLC and HPLC), immunoprecipitation (with an antibody), and precipitation (e.g., with isopropanol and a reagent such as Trizol). Isolation and purification of the protein may be followed by electrophoresis (e.g., on an SDS-polyacrylamide gel). A decrease in the level of RyR2-bound FKBP12.6 in a subject, or the limiting or prevention thereof, may be determined by comparing the amount of RyR2-bound FKBP12.6 detected prior to the administration of a therapeutic\/preventive agent (e.g., JTV-519 or another 1,4-benzothiazepine derivative, in accordance with methods described below) with the amount detected a suitable time after administration of the therapeutic\/preventive agent.","In the method of the present invention, a decrease in the level of RyR2-bound FKBP12.6 in a subject (e.g., in cells of the subject) may be limited or prevented, for example, by inhibiting dissociation of FKBP12.6 and RyR2 in the subject; by increasing binding between FKBP12.6 and RyR2 in the subject; or by stabilizing the RyR2-FKBP12.6 complex in the subject. As used herein, the term \u201cinhibiting dissociation\u201d includes blocking, decreasing, inhibiting, limiting, or preventing the physical dissociation or separation of an FKBP12.6 subunit from an RyR2 molecule in the subject, and blocking, decreasing, inhibiting, limiting, or preventing the physical dissociation or separation of an RyR2 molecule from an FKBP12.6 subunit in the subject. As further used herein, the term \u201cincreasing binding\u201d includes enhancing, increasing, or improving the ability of phosphorylated RyR2 to associate physically with FKBP12.6 (e.g., binding of approximately two fold, or, more preferably, approximately five fold, above the background binding of a negative control) in the subject, and enhancing, increasing, or improving the ability of FKBP12.6 to associate physically with phosphorylated RyR2 (e.g., binding of approximately two fold, or, more preferably, approximately five fold, above the background binding of a negative control) in the subject.","Additionally, in the method of the present invention, a decrease in the level of RyR2-bound FKBP12.6 in a subject (e.g., in cells of a subject) may be limited or prevented by directly decreasing the level of phosphorylated RyR2 in the subject, or by indirectly decreasing the level of phosphorylated RyR2 in the subject (e.g., by targeting an enzyme (such as PKA) or another endogenous molecule that regulates or modulates the functions or levels of phosphorylated RyR2 in the cells). Preferably, the level of phosphorylated RyR2 in the subject is decreased by at least 10% in the method of the present invention. More preferably, the level of phosphorylated RyR2 is decreased by at least 20%.","In accordance with the method of the present invention, a decrease in the level of RyR2-bound FKBP12.6 is limited or prevented in a subject (e.g., in cells of a subject). The subject of the present invention may be any animal, including amphibians, birds, fish, mammals, and marsupials, but is preferably a mammal (e.g., a human; a domestic animal, such as a cat, dog, monkey, mouse, or rat; or a commercial animal, such as a cow or pig). In certain embodiments of the present invention, the subject has, or is a candidate for, a cardiac condition. Examples of a \u201ccardiac condition\u201d include, without limitation, cardiac arrhythmias (e.g., tachycardia; atrial arrhythmia, including atrial tachyarrhythmia and atrial fibrillation (both sustained and non-sustained); ventricular arrhythmia, including ventricular fibrillation; and exercise-induced cardiac arrhythmia), heart failure, and exercise-induced sudden cardiac death.","Cardiac arrhythmia is a disturbance of the electrical activity of the heart that manifests as an abnormality in heart rate or heart rhythm. Tachycardia (e.g., atrial, junctional (nodal), ventricular, and paroxysmal tachycardia) is a condition associated with excessive rapidity in the action of the heart, particularly when the heart rate is above 100 per min. A tachyarrhythmia is a tachycardia associated with an irregularity in the normal heart rhythm. Exercise-induced cardiac arrhythmia is a heart condition (e.g., a ventricular fibrillation or ventricular tachycardia, including any that leads to sudden cardiac death) that develops during\/after a subject has undergone physical exercise.","Atrial fibrillation is an example of tachyarrhythmia. More specifically, atrial fibrillation is a condition associated with an abnormal and irregular heart rhythm, wherein electrical signals are generated chaotically throughout the upper chambers, or atria, of the heart. Common symptoms of atrial fibrillation include, without limitation, palpitations (an uncomfortable awareness of the heart's rapid and irregular beat). Atrial fibrillation can also result in blood clots that travel from the heart to the brain, causing stroke. Current treatment of atrial fibrillation involves control of risk factors, administration of medications to slow the heart rate and\/or convert the heart to normal rhythm, and prevention of complications associated with blood clotting.","Heart failure is a condition manifested by decreased contractile function (contractility) of the heart. Symptoms of heart failure include shortness of breath, decreased exercise tolerance, and early muscle fatigue.","A \u201ccandidate\u201d for a cardiac condition (e.g., cardiac arrhythmia or heart failure) is a subject who is known to be, or is believed to be, or is suspected of being, at risk for developing a cardiac condition. Examples of candidates for a cardiac condition include, without limitation, an animal\/person suspected of having cardiac arrhythmia (e.g., tachycardia; atrial arrhythmia, including atrial tachyarrhythmia and atrial fibrillation (both sustained and non-sustained); ventricular arrhythmia, including ventricular fibrillation; and exercise-induced cardiac arrhythmia) and\/or heart failure; and an animal\/person who is known to be, or is believed to be, or is suspected of being, at risk for developing cardiac arrhythmia (e.g., tachycardia; atrial arrhythmia, including atrial tachyarrhythmia and atrial fibrillation (both sustained and non-sustained); ventricular arrhythmia, including ventricular fibrillation; and exercise-induced cardiac arrhythmia), heart failure, and\/or exercise-induced sudden cardiac death.","A \u201ccandidate\u201d for exercise-induced cardiac arrhythmia is a subject who is known to be, or is believed to be, or is suspected of being, at risk for developing cardiac arrhythmia during\/after physical exercise. Examples of candidates for exercise-induced cardiac arrhythmia include, without limitation, an animal\/person known to have catecholaminergic polymorphic ventricular tachycardia (CPVT); an animal\/person suspected of having CPVT; and an animal\/person who is known to be, or is believed to be, or is suspected of being, at risk for developing cardiac arrhythmia during\/after physical exercise, and who is about to exercise, is currently exercising, or has just completed exercise. As discussed above, CPVT is an inherited disorder in individuals with structurally-normal hearts. It is characterized by stress-induced ventricular tachycardia\u2014a lethal arrhythmia that may cause sudden cardiac death. In subjects with CPVT, physical exertion and\/or stress induce bidirectional and\/or polymorphic ventricular tachycardias that lead to sudden cardiac death (SCD) in the absence of detectable structural heart disease. Individuals with CPVT have ventricular arrhythmias when subjected to exercise, but do not develop arrhythmias at rest.","In the method of the present invention, the cells of a subject are preferably striated muscle cells. A striated muscle is a muscle in which the repeating units (sarcomeres) of the contractile myofibrils are arranged in registry throughout the cell, resulting in transverse or oblique striations that may be observed at the level of a light microscope. Examples of striated muscle cells include, without limitation, voluntary (skeletal) muscle cells and cardiac muscle cells. In a preferred embodiment, the cell used in the method of the present invention is a human cardiac muscle cell. As used herein, the term \u201ccardiac muscle cell\u201d includes cardiac muscle fibers, such as those found in the myocardium of the heart. Cardiac muscle fibers are composed of chains of contiguous heart-muscle cells, or cardiomyocytes, joined end to end at intercalated disks. These disks possess two kinds of cell junctions: expanded desmosomes extending along their transverse portions, and gap junctions, the largest of which lie along their longitudinal portions.","In the method of the present invention, a decrease in the level of RyR2-bound FKBP12.6 is limited or prevented in a subject (e.g., in cells of a subject) by administering JTV-519 to the subject; this would then permit contact between cells of the subject and JTV-519. JTV-519 (4-[3-(4-benzylpiperidin-1-yl)propionyl]-7-methoxy-2,3,4,5-tetrahydro-1,4-benzothiazepine monohydrochloride), also known as k201, is a derivative of 1,4-benzothiazepine, and a modulator of calcium-ion channels. In addition to regulating Calevels in myocardial cells, JTV-519 modulates the Na current and the inward-rectifier K current in guinea pig ventricular cells, and inhibits the delayed-rectifier K current in guinea pig atrial cells. FK506 and rapamycin are drugs that may be used to design other compounds that stabilize the RyR2-FKBP12.6 complex in the subject of the present invention. FK506 and rapamycin both dissociate FKBP12.6 from RyR2. It is possible to design and\/or screen for compounds that are structurally related to these drugs, but have the opposite effects.","In the method of the present invention, JTV-519 may be administered to a subject by way of a therapeutic composition, comprising JTV-519 and a pharmaceutically-acceptable carrier. The pharmaceutically-acceptable carrier must be \u201cacceptable\u201d in the sense of being compatible with the other ingredients of the composition, and not deleterious to the recipient thereof. The pharmaceutically-acceptable carrier employed herein is selected from various organic or inorganic materials that are used as materials for pharmaceutical formulations, and which may be incorporated as analgesic agents, buffers, binders, disintegrants, diluents, emulsifiers, excipients, extenders, glidants, solubilizers, stabilizers, suspending agents, tonicity agents, vehicles, and viscosity-increasing agents. If necessary, pharmaceutical additives, such as antioxidants, aromatics, colorants, flavor-improving agents, preservatives, and sweeteners, may also be added. Examples of acceptable pharmaceutical carriers include carboxymethyl cellulose, crystalline cellulose, glycerin, gum arabic, lactose, magnesium stearate, methyl cellulose, powders, saline, sodium alginate, sucrose, starch, talc, and water, among others.","The pharmaceutical formulations of the present invention may be prepared by methods well-known in the pharmaceutical arts. For example, the JTV-519 may be brought into association with a carrier or diluent, as a suspension or solution. Optionally, one or more accessory ingredients (e.g., buffers, flavoring agents, surface active agents, and the like) also may be added. The choice of carrier will depend upon the route of administration.","JTV-519 may be administered to a subject by contacting target cells (e.g., cardiac muscle cells) in vivo in the subject with the JTV-519. JTV-519 may be contacted with (e.g., introduced into) cells of the subject using known techniques utilized for the introduction and administration of proteins, nucleic acids, and other drugs. Examples of methods for contacting the cells with (i.e., treating the cells with) JTV-519 include, without limitation, absorption, electroporation, immersion, injection, introduction, liposome delivery, transfection, transfusion, vectors, and other drug-delivery vehicles and methods. When the target cells are localized to a particular portion of a subject, it may be desirable to introduce the JTV-519 directly to the cells, by injection or by some other means (e.g., by introducing the JTV-519 into the blood or another body fluid). The target cells may, for example, be contained in heart tissue of a subject, and may be detected in heart tissue of the subject by standard detection methods readily determined from the known art, examples of which include, without limitation, immunological techniques (e.g., immunohistochemical staining), fluorescence imaging techniques, and microscopic techniques.","Additionally, the JTV-519 of the present invention may be administered to a human or animal subject by known procedures, including, without limitation, oral administration, parenteral administration, and transdermal administration. Preferably, the JTV-519 is administered parenterally, by epifascial, intracapsular, intracranial, intracutaneous, intrathecal, intramuscular, intraorbital, intraperitoneal, intraspinal, intrasternal, intravascular, intravenous, parenchymatous, subcutaneous, or sublingual injection, or by way of catheter. In one embodiment, the agent is administered to the subject by way of targeted delivery to cardiac muscle cells via a catheter inserted into the subject's heart.","For oral administration, a JTV-519 formulation may be presented as capsules, tablets, powders, granules, or as a suspension. The formulation may have conventional additives, such as lactose, mannitol, corn starch, or potato starch. The formulation also may be presented with binders, such as crystalline cellulose, cellulose derivatives, acacia, corn starch, or gelatins. Additionally, the formulation may be presented with disintegrators, such as corn starch, potato starch, or sodium carboxymethylcellulose. The formulation also may be presented with dibasic calcium phosphate anhydrous or sodium starch glycolate. Finally, the formulation may be presented with lubricants, such as talc or magnesium stearate.","For parenteral administration (i.e., administration by injection through a route other than the alimentary canal), JTV-519 may be combined with a sterile aqueous solution that is preferably isotonic with the blood of the subject. Such a formulation may be prepared by dissolving a solid active ingredient in water containing physiologically-compatible substances, such as sodium chloride, glycine, and the like, and having a buffered pH compatible with physiological conditions, so as to produce an aqueous solution, then rendering said solution sterile. The formulation may be presented in unit or multi-dose containers, such as sealed ampoules or vials. The formulation may be delivered by any mode of injection, including, without limitation, epifascial, intracapsular, intracranial, intracutaneous, intrathecal, intramuscular, intraorbital, intraperitoneal, intraspinal, intrasternal, intravascular, intravenous, parenchymatous, subcutaneous, or sublingual, or by way of catheter into the subject's heart.","For transdermal administration, JTV-519 may be combined with skin penetration enhancers, such as propylene glycol, polyethylene glycol, isopropanol, ethanol, oleic acid, N-methylpyrrolidone, and the like, which increase the permeability of the skin to the JTV-519, and permit the JTV-519 to penetrate through the skin and into the bloodstream. The JTV-519\/enhancer composition also may be further combined with a polymeric substance, such as ethylcellulose, hydroxypropyl cellulose, ethylene\/vinylacetate, polyvinyl pyrrolidone, and the like, to provide the composition in gel form, which may be dissolved in a solvent, such as methylene chloride, evaporated to the desired viscosity, and then applied to backing material to provide a patch.","In accordance with the method of the present invention, JTV-519 may be administered to the subject (and JTV-519 may be contacted with cells of the subject) in an amount effective to limit or prevent a decrease in the level of RyR2-bound FKBP12.6 in the subject, particularly in cells of the subject. This amount may be readily determined by the skilled artisan, based upon known procedures, including analysis of titration curves established in vivo, and methods and assays disclosed herein. A suitable amount of JTV-519 effective to limit or prevent a decrease in the level of RyR2-bound FKBP12.6 in the subject may range from about 5 mg\/kg\/day to about 20 mg\/kg\/day, and\/or may be an amount sufficient to achieve plasma levels ranging from about 300 ng\/ml to about 1000 ng\/ml. Preferably, the amount of JTV-519 ranges from about 10 mg\/kg\/day to about 20 mg\/kg\/day.","In one embodiment of the present invention, the subject has not yet developed a cardiac condition, such as a cardiac arrhythmia (e.g., tachycardia; atrial arrhythmia, including atrial tachyarrhythmia and atrial fibrillation (both sustained and non-sustained); ventricular arrhythmia, including ventricular fibrillation; and exercise-induced cardiac arrhythmia), heart failure, or exercise-induced sudden cardiac death. In this case, the amount of JTV-519 effective to limit or prevent a decrease in the level of RyR2-bound FKBP12.6 in the subject may be an amount of JTV-519 effective to prevent a cardiac condition (e.g., cardiac arrhythmia, heart failure, or exercise-induced sudden cardiac death) in the subject.","As used herein, an amount of a drug (e.g., JTV-519) \u201ceffective to prevent a cardiac condition\u201d includes an amount of the drug (e.g., JTV-519) effective to prevent the development of the clinical impairment or symptoms of the cardiac condition. For example, where the cardiac condition is atrial fibrillation, the amount of JTV-519 effective to prevent atrial fibrillation may be an amount of JTV-519 effective to prevent palpitations and\/or blood clots in the subject. Similarly, where the cardiac condition is exercise-induced cardiac arrhythmia, the amount of JTV-519 effective to prevent exercise-induced cardiac arrhythmia may be an amount of JTV-519 effective to prevent exercise-induced palpitations, fainting, ventricular fibrillation, ventricular tachycardia, and sudden cardiac death in the subject. Additionally, where the cardiac condition is heart failure, the amount of JTV-519 effective to prevent heart failure may be an amount of JTV-519 effective to prevent shortness of breath, decreased exercise tolerance, and early muscle fatigue in the subject.","The amount of a drug (e.g., JTV-519) effective to prevent a cardiac condition in a subject will vary depending upon the particular factors of each case, including the type of cardiac condition, the subject's weight, the severity of the subject's condition, and the mode of administration of the drug (e.g., JTV-519). This amount may be readily determined by the skilled artisan, based upon known procedures, including clinical trials, and methods disclosed herein. In one embodiment of the present invention, the amount of a drug (e.g., JTV-519) effective to prevent exercise-induced cardiac arrhythmia is an amount of a drug (e.g., JTV-519) effective to prevent exercise-induced sudden cardiac death in the subject. In another embodiment, the drug (e.g., JTV-519) prevents at least one cardiac condition (e.g., a cardiac arrhythmia (e.g., tachycardia; atrial arrhythmia, including atrial tachyarrhythmia and atrial fibrillation (both sustained and non-sustained); ventricular arrhythmia, including ventricular fibrillation; and exercise-induced cardiac arrhythmia), heart failure, or exercise-induced sudden cardiac death) in the subject.","Because of its ability to stabilize RyR2-bound FKBP12.6, and maintain and restore balance in the context of dynamic PKA phosphorylation and dephosphorylation of RyR2, JTV-519 may also be useful in treating a subject who has already started to experience clinical symptoms of a cardiac condition. If the symptoms of the cardiac condition are observed in the subject early enough, JTV-519 might be effective in limiting or preventing a further decrease in the level of RyR2-bound FKBP12.6 in the subject.","Accordingly, in another embodiment of the present invention, the subject has developed a cardiac condition. For example, the subject has been exercising, or is currently exercising, and has developed exercise-induced cardiac arrhythmia. In such a case, the amount of JTV-519 effective to limit or prevent a decrease in the level of RyR2-bound FKBP12.6 in the subject may be an amount of JTV-519 effective to treat a cardiac condition (e.g., a cardiac arrhythmia (e.g., tachycardia; atrial arrhythmia, including atrial tachyarrhythmia and atrial fibrillation (both sustained and non-sustained); ventricular arrhythmia, including ventricular fibrillation; and exercise-induced cardiac arrhythmia) or heart failure) in the subject.","As used herein, an amount of a drug (e.g., JTV-519) \u201ceffective to treat a cardiac condition\u201d includes an amount of a drug (e.g., JTV-519) effective to alleviate or ameliorate the clinical impairment or symptoms of the cardiac condition. For example, where the cardiac condition is atrial fibrillation, the amount of JTV-519 effective to treat atrial fibrillation may be an amount of JTV-519 effective to alleviate or ameliorate palpitations and\/or blood clots in the subject. Similarly, where the cardiac condition is exercise-induced cardiac arrhythmia, the amount of JTV-519 effective to treat exercise-induced cardiac arrhythmia may be an amount of JTV-519 effective to alleviate or ameliorate exercise-induced palpitations, fainting, ventricular fibrillation, and ventricular tachycardia in the subject. Additionally, where the cardiac condition is heart failure, the amount of JTV-519 effective to treat heart failure may be an amount of JTV-519 effective to alleviate or ameliorate shortness of breath, decreased exercise tolerance, and early muscle fatigue in the subject.","The amount of a drug (e.g., JTV-519) effective to treat a cardiac condition in a subject will vary depending upon the particular factors of each case, including the type of cardiac condition, the subject's weight, the severity of the subject's condition, and the mode of administration of the drug (e.g., JTV-519). This amount may be readily determined by the skilled artisan, based upon known procedures, including clinical trials, and methods disclosed herein. In a preferred embodiment, the drug (e.g., JTV-519) treats at least one cardiac condition in the subject.","The present invention further provides a method for treating at least one cardiac condition (e.g., a cardiac arrhythmia (e.g., tachycardia; atrial arrhythmia, including atrial tachyarrhythmia and atrial fibrillation (both sustained and non-sustained); ventricular arrhythmia, including ventricular fibrillation; and exercise-induced cardiac arrhythmia) or heart failure) in a subject. The method comprises administering JTV-519 to the subject in an amount effective to treat at least one cardiac condition in the subject. A suitable amount of JTV-519 effective to treat a cardiac condition (e.g., a cardiac arrhythmia (e.g., tachycardia; atrial arrhythmia, including atrial tachyarrhythmia and atrial fibrillation (both sustained and non-sustained); ventricular arrhythmia, including ventricular fibrillation; and exercise-induced cardiac arrhythmia) or heart failure) in a subject may range from about 5 mg\/kg\/day to about 20 mg\/kg\/day, and\/or may be an amount sufficient to achieve plasma levels ranging from about 300 ng\/ml to about 1000 ng\/ml.","The present invention also provides a method for preventing at least one cardiac condition (e.g., a cardiac arrhythmia (e.g., tachycardia; atrial arrhythmia, including atrial tachyarrhythmia and atrial fibrillation (both sustained and non-sustained); ventricular arrhythmia, including ventricular fibrillation; and exercise-induced cardiac arrhythmia), heart failure, or exercise-induced sudden cardiac death) in a subject. The method comprises administering JTV-519 to the subject in an amount effective to prevent at least one cardiac condition in the subject. A suitable amount of JTV-519 effective to prevent at least one cardiac condition (e.g., a cardiac arrhythmia (e.g., tachycardia; atrial arrhythmia, including atrial tachyarrhythmia and atrial fibrillation (both sustained and non-sustained); ventricular arrhythmia, including ventricular fibrillation; and exercise-induced cardiac arrhythmia), heart failure, or exercise-induced sudden cardiac death) in a subject may range from about 5 mg\/kg\/day to about 20 mg\/kg\/day, and\/or may be an amount sufficient to achieve plasma levels ranging from about 300 ng\/ml to about 1000 ng\/ml.","In various embodiments of the above-described methods, the exercise-induced cardiac arrhythmia in the subject is associated with VT. In preferred embodiments, the VT is CPVT. In other embodiments of these methods, the subject is a candidate for exercise-induced cardiac arrhythmia, including a candidate for exercise-induced sudden cardiac death.","Additionally, in view of the foregoing methods, the present invention also provides use of JTV-519 in a method for limiting or preventing a decrease in the level of RyR2-bound FKBP12.6 in a subject who has, or is a candidate for, at least one cardiac condition (e.g., a cardiac arrhythmia (e.g., tachycardia; atrial arrhythmia, including atrial tachyarrhythmia and atrial fibrillation (both sustained and non-sustained); ventricular arrhythmia, including ventricular fibrillation; and exercise-induced cardiac arrhythmia), heart failure, or exercise-induced sudden cardiac death). The present invention also provides use of JTV-519 in a method for treating or preventing at least one cardiac condition (e.g., a cardiac arrhythmia (e.g., tachycardia; atrial arrhythmia, including atrial tachyarrhythmia and atrial fibrillation (both sustained and non-sustained); ventricular arrhythmia, including ventricular fibrillation; and exercise-induced cardiac arrhythmia), heart failure, or exercise-induced sudden cardiac death) in a subject.","Novel Methods of Screening","As discussed above and presented herein, the inventors' data show that protein kinase A (PKA) phosphorylation of the cardiac ryanodine receptor, RyR2, on serine 2809 activates the channel by releasing the FK506 binding protein, FKBP12.6. In failing hearts (including human hearts and animal models of heart failure), RyR2 is PKA-hyperphosphorylated, resulting in defective channels that have decreased amounts of bound FKBP12.6, and have increased sensitivity to calcium-induced activation. The net result of these changes is that the RyR2 channels are \u201cleaky\u201d. These channel leaks can result in a depletion of intracellular stores of calcium to such an extent that there is no longer enough calcium in the sarcoplasmic reticulum (SR) to provide a strong stimulus for muscle contraction. This results in weak contraction of heart muscle. As a second consequence of the channel leaks, RyR2 channels release calcium during the resting phase of the heart cycle known as \u201cdiastole\u201d. This release of calcium during diastole can trigger the fatal arrhythmias of the hearts (e.g., ventricular tachycardia and ventricular fibrillation) that cause sudden cardiac death (SCD).","The inventors have also shown that treatment of heart failure with a mechanical pumping device, referred to as a left ventricular assist device (LVAD), which puts the heart at rest and restores normalized function, is associated with a reduction in the PKA hyperphosphorylation of RyR2, and normalized function of the channel. Furthermore, the inventors have shown that treatment of dogs (who have pacing-induced heart failure) with beta-adrenergic blockers (beta blockers) reverses the PKA hyperphosphorylation of RyR2. Beta blockers inhibit the pathway that activates PKA. The conclusion which may be drawn from the results of the inventors' work is that PKA phosphorylation of RyR2 increases the activity of the channel, resulting in the release of more calcium into the cell for a given trigger (activator) of the channel.","As further disclosed herein, the inventors have established that cardiac conditions (e.g., a cardiac arrhythmia (e.g., tachycardia; atrial arrhythmia, including atrial tachyarrhythmia and atrial fibrillation (both sustained and non-sustained); ventricular arrhythmia, including ventricular fibrillation; and exercise-induced cardiac arrhythmia), heart failure, or exercise-induced sudden cardiac death) are associated with an increase in phosphorylation of RyR2 proteins (particularly CPVT-associated RyR2 mutant proteins) and a decrease in the level of RyR2-bound FKBP12.6. It is possible to use this mechanism to design effective drugs for treating and preventing such cardiac conditions. A candidate agent having the ability to limit or prevent a decrease in the level of RyR2-bound FKBP12.6 may, as a consequence of this limiting or preventive activity, have an effect on an RyR2-associated biological event, thereby treating or preventing such cardiac conditions.","Accordingly, the present invention further provides a method for identifying an agent for use in treating or preventing at least one cardiac condition (e.g., a cardiac arrhythmia (e.g., tachycardia; atrial arrhythmia, including atrial tachyarrhythmia and atrial fibrillation (both sustained and non-sustained); ventricular arrhythmia, including ventricular fibrillation; and exercise-induced cardiac arrhythmia), heart failure, or exercise-induced sudden cardiac death). The method comprises the steps of: (a) obtaining or generating a culture of cells containing RyR2; (b) contacting the cells with a candidate agent; (c) exposing the cells to one or more conditions known to increase phosphorylation of RyR2 in cells; and (d) determining if the agent limits or prevents a decrease in the level of RyR2-bound FKBP12.6 in the cells.","As used herein, an \u201cagent\u201d shall include a protein, polypeptide, peptide, nucleic acid (including DNA or RNA), antibody, Fab fragment, F(ab\u2032)fragment, molecule, compound, antibiotic, drug, and any combination(s) thereof. An agent that limits or prevents a decrease in the level of RyR2-bound FKBP12.6 may be either natural or synthetic, and may be an agent reactive with (i.e., an agent that has affinity for, binds to, or is directed against) RyR2 and\/or FKBP12.6. As further used herein, a cell \u201ccontaining RyR2\u201d is a cell (preferably, a cardiac muscle cell) in which RyR2, or a derivative or homologue thereof, is naturally expressed or naturally occurs. Conditions known to increase phosphorylation of RyR2 in cells include, without limitation, PKA.","In the method of the present invention, cells may be contacted with a candidate agent by any of the standard methods of effecting contact between drugs\/agents and cells, including any modes of introduction and administration described herein. The level of RyR2-bound FKBP12.6 in the cell may be measured or detected by known procedures, including any of the methods, molecular procedures, and assays known to one of skill in the art or described herein. In one embodiment of the present invention, the agent limits or prevents a decrease in the level of RyR2-bound FKBP12.6 in the cells.","As disclosed herein, RyR2 has been implicated in a number of biological events in striated muscle cells. For example, it has been shown that RyR2 channels play an important role in EC coupling and contractility in cardiac muscle cells. Therefore, it is clear that therapeutic or preventive drugs designed to limit or prevent a decrease in the level of RyR2-bound FKBP12.6 in cells, particularly cardiac muscle cells, may be useful in the regulation of a number of RyR2-associated biological events, including EC coupling and contractility. Thus, once the candidate agent of the present invention has been screened, and has been determined to have a suitable limiting or preventive effect on decreasing levels of RyR2-bound FKBP12.6, it may be evaluated for its effect on EC coupling and contractility in cells, particularly cardiac muscle cells. It is expected that the therapeutic\/preventive agent of the present invention will be useful for treating or preventing cardiac conditions, including cardiac arrhythmias (e.g., tachycardia; atrial arrhythmia, including atrial tachyarrhythmia and atrial fibrillation (both sustained and non-sustained); ventricular arrhythmia, including ventricular fibrillation; and exercise-induced cardiac arrhythmia), heart failure, and exercise-induced sudden cardiac death.","Accordingly, the method of the present invention may further comprise the steps of: (e) contacting the candidate agent with a culture of cells containing RyR2; and (f) determining if the agent has an effect on an RyR2-associated biological event in the cells. As used herein, an \u201cRyR2-associated biological event\u201d includes a biochemical or physiological process in which RyR2 levels or activity have been implicated. As disclosed herein, examples of RyR2-associated biological events include, without limitation, EC coupling and contractility in cardiac muscle cells. According to this method of the present invention, a candidate agent may be contacted with one or more cells (preferably, cardiac muscle cells) in vitro. For example, a culture of the cells may be incubated with a preparation containing the candidate agent. The candidate agent's effect on an RyR2-associated biological event then may be assessed by any biological assays or methods known in the art, including immunoblotting, single-channel recordings and any others disclosed herein.","The present invention is further directed to an agent identified by the above-described identification method, as well as a pharmaceutical composition comprising the agent and a pharmaceutically-acceptable carrier. The agent may be useful for preventing exercise-induced sudden cardiac death in a subject, and for treating or preventing other RyR2-associated conditions. As used herein, an \u201cRyR2-associated condition\u201d is a condition, disease, or disorder in which RyR2 level or activity has been implicated, and includes an RyR2-associated biological event and a cardiac condition (e.g., a cardiac arrhythmia (e.g., tachycardia; atrial arrhythmia, including atrial tachyarrhythmia and atrial fibrillation (both sustained and non-sustained); ventricular arrhythmia, including ventricular fibrillation; and exercise-induced cardiac arrhythmia), heart failure, or exercise-induced sudden cardiac death).","The RyR2-associated condition may be treated or prevented in the subject by administering to the subject an amount of the agent effective to treat or prevent the RyR2-associated condition in the subject. This amount may be readily determined by one skilled in the art. In one embodiment, the present invention provides a method for treating or preventing at least one cardiac condition (e.g., a cardiac arrhythmia (e.g., tachycardia; atrial arrhythmia, including atrial tachyarrhythmia and atrial fibrillation (both sustained and non-sustained); ventricular arrhythmia, including ventricular fibrillation; and exercise-induced cardiac arrhythmia), heart failure, or exercise-induced sudden cardiac death) in a subject, by administering the agent to the subject in an amount effective to treat or prevent at least one cardiac condition in the subject.","The present invention also provides an in vivo method for identifying an agent for use in treating or preventing a cardiac condition (e.g., a cardiac arrhythmia (e.g., tachycardia; atrial arrhythmia, including atrial tachyarrhythmia and atrial fibrillation (both sustained and non-sustained); ventricular arrhythmia, including ventricular fibrillation; and exercise-induced cardiac arrhythmia), heart failure, or exercise-induced sudden cardiac death). The method comprises the steps of: (a) obtaining or generating an animal containing RyR2; (b) administering a candidate agent to the animal; (c) exposing the animal to one or more conditions known to increase phosphorylation of RyR2 in cells; and (d) determining if the agent limits or prevents a decrease in the level of RyR2-bound FKBP12.6 in the animal. The method may further comprise the steps of: (e) administering the agent to an animal containing RyR2; and (f) determining if the agent has an effect on an RyR2-associated biological event in the animal. Also provided is an agent identified by this method; a pharmaceutical composition comprising this agent; and a method for treating or preventing at least one cardiac condition (e.g., a cardiac arrhythmia (e.g., tachycardia; atrial arrhythmia, including atrial tachyarrhythmia and atrial fibrillation (both sustained and non-sustained); ventricular arrhythmia, including ventricular fibrillation; and exercise-induced cardiac arrhythmia), heart failure, or exercise-induced sudden cardiac death) in a subject, by administering this agent to the subject in an amount effective to treat or prevent at least one cardiac condition in the subject.","The inventors' work has demonstrated that compounds which block PKA activation would be expected to reduce the activation of the RyR2 channel, resulting in less release of calcium into the cell. Compounds that bind to the RyR2 channel at the FKBP12.6 binding site, but do not come off the channel when the channel is phosphorylated by PKA, would also be expected to decrease the activity of the channel in response to PKA activation or other triggers that activate the RyR2 channel. Such compounds would also result in less calcium release into the cell. In view of these findings, the present invention further provides additional assays for identifying agents that may be useful in treating or preventing cardiac conditions (e.g., a cardiac arrhythmia (e.g., tachycardia; atrial arrhythmia, including atrial tachyarrhythmia and atrial fibrillation (both sustained and non-sustained); ventricular arrhythmia, including ventricular fibrillation; and exercise-induced cardiac arrhythmia), heart failure, or exercise-induced sudden cardiac death), in that they block or inhibit activation of RyR2.","By way of example, the diagnostic assays of the present invention may screen for the release of calcium into cells via the RyR2 channel, using calcium-sensitive fluorescent dyes (e.g., Fluo-3, Fura-2, and the like). Cells may be loaded with the fluorescent dye of choice, then stimulated with RyR2 activators to determine whether or not compounds added to the cell reduce the calcium-dependent fluorescent signal (Brillantes et al., Stabilization of calcium release channel (ryanodine receptor) function by FK506-binding protein. 77:513-23, 1994; Gillo et al., Calcium entry during induced differentiation in murine erythroleukemia cells. 81:783-92, 1993; Jayaraman et al., Regulation of the inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor by tyrosine phosphorylation. 272:1492-94, 1996). Calcium-dependent fluorescent signals may be monitored with a photomultiplier tube, and analyzed with appropriate software, as previously described (Brillantes et al., Stabilization of calcium release channel (ryanodine receptor) function by FK506-binding protein. 77:513-23, 1994; Gillo et al., Calcium entry during induced differentiation in murine erythroleukemia cells. 81:783-92, 1993; Jayaraman et al., Regulation of the inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor by tyrosine phosphorylation. 272:1492-94, 1996). This assay can easily be automated to screen large numbers of compounds using multiwell dishes.","To identify compounds that inhibit the PKA-dependent activation of RyR2-mediated intracellular calcium release, an assay may involve the expression of recombinant RyR2 channels in a heterologous expression system, such as Sf9, HEK293, or CHO cells (Brillantes et al., Stabilization of calcium release channel (ryanodine receptor) function by FK506-binding protein. 77:513-23, 1994). RyR2 could also be co-expressed with beta-adrenergic receptors. This would permit assessment of the effect of compounds on RyR2 activation, in response to addition of beta-adrenergic receptor agonists.","The level of PKA phosphorylation of RyR2 which correlates with the degree of heart failure may also be assayed, and then used to determine the efficacy of compounds designed to block the PKA phosphorylation of the RyR2 channel. Such an assay may be based on the use of antibodies that are specific for the RyR2 protein. For example, the RyR2-channel protein may be immunoprecipitated, and then back-phosphorylated with PKA and [gammaP]-ATP. The amount of radioactive [P] label that is transferred to the RyR2 protein may be then measured using a phosphorimager (Marx et al., PKA phosphorylation dissociates FKBP12.6 from the calcium release channel (ryanodine receptor): defective regulation in failing hearts. 101:365-76, 2000).","Another assay of the present invention involves use of a phosphoepitope-specific antibody that detects RyR2 that is PKA phosphorylated on Ser 2809. Immunoblotting with such an antibody can be used to assess efficacy of therapy for heart failure and cardiac arrhythmias. Additionally, RyR2 S2809A and RyR2 S2809D knock-in mice may be used to assess efficacy of therapy for heart failure and cardiac arrhythmias. Such mice further provide evidence that PKA hyperphosphorylation of RyR2 is a contributing factor in heart failure and cardiac arrhythmias, by showing that the RyR2 S2809A mutation inhibits heart failure and arrhythmias, and that the RyR2 S2809D mutation worsens heart failure and arrhythmias.","Novel 1,4-Benzothiazepine Derivatives and Methods of Synthesizing Same","1,4-benzothiazepine derivatives, particularly 2,3,4,5-tetrahydro-1,4-benzothiazepine derivatives, are important building blocks in the preparation of biologically-active molecules, including JTV-519. The inventors have developed a novel process for preparing 1,4-benzothiazepine intermediate compounds, such as 7-methoxy-2,3,4,5-tetrahydro-1,4-benzothiazepine. The inventors process utilizes readily-available and inexpensive starting materials, and provides high yields of key 1,4-benzothiazepine intermediates.","In the early 1990s, Kaneko et al. (U.S. Pat. No. 5,416,066; WO 92\/12148; JP4230681) disclosed that JTV-519 could be prepared by reacting 7-methoxy-2,3,4,5-tetrahydro-1,4-benzothiazepine (a 1,4-benzothiazepine intermediate) with acryloyl chloride, and then reacting the resulting product with 4-benzyl piperidine.","Two processes for the preparation of 7-methoxy-2,3,4,5-tetrahydro-1,4-benzothiazepine and similar compounds have been previously reported in the literature. The first process, disclosed by Kaneko et al. (U.S. Pat. No. 5,416,066), involved a synthetic route of six steps that started with 2,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid. In this process, 2,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid was selectively methylated with dimethyl sulfate. The resulting compound was then reacted with dimethylthiocarbamoyl chloride for 20 h, and then subjected to high temperature (270\u00b0 C.) for 9 h. The product of this step was refluxed with sodium methoxide in methanol for 20 h. The product of the reflux step was then reacted with 2-chloroethylamine, under basic conditions and at a high temperature, to produce a cyclized amide. The cyclized amide was reduced with LiAlHto yield 7-methoxy-2,3,4,5-tetrahydro-1,4-benzothiazepine (a 1,4-benzothiazepine intermediate).","The second process for the preparation of 7-methoxy-2,3,4,5-tetrahydro-1,4-benzothiazepine was disclosed by Hitoshi in a Japanese patent (JP 10045706). This process started with 2-bromo-5-methoxy benzaldehyde. The bromide was substituted with NaSMe, and the resulting product was oxidized with chlorine, followed by reflux in water, to yield disulfide dialdehyde. The dialdehyde was treated with 2-chloroethylamine, and the resulting product was reduced with a reducing agent, such as NaBH. The resulting compound was cyclized to give 7-methoxy-2,3,4,5-tetrahydro-1,4-benzothiazepine.","Initially, the inventors attempted to prepare the 1,4-benzothiazepine intermediate, 7-methoxy-2,3,4,5-tetrahydro-1,4-benzothiazepine, using the methods described above. However, they found that the first process, described by Kaneko et al. (U.S. Pat. No. 5,416,066), involved synthetic steps of high temperature and long reaction time. Additionally, the inventors discovered that the thio group in the third thiolated intermediate was easily oxidized by air to a disulfide compound, making it impossible to synthesize the subsequent cyclized product. The inventors also determined that the process described by Hitoshi (JP 10045706) involved Cl, and that another patented method for the preparation of the first intermediate, apart from the substitution of bromide with NaSMe, had to be used.","To overcome the foregoing problems, the inventors developed a novel process for making 7-methoxy-2,3,4,5-tetrahydro-1,4-benzothiazepine from readily-available and inexpensive starting materials. The inventors' process simplifies isolation and purification steps, and can be used to prepare various 1,4-benzothiazepine intermediates, including 7-methoxy-2,3,4,5-tetrahydro-1,4-benzothiazepine and other compounds having the general structure shown in formula:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0156","num":"0158"},"chemistry":{"@attributes":{"id":"CHEM-US-00022","num":"00022"},"img":{"@attributes":{"id":"EMI-C00022","he":"33.87mm","wi":"55.37mm","file":"US07718644-20100518-C00022.TIF","alt":"embedded image","img-content":"chem","img-format":"tif"}}},"br":{}},"Accordingly, in view of the foregoing, the present invention provides a method for the synthesis of a compound having formula:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0158","num":"0160"},"chemistry":{"@attributes":{"id":"CHEM-US-00023","num":"00023"},"img":{"@attributes":{"id":"EMI-C00023","he":"13.97mm","wi":"28.28mm","file":"US07718644-20100518-C00023.TIF","alt":"embedded image","img-content":"chem","img-format":"tif"}}},"br":{},"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0007","list-style":"none"},"li":"(a) treating a compound having formula:"}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0159","num":"0162"},"chemistry":{"@attributes":{"id":"CHEM-US-00024","num":"00024"},"img":{"@attributes":{"id":"EMI-C00024","he":"13.80mm","wi":"25.82mm","file":"US07718644-20100518-C00024.TIF","alt":"embedded image","img-content":"chem","img-format":"tif"}}},"br":{}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0160","num":"0163"},"chemistry":{"@attributes":{"id":"CHEM-US-00025","num":"00025"},"img":{"@attributes":{"id":"EMI-C00025","he":"13.80mm","wi":"25.82mm","file":"US07718644-20100518-C00025.TIF","alt":"embedded image","img-content":"chem","img-format":"tif"}}},"br":{},"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0008","list-style":"none"},"li":"(b) treating the compound formed in step (a) with a diazotizing agent and a disulfide, to form a compound having formula:"}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0161","num":"0165"},"chemistry":{"@attributes":{"id":"CHEM-US-00026","num":"00026"},"img":{"@attributes":{"id":"EMI-C00026","he":"30.82mm","wi":"25.82mm","file":"US07718644-20100518-C00026.TIF","alt":"embedded image","img-content":"chem","img-format":"tif"}}},"br":{},"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0009","list-style":"none"},"li":"(c) treating the compound formed in step (b) with an activating agent and chloroethylamine, to form a compound having formula:"}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0162","num":"0167"},"chemistry":{"@attributes":{"id":"CHEM-US-00027","num":"00027"},"img":{"@attributes":{"id":"EMI-C00027","he":"41.49mm","wi":"41.57mm","file":"US07718644-20100518-C00027.TIF","alt":"embedded image","img-content":"chem","img-format":"tif"}}},"br":{},"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0010","list-style":"none"},"li":"(d) treating the compound formed in step (c) with a reducing agent and a base, to form a compound having formula:"}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0163","num":"0169"},"chemistry":{"@attributes":{"id":"CHEM-US-00028","num":"00028"},"img":{"@attributes":{"id":"EMI-C00028","he":"20.15mm","wi":"28.28mm","file":"US07718644-20100518-C00028.TIF","alt":"embedded image","img-content":"chem","img-format":"tif"}}},"br":{},"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0011","list-style":"none"},"li":"(e) treating the compound formed in step (d) with a reducing agent, to form a compound having formula:"}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0164","num":"0171"},"chemistry":{"@attributes":{"id":"CHEM-US-00029","num":"00029"},"img":{"@attributes":{"id":"EMI-C00029","he":"13.97mm","wi":"28.28mm","file":"US07718644-20100518-C00029.TIF","alt":"embedded image","img-content":"chem","img-format":"tif"}}},"br":{}},"In accordance with the method of the present invention, the reducing agent in step (a) may be H. Additionally, the diazotizing agent in step (b) may be NaNO, and the disulfide in step (b) may be NaS. Furthermore, the chloride in step (c) may be SOCl. The reducing agent in step (d) may be trimethylphosphine (PMe), while the base in step (d) is triethyl amine. In another embodiment, the reducing agent in step (e) is LiAlH.","The present invention further provides a method for the synthesis of a compound of having formula:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0167","num":"0174"},"chemistry":{"@attributes":{"id":"CHEM-US-00030","num":"00030"},"img":{"@attributes":{"id":"EMI-C00030","he":"21.84mm","wi":"74.51mm","file":"US07718644-20100518-C00030.TIF","alt":"embedded image","img-content":"chem","img-format":"tif"}}},"br":{},"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0012","list-style":"none"},"li":"(a) treating a compound having formula:"}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0168","num":"0176"},"chemistry":{"@attributes":{"id":"CHEM-US-00031","num":"00031"},"img":{"@attributes":{"id":"EMI-C00031","he":"13.97mm","wi":"28.28mm","file":"US07718644-20100518-C00031.TIF","alt":"embedded image","img-content":"chem","img-format":"tif"}}},"br":{}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0169","num":"0177"},"chemistry":{"@attributes":{"id":"CHEM-US-00032","num":"00032"},"img":{"@attributes":{"id":"EMI-C00032","he":"11.60mm","wi":"32.17mm","file":"US07718644-20100518-C00032.TIF","alt":"embedded image","img-content":"chem","img-format":"tif"}}},"br":{}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0170","num":"0178"},"chemistry":{"@attributes":{"id":"CHEM-US-00033","num":"00033"},"img":{"@attributes":{"id":"EMI-C00033","he":"21.84mm","wi":"74.51mm","file":"US07718644-20100518-C00033.TIF","alt":"embedded image","img-content":"chem","img-format":"tif"}}},"br":{}},"By way of example, a compound having the formula:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0172","num":"0180"},"chemistry":{"@attributes":{"id":"CHEM-US-00034","num":"00034"},"img":{"@attributes":{"id":"EMI-C00034","he":"21.93mm","wi":"74.51mm","file":"US07718644-20100518-C00034.TIF","alt":"embedded image","img-content":"chem","img-format":"tif"}}},"br":{}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0173","num":"0181"},"chemistry":[{"@attributes":{"id":"CHEM-US-00035","num":"00035"},"img":{"@attributes":{"id":"EMI-C00035","he":"185.59mm","wi":"70.44mm","file":"US07718644-20100518-C00035.TIF","alt":"embedded image","img-content":"chem","img-format":"tif"}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"CHEM-US-00036","num":"00036"},"img":{"@attributes":{"id":"EMI-C00036","he":"67.06mm","wi":"75.18mm","file":"US07718644-20100518-C00036.TIF","alt":"embedded image","img-content":"chem","img-format":"tif"}}}]},"By way of example, and as shown in Example 9 and Scheme 1 below, 7-methoxy-2,3,4,5-tetrahydro-1,4-benzothiazepine may be prepared from 2-nitro-5-methoxybenzoic acid as follows. The nitro group of 2-nitro-5-methoxybenzoic acid is reduced, using Hwith Pd\/C as a catalyst, to give 2-amino-5-methoxybenzoic acid. 2-amino-5-methoxybenzoic acid may be diazotized with NaNO, and then treated with NaS, to provide a stable disulfide compound. Without further purification, the stable disulfide compound may be treated with SOCl, and then reacted with 2-chloroethylamine, in the presence of EtN, to give an amide. The amide compound may then be converted to a cyclized compound via a one-pot procedure, as follows. A reducing reagent (such as trimethylphosphine or triphenylphosphine) and a base (such as triethylamine) may be added to a solution of the amide compound in THF (tetrahydrofuran). The resulting reaction mixture may then be refluxed for 3 h. The reducing agent (trimethylphosphine or triphenylphine) cleaves the disulfide (S\u2014S) to its monosulfide (\u2014S), which, in situ, undergoes intramolecular cyclization with the chloride to yield a cyclized amide. The cyclized amide may then be reduced with LiAlHto yield the 1,4-benzothiazepine intermediate, 7-methoxy-2,3,4,5-tetrahydro-1,4-benzothiazepine. JTV-519 may then be prepared from 7-methoxy-2,3,4,5-tetrahydro-1,4-benzothiazepine by reacting the 7-methoxy-2,3,4,5-tetrahydro-1,4-benzothiazepine with 3-bromopropionic chloride, and then reacting the resulting compound with 4-benzyl piperidine.","The present invention further provides a composition, comprising radio-labeled JTV-519. Labeling of JTV-519 may be accomplished using one of a variety of different radioactive labels known in the art. The radioactive label of the present invention may be, for example, a radioisotope. The radioisotope may be any isotope that emits detectable radiation, including, without limitation, S, I, H, or C. Radioactivity emitted by the radioisotope can be detected by techniques well known in the art. For example, gamma emission from the radioisotope may be detected using gamma imaging techniques, particularly scintigraphic imaging.","By way of example, and as shown in Example 10 and Scheme 2 below, radio-labeled JTV-519 may be prepared as follows. JTV-519 may be demethylated at the phenyl ring using BBr. The resulting phenol compound may then be re-methylated with a radio-labeled methylating agent (such as H-dimethyl sulfate) in the presence of a base (such as NaH) to provide H-labeled JTV-519.","The present invention further provides novel 1,4-benzothiazepine intermediates and derivatives, including 2,3,4,5-tetrahydro-1,4-benzothiazepenes that are similar to JTV-519. By way of example, the present invention provides compounds having the following formulas:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0178","num":"0186"},"chemistry":{"@attributes":{"id":"CHEM-US-00037","num":"00037"},"img":{"@attributes":{"id":"EMI-C00037","he":"23.11mm","wi":"38.02mm","file":"US07718644-20100518-C00037.TIF","alt":"embedded image","img-content":"chem","img-format":"tif"}}},"br":{},"sub":["2","n","2","2","n"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0179","num":"0187"},"chemistry":{"@attributes":{"id":"CHEM-US-00038","num":"00038"},"img":{"@attributes":{"id":"EMI-C00038","he":"23.20mm","wi":"43.77mm","file":"US07718644-20100518-C00038.TIF","alt":"embedded image","img-content":"chem","img-format":"tif"}}},"br":{},"sub":["2","n","2","2","n"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0180","num":"0188"},"chemistry":{"@attributes":{"id":"CHEM-US-00039","num":"00039"},"img":{"@attributes":{"id":"EMI-C00039","he":"24.30mm","wi":"32.43mm","file":"US07718644-20100518-C00039.TIF","alt":"embedded image","img-content":"chem","img-format":"tif"}}},"br":{},"sub":["2","n","2","2","2","n","2","2","2","n","2"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0181","num":"0189"},"chemistry":{"@attributes":{"id":"CHEM-US-00040","num":"00040"},"img":{"@attributes":{"id":"EMI-C00040","he":"23.20mm","wi":"43.77mm","file":"US07718644-20100518-C00040.TIF","alt":"embedded image","img-content":"chem","img-format":"tif"}}},"br":{},"sub":["2","n","2","2","n"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0182","num":"0190"},"chemistry":{"@attributes":{"id":"CHEM-US-00041","num":"00041"},"img":{"@attributes":{"id":"EMI-C00041","he":"18.03mm","wi":"35.05mm","file":"US07718644-20100518-C00041.TIF","alt":"embedded image","img-content":"chem","img-format":"tif"}}},"br":{},"sub":["1","2","3"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0183","num":"0191"},"chemistry":{"@attributes":{"id":"CHEM-US-00042","num":"00042"},"img":{"@attributes":{"id":"EMI-C00042","he":"26.16mm","wi":"34.97mm","file":"US07718644-20100518-C00042.TIF","alt":"embedded image","img-content":"chem","img-format":"tif"}}},"br":{}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0184","num":"0192"},"chemistry":{"@attributes":{"id":"CHEM-US-00043","num":"00043"},"img":{"@attributes":{"id":"EMI-C00043","he":"27.86mm","wi":"36.66mm","file":"US07718644-20100518-C00043.TIF","alt":"embedded image","img-content":"chem","img-format":"tif"}}},"br":{}},"Examples of the inventors' novel 1,4-benzothiazepine compounds include, without limitation, S7, S-20, S-25, S-27, and S36. Preferably, the compound is S36. Structures for S7, S-20, S-25, S-27, and S36 may be found in Appendix A to the present application. These and any other novel compounds of the present invention may be associated with a pharmaceutically-acceptable carrier, as described above, so as to form a pharmaceutical composition.","The present invention further provides methods of synthesizing the novel 1,4-benzothiazepine compounds disclosed herein. For example, the present invention provides a method for the synthesis of a compound having formula:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0187","num":"0195"},"chemistry":{"@attributes":{"id":"CHEM-US-00044","num":"00044"},"img":{"@attributes":{"id":"EMI-C00044","he":"23.20mm","wi":"38.02mm","file":"US07718644-20100518-C00044.TIF","alt":"embedded image","img-content":"chem","img-format":"tif"}}},"br":{},"sub":["2","n","2","2","n"],"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0013","list-style":"none"},"li":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0013-0001","num":"0000"},"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0014","list-style":"none"},"li":"(a) treating a compound having formula:"}}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0188","num":"0197"},"chemistry":{"@attributes":{"id":"CHEM-US-00045","num":"00045"},"img":{"@attributes":{"id":"EMI-C00045","he":"13.97mm","wi":"31.41mm","file":"US07718644-20100518-C00045.TIF","alt":"embedded image","img-content":"chem","img-format":"tif"}}},"br":{}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0189","num":"0198"},"chemistry":{"@attributes":{"id":"CHEM-US-00046","num":"00046"},"img":{"@attributes":{"id":"EMI-C00046","he":"21.93mm","wi":"43.52mm","file":"US07718644-20100518-C00046.TIF","alt":"embedded image","img-content":"chem","img-format":"tif"}}},"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0015","list-style":"none"},"li":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0015-0001","num":"0000"},"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0016","list-style":"none"},"li":"(b) optionally, treating the compound formed in step (a) with a primary or secondary amine, to form a compound having formula:"}}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0190","num":"0200"},"chemistry":{"@attributes":{"id":"CHEM-US-00047","num":"00047"},"img":{"@attributes":{"id":"EMI-C00047","he":"23.20mm","wi":"38.02mm","file":"US07718644-20100518-C00047.TIF","alt":"embedded image","img-content":"chem","img-format":"tif"}}},"br":{},"sub":"3"},"The method of the invention may further comprise the step of oxidizing the compound having formula:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0192","num":"0202"},"chemistry":{"@attributes":{"id":"CHEM-US-00048","num":"00048"},"img":{"@attributes":{"id":"EMI-C00048","he":"23.20mm","wi":"38.02mm","file":"US07718644-20100518-C00048.TIF","alt":"embedded image","img-content":"chem","img-format":"tif"}}},"br":{},"sub":["2","n","2","2","n"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0193","num":"0203"},"chemistry":{"@attributes":{"id":"CHEM-US-00049","num":"00049"},"img":{"@attributes":{"id":"EMI-C00049","he":"38.95mm","wi":"56.90mm","file":"US07718644-20100518-C00049.TIF","alt":"embedded image","img-content":"chem","img-format":"tif"}}},"br":{}},"By way of example, and as shown in Example 11 and Scheme 3, the inventors have developed a method of synthesizing compounds having the general structure:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0195","num":"0205"},"chemistry":{"@attributes":{"id":"CHEM-US-00050","num":"00050"},"img":{"@attributes":{"id":"EMI-C00050","he":"23.20mm","wi":"38.02mm","file":"US07718644-20100518-C00050.TIF","alt":"embedded image","img-content":"chem","img-format":"tif"}}},"br":{},"sub":["2","n","2","2","n","3","3","2","2 ","2","3 ","2","2"]},"The present invention also provides a method for the synthesis of a compound of having formula:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0197","num":"0207"},"chemistry":{"@attributes":{"id":"CHEM-US-00051","num":"00051"},"img":{"@attributes":{"id":"EMI-C00051","he":"23.20mm","wi":"43.77mm","file":"US07718644-20100518-C00051.TIF","alt":"embedded image","img-content":"chem","img-format":"tif"}}},"br":{},"sub":["2","n","2","2","n"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0198","num":"0208"},"chemistry":{"@attributes":{"id":"CHEM-US-00052","num":"00052"},"img":{"@attributes":{"id":"EMI-C00052","he":"13.97mm","wi":"31.41mm","file":"US07718644-20100518-C00052.TIF","alt":"embedded image","img-content":"chem","img-format":"tif"}}},"br":{}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0199","num":"0209"},"chemistry":{"@attributes":{"id":"CHEM-US-00053","num":"00053"},"img":{"@attributes":{"id":"EMI-C00053","he":"23.20mm","wi":"43.77mm","file":"US07718644-20100518-C00053.TIF","alt":"embedded image","img-content":"chem","img-format":"tif"}}},"br":{},"sub":"3"},"The method of the present invention may further comprise the step of oxidizing the compound having formula:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0201","num":"0211"},"chemistry":{"@attributes":{"id":"CHEM-US-00054","num":"00054"},"img":{"@attributes":{"id":"EMI-C00054","he":"23.20mm","wi":"43.77mm","file":"US07718644-20100518-C00054.TIF","alt":"embedded image","img-content":"chem","img-format":"tif"}}},"br":{},"sub":["2","n","2","2","n"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0202","num":"0212"},"chemistry":{"@attributes":{"id":"CHEM-US-00055","num":"00055"},"img":{"@attributes":{"id":"EMI-C00055","he":"44.11mm","wi":"59.77mm","file":"US07718644-20100518-C00055.TIF","alt":"embedded image","img-content":"chem","img-format":"tif"}}},"br":{}},"By way of example, and as shown in Example 11 and Scheme 4, the inventors have developed a method of synthesizing compounds having the general structure:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0204","num":"0214"},"chemistry":{"@attributes":{"id":"CHEM-US-00056","num":"00056"},"img":{"@attributes":{"id":"EMI-C00056","he":"23.20mm","wi":"43.77mm","file":"US07718644-20100518-C00056.TIF","alt":"embedded image","img-content":"chem","img-format":"tif"}}},"br":{},"sub":["2","n","2","2","n","3","3","2","2 ","2","3 "]},"The present invention further provides a method for the synthesis of a compound of having formula:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0206","num":"0216"},"chemistry":{"@attributes":{"id":"CHEM-US-00057","num":"00057"},"img":{"@attributes":{"id":"EMI-C00057","he":"36.49mm","wi":"54.10mm","file":"US07718644-20100518-C00057.TIF","alt":"embedded image","img-content":"chem","img-format":"tif"}}},"br":{},"sub":["2","n","2","2","2","n","2","2","2","n","2"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0207","num":"0217"},"chemistry":{"@attributes":{"id":"CHEM-US-00058","num":"00058"},"img":{"@attributes":{"id":"EMI-C00058","he":"18.29mm","wi":"32.43mm","file":"US07718644-20100518-C00058.TIF","alt":"embedded image","img-content":"chem","img-format":"tif"}}},"br":{}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0208","num":"0218"},"chemistry":{"@attributes":{"id":"CHEM-US-00059","num":"00059"},"img":{"@attributes":{"id":"EMI-C00059","he":"36.49mm","wi":"54.10mm","file":"US07718644-20100518-C00059.TIF","alt":"embedded image","img-content":"chem","img-format":"tif"}}},"br":{}},"The present invention further provides a method for the synthesis of a compound of having formula:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0210","num":"0220"},"chemistry":{"@attributes":{"id":"CHEM-US-00060","num":"00060"},"img":{"@attributes":{"id":"EMI-C00060","he":"36.49mm","wi":"54.10mm","file":"US07718644-20100518-C00060.TIF","alt":"embedded image","img-content":"chem","img-format":"tif"}}},"br":{},"sub":["2","n","2","2","2","n","2","2","2","n","2"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0211","num":"0221"},"chemistry":{"@attributes":{"id":"CHEM-US-00061","num":"00061"},"img":{"@attributes":{"id":"EMI-C00061","he":"20.66mm","wi":"76.12mm","file":"US07718644-20100518-C00061.TIF","alt":"embedded image","img-content":"chem","img-format":"tif"}}},"br":{}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0212","num":"0222"},"chemistry":{"@attributes":{"id":"CHEM-US-00062","num":"00062"},"img":{"@attributes":{"id":"EMI-C00062","he":"36.49mm","wi":"54.10mm","file":"US07718644-20100518-C00062.TIF","alt":"embedded image","img-content":"chem","img-format":"tif"}}},"br":{}},"By way of example, and as shown in Example 11 and Scheme 5, the inventors have developed a method of synthesizing compounds having the general structure:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0214","num":"0224"},"chemistry":{"@attributes":{"id":"CHEM-US-00063","num":"00063"},"img":{"@attributes":{"id":"EMI-C00063","he":"24.30mm","wi":"32.43mm","file":"US07718644-20100518-C00063.TIF","alt":"embedded image","img-content":"chem","img-format":"tif"}}},"br":{},"sub":["2","n","2","2","2","n","2","2","2","n","2","2","2 ","2","2"]},"Additionally, the present invention provides a method for the synthesis of a compound having formula:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0216","num":"0226"},"chemistry":{"@attributes":{"id":"CHEM-US-00064","num":"00064"},"img":{"@attributes":{"id":"EMI-C00064","he":"23.20mm","wi":"43.77mm","file":"US07718644-20100518-C00064.TIF","alt":"embedded image","img-content":"chem","img-format":"tif"}}},"br":{},"sub":["2","n","2","2","n"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0217","num":"0227"},"chemistry":{"@attributes":{"id":"CHEM-US-00065","num":"00065"},"img":{"@attributes":{"id":"EMI-C00065","he":"14.05mm","wi":"31.41mm","file":"US07718644-20100518-C00065.TIF","alt":"embedded image","img-content":"chem","img-format":"tif"}}},"br":{}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0218","num":"0228"},"chemistry":{"@attributes":{"id":"CHEM-US-00066","num":"00066"},"img":{"@attributes":{"id":"EMI-C00066","he":"23.20mm","wi":"43.77mm","file":"US07718644-20100518-C00066.TIF","alt":"embedded image","img-content":"chem","img-format":"tif"}}},"br":{},"sub":"3"},"By way of example, and as shown in Example 11 and Scheme 6, the inventors have developed a method of synthesizing compounds having the general structure:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0220","num":"0230"},"chemistry":{"@attributes":{"id":"CHEM-US-00067","num":"00067"},"img":{"@attributes":{"id":"EMI-C00067","he":"23.20mm","wi":"43.77mm","file":"US07718644-20100518-C00067.TIF","alt":"embedded image","img-content":"chem","img-format":"tif"}}},"br":{},"sub":["2","n","2","2","n","3"]},"The present invention further provides a method for the synthesis of 2, 3, 4, 5-tetrahydro-1,4-benzothiazepine compounds having formula:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0222","num":"0232"},"chemistry":{"@attributes":{"id":"CHEM-US-00068","num":"00068"},"img":{"@attributes":{"id":"EMI-C00068","he":"18.03mm","wi":"34.97mm","file":"US07718644-20100518-C00068.TIF","alt":"embedded image","img-content":"chem","img-format":"tif"}}},"br":{},"sub":["1","2","3"],"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0017","list-style":"none"},"li":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0017-0001","num":"0000"},"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0018","list-style":"none"},"li":"(a) treating a compound having formula:"}}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0223","num":"0234"},"chemistry":{"@attributes":{"id":"CHEM-US-00069","num":"00069"},"img":{"@attributes":{"id":"EMI-C00069","he":"13.80mm","wi":"25.57mm","file":"US07718644-20100518-C00069.TIF","alt":"embedded image","img-content":"chem","img-format":"tif"}}},"br":{},"sub":"1 "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0224","num":"0235"},"chemistry":{"@attributes":{"id":"CHEM-US-00070","num":"00070"},"img":{"@attributes":{"id":"EMI-C00070","he":"13.80mm","wi":"25.57mm","file":"US07718644-20100518-C00070.TIF","alt":"embedded image","img-content":"chem","img-format":"tif"}}},"br":{},"sub":"1 ","ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0019","list-style":"none"},"li":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0019-0001","num":"0000"},"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0020","list-style":"none"},"li":"(b) treating the compound formed in step (a) with a diazotizing agent and a disulfide, to form a compound having formula:"}}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0225","num":"0237"},"chemistry":{"@attributes":{"id":"CHEM-US-00071","num":"00071"},"img":{"@attributes":{"id":"EMI-C00071","he":"30.82mm","wi":"25.40mm","file":"US07718644-20100518-C00071.TIF","alt":"embedded image","img-content":"chem","img-format":"tif"}}},"br":{},"sub":"1 ","ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0021","list-style":"none"},"li":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0021-0001","num":"0000"},"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0022","list-style":"none"},"li":"(c) treating the compound formed in step (b) with an activating agent and chloroethylamine, to form a compound having formula:"}}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0226","num":"0239"},"chemistry":{"@attributes":{"id":"CHEM-US-00072","num":"00072"},"img":{"@attributes":{"id":"EMI-C00072","he":"42.08mm","wi":"41.15mm","file":"US07718644-20100518-C00072.TIF","alt":"embedded image","img-content":"chem","img-format":"tif"}}},"br":{},"sub":["1","2","3 "],"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0023","list-style":"none"},"li":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0023-0001","num":"0000"},"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0024","list-style":"none"},"li":"(d) treating the compound formed in step (c) with a reducing agent and a base to form a compound having formula:"}}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0227","num":"0241"},"chemistry":{"@attributes":{"id":"CHEM-US-00073","num":"00073"},"img":{"@attributes":{"id":"EMI-C00073","he":"24.30mm","wi":"34.88mm","file":"US07718644-20100518-C00073.TIF","alt":"embedded image","img-content":"chem","img-format":"tif"}}},"br":{},"sub":["1","2","3 "],"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0025","list-style":"none"},"li":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0025-0001","num":"0000"},"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0026","list-style":"none"},"li":"(e) treating the compound formed in step (d) with a reducing agent, to form a compound having formula:"}}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0228","num":"0243"},"chemistry":{"@attributes":{"id":"CHEM-US-00074","num":"00074"},"img":{"@attributes":{"id":"EMI-C00074","he":"18.03mm","wi":"34.88mm","file":"US07718644-20100518-C00074.TIF","alt":"embedded image","img-content":"chem","img-format":"tif"}}},"br":[{},{}],"sub":["1","2","3 "]},"The inventors' novel 1,4-benzothiazepine compounds share functional characteristics with JTV-519. For example, like JTV-519 (mwt=423), compound S36 (mwt=267) regulates calcium channels. Indeed, S36 (a carboxylic acid) is approximately 10 times more potent than JTV-519 in regulating calcium channels (data not shown). Unlike JTV-519, however, the inventors' novel compounds show weak blocking activity of hERGs.","The rapid delayed rectifier (I(Kr)) channel\u2014a potassium channel\u2014is important for repolarization of the cardiac action potential. hERG is the pore-forming subunit of the I(Kr) channel. Suppression of I(Kr) function\u2014as a result of adverse drug effects and\/or genetic defects in hERG\u2014can lead to long-QT (LQT) syndrome, which carries increased risk of life-threatening arrhythmias. hERGs, then, are potassium-channel subunits that, when blocked, can cause cardiac arrhythmias and sudden cardiac death.","The inventors' compounds have significantly reduced blocking of hERG (I(Kr)) channels, when compared with JTV-519. As shown in , for example, one of the inventors' compounds, S36, has hERG blocking activity that is approximately 5- to 10-fold lower than the hERG blocking activity of JTV-519. Because the inventors' compounds have weak hERG blocking activity, they are expected to be less toxic than JTV-519.","Based upon the foregoing, the inventors' novel 1,4-benzothiazepine compounds are more potent than JTV-519, and have reduced toxicity. Thus, it is believed that the inventors' novel compounds will be particularly useful in any of the above-described methods for limiting or preventing a decrease in the level of RyR2-bound FKBP12.6 in a subject, including a subject who has, or is a candidate for, at least one cardiac condition, including, without limitation, a cardiac arrhythmia (e.g., tachycardia; atrial arrhythmia, including atrial tachyarrhythmia and atrial fibrillation (both sustained and non-sustained); ventricular arrhythmia, including ventricular fibrillation; and exercise-induced cardiac arrhythmia), heart failure, and exercise-induced sudden cardiac death. It is also believed that the inventors' compounds will be particularly useful in methods for treating or preventing such cardiac conditions in a subject.","Accordingly, the present invention further provides a method for limiting or preventing a decrease in the level of RyR2-bound FKBP12.6 in a subject, by administering an agent to the subject, in an amount effective to limit or prevent a decrease in the level of RyR2-bound FKBP12.6 in the subject. The agent of the present invention may be any 1,4-benzothiazepine derivative, including the following:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0234","num":"0249"},"chemistry":{"@attributes":{"id":"CHEM-US-00075","num":"00075"},"img":{"@attributes":{"id":"EMI-C00075","he":"33.70mm","wi":"56.90mm","file":"US07718644-20100518-C00075.TIF","alt":"embedded image","img-content":"chem","img-format":"tif"}}},"br":{},"sub":["2","n","2","2","n"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0235","num":"0250"},"chemistry":{"@attributes":{"id":"CHEM-US-00076","num":"00076"},"img":{"@attributes":{"id":"EMI-C00076","he":"30.23mm","wi":"59.69mm","file":"US07718644-20100518-C00076.TIF","alt":"embedded image","img-content":"chem","img-format":"tif"}}},"br":{},"sub":["2","n","2","2","n"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0236","num":"0251"},"chemistry":{"@attributes":{"id":"CHEM-US-00077","num":"00077"},"img":{"@attributes":{"id":"EMI-C00077","he":"29.63mm","wi":"54.19mm","file":"US07718644-20100518-C00077.TIF","alt":"embedded image","img-content":"chem","img-format":"tif"}}},"br":{},"sub":["2","n","2","2","2","n","2","2","2","n","2"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0237","num":"0252"},"chemistry":{"@attributes":{"id":"CHEM-US-00078","num":"00078"},"img":{"@attributes":{"id":"EMI-C00078","he":"30.23mm","wi":"59.77mm","file":"US07718644-20100518-C00078.TIF","alt":"embedded image","img-content":"chem","img-format":"tif"}}},"br":{},"sub":["2","n","2","2","n"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0238","num":"0253"},"chemistry":{"@attributes":{"id":"CHEM-US-00079","num":"00079"},"img":{"@attributes":{"id":"EMI-C00079","he":"23.62mm","wi":"55.54mm","file":"US07718644-20100518-C00079.TIF","alt":"embedded image","img-content":"chem","img-format":"tif"}}},"br":{},"sub":["1","2","3"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0239","num":"0254"},"chemistry":{"@attributes":{"id":"CHEM-US-00080","num":"00080"},"img":{"@attributes":{"id":"EMI-C00080","he":"33.19mm","wi":"55.46mm","file":"US07718644-20100518-C00080.TIF","alt":"embedded image","img-content":"chem","img-format":"tif"}}},"br":{}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0240","num":"0255"},"chemistry":{"@attributes":{"id":"CHEM-US-00081","num":"00081"},"img":{"@attributes":{"id":"EMI-C00081","he":"33.10mm","wi":"56.30mm","file":"US07718644-20100518-C00081.TIF","alt":"embedded image","img-content":"chem","img-format":"tif"}}},"br":{},"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0027","list-style":"none"},"li":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0027-0001","num":"0000"},"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0028","list-style":"none"},"li":"(h) any oxidized form of compounds (a)-(g) above. Also provided are uses of these agents in methods for limiting or preventing a decrease in the level of RyR2-bound FKBP12.6 in a subject. In one embodiment of the present invention, the agent is selected from the group consisting of S4, S7, S-20, S-24, S-25, S-26, S-27, and S36. Structures for these agents may be found in Appendix A herein. Preferably, the agent is S36."}}}},"As described above, the subject may be any animal, but is preferably a human. In one embodiment, the subject has catecholaminergic polymorphic ventricular tachycardia (CPVT). In another embodiment, the subject has, or is a candidate for, at least one cardiac condition, including, without limitation, a cardiac arrhythmia (e.g., tachycardia; atrial arrhythmia, including atrial tachyarrhythmia and atrial fibrillation (both sustained and non-sustained); ventricular arrhythmia, including ventricular fibrillation; and exercise-induced cardiac arrhythmia), heart failure, and exercise-induced sudden cardiac death.","In the method of the present invention, a 1,4-benzothiazepine derivative may be administered to a subject as part of a therapeutic composition that comprises the derivative and a pharmaceutically-acceptable carrier, as described above. The derivative or pharmaceutical composition may be administered to the subject by way of any techniques known in the art and\/or disclosed herein.","In accordance with the method of the present invention, a 1,4-benzothiazepine derivative may be administered to a subject (and the 1,4-benzothiazepine derivative may be contacted with cells of the subject) in an amount effective to limit or prevent a decrease in the level of RyR2-bound FKBP12.6 in the subject, particularly in cells of the subject. This amount may be readily determined by the skilled artisan, based upon known procedures, including analysis of titration curves established in vivo, and methods and assays disclosed herein. A suitable amount of the 1,4-benzothiazepine derivative effective to limit or prevent a decrease in the level of RyR2-bound FKBP12.6 in the subject may range from about 5 mg\/kg\/day to about 20 mg\/kg\/day, and\/or may be an amount sufficient to achieve plasma levels ranging from about 300 ng\/ml to about 1000 ng\/ml. Preferably, the amount of the 1,4-benzothiazepine derivative ranges from about 10 mg\/kg\/day to about 20 mg\/kg\/day.","In accordance with the method of the present invention, a decrease in the level of RyR2-bound FKBP12.6 may be limited or prevented in the subject by decreasing the level of phosphorylated RyR2 in the subject. In one embodiment of the present invention, the subject has not yet developed a cardiac condition, such as a cardiac arrhythmia (e.g., tachycardia; atrial arrhythmia, including atrial tachyarrhythmia and atrial fibrillation (both sustained and non-sustained); ventricular arrhythmia, including ventricular fibrillation; and exercise-induced cardiac arrhythmia), heart failure, or exercise-induced sudden cardiac death. In this case, the amount of the 1,4-benzothiazepine derivative effective to limit or prevent a decrease in the level of RyR2-bound FKBP12.6 in the subject may be an amount of the 1,4-benzothiazepine derivative effective to prevent a cardiac condition (e.g., cardiac arrhythmia, heart failure, or exercise-induced sudden cardiac death) in the subject. In one embodiment, the 1,4-benzothiazepine derivative prevents at least one cardiac condition (e.g., a cardiac arrhythmia (e.g., tachycardia; atrial arrhythmia, including atrial tachyarrhythmia and atrial fibrillation (both sustained and non-sustained); ventricular arrhythmia, including ventricular fibrillation; and exercise-induced cardiac arrhythmia), heart failure, or exercise-induced sudden cardiac death) in the subject.","In another embodiment of the present invention, the subject has already developed a cardiac condition. In this case, the amount of the 1,4-benzothiazepine derivative effective to limit or prevent a decrease in the level of RyR2-bound FKBP12.6 in the subject may be an amount of the 1,4-benzothiazepine derivative effective to treat a cardiac condition (e.g., a cardiac arrhythmia (e.g., tachycardia; atrial arrhythmia, including atrial tachyarrhythmia and atrial fibrillation (both sustained and non-sustained); ventricular arrhythmia, including ventricular fibrillation; and exercise-induced cardiac arrhythmia) or heart failure) in the subject. In a preferred embodiment, the JTV-519 treats at least one cardiac condition in the subject.","The present invention further provides a method for treating or preventing a cardiac condition (e.g., a cardiac arrhythmia (e.g., tachycardia; atrial arrhythmia, including atrial tachyarrhythmia and atrial fibrillation (both sustained and non-sustained); ventricular arrhythmia, including ventricular fibrillation; and exercise-induced cardiac arrhythmia), heart failure, or exercise-induced sudden cardiac death) in a subject, comprising administering an agent to the subject, in an amount effective to limit or prevent a decrease in the level of RyR2-bound FKBP12.6 in the subject. The agent of the present invention may be any 1,4-benzothiazepine derivative, including the following:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0247","num":"0263"},"chemistry":{"@attributes":{"id":"CHEM-US-00082","num":"00082"},"img":{"@attributes":{"id":"EMI-C00082","he":"33.70mm","wi":"56.90mm","file":"US07718644-20100518-C00082.TIF","alt":"embedded image","img-content":"chem","img-format":"tif"}}},"br":{},"sub":["2","n","2","2","n"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0248","num":"0264"},"chemistry":{"@attributes":{"id":"CHEM-US-00083","num":"00083"},"img":{"@attributes":{"id":"EMI-C00083","he":"30.23mm","wi":"59.77mm","file":"US07718644-20100518-C00083.TIF","alt":"embedded image","img-content":"chem","img-format":"tif"}}},"br":{},"sub":["2","n","2","2","n"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0249","num":"0265"},"chemistry":{"@attributes":{"id":"CHEM-US-00084","num":"00084"},"img":{"@attributes":{"id":"EMI-C00084","he":"36.15mm","wi":"54.10mm","file":"US07718644-20100518-C00084.TIF","alt":"embedded image","img-content":"chem","img-format":"tif"}}},"br":{},"sub":["2","n","2","2","2","n","2","2","2","n","2"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0250","num":"0266"},"chemistry":{"@attributes":{"id":"CHEM-US-00085","num":"00085"},"img":{"@attributes":{"id":"EMI-C00085","he":"30.14mm","wi":"59.77mm","file":"US07718644-20100518-C00085.TIF","alt":"embedded image","img-content":"chem","img-format":"tif"}}},"br":{},"sub":["2","n","2","2","n"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0251","num":"0267"},"chemistry":{"@attributes":{"id":"CHEM-US-00086","num":"00086"},"img":{"@attributes":{"id":"EMI-C00086","he":"23.62mm","wi":"55.54mm","file":"US07718644-20100518-C00086.TIF","alt":"embedded image","img-content":"chem","img-format":"tif"}}},"br":{},"sub":["1","2","3"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0252","num":"0268"},"chemistry":{"@attributes":{"id":"CHEM-US-00087","num":"00087"},"img":{"@attributes":{"id":"EMI-C00087","he":"33.19mm","wi":"55.54mm","file":"US07718644-20100518-C00087.TIF","alt":"embedded image","img-content":"chem","img-format":"tif"}}},"br":{}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0253","num":"0269"},"chemistry":{"@attributes":{"id":"CHEM-US-00088","num":"00088"},"img":{"@attributes":{"id":"EMI-C00088","he":"33.19mm","wi":"56.39mm","file":"US07718644-20100518-C00088.TIF","alt":"embedded image","img-content":"chem","img-format":"tif"}}},"br":{},"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0029","list-style":"none"},"li":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0029-0001","num":"0000"},"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0030","list-style":"none"},"li":"(h) any oxidized form of compounds (a)-(g) above."}}}},"The present invention further provides a method for treating at least one cardiac condition (e.g., a cardiac arrhythmia (e.g., tachycardia; atrial arrhythmia, including atrial tachyarrhythmia and atrial fibrillation (both sustained and non-sustained); ventricular arrhythmia, including ventricular fibrillation; and exercise-induced cardiac arrhythmia) or heart failure) in a subject. The method comprises administering a 1,4-benzothiazepine derivative to the subject in an amount effective to treat at least one cardiac condition in the subject. A suitable amount of the 1,4-benzothiazepine derivative effective to treat a cardiac condition (e.g., a cardiac arrhythmia (e.g., tachycardia; atrial arrhythmia, including atrial tachyarrhythmia and atrial fibrillation (both sustained and non-sustained); ventricular arrhythmia, including ventricular fibrillation; and exercise-induced cardiac arrhythmia) or heart failure) in a subject may range from about 5 mg\/kg\/day to about 20 mg\/kg\/day, and\/or may be an amount sufficient to achieve plasma levels ranging from about 300 ng\/ml to about 1000 ng\/ml.","The present invention also provides a method for preventing at least one cardiac condition (e.g., a cardiac arrhythmia (e.g., tachycardia; atrial arrhythmia, including atrial tachyarrhythmia and atrial fibrillation (both sustained and non-sustained); ventricular arrhythmia, including ventricular fibrillation; and exercise-induced cardiac arrhythmia), heart failure, or exercise-induced sudden cardiac death) in a subject. The method comprises administering a 1,4-benzothiazepine derivative to the subject in an amount effective to prevent at least one cardiac condition in the subject. A suitable amount of the 1,4-benzothiazepine derivative effective to prevent at least one cardiac condition (e.g., a cardiac arrhythmia (e.g., tachycardia; atrial arrhythmia, including atrial tachyarrhythmia and atrial fibrillation (both sustained and non-sustained); ventricular arrhythmia, including ventricular fibrillation; and exercise-induced cardiac arrhythmia), heart failure, or exercise-induced sudden cardiac death) in a subject may range from about 5 mg\/kg\/day to about 20 mg\/kg\/day, and\/or may be an amount sufficient to achieve plasma levels ranging from about 300 ng\/ml to about 1000 ng\/ml.","In accordance with the above-described methods, examples of the 1,4-benzothiazepine derivative include, without limitation:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0257","num":"0274"},"chemistry":{"@attributes":{"id":"CHEM-US-00089","num":"00089"},"img":{"@attributes":{"id":"EMI-C00089","he":"30.14mm","wi":"56.90mm","file":"US07718644-20100518-C00089.TIF","alt":"embedded image","img-content":"chem","img-format":"tif"}}},"br":{},"sub":["2","n","2","2","n"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0258","num":"0275"},"chemistry":{"@attributes":{"id":"CHEM-US-00090","num":"00090"},"img":{"@attributes":{"id":"EMI-C00090","he":"30.23mm","wi":"59.77mm","file":"US07718644-20100518-C00090.TIF","alt":"embedded image","img-content":"chem","img-format":"tif"}}},"br":{},"sub":["2","n","2","2","n"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0259","num":"0276"},"chemistry":{"@attributes":{"id":"CHEM-US-00091","num":"00091"},"img":{"@attributes":{"id":"EMI-C00091","he":"36.15mm","wi":"54.10mm","file":"US07718644-20100518-C00091.TIF","alt":"embedded image","img-content":"chem","img-format":"tif"}}},"br":{},"sub":["2","n","2","2","2","n","2","2","2","n","2"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0260","num":"0277"},"chemistry":{"@attributes":{"id":"CHEM-US-00092","num":"00092"},"img":{"@attributes":{"id":"EMI-C00092","he":"30.14mm","wi":"59.77mm","file":"US07718644-20100518-C00092.TIF","alt":"embedded image","img-content":"chem","img-format":"tif"}}},"br":{},"sub":["2","n","2","2","n"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0261","num":"0278"},"chemistry":{"@attributes":{"id":"CHEM-US-00093","num":"00093"},"img":{"@attributes":{"id":"EMI-C00093","he":"23.62mm","wi":"55.54mm","file":"US07718644-20100518-C00093.TIF","alt":"embedded image","img-content":"chem","img-format":"tif"}}},"br":{},"sub":["1","2","3"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0262","num":"0279"},"chemistry":{"@attributes":{"id":"CHEM-US-00094","num":"00094"},"img":{"@attributes":{"id":"EMI-C00094","he":"33.10mm","wi":"55.46mm","file":"US07718644-20100518-C00094.TIF","alt":"embedded image","img-content":"chem","img-format":"tif"}}},"br":{}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0263","num":"0280"},"chemistry":{"@attributes":{"id":"CHEM-US-00095","num":"00095"},"img":{"@attributes":{"id":"EMI-C00095","he":"33.19mm","wi":"56.30mm","file":"US07718644-20100518-C00095.TIF","alt":"embedded image","img-content":"chem","img-format":"tif"}}},"br":{},"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0031","list-style":"none"},"li":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0031-0001","num":"0000"},"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0032","list-style":"none"},"li":"(h) any oxidized form of compounds (a)-(g) above. In one embodiment of the present invention, the 1,4-benzothiazepine derivative is selected from the group consisting of S4, S7, S-20, S-24, S-25, S-26, S-27, and S36. Preferably, the 1,4-benzothiazepine derivative is S36. The present invention also provides uses of these 1,4-benzothiazepine derivatives in methods for treating or preventing at least one cardiac condition (e.g., a cardiac arrhythmia (e.g., tachycardia; atrial arrhythmia, including atrial tachyarrhythmia and atrial fibrillation (both sustained and non-sustained); ventricular arrhythmia, including ventricular fibrillation; and exercise-induced cardiac arrhythmia), heart failure, or exercise-induced sudden cardiac death) in a subject."}}}},"The present invention also provides novel assays for regular or high-through-put screening of other biologically-active small molecules that enhance binding of FKBP12.6 and RyR2. In particular, the present invention provides a method for identifying an agent that enhances binding of RyR2 and FKBP12.6, comprising the steps of: (a) obtaining or generating a source of RyR2; (b) exposing the RyR2 to FKBP12.6, in the presence of a candidate agent; and (c) determining if the agent enhances the binding of RyR2 and FKBP12.6. In one embodiment, the RyR2 is PKA-phosphorylated. In another embodiment, the RyR2 is PKA-hyperphosphorylated. In yet another embodiment, the RyR2 is unphosphorylated.","In the method of the present invention, the RyR2 is immobilized to a solid phase, such as a plate or beads. To facilitate detection of RyR2-FKBP12.6 binding, the FKBP12.6 may be radio-labeled (e.g., with S). Furthermore, enhanced binding of RyR2 and FKBP12.6 may be detected using an FKBP12.6-binding agent. In one embodiment, the FKBP12.6-binding agent is an anti-FKBP12.6 antibody. The present invention also provides an agent identified by this method, as well as uses of this agent in methods for limiting or preventing a decrease in the level of RyR2-bound FKBP12.6 in a subject; in methods for treating or preventing heart failure, atrial fibrillation, or exercise-induced cardiac arrhythmia in a subject; and in methods for preventing exercise-induced sudden cardiac death in a subject.","Additionally, the present invention provides a method for identifying an agent for enhancing the binding of RyR2 and FKBP12.6, comprising the steps of: (a) obtaining or generating a source of FKBP12.6; (b) exposing the FKBP12.6 to RyR2, in the presence of a candidate agent; and (c) determining if the agent enhances the binding of RyR2 and FKBP12.6. In one embodiment, the RyR2 is PKA-phosphorylated. In another embodiment, the RyR2 is PKA-hyperphosphorylated. In yet another embodiment, the RyR2 is unphosphorylated.","In the method of the present invention, the FKBP12.6 is immobilized to a solid phase, such as a plate or beads. To facilitate detection of RyR2-FKBP12.6 binding, the RyR2 may be radio-labeled (e.g., with P). Furthermore, enhanced binding of RyR2 and FKBP12.6 may be detected using an RyR2-binding agent. In one embodiment, the RyR2-binding agent is an anti-RyR2 antibody. The present invention also provides an agent identified by this method, as well as uses of this agent in methods for limiting or preventing a decrease in the level of RyR2-bound FKBP12.6 in a subject; in methods for treating or preventing heart failure, atrial fibrillation, or exercise-induced cardiac arrhythmia in a subject; and in methods for preventing exercise-induced sudden cardiac death in a subject.","By way of example, and as shown in Example 12 below, a highly-efficient assay for high-throughput screening for small molecules may be developed by immobilizing FKBP12.6 (e.g., wild-type FKBP12.6 or a fusion protein, such as GST-FKBP12.6) onto a 96-well plate coated with glutathione, using standard procedures. PKA-phosphorylated ryanodine receptor type 2 (RyR2) may be loaded onto the FKBP12.6-coated plate, and incubated with JTV-519 analogues and other 1,4-benzothiazepene derivatives at various concentrations (10-100 nM) for 30 min. Thereafter, the plate may be washed to remove the unbound RyR2, and then incubated with anti-RyR2 antibody (e.g., for 30 min). The plate may be washed again to remove unbound anti-RyR2 antibody, and then treated with florescent-labeled secondary antibody. The plate may be read by an automatic fluorescent plate reader for binding activity.","Alternatively, RyR2 may be PKA-phosphorylated in the presence of P-ATP. Radioactive PKA-phosphorylated RyR2 may be loaded onto an FKBP12.6-coated, 96-well plate, in the presence of JTV-519 analogues and other 1,4-benzothiazepene derivatives at various concentrations (10-100 nM) for 30 min. The plate may be washed to remove the unbound radiolabeled RyR2, and then read by an automatic plate reader. PKA-phosphorylated RyR2 also may be coated to the plate, and incubated with S-labeled FKBP12.6 in the presence of the analogues and derivatives.","The present invention is described in the following Examples, which are set forth to aid in the understanding of the invention, and should not be construed to limit in any way the scope of the invention as defined in the claims which follow thereafter.","FKBP12.6-deficient mice were generated, as previously described (Wehrens et al., FKBP12.6 deficiency and defective calcium release channel (ryanodine receptor) function linked to exercise-induced sudden cardiac death. 113:829-40, 2003). Briefly, mouse genomic \u03bb-phage clones for the murine orthologue of the human FK506 binding protein 12.6 (FKBP12.6) were isolated from a DBA\/1lacJ library, using a full-length murine cDNA probe. The targeting vector was designed to delete exons 3 and 4, which contain the entire coding sequences for murine FKBP12.6 (Bennett et al., Identification and characterization of the murine FK506 binding protein (FKBP) 12.6 gene. 9:1069-71, 1998), by replacing 3.5 kb of murine genomic DNA with a PGK-neo selectable marker. A 5.0-kb 5\u2032 fragment and a 1.9-kb 3\u2032 fragment were cloned into pJNS2, a backbone vector with PGK-neo and PGK-TK cassettes. The DBA\/lacJ embryonic stem (ES) cells were grown and transfected, using established protocols. Targeted ES cells were first screened by Southern analysis, and 5 positive ES cell lines were analyzed by PCR to confirm homologous recombination. Male chimeras were bred to DBA\/1lacJ females, and germline offspring identified by brown coat color. Germline offspring were genotyped using 5\u2032 Southern analysis. Positive FKBP12.6+\/\u2212males and females were intercrossed, and offspring resulted in FKBP12.6 mice at approximately 25% frequency. FKBP12.6 mice were fertile.","All studies performed with FKBP12.6 mice used age- and sex-matched FKBP12.6 mice as controls. No differences were observed between FKBP12.6 mice raised on the following backgrounds: DBA\/C57BL6 mixed, pure DBA, and pure C57BL6.","FKBP12.6 and FKBP12.6 mice were maintained and studied according to protocols approved by the Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee of Columbia University. Mice were anaesthetized using 2.5% isoflurane inhalation anesthesia. ECG radiotelemetry recordings of ambulatory animals were obtained >7 days after intraperitoneal implantation (Data Sciences International, St. Paul, Minn.) (Wehrens et al., FKBP12.6 deficiency and defective calcium release channel (ryanodine receptor) function linked to exercise-induced sudden cardiac death. 113:829-40, 2003). For stress tests, mice were exercised on an inclined treadmill until exhaustion, and then intraperitoneally injected with epinephrine (0.5-2.0 mg\/kg) (Wehrens et al., FKBP12.6 deficiency and defective calcium release channel (ryanodine receptor) function linked to exercise-induced sudden cardiac death. 113:829-40, 2003). Resting heart rates of ambulatory animals were averaged over 4 h.","Mutagenesis of the PKA target site on RyR2 (RyR2-S2809D) was performed, as previously described (Wehrens et al., FKBP12.6 deficiency and defective calcium release channel (ryanodine receptor) function linked to exercise-induced sudden cardiac death. 113:829-40, 2003). HEK293 cells were co-transfected with 20 \u03bcg of RyR2 wild-type (WT) or mutant cDNA, and with 5 \u03bcg of FKBP12.6 cDNA, using Ca phosphate precipitation. Vesicles containing RyR2 channels were prepared, as previously described (Wehrens et al., FKBP12.6 deficiency and defective calcium release channel (ryanodine receptor) function linked to exercise-induced sudden cardiac death. 113:829-40, 2003).","Cardiac SR membranes were prepared, as previously described (Marx et al., PKA phosphorylation dissociates FKBP12.6 from the calcium release channel (ryanodine receptor): defective regulation in failing hearts. 101:365-76, 2000; Kaftan et al., Effects of rapamycin on ryanodine receptor\/Ca-release channels from cardiac muscle. 78:990-97, 1996). S-labelled FKBP12.6 was generated using the TNT\u2122 Quick Coupled Transcription\/Translation system from Promega (Madison, Wis.). [H] ryanodine binding was used to quantify RyR2 levels. 100 \u03bcg of microsomes were diluted in 100 \u03bcl of 10-mM imidazole buffer (pH 6.8), incubated with 250-nM (final concentration) [S]-FKBP12.6 at 37\u00b0 C. for 60 min, then quenched with 500 \u03bcl of ice-cold imidazole buffer. Samples were centrifuged at 100,000 g for 10 min, and washed three times in imidazole buffer. The amount of bound [S]-FKBP12.6 was determined by liquid scintillation counting of the pellet.","Immunoblotting of microsomes (50 \u03bcg) was performed as described, with anti-FKBP12\/12.6 (1:1,000), anti-RyR-5029 (1:3,000) (Jayaraman et al., FK506 binding protein associated with the calcium release channel (ryanodine receptor). 267:9474-77, 1992), or anti-phosphoRyR2-P2809 (1:5,000) for 1 h at room temperature (Reiken et al., Beta-blockers restore calcium release channel function and improve cardiac muscle performance in human heart failure. 107:2459-66, 2003). The P2809-phosphoepitope-specific anti-RyR2 antibody is an affinity-purified polyclonal rabbit antibody, custom-made by Zymed Laboratories (San Francisco, Calif.) using the peptide, CRTRRI-(pS)-QTSQ, which corresponds to RyR2 PKA-phosphorylated at Ser. After incubation with HRP-labeled anti-rabbit IgG (1:5,000 dilution; Transduction Laboratories, Lexington, Ky.), the blots were developed using ECL (Amersham Pharmacia, Piscataway, N.J.). The antibodies may also be used in the following ratios: 1:4,000 (anti-rabbit IgG); and 1:5,000 (anti-RyR2-5029 and anti-FKBP12.6).","Single-channel recordings of native RyR2 from rodent (mouse or rat) hearts, or recombinant RyR2, were acquired under voltage-clamp conditions at 0 mV, as previously described (Marx et al., PKA phosphorylation dissociates FKBP12.6 from the calcium release channel (ryanodine receptor): defective regulation in failing hearts. 101:365-76, 2000). Symmetric solutions used for channel recordings were: trans compartment\u2014HEPES, 250 mmol\/L; Ba(OH), 53 mmol\/L (in some experiments, Ba(OH)was replaced by Ca(OH)); pH 7.35; and cis compartment\u2014HEPES, 250 mmol\/L; Tris-base, 125 mmol\/L; EGTA, 1.0 mmol\/L; and CaCl, 0.5 mmol\/L; pH 7.35. Unless otherwise indicated, single-channels recordings were made in the presence of 150-nM [Ca] and 1.0-mM [Mg] in the cis compartment. Ryanodine (5 mM) was applied to the cis compartment to confirm identity of all channels. Data were analyzed from digitized current recordings using Fetchan software (Axon Instruments, Union City, Calif.). All data are expressed as mean\u00b1SE. The unpaired Student's t-test was used for statistical comparison of mean values between experiments. A value of p<0.05 was considered statistically significant.","The effects of JTV-519 on RyR2 channels are set forth in  and Table 1 (below). As demonstrated in , the single-channel studies showed increased open probability of RyR2 following PKA phosphorylation (D), as compared to PKA phosphorylation in the presence of the specific PKA inhibitor, PKI(C). Single-channel function was normalized in PKA-phosphorylated RyR2 incubated with FKBP12.6 in the presence of JTV-519 (E). Amplitude histograms (right) revealed increased activity and subconductance openings in PKA-phosphorylated RyR2, but not following treatment with JTV-519 and FKBP12.6.  shows that incubation of PKA-phosphorylated RyR2 with FKBP12.6, in the presence of JTV-519, shifted the Ca-dependence of RyR2 activation towards the right, making it similar to the Ca-dependence of unphosphorylated channels.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0279","num":"0297"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00001","num":"00001"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","pgwide":"1"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"301pt","align":"center"}},"thead":{"row":{"entry":"TABLE 1"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":"Ambulatory ECG data before, during exercise, and following exercise and injection"},{"entry":"with epinephrine."}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"7"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"84pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"42pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"6","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"7","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"SCL (ms)","HR (bpm)","PR (ms)","QRS (ms)","QT (ms)","QTc (ms)"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"7","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["Baseline",{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":["FKBP12.6","104 \u00b1 6\u2002","586 \u00b1 36","32 \u00b1 1.5","9.9 \u00b1 0.4","30 \u00b1 1.0","29 \u00b1 0.6"]},{"entry":["FKBP12.6+ JTV-519","99 \u00b1 5","608 \u00b1 32","33 \u00b1 0.6","9.3 \u00b1 0.3","32 \u00b1 2.7","32 \u00b1 1.9"]},{"entry":["FKBP12.6+ JTV-519","116 \u00b1 9\u2002","527 \u00b1 43","33 \u00b1 0.4","10.0 \u00b1 0.3\u2002","33 \u00b1 1.3","30 \u00b1 1.1"]},{"entry":"Maximum exercise"},{"entry":["FKBP12.6","80 \u00b1 2","752 \u00b1 18","28 \u00b1 0.7","8.7 \u00b1 0.4","30 \u00b1 1.7","33 \u00b1 1.6"]},{"entry":["FKBP12.6+ JTV-519","90 \u00b1 7","676 \u00b1 49","29 \u00b1 1.8","9.6 \u00b1 0.4","34 \u00b1 2.0","36 \u00b1 0.9"]},{"entry":["FKBP12.6+ JTV-519","83 \u00b1 3","729 \u00b1 22","29 \u00b1 2\u2002\u2009","9.3 \u00b1 0.3","30 \u00b1 1.2","33 \u00b1 0.9"]},{"entry":"Post-exercise epinephrine"},{"entry":["FKBP12.6","94 \u00b1 4","645 \u00b1 28","35 \u00b1 2.6","9.3 \u00b1 0.4","33 \u00b1 1.8","34 \u00b1 1.9"]},{"entry":["FKBP12.6+ JTV-519","102 \u00b1 4\u2002","592 \u00b1 21","37 \u00b1 2.6","9.9 \u00b1 0.6","32 \u00b1 2.3","32 \u00b1 1.7"]},{"entry":["FKBP12.6+ JTV-519","103 \u00b1 4\u2002","585 \u00b1 20","35 \u00b1 3.8","11.1 \u00b1 0.5\u2002","36 \u00b1 1.2","36 \u00b1 1.3"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"7","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":"Summary of ambulatory ECG data in FKBP12.6mice treated with JTV-519 (n = 8) or control (n = 6), and FKBP12.6mice treated with JTV-519 (n = 5)."},{"entry":"SCL = sinus cycle length;"},{"entry":"HR = heart rate;"},{"entry":"ms = millisecond;"},{"entry":"bpm = beats per minute;"},{"entry":"FKBP12.6= FKBP12.6 heterozygous mice;"},{"entry":"FKBP12.6= FKBP12.6 deficient mice"}]}}]}}},"Sprague-Dawley (300-400 g) underwent left coronary ligation, via left thoracotomy, to produce myocardial infarction, as previously described (Alvarez et al., Late post-myocardial infarction induces a tetrodotoxin-resistant Na current in rat cardiomyocytes. 32:1169-79, 2000). Briefly, rats were anesthetized with a mixture of 150 mg\/kg intraperitoneal ketamine and 15 mg\/kg chlorpromazine. Respiration was maintained with a ventilation assist device and an endotracheal tube (3 ml air\/60 strokes per min). After median-left thoracotomy and pericardium opening, the left main coronary artery was occluded with a 7-0 silk suture at the most proximal point below the left atria appendage. Sham-operated rats (n=5) were treated in the same manner, but without coronary artery ligation.","Six weeks after myocardial infarction, heart failure was confirmed using echocardiography. JTV-519 or vehicle (DMSO) was continuously infused (0.5 mg\/kg\/h) by means of an implantable osmotic infusion pump (Alzet mini-osmotic pump; Durect Corporation, Cupertino, Calif.). After 4 weeks of continuous treatment, echocardiography and hemodynamic measurements were performed. Animals were sacrificed, and tissue samples were harvested.","In accordance with the above techniques, heart failure was induced in rats by ligation of the left anterior descending coronary artery. This resulted in myocardial infarction that developed into dilated cardiomyopathy, with reduced cardiac function, within 4 weeks. Three groups of animals were studied, with 25 in each group: sham-operated (control), heart failure+therapy (JTV-519), and heart failure without therapy (vehicle). A four-week treatment with JTV-519 significantly reduced diastolic and systolic dysfunction, as determined by echocardiography (). Thus, the therapy with JTV-519 significantly improved cardiac function and reduced the progression of heart failure in the rat model of ischemic-induced heart failure.","Using a mutant RyR2-S2809D channel that mimics constitutively-PKA-phosphorylated RyR2 channels, it was determined that JTV-519 increases the affinity of FKBP12.6 for the RyR2 channel (). Specifically, treatment with JTV-519 enabled FKBP12.6 to bind to the mutant channel, thereby revealing a mechanism by which JTV-519 prevents heart failure. Treatment with JTV-519 also prevented the leak in the RyR2 channels of failing hearts (). Furthermore, JTV-519 restored binding of FKBP12.6 to both PKA-phosphorylated RyR2 and the mutant RyR2-S2809D that mimics constitutively-PKA-phosphorylated RyR2 in a dose-dependent manner ().","a) Animal Protocols","Pacemakers were implanted in female adult mongrel dogs weighing 24-26 kg, using previously-described techniques (Dun et al., Chronic atrial fibrillation does not further decrease outward currents. It increases them. 285:H1378-84, 2003). Animals were anesthetized with thiopental sodium (17 mg\/kg, i.v.), and ventilated with isoflurane (1.5-2%) and O(2 l\/min). Active fixation leads were implanted in the right atrial appendage and right atrial free wall, tunneled subcutaneously, and connected to an Itrel pulse generator and Thera 8962 pacemaker, respectively (Medtronics, Minneapolis, Minn.). 40% formaldehyde (0.1-0.3 ml) was injected into the His bundle, to achieve complete AV block. The ventricular pacemaker was programmed at a rate of 60 bpm, and held at this rate throughout the pacing protocol. Following recovery, atrial pacing was instituted at a rate of 600-900 bpm, and maintained for 46\u00b13 days, or until the animal was in chronic AF (defined as >5 days of AF in the absence of continued pacing).","Animals were then anesthetized with pentobarbital (30 mg\/kg), and their hearts were removed. Atrial tissue was dissected, immediately flash-frozen in liquid nitrogen, and stored at \u221280\u00b0 C.","b) Heart Harvest","Human data presented in this study were derived from 5 human hearts from patients with atrial fibrillation in the setting of end-stage heart failure following orthotopic heart transplant under a protocol approved by the Institutional Review Board of the New York Presbyterian Hospital. In addition, data were also obtained from samples taken from 3 normal hearts not suitable for transplantation. At the time of transplantation, hearts were preserved with cold (4\u00b0 C.), hypocalcemic, hyperkalemic cardioplegia solution at explant.","c) Immunoprecipitation and Back-phosphorylation of RyR2","Cardiac membranes (100 \u03bcg), prepared from left atrial (LA) tissue as previously described (Marx, et al., PKA Phosphorylation Dissociates FKBP12.6 from the Calcium Release Channel (Ryanodine Receptor): Defective Regulation in Failing Hearts, 101:365-376, 2000) were suspended in 0.5 ml of RIPA buffer (50 mM Tris-HCL [pH 7.4], 0.9% NaCl, 0.25% Triton 100\u00d7, 5 mM NaF, and protease inhibitors), and then incubated with rabbit anti-RyR2 antibody overnight at 4\u00b0 C. Protein A sepharose beads were added, and allowed to incubate at 4\u00b0 C. for 1 h. Protein A beads were subsequently washed with 1\u00d7 kinase buffer (50 mM Tris-HCL, 50 mM piperazine-N,N\u2032-bis[2-ethanesulfonic acid], 8 mM MgCl, and 10 mM EGTA [pH 6.8]), and then resuspended in 1.5\u00d7 kinase buffer. The reaction was initiated with PKA (5 units), 100 \u03bcM MgATP, and [\u03b3P]ATP (NEN Life Sciences, Boston); it was allowed to incubate for 8 min at room temperature, and was then stopped with 5 \u03bcl of 6\u00d7 loading buffer (4% SDS and 0.25 M DTT). Samples were heated to 95\u00b0 C., and then size-fractionated on 6% SDS-PAGE. RyR2 radioactivity was quantified using a Molecular Dynamics Phosphoimager, and Imagequant software (Amersham Pharmacia Biotech, Pescataway, N.J.). Values were divided by the amount of immunoprecipitated RyR2 (determined by immunoblotting and densitometry), and expressed as the inverse of the [\u03b3P]ATP signal.","d) Calstabin2 (FKBP12.6) Rebinding with JTV-519","RyR2 was immunoprecipitated from atrial SR (100 \u03bcg), and washed with 1\u00d7 kinase buffer, as described above. The immunoprecipitated RyR2 was phosphorylated with PKA (5 units) and 100 \u03bcM MgATP at room temperature, and the reaction was terminated after 8 min by washing with ice-cold RIPA buffer. Recombinant calstabin2 (FKBP12.6; 200 nM) was subsequently incubated with the phosphorylated RyR2 at room temperature, in the presence or absence of the 1,4-benzothiazepine derivative, JTV-519 (1 \u03bcM). After washing the reaction with RIPA buffer, the proteins were size-fractionated by 15% SDS PAGE, and immunoblotted for calstabin2 (FKBP12.6).","Summarized below are results obtained by the inventors in connection with the experiments of Example 8:","Regulation of Atrial RyR2","Atrial RyR2 was PKA phosphorylated (), in accordance with the above techniques. PKA phosphorylation of atrial RyR2 reduced the amount of calstabin2 (FKBP12.6) in the RyR2 macromolecular complex, as determined by co-immunoprecipitation (). The atrial RyR2 macromolecular complex comprised calstabin2 (FKBP12.6), the catalytic subunit of PKA, the PKA regulatory subunit (R11), PP2A, PP1, and mAKAP (), as previously reported for ventricular RyR2 (Marx et al., PKA phosphorylation dissociates FKBP12.6 from the calcium release channel (ryanodine receptor): defective regulation in failing hearts. 101:365-76, 2000).","PKA Hyperphosphorylation of the Ryanodine Receptor in Atrial Fibrillation","PKA phosphorylation of immunoprecipitated RyR2 was increased by 130% in atrial tissue from dogs with sustained atrial fibrillation (AF), as compared with controls (n=6 for AF, n=6 for control, P<0.001; ). Calstabin2 (FKBP12.6) binding to RyR2 was decreased by 72% in atrial tissue from dogs with sustained AF, relative to controls (n=7 for AF, n=6 for control, P<0.0005; ).","Similarly, PKA phosphorylation of immunoprecipitated RyR2 was increased by 112% in atrial tissue from humans with chronic atrial fibrillation, in the setting of heart failure, as compared with controls (n=5 for AF, n=3 for control, P=0.002; ). Calstabin2 (FKBP12.6) binding to RyR2 was decreased by 70% (n=5 for AF, n=3 for control, P<0.0001; ).","For all back-phosphorylation and co-immunoprecipitation experiments, the total amount of RyR2 loaded was confirmed by a parallel immunoblot of immunoprecipitated RyR2 with an anti-RyR2-5029 antibody ().","Cardiac Ryanodine Receptor Channel Function","To determine the physiologic significance of the RyR2 PKA hyper-phosphorylation that was observed in AF dogs, RyR2 single-channel measurements were taken under voltage-clamp conditions, at 0 mV in planar lipid bilayers, using symmetrical ionic conditions. Atrial RyR2 single-channel properties were studied in 17 channels from 5 AF dogs, and in 11 channels from 5 control dogs. No channels from control dogs demonstrated increased activity, whereas 15 of 17 channels (88%) from AF dogs showed significantly increased open probability (P; AF: 0.412\u00b10.07; control: 0.008\u00b10.002; P<0.001) and gating frequency (F; AF: 21.9\u00b14.6; control: 1.6\u00b10.6 s; P<0.002 ().","Calstabin2 (FKBP12.6) Rebinding in Presence of JTV-519","Treatment with JTV-519 (1 mM), allowed recombinant calstabin2 (FKBP12.6) to bind to PKA-phosphorylated RyR2 that had been isolated from normal canine myocardium. In the absence of JTV-519, calstabin2 (FKBP12.6) was unable to associate with PKA-phosphorylated RyR2 in these experiments ().","The physiologic significance of FKBP-12.6 rebinding in the presence of JTV-519 was demonstrated by RyR2 single-channel measurements in planar lipid bilayers. In the presence of recombinant calstabin2 (FKBP12.6) alone, isolated channels demonstrated markedly-abnormal behavior, with increased open probability (Po) and the presence of subconductance states. These abnormalities in channel function were not seen when a specific PKA inhibitor (PKI) was added, indicating that the observed abnormalities in channel function were specific to RyR2 phosphorylation by PKA. When PKA-phosphorylated channels were treated with JTV-519, in the presence of recombinant calstabin2 (FKBP12.6), single-channel measurements were similar to those observed in the presence of PKI ().","For the in vivo experiments, the inventors required a gram quantity of JTV-519. However, initial attempts to prepare this compound via the reported 1,4-benzothiazepine intermediate, 7-methoxy-2,3,4,5-tetrahydro-1,4-benzothiazepine (compound 6 in Scheme 1, below), were unsuccessful. The thio group of this intermediate is easily oxidized by air to a disulfide compound, which makes the synthesis of cyclized product (5) impossible. To overcome this problem, the inventors developed a novel process that starts with the readily-available and inexpensive 2-nitro-5-methoxybenzoic acid (1). This process is depicted in Scheme 1 below.","Reduction of the nitro group of compound (1), using Hwith Pd\/C as a catalyst, gave 2-amino-5-methoxybenzoic acid (2) in quantitative yield. Compound (2) was diazotized with NaNO, and then treated with NaSto provide the stable disulfide compound (3) with 80% yield. Without further purification, the stable disulfide (3) was treated with SOCl, and then reacted with 2-chloroethylamine, in the presence of EtN, to give an amide (4) in 90% yield. Compound (4) was converted to cyclized compound (5) via a one-pot procedure by reflux with trimethylphosphine and EtN in THF. The cyclized amide (5) was then reduced with LiAlHto yield 7-methoxy-2,3,4,5-tetrahydro-1,4-benzothiazepine (6).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0299","num":"0317"},"chemistry":[{"@attributes":{"id":"CHEM-US-00096","num":"00096"},"img":{"@attributes":{"id":"EMI-C00096","he":"208.53mm","wi":"72.14mm","file":"US07718644-20100518-C00096.TIF","alt":"embedded image","img-content":"chem","img-format":"tif"}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"CHEM-US-00097","num":"00097"},"img":{"@attributes":{"id":"EMI-C00097","he":"53.00mm","wi":"75.01mm","file":"US07718644-20100518-C00097.TIF","alt":"embedded image","img-content":"chem","img-format":"tif"}}}]},"JTV-519 was prepared by reacting compound (6) with 3-bromopropionic chloride, and then reacting the resulting product with 4-benzyl piperidine. The structure of JTV-519 was established by H NMR.","The inventors' novel process for synthesizing radio-labeled JTV-519 is depicted in Scheme 2 below. To prepare radio-labeled JTV-519, JTV-519 was demethylated at the phenyl ring using BBr, to give phenol compound (21). The phenol compound (21) was re-methylated with a radio-labeled methylating agent (3H-dimethyl sulfate) in the presence of a base (NaH) to provide H-labeled JTV-519 (Scheme 2).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0302","num":"0320"},"chemistry":{"@attributes":{"id":"CHEM-US-00098","num":"00098"},"img":{"@attributes":{"id":"EMI-C00098","he":"32.00mm","wi":"154.94mm","file":"US07718644-20100518-C00098.TIF","alt":"embedded image","img-content":"chem","img-format":"tif"}}}},"The inventors also developed novel 1,4-benzothiazepine derivatives for use in treating and preventing cardiac arrhythmias. In particular, the inventors produced compounds having the following general structure:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0304","num":"0322"},"chemistry":{"@attributes":{"id":"CHEM-US-00099","num":"00099"},"img":{"@attributes":{"id":"EMI-C00099","he":"23.11mm","wi":"38.02mm","file":"US07718644-20100518-C00099.TIF","alt":"embedded image","img-content":"chem","img-format":"tif"}}},"br":{},"sub":["2","n","2","2","n","3"]},"As Scheme 3 demonstrates, 2-chloroethanesulfonyl chloride (180 mg; 1.1 mM) and EtN (140 mg; 1.1 mM) were added to 7-methoxy-2,3,4,5-tetrahydro-1,4-benzothiazepine (1) (194 mg; 1 mM) in CHCl(20 ml), at 0\u00b0 C. The mixture was stirred at 0\u00b0 C. for 2 h, and washed with HO and saturated NaHCOsolution. Removal of the solvent gave crude product (Ia), which was purified by chromatography on silica gel (petroleum ether:ethyl acetate=3:1). The yield from this synthesis was 280 mg, or 95%. The structure was confirmed by NMR.","Scheme 3 further shows that the side chain of compound (Ia) was extended by reacting compound (Ia) (28 mg; 0.1 mM) with 4-benzyl piperidine (21 mg; 0.13 mM) in CHCl. After the reaction went to completion (by TLC), the excess amine was removed by a base scavenger (3-(2-succinic anhydride)propylfunctionalized silica gel, 0.5 g). HNMR and HPLC showed that the purity of product (Ib) was >98%.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0307","num":"0325"},"chemistry":{"@attributes":{"id":"CHEM-US-00100","num":"00100"},"img":{"@attributes":{"id":"EMI-C00100","he":"79.42mm","wi":"75.86mm","file":"US07718644-20100518-C00100.TIF","alt":"embedded image","img-content":"chem","img-format":"tif"}}}},"Additionally, the inventors produced compounds having the following general structure:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0309","num":"0327"},"chemistry":{"@attributes":{"id":"CHEM-US-00101","num":"00101"},"img":{"@attributes":{"id":"EMI-C00101","he":"23.20mm","wi":"43.77mm","file":"US07718644-20100518-C00101.TIF","alt":"embedded image","img-content":"chem","img-format":"tif"}}},"br":{},"sub":["2","n","2","2","n","3"]},"As Scheme 4 demonstrates, sulfuryl chloride (15.0 mg; 0.111 mM) and EtN (28.0 mg; 0.22 mM) were added to 7-methoxy-2,3,4,5-tetrahydro-1,4-benzothiazepine (1) (19.4 mg; 0.1 mM) in CHCl(20 ml), at 0\u00b0 C. After stirring the mixture for 2 h at 0\u00b0 C., 1-piperonylpiperazine (27 mg; 0.12 mM) was added. The mixture was stirred for another 2 h, and then washed with HO and a saturated NaHCOsolution. The excess amine was removed by addition of a base scavenger (3-(2-succinic anhydride)propylfunctionalized silica gel, 0.2 g). The yield from this synthesis was 36 mg, or 77%.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0311","num":"0329"},"chemistry":{"@attributes":{"id":"CHEM-US-00102","num":"00102"},"img":{"@attributes":{"id":"EMI-C00102","he":"53.26mm","wi":"75.95mm","file":"US07718644-20100518-C00102.TIF","alt":"embedded image","img-content":"chem","img-format":"tif"}}}},"The inventors also produced compounds having the following general structure:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0313","num":"0331"},"chemistry":{"@attributes":{"id":"CHEM-US-00103","num":"00103"},"img":{"@attributes":{"id":"EMI-C00103","he":"23.88mm","wi":"33.44mm","file":"US07718644-20100518-C00103.TIF","alt":"embedded image","img-content":"chem","img-format":"tif"}}},"br":{},"sub":["2","n","2","2","2","n","2","2","2","n","2"]},"As Scheme 5 shows, compound (Ib) (21 mg; 0.05 mM) in MeOH (5 ml) was added to HO(0.1 ml, excess). The mixture was stirred for 2 days, and the product III was purified by chromatography on silica gel (CHCl:MeOH=10:1). The yield from this synthesis was 19 mg, or 91%.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0315","num":"0333"},"chemistry":{"@attributes":{"id":"CHEM-US-00104","num":"00104"},"img":{"@attributes":{"id":"EMI-C00104","he":"57.91mm","wi":"75.86mm","file":"US07718644-20100518-C00104.TIF","alt":"embedded image","img-content":"chem","img-format":"tif"}}}},"Finally, the inventors produced compounds having the following general structure:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0317","num":"0335"},"chemistry":{"@attributes":{"id":"CHEM-US-00105","num":"00105"},"img":{"@attributes":{"id":"EMI-C00105","he":"23.20mm","wi":"43.77mm","file":"US07718644-20100518-C00105.TIF","alt":"embedded image","img-content":"chem","img-format":"tif"}}},"br":{},"sub":["2","n","2","2","n","3"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0318","num":"0336"},"chemistry":{"@attributes":{"id":"CHEM-US-00106","num":"00106"},"img":{"@attributes":{"id":"EMI-C00106","he":"54.02mm","wi":"75.86mm","file":"US07718644-20100518-C00106.TIF","alt":"embedded image","img-content":"chem","img-format":"tif"}}}},"The inventors have developed assays for screening biologically-active small molecules. These assays are based on rebinding of FKBP12 protein to RyR.","A highly-efficient assay for high-throughput screening for small molecules may be developed by immobilization of FKBP12.6 (GST-fusion protein) onto a 96-well plate coated with glutathione. PKA-phosphorylated ryanodine receptor type 2 (RyR2) is loaded onto the FKBP12.6-coated plate, and incubated with JTV-519 analogues at various concentrations (10-100 nM) for 30 min. Thereafter, the plate is washed to remove the unbound RyR2, and then incubated with anti-RyR2 antibody for 30 min. The plate is again washed to remove unbound anti-RyR2 antibody, and then treated with florescent-labeled secondary antibody. The plate is read by an automatic fluorescent plate reader for binding activity.","In an alternative assay, RyR2 is PKA-phosphorylated in the presence of P-ATP. Radioactive PKA-phosphorylated RyR2 is loaded onto an FKBP12.6-coated, 96-well plate, in the presence of JTV-519 analogues at various concentrations (10-100 nM) for 30 min. The plate is washed to remove the unbound radiolabeled RyR2, and then read by an automatic plate reader.","Cardiac sarcoplasmic reticulum (SR) was phosphorylated with PKA for 30 min, at room temperature, resulting in complete dissociation of FKBP12.6 from the RyR2 complex. The SR (50 mg) was then incubated for 30 min, at room temperature, with 250 nM FKBP12.6 and the test compounds. Samples were centrifuged at 100,000 g for 10 min, and the pellets were washed 3 times with 10 mM imidazole buffer. After washing, proteins were separated by 15% PAGE. Immunoblots were developed using an anti-FKBP antibody. The results of this study are set forth in .","Studies were performed with FKBP12.6 mice (intervention group), age- and sex-matched FKBP12.6 mice (positive control), and wild-type FKBP12.6 mice (negative control). The absence of (FKBP12.6), or decrease in (FKBP12.6), FKBP12.6 protein was demonstrated by immunoblotting in cardiac tissue.","Continuous subcutaneous drug infusion of JTV-519 (at a plasma target concentration of 1.0 \u03bcM) or the derivative, S36 (at plasma target concentrations of 1.0 \u03bcM or 0.02 \u03bcM), into FKBP12.6 or FKBP12.6 mice occurred through a mini-osmotic pump, at a rate of 1.0 \u03bcl per hour, for 7 days prior to exercise testing (Alzet Durect Co., Cupertino, Calif.). Mice were anaesthetized using an intraperitoneal injection of ketamine (50 \u03bcg\/kg) and xylazine (10 \u03bcg\/kg), and radio EKG transmitters were implanted. ECG radio telemetry recordings of ambulatory animals were obtained 1 week following intraperitoneal implantation (Data Sciences International, St. Paul, Minn.). Standard criteria were used to measure ECG parameters.","For stress tests, mice were exercised on an inclined treadmill, in a stepwise fashion, until exhaustion, and then intraperitoneally injected with epinephrine (0.2 mg\/kg) for maximal sympathetic stimulation. Resting heart rates of ambulatory animals were then averaged over 4 h. Recovery after exercise testing, and monitoring of post-exercise events, were performed overnight. Sinus-cycle length (SCL), and PR, QRS, and QT intervals, were measured, and the rate-corrected QT interval (QTc) was calculated using the Mitchell formula. Plasma drug levels were confirmed by HPLC. Results are summarized in .","Rats were subjected to myocardial infarction (MI) by ligation of the left coronary artery. Treatment with JTV-519 (n=x) or vehicle (n=x), using implantable osmotic pumps (Alzet, Durect Corporation, Cupertino, Calif.), was initiated directly following MI. Myocardial systolic (Ds) and diastolic (Dd) diameters were determined at mid-papillary levels, using echocardiography 24 h and 6 weeks following MI; fractional shortening was then calculated. As shown in , treatment with JTV-519 significantly improved cardiac function in rats with heart failure.","While the foregoing invention has been described in some detail for purposes of clarity and understanding, it will be appreciated by one skilled in the art, from a reading of the disclosure, that various changes in form and detail can be made without departing from the true scope of the invention in the appended claims."],"GOVINT":[{},{}],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE FIGURES","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0047","num":"0049"},"figref":"FIG. 1","sup":["+\/\u2212","+\/\u2212","+\/\u2212","\u2212\/\u2212","+\/\u2212","\u2212\/\u2212","+\/\u2212","\u2212\/\u2212","+\/\u2212","+\/\u2212","\u2212\/\u2212","+\/\u2212"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0048","num":"0050"},"figref":"FIG. 2","sup":["+\/\u2212","2809 ","+\/+","+\/\u2212","\u2212\/\u2212","+\/\u2212","+\/\u2212","+\/\u2212","\u2212\/\u2212","+\/\u2212","\u2212\/\u2212","+\/\u2212"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0049","num":"0051"},"figref":"FIG. 3","sup":["(2+)","2+","2+","2+"],"i":["Circ. Res., ","J. Biol. Chem., "],"sub":["5-24","2","5-24 "]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0050","num":"0052"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0051","num":"0053"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0052","num":"0054"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0053","num":"0055"},"figref":"FIG. 7","sub":"5-24","sup":["35","2+"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0054","num":"0056"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0055","num":"0057"},"figref":"FIG. 9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0056","num":"0058"},"figref":"FIG. 15"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0057","num":"0059"},"figref":"FIG. 16"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0058","num":"0060"},"figref":["FIG. 17","FIG. 15"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0059","num":"0061"},"figref":["FIG. 18","FIG. 4"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0060","num":"0062"},"figref":"FIG. 10","sup":["\u22121","\u22121"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0061","num":"0063"},"figref":"FIG. 11","sup":"2+"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0062","num":"0064"},"figref":"FIG. 12"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0063","num":"0065"},"figref":"FIG. 13","sup":"+\/\u2212"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0064","num":"0066"},"figref":"FIG. 14"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
