---
title: Method and apparatus for enhanced translation in an application simulation development environment
abstract: Disclosed are a method, a system and a computer program for translating an application simulation into a plurality of languages. The method comprises the steps of creating a first simulation having a sequence of frames, in a first language; adding elements in said first language to said sequence of frames; and creating a second simulation having a sequence of frames in a second language. The method comprises the further steps of exporting said elements including frame sequence number, position of each of said elements, and settings to a document; translating said elements in said document into said second language; and automatically placing the translated elements on said frames of said second simulation, using said sequence numbers, said position, and said settings.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07904290&OS=07904290&RS=07904290
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 07904290
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20041217
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS"],"p":["1. Field of the Invention","This invention generally relates to computer application simulations, and more specifically, the invention relates to a method, system and computer software program for translating computer application simulations into a plurality of languages.","2. Background Art","Simulations are produced in the software industry for product tutorials and marketing presentations. These simulations are useful for demonstrating a product and teaching how to use specific features in a product. Currently, software simulations are developed with labor-intensive techniques. One production technique uses a video camera to film screen images produced as an experienced user physically steps through a software procedure. After filming the entire procedure, the video tape may be edited to add captions and\/or a sound narrative.","The edited video tape of the simulation is typically digitized into an animation format file that is distributed to prospective users of the product, or included with the software product to teach new users about and how to use the software product. When included with the software product, the animation is often accessed as a tutorial option under a Help menu topic. The animation file can be distributed alone or as part of a software product on various digital media such as floppy disks or CD-ROMs, and can be transmitted over networks, as is often done when used as part of a \u201cdemo\u201d of a product.","Another way for simulations to be created, and this is quite common in the market today, is to have an application that runs in the background and monitors an experienced user's interactions with the software being simulated. Those interactions are saved as a combination of ASCII script files and as the digital images of the screen changes.","Another common simulation production technique is to create a separate software program that simulates a particular software product. In this case, the separate software program automatically steps through an entire procedure of the software product to be simulated. This separate software simulation program could be written in the language \u201cC\u201d or some other suitable high-level language. However, significant technical expertise is required to author a separate software simulation program, and changes to the program can only be made by a highly skilled computer programmer.","A significant problem in the creation of a tutorial simulation arises in connection with producing simulations for software products distributed in foreign countries. When software is sold internationally, simulations must be produced not only for English language customers, but for different foreign language customers as well. Previous methods require filming a separate tutorial in each foreign language such as German, French, Italian, and Spanish, in which the product will be marketed. Consequently, considerable costs are incurred when a simulation is produced that will be associated with a software product intended for international distribution.","For example, one type of application simulation development process involves a content developer taking a capture, or a series of screen images, of an application and then adding text to the simulation to provide instruction, direction, and feedback. Obviously, the application is in a specific language and the added text is most often in the same language.","Often times an application simulation scenario is to be delivered not only with the added text in different languages, but also with the actual capture (i.e. the screen images) in different languages. For example, an application may have the options on file menu, dialog text, and messages in multiple languages. To deliver simulations of the multi-application, two completely different captures must be made and the text elements added to each with the text in different languages.","One typical process for delivering simulations of multi-language applications is as follows:\n\n","Steps 3) through 6) have to be repeated for every additional language to be supported. Step 4), where a content developer has to go through the simulation screen by screen and copy elements from one capture to another, is extremely time consuming. Elimination of this step in the process would be highly desirable.","An object of this invention is to provide an improved method and system for translating a computer application simulation into a plurality of languages.","Another object of the present invention is to improve procedures for translating application simulations into a plurality of languages by eliminating the manual copying of the elements between captures in different languages.","These and other objectives are attained with a method, system and computer program for translating an application simulation into a plurality of languages. The method comprises the steps of creating a first simulation having a sequence of frames, in a first language; adding elements in said first language to said sequence of frames; and creating a second simulation having a sequence of frames in a second language. The method comprises the further steps of exporting said elements including frame sequence number, position of each of said elements, and settings to a document; translating said elements in said document into said second language; and automatically placing the translated elements on said frames of said second simulation, using said sequence numbers, said position, and said settings.","With the preferred embodiment of the invention, in order to eliminate the manual copying of the elements between captures in different languages, the elements themselves are also exported to the document for translation. All of the information needed to place the element within the new capture is saved as hidden text within the translation document. When the translated text is being imported into the capture, the elements are placed on the appropriate screens and the translated text inserted in them.","Further benefits and advantages of the invention will become apparent from a consideration of the following detailed description, given with reference to the accompanying drawings, which specify and show preferred embodiments of the invention.","The present invention relates to computer software simulations. One way to create such a simulation is for an author (or simulation creator) to produce a simulation by composing a script. These commands may be interpreted to produce a plurality of images in the form of Device Independent Bitmaps (DIBs). The DIBs may be converted by a third party software program into an animation format file which is suitable for viewing when a user of the software program runs the simulation. This may be done, for example, by selecting a tutorial from the Help menu of the software program that demonstrates a procedure or by running a demonstration that illustrates the procedure being implemented by the software program.","Another way for simulations to be created is to have an application that runs in the background and monitors an experienced user's interactions with the software being simulated. Those interactions are saved as a combination of ASCII script files and as the digital images of the screen changes. With the use of the monitoring software, the scripts are automatically created for the author, or simulation creator.","The text commands entered for scripting a simulation can be thought of as an orchestration of events, actions, and behavior of objects within a software program, and are analogous to the stage directions and lines of a script for a theatrical play. The simulation script commands make reference to media objects that are part of the software program in which a procedure is being simulated and control the action of one or more of the media objects as programmed by the script author. The author composes a text file containing script commands that hide an operating system's low level implementation details and generate machine instructions that are readable by the software program and by the operating system and cause a plurality of the DIB images to be produced in sequence that illustrate the procedure in the software program that is being simulated.","The conversion of the images into an animation file produces a file in a form such as an Audio Visual Interleaved (AVI) format, which can be run by an appropriate player. The player file(s) may be provided with the operating system or included on a floppy disk or CD-ROM on which a demo of the software product is distributed.","With reference to , a personal computer  is illustrated as an example of the type of computer suitable for use in connection with creating a simulation in accord with the present invention. Although the personal computer illustrated uses a Microsoft Corporation operating system, such as Windows 95\u2122, it is contemplated that other types of personal computers, such as those made by Apple Computer Corporation, will also be usable in implementing the present invention. Personal computer  includes a processor chassis  in which is mounted a floppy disk drive , which is suitable for reading and writing data from and to a floppy disk (not shown), and a hard drive  suitable for nonvolatile storage of data and executable programs. A monitor  is included for displaying graphics and text produced when an executable program is being run on the personal computer.","Input can be provided to personal computer  using either a mouse  for manipulating a cursor (not shown) on monitor , which is used for selecting menu items and graphic controls displayed on the monitor by pressing an appropriate selection button (not shown) on the mouse, or by input entered by the user on a keyboard . Optionally, processor chassis  includes a CD-ROM drive , which is suitable for reading programs and data from a CD-ROM.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0036"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":["30","12","32","34","36","18","39","14","16","32","40","40","10","32","34"]},"A serial\/mouse port  provides an interface for mouse  to data bus  so that signals indicative of movement of the mouse and actuation of the buttons on the mouse are input to CPU . An optional CD-ROM interface  couples optional CD-ROM drive  to data bus  and may comprise a small computer system interface (SCSI) or other appropriate type of interface designed to respond to the signals output from CD-ROM drive . Optionally, a sound card  is connected to data bus  and its output is coupled to an amplifier and speaker system  to provide a sound capability for personal computer . Output signals from keyboard  are connected to a keyboard interface , which conveys the signals from the keyboard to data bus . If no external modem is used, an internal modem  can be coupled directly to data bus . Alternatively, an external modem (not shown) can be connected to the data bus through a serial port of personal computer .","The production of a software simulation is, generally speaking, a straightforward process. The author composes a script or text file of commands that will be followed to simulate the desired procedure in a software program. This text file can be created using a text line editor or a word processing program, which is capable of storing a plain text file containing the commands on hard drive .","As previously mentioned, simulations are often provided in different languages. The present invention provides an enhanced translation in an application simulation development environment.  shows one method  that may be used to do this. In this method, at step , a first simulation is created having a sequence of frames, in a first language; and at step , elements in said first language are added to said sequence of frames. At step , a second simulation having a sequence of frames in a second language is created; and at step , said elements including frame sequence number, position of each of said elements, and settings are exported to a document. Step  is to translate said elements in said document into said second language; and step  is to automatically place the translated elements on said frames of said second simulation, using said sequence numbers, said position, and said settings.","In the preferred embodiment of the invention, in order to eliminate the manual copying of the elements between captures in different languages, the elements themselves are also exported to the document for translation. All of the information needed to place the element within the new capture is saved as hidden text within the translation document. When the translated text is being imported into the capture, the elements are placed on the appropriate screens and the translated text inserted in them.","The process works by creating a hidden table inside the translation document.  represents an example of such a table . A row  is created for each element  that contains the screen number  and the elements data . For the elements to be able to be exported to a document, however, the element must be able to be presented in a form that the document can understand, namely textual. In this case, each element has the ability to represent itself in XML . For example, the screen element shown in  at  is represented by the following XML:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0037","num":"0042"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00001","num":"00001"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","pgwide":"1"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"280pt","align":"left"}},"thead":{"row":{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":"<ta x=\u201d154\u201d y= \u201c66\u201ddx=\u201d370\u201d dy=\u201c112\u201d>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003<text><b><s=26> Working With Lotus Notes\\n<\/b> Setting up the \u201cOut of Office...\u201d"},{"entry":"\\nFeature<\/text>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003<fs>14<\/fs>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003<sselem>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<poly>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<bgm>0<\/bgm>"},{"entry":"<pts>8.00,1.00,1040;1.00,1.00;1.00,8.00,880;8.00,8.00,990;8.00,8.00,330;8.00,8.00,1260<\/pts>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<\/poly>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003<\/sselem>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003<selem>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<poly>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<bgm><0>\/bgm>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<pts>0.00,0.00;1.00,0.00;1.00,1.00;0.00,1.00;0.00,0.00<\/pts>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<bpts>1.00,1.00;\u22121.00,1.00;\u22121.00,\u22121.00;1.00,\u22121.00;1.00,1.00<\/bpts>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<poly>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003<selem>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003<bselem>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<poly>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<bgm>0<\/bgm>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<pts>0.00,0.00;1.00,0.00;1.00,1.00;0.00,1.00;1.00;0.00,0.00<\/pts>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<bpts>1.00,1.00;\u22121.00,1.00;\u22121.00,\u22121.00;1.00;1.00,\u22121.00;1.00,1.00<\/bpts>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<poly>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003<\/bselem>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003<tarea x= \u201c0.02\u201d y=\u201c0.02\u201d dx=\u201c0.98\u201d dy= \u201c0.98\u201d><\/tarea>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003<pbm>2<\/pbm>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003<id>118<\/id>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003<layer>1<\/layer>"},{"entry":"<\/ta>"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}},"In addition to the XML representation of an element, the screen number from which it came in the original capture is also saved. This information may be used to automate the importing of the translated elements as much as possible.","With the export and importing of the XML representation of elements to the saved screen numbers, the step of manually copying of elements between simulation is removed. However, it is unlikely that the two captures in the two different languages are going to be exactly the same. An extra event or a mistake by the simulation developer could lead to two simulations that are different by a few screens. In this situation, blindly importing the elements from the translation document into the capture would result again in a situation where elements would need to be copied, this time within the same simulation. To address this issue, an application aide, or a wizard, may be used. An implementation of an import wizard might be, for example, as shown in  at .","This wizard  may be used to allow a developer to examine a screen with the imported elements on it before committing the element permanently. The developer has the option of adding the elements to the current screen. By using buttons ,  and , the developer also has the option of viewing the elements on either the previous or next screens, or importing all the elements automatically, without previewing each one.","In order to automate the process as fully as possible, the import wizard preferably retains information concerning previous placements of elements and adjusts the preview of future elements accordingly. For example, if the capture into which the elements are being imported has an extra screen, the developer would have to press the \u201cNext\u201d button  to preview the element on, and then move them to, that screen. The wizard now keeps track of the fact that the simulations are off by one screen. This shift is taken into account in both the future preview elements on screens and in their placement.","As indicated hereinabove, it should be understood that the present invention can be realized in hardware, software, or a combination of hardware and software. Any kind of computer\/server system(s)\u2014or other apparatus adapted for carrying out the methods described herein\u2014is suited. A typical combination of hardware and software could be a general purpose computer system with a computer program that, when loaded and executed, carries out the respective methods described herein. Alternatively, a specific use computer, containing specialized hardware for carrying out one or more of the functional tasks of the invention, could be utilized.","The present invention can also be embedded in a computer program product, which comprises all the respective features enabling the implementation of the methods described herein, and which\u2014when loaded in a computer system\u2014is able to carry out these methods. Computer program, software program, program, or software, in the present context mean any expression, in any language, code or notation, of a set of instructions intended to cause a system having an information processing capability to perform a particular function either directly or after either or both of the following: (a) conversion to another language, code or notation; and\/or (b) reproduction in a different material form.","While it is apparent that the invention herein disclosed is well calculated to fulfill the objects stated above, it will be appreciated that numerous modifications and embodiments may be devised by those skilled in the art, and it is intended that the appended claims cover all such modifications and embodiments as fall within the true spirit and scope of the present invention."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0025"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0026"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0028"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0029"},"figref":"FIG. 6"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
