---
title: Black matrix for flat panel field emission displays
abstract: A flat panel field emission device includes a black matrix formed from an electrically insulative material such as praseodymium-manganese oxide. The insulative black matrix increases image contrast and reduces power consumption. For field emission devices which utilize a switched anode for selectively activating pixels, the insulative material reduces or eliminates problems associated with short circuiting of the pixels.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07129631&OS=07129631&RS=07129631
owner: Micron Technology, Inc.
number: 07129631
owner_city: Boise
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20040907
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"p":["This application is a continuation of application Ser. No. 09\/339,958, filed Jun. 25, 1999, now abandoned, the entire content of which is hereby incorporated by reference in this application.","This invention was made with Government support under Contract No. DABT63-93-C-0025 awarded by Advanced Research Projects Agency (ARPA). The Government has certain rights in this invention.","The present invention relates to an improved flat panel display. More particularly, the present invention relates to an improved flat panel display such as a field emission display and a black matrix which improves image quality of the flat panel display.","Cathode ray tube (CRT) displays, such as those commonly used in desk-top computer screens, function as a result of a scanning electron beam from an electron gun impinging on phosphors of a relatively distant screen. The electrons increase the energy level of dopant(s) in the phosphors. When the dopant(s) return to their normal energy level, they release energy from the electrons as photons of light, which is transmitted through the glass screen of the display to the viewer.","One major disadvantage with CRT displays is that the CRT screen must be spaced from the electron gun by a relatively long distance. Moreover, CRTs typically consume relatively large amounts of power in operation. Thus, a CRT is not suited for use in small, portable devices\u2014particularly those which operate under battery power.","Flat panel display technology is becoming increasingly important in appliances requiring lightweight portable screens. Currently, such screens typically use electroluminescent, liquid crystal, or plasma display technologies. Field emission devices represent a promising flat panel display technology which utilizes an array of cold cathodes or field emitter tips to excite pixels of phosphors on a screen. As an example, a field emission display may utilize a matrix-addressable array of cold cathodes which is selectively operated to activate particular picture segments. Field emission displays seek to combine the advantages of cathodoluminescent-phosphor technology with integrated circuit technology to create thin, high resolution displays wherein each pixel is activated by its own electron emitter.","Field emission devices generally include a baseplate assembly and an opposed faceplate. The faceplate has a cathodoluminescent phosphor coating that receives a patterned electron bombardment from the opposing baseplate, thereby providing a light image which can be seen by a viewer. The faceplate is separated from the baseplate by a vacuum gap, and outside atmospheric pressure is prevented from collapsing the two plates together by support columns. These support columns are often referred to as spacers. Arrays of electron emission sites (emitters) typically include a plurality of sharp cones that produce electron emission in the presence of an intense electric field. In the case of most field emission displays, a positive voltage is applied to an extraction grid relative to the sharp emitters to provide the intense electric field required for generating cold cathode electron emissions. Typically, FEDs are operated at anode voltages well below those of conventional CRTs.","The faceplate of a field emission display operates on the principle of cathodoluminescent emission of light. A color image can be obtained using a color sequential approach sometimes referred to as spatial integration. Nearly all commercially successful color displays today employ spatial integration to provide a color image to the viewer. A common way to employ spatial integration is to provide red, green, and blue pixels which are addressed in the form of R\/G\/B triads. The intensity of each of the color dots within the triad is adjusted relative to one another to produce a range of colors within the triangular boundary formed by the color coordinates of the R, G, and B dots as depicted on the 1931 or 1976 C.I.E. chromaticity diagram. During viewing, the human eye integrates the spatially separated R\/G\/B dots into a perceived color image.","Spatial color displays may include a dark region separating the red, green, and blue patterned dots. For optimal performance, this region should be black. A major advantage of this region, referred to as the black matrix (although not necessarily black), is improved contrast of the display in ambient light. When a black matrix is employed on the faceplate it absorbs ambient incident light, thereby improving the contrast performance of the display. The use of a black matrix or \u201cgrille\u201d in a CRT is described, for example, in U.S. Pat. No. 4,891,110, issued Jan. 2, 1990 to Libman et al., which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.","As noted above, display technology such as CRTs consumes relatively large amounts of energy. However, applications such as portable battery-operated computer displays put a premium on lower power consumption. Displays for other portable devices, such as portable stereos, electronic diaries, electronic telephone directories, and the like, also require low power consumption. Moreover, with available software features and consumer preferences, it is also desirable to provide portable devices with the ability to display color images.","Accordingly, there is a need for a flat panel color display having good contrast and reduced power consumption. Since flat panel field emission displays will become important in portable appliances that rely on portable power sources, there is a need to minimize the power consumption required by such displays. The present invention provides a field emission device which can provide color images having good contrast in a display having reduced power consumption.","In accordance with one aspect of the present invention, a black matrix for a flat panel cathodoluminescent display, such as a field emission device, is formed from a substantially insulative material. An exemplary embodiment of the present invention includes a screen having a phosphor coating and an opposed emission source which selectively excites portions of the phosphor coating to generate visible light. The opposed emission source may include, for example, an array of conical field emitter cathodes. The black matrix may be formed, for example, from praseodymium-manganese oxide (PrMnO).","A flat panel field emission device in accordance with the present invention may include a faceplate having a screen with phosphors and an insulative black matrix provided thereon. A baseplate includes a plurality of electron emission cathode tips arranged in an array and a lower potential extraction grid. The electron emission cathode tips may be selectively operated with row and column control signals to excite particular portions of the phosphors on the screen. Alternatively, the cathode tips may be addressed by row control signals, and columns in the extraction grid may be selected by column control signals to excite the particular portions of the screen phosphors. Additionally, the screen may include an addressable matrix of anode electrodes which are operated with row and column control signals.","The present invention is described in the context of exemplary embodiments. However, the scope of the invention is not limited to the particular examples described in the specification. Rather, the description merely reflects what are currently considered to be the most practical and preferred embodiments, and serves to illustrate the principles and characteristics of the present invention. Those skilled in the art will recognize that various modifications and refinements may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 1A","b":["2","4","6","8","6","6"]},"Conical micro-cathode field emitter tips  are constructed over the base  at the field emission cathode site. A base electrode resistive layer (not shown) may be provided between the conductive material layer  and the field emitter tips . The resistive layer may be formed, for example, from silicon which has been doped to provide an appropriate degree of resistance. The resistive layer may operate as a lateral resistor wherein the direction of current flow from the conductive material layer  to the emitter tips  is primarily lateral. This arrangement helps reduce the likelihood of pinhole shorts through the resistive layer. Alternatively, a vertical resistor could be provided, in which case the field emitter tips  would be vertically aligned over the conductive material layer , and current flow would be primarily vertical.","A low potential anode gate structure or extraction grid  formed, for example, of doped polycrystalline silicon is arranged adjacent the field emitter tips . An insulating layer  separates the extraction grid  from the base electrode conductive material layer . The insulating layer  may be formed, for example, from silicon dioxide.","Proper functioning of the emitter tips requires operation in a vacuum. Thus, a plurality of support columns  are provided over the base assembly  to support a display screen  against atmospheric pressure. The support columns  are commonly referred to as \u201cspacers.\u201d The spacers  may be formed in a number of conventional ways. Appropriate techniques for forming the spacers  are disclosed, for example, in U.S. Pat. No. 5,205,770 issued Apr. 27, 1993 to Lowrey et al., U.S. Pat. No. 5,232,549 issued Aug. 3, 1993 to Cathey at al., U.S. Pat. No. 5,484,314 issued Jan. 16, 1996 to Farnworth, and U.S. Pat. No. 5,486,126 issued Jan. 23, 1996. Each of these patents is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.","In operation, the display screen  acts as an anode so that field emissions from the emitter tips , represented by arrows , strike phosphor coating  on the screen . A black matrix  is formed on the screen  to improve image contrast. The field emissions from the emitter tips  excite the phosphor coatings  to generate light. A field emission is produced from an emitter tip when a voltage controller  establishes a voltage differential between the emitter tip and the anode structures. Thus when a group of emitter tips is activated, electrons are accelerated toward the phosphor coated transparent plate of the screen, which serves as an anode and has a positive voltage relative to the activated emitters. The phosphor on the screen is induced into cathodoluminescence by the bombarding electrons arriving at the phosphor surface, and serves as the emissive light source seen by a viewer.","A large number of suitable phosphors is known in the art. However, not all phosphors are recommended for use in field emission devices because the cathodes are in relatively close proximity to the coatings and may be sensitive to electronegative chemicals arriving on the cold cathode emitter surfaces. These surfaces can absorb the chemicals, thereby increasing the work function value and requiring higher operating voltages. This is undesirable in portable devices. Accordingly, the most preferred phosphors for use in a field emission device include, for example, ZnO:Zn, Y(Al, Ga)O:Tb, YSiO:Ce, YO:Eu, ZnSiO:Mn, ZnGaOand ZnGaO:Mn. Except for ZnO:Zn and ZnGaO, these phosphors tend to be dielectric in nature. As a consequence, the typical threshold voltage needed to excite the phosphor tends to be relatively high (e.g., approximately 500 V to 2000 V). However, the threshold voltage may be reduced in a known manner by adding conducting materials such as non-luminescent zinc oxide or indium tin oxide powders to the phosphors before application to the screen.","It has been found that during operation a charge builds up on phosphors which are nonconductive or semi-conductive. The incident electrons on the phosphors surface are reflected, scattered, or absorbed by the phosphor. Furthermore, if the energy of these incident electrons is greater than a few tens of eV, then they can create a large number of secondary electrons within the phosphor screen. Some of these secondary electrons can escape back into the vacuum provided they have sufficient energy to overcome the work function of the phosphor surface. This can lead to the floating surface of the phosphor to shift its potential when the number of incident electrons is not equal to the number of secondary electrons escaping from the surface. The negative charge built up on the phosphor screen, by reducing its potential, seriously diminishes the light output, leading to an unstable emission. Thus, it is desirable to have some degree of conductivity in the phosphors.","Referring now to the perspective view of , the phosphor coating may provide a number of segments useful in presenting a color image using an R\/G\/B diode. In particular, the phosphors may be arranged to provide a red picture segment R, a green picture segment G, and blue picture segment B which form a triangular layout. The black matrix  preferably forms a grid-like structure which separates the individual color picture segments. It is not necessary that the color segments be in the particular arrangement illustrated in . For example, the individual color segments could be arranged in common rows or columns (e.g., a row of green phosphors arranged between a row of red phosphors and a row of blue phosphors). Such an alternative arrangement may be advantageous, for example, in a field emission device which employs a switched anode scheme.","Various techniques are known in the art for allowing selectable activation of a display segment. For example, the grid  and screen  illustrated in  could be held at a constant voltage potential and emitter tips selectively switched through column and row signals. In such an arrangement, the patterned conductive material layer  which forms the cathode base electrodes is arranged as a matrix that is addressable through column and row control signals. Alternatively, the base electrode conductors could be arranged in rows and the grid  arranged in columns perpendicular to the rows of cathode base electrodes. Row control address signals to the cathode base electrodes and column control address signals to the grid column segments selectably activate display segments. Finally, the cathodes could be held at a constant voltage potential and a switched anode scheme utilized for the display screen . In a switched anode scheme, the faceplate conductor may include an addressable matrix of electrodes corresponding to individual picture segments.","Turning now to , in one example the conductive material layer  may include a series of rows A, B and C, and the grid electrode  may include a series of columns A, B and C. It should be appreciated that  is merely illustrative and, in practice, many more rows and columns would typically be provided for a display screen. Each picture segment in this example includes a 4\u00d74 group of micro-cathode emitter tips . The redundancy in cathodes improves picture resolution and enhances product reliability and manufacturing yield.","To drive a particular picture segment, the controller selects a conductive material layer row (row C for example) and a grid electrode column (column A for example) and connects them respectively to appropriate voltage potentials. In this way, the picture segment corresponding to the cathodes located at the intersection of row C and column will be activated. Suitable pixelator drive circuitry for the rows and columns is known in the art and is disclosed, for example, in commonly-owned U.S. Pat. No. 5,438,240, issued Aug. 1, 1995 to Cathey et al., and U.S. Pat. No. 5,410,218, issued Apr. 25, 1995 to Hush, which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.","As previously noted, in a different arrangement the conductive material layer  which forms the base electrodes may form a matrix of addressable nodes and provide for both row and column controls for addressing the field emitters. In such an arrangement, the patterned conductive material layer  preferably provides a matrix of base electrodes under the individual picture segments. The conductive grid  is preferably continuous throughout the entire display and is maintained at a constant potential V. Drive circuits for use with such an arrangement are disclosed, for example, in commonly-owned U.S. Pat. No. 5,357,172, issued Oct. 18, 1994 to Lee et al, U.S. Pat. No. 5,387,844, issued Feb. 7, 1995 to Browning, and U.S. Pat. No. 5,459,480, issued Oct. 17, 1995, to Browning et al. These patents are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.","A single emitter node is illustrated in . Although the example emitter node depicted by  has only three field emitter tips (A, B, C), the actual number may be much higher. Each of the emitter tips  is electrically coupled to a base electrode \u2032 that is common to only the emitters of a single emitter node. To induce field emission, base electrode \u2032 may be operated in a pull-down node. In the preferred embodiment, the base electrode \u2032 is maintained at ground potential through a pair of series-coupled field-effect transistors Qand Q. Transistor Qis gated by a column line control signal Sfrom controller , while transistor Qis gated by a row line control signal S. When one of the transistors Qand Qis switched OFF, electrons continue to be discharged from the corresponding emitter tips until the voltage differential between the base electrode \u2032 and the grid  drops below the emission threshold voltage. At that point, the display segment is turned OFF.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"figref":["FIG. 3B","FIG. 3A"],"sub":["L ","T ","L ","L ","GRID","T "],"b":["12","6","10","10","10"]},"A fusible link FL may be provided in the arrangements of . The fusible link FL may be blown during testing if a base-to-emitter short is detected within that emitter group, thus isolating the shorted group from the remainder of the array to improve yields and to minimize array power consumption.","Referring now to , a simplified layout is depicted which provides for multiple emitter nodes for each row-column intersection of the display array. The conductive material layer  includes a pair of doped polycrystalline silicon row lines Rand Rwhich orthogonally intersect metal column lines Cand Cand a pair of metal ground lines GNDand GND. Ground line GNDis associated with column line C, while ground line GNDis associated with column line C. For each row and column intersection, there is at least one row line extension, which forms the gates and gate interconnects for multiple emitter nodes within that pixel. For example, extension Eis associated with the intersection of row Rand column C; extension Eis associated with the intersection of row Rand column C; extension Eis associated with the intersection of row Rand column C; and extension Eis associated with the intersection of row Rand column C. As all intersections function in an identical manner, only the components with the R-Cintersection region will be described in detail.","Three emitter nodes, EN, ENand EN, are supported by the R-Cintersection region. Each emitter node comprises a first active area AAand a second active area AA. A metal ground line GND makes contact to one end of first active area Aat first contact CT. In combination with first active area AA, a first L-shaped doped polycrystalline silicon strip S forms the gate of field-effect transistor Q(see ). Metal column line Cmakes contact to doped polycrystalline silicon strip Gat second contact CT. Doped polycrystalline silicon extension Eforms the gate of field-effect transistor Q(see ). A first metal strip MSinterconnects first active area AAand second active area AA, making contact at third contact CTand fourth contact CT, respectively. The portion of metal strip MSbetween third contact CTand fourth contact CTforms fusible link FL. The emitter base electrode \u2032 (not shown in , see item \u2032 in ) is coupled to metal strip MS. A second L-shaped doped polycrystalline silicon strip Sforms the gate of current limiting transistor Q, and a second metal strip MSis connected to second doped polycrystalline silicon strip Sat fifth contact CT, and to second active area AAat sixth contact CT. The grid plate (not shown in , see ) is connected to second metal strip MSOf course, other conductive materials may be substituted for the doped polycrystalline silicon and metal structures. For example, silicided polysilicon or molybdenum may be used.","Various techniques are known for producing structures such as those illustrated in . For example, techniques for forming the conical cathode emitter tips are disclosed in commonly-owned U.S. Pat. No. 5,151,061, issued Sep. 29, 1992 to Sandhu, U.S. Pat. No. 5,330,879, issued Jul. 19, 1994 to Dennison, U.S. Pat. No. 5,358,908, issued Oct. 25, 1949 to Reinberg et al., U.S. Pat. No. 5,391,259, issued Feb. 21, 1995 to Cathey et al., and U.S. Pat. No. 5,438,259 issued Aug. 1, 1995 to Cathey et al. Each of these patents is hereby incorporated by reference. In addition to the foregoing techniques, conventional methods such as the Spindt process for producing conical field emitters are well-known in the art. Processes for producing field emitters are disclosed, for example, in Spindt et al. U.S. Pat. No. 3,665,241, issued May 23, 1972, U.S. Pat. No. 3,755,704, issued Aug. 28, 1973, and U.S. Pat. No. 3,812,559, issued May 28, 1974.","Overall techniques for producing the base assembly are known, for example, from U.S. Pat. No. 5,186,670, issued Feb. 16, 1993 to Doan et al. and U.S. Pat. No. 5,372,973, issued Dec. 13, 1994 to Doan et al. The techniques disclosed in those patents utilize a mechanical planarization technique such as chemical-mechanical planarization following creation of the layers which make up the base assembly. Each of these patents is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.","In a preferred exemplary embodiment, the black matrix is formed from praseodymium-manganese oxide (PrMnO) having an appropriately high molar ratio of praseodymium to manganese (Pr:Mn). The molar ratio is selected to ensure that the black matrix material is highly resistive. This can be accomplished by reducing the amount of manganese relative to praseodymium, thereby decreasing conductivity. The praseodymium-manganese oxide material may be made by combining PrOwith MnOor MnCOin a mill jar and milling the combination to a powder containing particles having an average diameter of approximately 2 \u03bcm. The powder may then be heated at a temperature ranging from 1200\u00b0 C. to 1500\u00b0 C., and preferably from 1250\u00b0 C. to 1430\u00b0 C., for about 4 hours. As a result, the material takes on a very dark matte black color. The powder is thereafter re-crushed and milled to yield a powder having about a 2 \u03bcm average particle size. The Pr:Mn ratio in the resulting material may be controlled by adjusting the relative amounts of PrOand MnOor MnCOin the starting materials.","The praseodymium-manganese oxide material may be deposited on the screen using conventional techniques well-known in the art. For example, RF sputtering, laser ablation, plasma deposition, chemical vapor, deposition or electron beam evaporation may be utilized. Appropriate operating parameters used in the foregoing techniques are readily within the skill in the art, and need not be detailed here.","Prior to deposit of the black matrix material, the screen may be patterned with a photoresist in a known manner to expose only those areas of the screen on which the black matrix is to be deposited. The photoresist may then be removed following deposition of the black matrix material. A second photoresist may then be patterned to expose only those areas of the screen on which the phosphor is to be deposited, followed by depositing phosphor in the exposed areas. If desired, an appropriate binder may be applied and the screen baked, as is known in the art.","As an alternative, a uniform layer of PrMnOmay be provided on the screen. An appropriate etching technique may then be utilized to remove portions of the PrMnOlayer that do not correspond to the black matrix, as understood in the art. Of course, other appropriate techniques known in the art may be utilized as well.","As noted above, the praseodymium-manganese oxide material used in the black matrix is selected to be highly resistive, and therefore acts as an insulator. For low voltage operations, it is beneficial to have the areas around the pixels be insulated so that electrons go to the phosphors rather than being drained by non-light emissive materials of the black matrix. Such a drain wastes emitted electrons and increases power consumption, which would be a notable drawback for battery operated devices in particular. Furthermore, if a screen anode switching scheme is utilized to selectively activate the pixels, as discussed above, an insulative black matrix material alleviates possible problems associated with electrical shorting between the pixels. Such short circuits, of course, degrade or completely ruin the quality of any displayed image.","Although the invention has been described in connection with what is presently considered to be the most practical and preferred embodiments, it is to be understood that the invention is not to be limited to the disclosed embodiments, but on the contrary, is intended to cover various modifications and equivalent arrangements included within the spirit and scope of the appended claims. For example, appropriate insulative materials other than praseodymium-manganese oxide also may be used for the black matrix ."],"GOVINT":[{},{}],"heading":["STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENT INTEREST","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","BRIEF SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF EXEMPLARY EMBODIMENTS"],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The objects, features, advantages and characteristics of the present invention will become apparent from the following detailed description of an exemplary embodiment, when read in view of the accompanying drawings, wherein:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 1A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":["FIG. 1B","FIG. 1A"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 3A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":["FIG. 3B","FIG. 3A"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":["FIG. 3C","FIGS. 3A"],"b":"3"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
