---
title: Pipelined delta sigma modulator analog to digital converter
abstract: A pipelined delta-sigma modulator (PDSM) analog to digital converter (ADC) architecture is disclosed where each stage of the pipelined ADC includes a delta sigma modulator with a digital low pass filter and a corresponding analog low pass filter that precisely matches the digital low pass filter. An error signal is generated at each stage based on the difference of the low pass filtered analog input and the low pass filtered digital output of the delta sigma modulator (after converting to an analog signal). The digital outputs of each stage are passed through the appropriate low pass filter stages so all digital signals have been subjected to the same filtering prior to combining in a digital error correction circuit. The present invention also uses a compensation filter to correct any errors in the pass band caused by the low pass filtering and to help reject unwanted noise outside the pass band.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07034730&OS=07034730&RS=07034730
owner: Wright State University
number: 07034730
owner_city: Dayton
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20041001
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["STATEMENT OF RELATED APPLICATIONS","STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENT INTEREST","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60\/508,829 filed Oct. 3, 2003, the entire teachings of which are herein incorporated by reference.","This invention was made with Government support under contract F3361-01-C-1860 awarded by the U.S. Air Force.","The present invention relates generally to analog to digital converters, and more particularly to analog to digital converters comprising a pipelined, delta sigma modulator architecture.","Analog to digital converters (ADCs) provide the link between analog and digital domains. The ADC must be capable of converting analog data to digital data in an accurate manner, appropriate to the bandwidth and resolution requirements of particular application. Digital circuitry has become increasingly prevalent in a wide variety of electronic devices including telecommunications, audio, video, portable\/mobile communication transmitters and receivers. Analog components can be eliminated with the corresponding reduction in size, weight, and power consumption by converting from analog to digital signals near the front end of a signal processing train. Converting to digital signals near the front end of the signal processing train usually requires a broad band\/high resolution ADC, so there is much demand for ADCs with increased resolution and larger bandwidths.","One type of ADC is called a Nyquist rate converter. The sampling frequency for a Nyquist rate ADC must be at least twice the bandwidth of the input signal, such as for example, a bandwidth of 25 MHz would require at least a 50 MHz sampling frequency. A straightforward implementation of a Nyquist rate ADC is a flash converter where 2\u22121 comparators are used to directly measure an analog signal to a resolution of n bits. The flash architecture has the advantage of being very fast, because the conversion occurs in a single ADC cycle. The disadvantage of this approach is that it requires a large number of comparators that are carefully matched and properly biased to ensure that the results are linear. Since the number of comparators needed for an n-bit resolution ADC is equal to 2\u22121, limits of physical integration and input loading keep the maximum resolution relatively low. For example, a 4-bit ADC requires 15 comparators, an 8-bit ADC requires 255 comparators, and a 16-bit ADC would require 65,535 comparators.","One technique for alleviating the requirement for the large number of comparators is to use a pipelined ADC. A pipelined ADC divides the conversion task into several consecutive stages (T). For a pipelined ADC, the first stage produces the most significant bits (K-bits) and each successive stage produces the next K-bits, so that T stages would yield T*K-bits of resolution. This process is repeated through as many stages as are necessary to achieve the desired resolution. A typical range for K would be 1\u20134 bits and in some implementations K may vary between stages.","Each stage requires an analog sample\/hold circuit, a K-bit flash converter, a K-bit digital to analog converter, an analog subtract circuit, and an analog multiplier circuit. The digital outputs of each stage must be appropriately delayed and combined to obtain a new digital output word each clock cycle. In practice, each stage of the pipelined ADC must produce at least K+1 bits to obtain K-bits of accuracy. In principle, a pipelined converter with P pipelined stages, each with an M-bit flash converter, can produce a high-speed ADC with a resolution of N=P*M bits using P*(2\u22121) comparators. For example, a 2-stage pipelined converter with 8-bit resolution requires 30 comparators, and a 4-stage 16-bit ADC requires only 60 comparators. However, although the Nyquist rate pipelined ADC reduces the number of comparators, some critical analog components are still required, which must be very accurate, such as sample\/hold, subtract, and multiplier.","A second type of ADC is an over-sampling converter based on delta sigma modulation. Over-sampling ADCs are used in applications requiring high resolution because the approach permits high resolution without the need for extremely tight tolerances for analog components. The delta sigma modulator ADC combines feedback with an analog integrator to shift the quantization noise to higher frequencies outside the bandwidth of the signal. The digital output is then passed through a low pass filter to remove the quantization noise that has been shifted to higher frequencies. This permits the use of 1 to 4 bit flash ADCs (quantizers) to obtain more bits of resolution after low pass filtering. The increase in the number of bits depends on the over sampling ratio (OSR). The OSR is the ratio of the sampling frequency to twice the bandwidth (Nyquist Frequency) of the input signal. For a conventional first order (one integrator) delta sigma modulator, the signal to noise ratio increases by 9 db (1.5 bits) for each doubling of the OSR. OSRs typically range from 8 to 256, depending on the application.","The pipelined ADC is good for broadband applications, since it needs to sample only at the Nyquist rate, but it is difficult to obtain high resolution because of the component accuracy requirements and the need for many stages. On the other hand, the delta sigma modulator ADC is good for high resolution, but it is difficult to obtain broad bandwidths because of the required OSR.","It is against the above background that the inventors have recognized a need for broadband and high resolution ADCs that can provide suitable performance, even at a relatively low oversampling rate (OSR).","The present invention overcomes the disadvantages of previously known delta sigma analog to digital converters by combining the bandwidth advantages of the pipelined analog to digital converter (ADC) architecture with the relatively high resolution capabilities of the delta sigma modulator to obtain a broadband and high resolution ADC that can provide suitable performance, even at a relatively low oversampling rate (OSR). The present invention also provides these capabilities with relatively fewer numbers of pipelined stages.","In one embodiment of a pipelined delta sigma modulator (PDSM) ADC according to the present invention, an analog input signal is split into two paths in a first stage. The first path is defined by an analog delay and analog low pass filter, and provides a filtered and delayed analog signal. The second signal path produces an analog approximation of the K-bits of the analog input signal. The second path is defined by a first delta sigma modulator that incorporates an L-bit quantizer, a first digital low pass filter, and a digital to analog converter (DAC). An L-bit output of the first delta sigma modulator is passed through the first digital low pass filter to provide the digital representation of the K-bits of the analog input signal. The K-bit digital output of the first digital low pass filter is then passed through a digital to analog converter (DAC) to provide the analog approximation of the K-bit digital output. The analog approximation of the K-bit digital output from the DAC is then subtracted from the filtered and delayed analog signal in a subtract circuit, and an appropriate gain is provided by a gain circuit to the difference computation of the subtract circuit to provide an amplified error signal for further processing by subsequent stages. Notably, the digital and analog low pass filters are matched so that the two signals that are subtracted by the subtract circuit have been subjected to the same transfer function.","In another embodiment, the amplified error signal from the first stage is coupled into a second delta sigma modulator of a second stage. The second delta sigma modulator produces an L-bit output that is passed through a second digital low pass filter that provides a J-bit digital output. Referring back to the first stage, the K-bit output of the first digital low pass filter is additionally processed through a digital delay and a third digital low pass filter that has a transfer function that corresponds with the second digital low pass filter to produce a delayed R-bit digital signal.","The J-bit digital output of the second digital low pass filter and the delayed R-bit digital output are provided to a digital error correction circuit. The digital error correction circuit produces a P-bit digital output which is provided to a digital reconstruction\/decimation filter takes the P-bit digital output and produces an N-bit digital output that compensates for amplitude variations to the signal as a result of the circuit filtering. In some cases, the sampling frequency of the output signal is decimated. Although the above embodiments mentioned above only discuss two stages, the above signal processing train serves as a basis for adding additional stages in general.","Although the present invention is not limited to specific advantages or functionality, it is noted the PDSM ADC of the present invention provides the following improvements over previous pipelined ADCs. Relatively high resolution is obtained with at least two stages of pipeline by using delta sigma modulators to shift the quantization noise to higher frequencies and by using low pass averaging filters to reject the quantization noise in each of the stages. Relatively high resolution is obtained with relatively low over sampling ratios by using the delta sigma modulators and low pass filters in a pipelined architecture. The low over sampling ratios permit broadband operation with achievable sampling rates. Relatively high resolution is obtained with reduced requirements for component accuracy. The noise shaping of the delta sigma modulators reduces the modulator component accuracy requirements.","Further advantages include reduced component accuracy requirements of the digital to analog converter, analog subtract, and analog multiply circuits because of the averaging filter in the error signal path of the second stage. The cascade of two averaging filters each of length M results in randomizing the effects of component inaccuracies so that individual component tolerances can be increased. The accuracy requirements of the analog sample\/hold circuits are reduced because of the analog averaging circuits in the first stage. The digital low pass filters in the second stage increase the number of bits at their outputs resulting in more over lap of the first and second stage digital signal that are being combined in the digital error correction circuit. This causes some randomizing of the interface (boundary) between the two signals and relaxes the component accuracy requirements as well as the need for more sophisticated digital error correction techniques.","Other features and advantages of the present invention will be apparent in light of the description of the invention embodied herein.","In the following detailed description of the preferred embodiments, reference is made to the accompanying drawings that form a part hereof, and in which is shown by way of illustration, and not by way of limitation, specific preferred embodiments in which the invention may be practiced. It is to be understood that other embodiments may be utilized and that logical and electrical changes may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention.","Referring to , a schematic illustration of one embodiment of a device  having a pipelined delta sigma modulator (PDSM) ADC  according to the present invention is shown. The device  may be a wide variety of electronic devices including telecommunications, audio, video, portable\/mobile communication transmitters and receivers. It is to be appreciated that the PDSM ADC  combines the features of the pipelined and delta sigma modulator ADCs to obtain a broadband\/high resolution ADC with relatively low OSRs and relatively modest requirements for component accuracy, and very few stages.","The PDSM ADC  shown in  incorporates two stages of pipeline, indicated by symbols  and . The function of the first stage  is to produce a most significant bit (K-bit) digital output signal  and an amplified analog error signal  for further processing by subsequent stages. The error signal  is a resulting analog signal  provided with gain. The resulting analog signal is the results of a difference computation between an analog approximation signal  of the K-bit digital output signal  and a filtered and delayed analog signal .","To generate the above mentioned signals , , , , and , the first stage  in a first signal path uses a delta sigma (\u0394\u03a3) modulator  with an L-bit quantizer  sampling at a frequency of f. An analog input signal  is inputted into the \u0394\u03a3 modulator  to provide a L-bit output signal . The L-bit output signal  of the \u0394\u03a3 modulator  is passed through a digital low pass filter  to generate the K-bit digital output signal  which is a filtered output of J-bits with an accuracy of K-bits. The value of J depends on the value of L and the performance characteristics of the digital low pass filter . The value of K depends on the over sampling ratio [f\/(2*Bandwidth)] and also the performance characteristics of the digital low pass filter . A range of values for L, J, and K is 1\u20134, 3\u201310 and 3\u20137, respectively, with an over sampling ratio of 8\u201310.","In the first stage , the K-bit digital output signal  is converted to the analog approximation signal  using a K-bit digital to analog converter . The analog approximation signal  from the DAC  is then inputted to a subtract circuit . The analog input signal , in addition to being passed to the first signal path, is passed through a second signal path having an analog delay  and an analog low pass filter . The analog low pass filter  matches the digital low pass filter  so that the subtract circuit  has analog inputs ,  that have been subjected to the same transfer function. Therefore, the digital low pass filter  must be carefully selected so that it can be implemented in both the analog and digital domains resulting in the same transfer function. In one embodiment, the digital low pass filter  is a cascade of two averaging filters , . Each averaging filter , forms the average of the most recent (M) values of the input and is relatively easy to realize for digital and analog inputs. The value of M and fdetermine the effective pass band of such averaging filter , ","The resulting analog signal  from the analog subtract circuit  has a magnitude that is less than \u00bd. The resulting analog signal  is then multiplied by 2in a gain circuit  so that the error signal  has a dynamic range that is the same as the analog input signal .","The second stage  takes the K-bit digital output signal  and the error signal  as inputs and produces a P-bit digital signal , which can be viewed as the sum of a digital representation of both the analog input signal and the analog amplified error signal plus a small random dither signal. To produce the P-bit digital signal , the analog error signal  is inputted to a second \u0394\u03a3 modulator  having a L-bit quantizer , the least significant bits (L-bit) digital signal  of which is then provide to a second digital low pass filter . The J-bit digital signal  of the second digital low pass filter  represents a digital version of the error signal . As discussed above the value of J depends on the value of L and M. For example, if L=4 and M=8, then J=10.","The K-bit digital output signal  from the first stage  is passed through a third digital low pass filter  to produce a most significant bits (R-bit) digital signal . It is to be appreciated that the third digital low pass filter  is the same as the second digital low pass filter  so that the R-bit digital signal  will be consistent with the J-bit digital signal . In general, R is greater than K and depends on the value of K and M. For example, if K=3\u20137 bits, then R=9\u201313 bits for M=8.","The R-bit digital signal , after passing through a digital delay , is digitally added with the J-bit digital signal  with the proper shifting\/weighting in a digital error correction circuit  to provide the P-bit digital signal  of the second stage . Note that after passing the K-bit digital output signal  from the first stage  through the third digital low pass filter , the result is the R-bit digital signal , which in one embodiment, K=7 and R=13. In such an embodiment, the R-bit digital signal  is accurate to more than 7 bits after passing through the third digital low pass filter , but not accurate to 13 bits. Similarly, L-bit digital signal  after passing through the low pass filter has J-bits, which in one embodiment, for example, J=10. The J-bit digital signal  may be viewed as the error signal  plus some dither.","In one embodiment, the second and third low pass filters  and  are each a two-stage averaging digital filter. Accordingly, one effect of the third digital low pass filter  is to increase the amount of over lap of the K-bit digital output signal  from the first stage  with the J-bit digital signal  in the digital error correction circuit . In one embodiment, for example, if K=7, J=10, and R=13, then the overlap is 7 bits after dividing the J-bit digital signal by 2(shifting to right K\u22121 positions). This additional over lap results in some randomizing in the digital error correction circuit  and helps to compensate for component accuracy errors.","Finally, the P-bit digital signal  is the input signal to a digital reconstruction filter . This filter  compensates for any droop in magnitude caused by the averaging digital low pass filters  and , provides additional filtering in the stop band, and decimates the sampling frequency if appropriate to the application. A final digital output  has N-bits of resolution, with N\u2267P.","A more detailed description of stages  and  of the PDSM ADC  is provided in the following sections.","Stage One","As stated earlier, the function of the first stage  is to generate a signal representing the K most significant bits, as well as generating an amplified signal represent the analog difference between the input signal and the analog equivalent of the K-bit output of the first stage. In one embodiment, the PDSM ADC  incorporates a first order delta sigma modulator  and a digital low pass averaging filters , to produce more resolution in each stage. The first order delta sigma modulator  of the first stage  outputs the L-bit digital signal , which is the sum of signal component [zVin(z)] and a quantization noise component [(1\u2212z)E(z)]. Vin(z) is the analog input  to the modulator  and E(z) is the quantization noise resulting from converting the input to the L-bit digital signal  and the quantizer . The signal component [zVin(z)] is the input signal  delayed by one clock cycle, while the noise component [(1\u2212z)E(z)] is shaped by the transfer function (1\u2212z). The magnitude of (1\u2212z) as a function of frequency is described by Equation (1):",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00001","num":"00001"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mo":["\uf603","\uf604"],"mrow":{"mn":"1","mo":"-","msup":{"mi":"z","mrow":{"mo":"-","mn":"1"}}}},{"mn":"2","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mrow":{"mi":"sin","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mfrac":{"mrow":{"mi":["\u03c0","f"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}},"msub":{"mi":["f","s"]}}}}}],"mo":"="}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"1"}}]}}}},"br":[{},{}],"sub":["s ","s ","s"],"in-line-formulae":[{},{}],"i":"OSR=f"},"A well known result is the maximum signal to noise ratio for a first order modulator with an L-bit quantizer which is described by Equation (3):\n\n(db)=6.02*3.41+30 log \u2003\u2003(3)\n","From Equation (3), it is seen that in one embodiment, if the L-bit digital signal  of the modulator  is passed though a perfect low pass filter  to reject out of band noise, then the S\/N ratio would be 50.7 db for an OSR of 10 and for L=4 bits. A S\/N ratio of 50.7 db corresponds to over 8 bits of resolution. Since the delta sigma modulator , quantizer , and low pass filter  are not perfect, the actual resolution is more likely to be 7 bits for an OSR of 10 and L=4 bits. In any case, it is seen that resolutions of 6\u20138 bits can be obtained in each stage of the PDSM ADC  for relatively low values of OSR.","As mentioned previously, in one embodiment the low pass filter  is a cascade of two averaging filters and , which result in a sincfrequency response. The transfer function for each one of the averaging filters , is described by Equation (4):",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0040","num":"0039"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00002","num":"00002"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":["T","ave"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"z"}},{"mfrac":{"mn":"1","mi":"M"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"munderover":{"mo":"\u2211","mrow":[{"mi":"i","mo":"=","mn":"0"},{"mi":"M","mo":"-","mn":"1"}]},"mo":"\u2062","msup":{"mi":"z","mrow":{"mo":"-","mi":"i"}}}}],"mo":"="}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"4"}}]}}}}},"The frequency response of Tave(z) can be expressed by Equation (5):",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0042","num":"0041"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00003","num":"00003"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":["T","ave"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"\u03c9"}},{"mfrac":[{"mrow":[{"mfrac":{"mn":"1","mi":"M"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mi":"sin","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mfrac":{"mrow":{"mi":["\u03c0","Mf"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}},"msub":{"mi":["f","s"]}}}}},{"mi":"sin","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mfrac":{"mrow":{"mi":["\u03c0","f"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}},"msub":{"mi":["f","s"]}}}}]},{"mrow":{"mi":"sin","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mfrac":{"mrow":{"mi":["\u03c0","Mf"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}},"msub":{"mi":["f","s"]}}}},"mfrac":{"mrow":{"mi":["M","\u03c0","f"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":[{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}]},"msub":{"mi":["f","s"]}}}],"mo":["\u2248","\u2261"],"mrow":{"mi":"sin","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mrow":{"mi":"c","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mfrac":{"mrow":{"mi":["\u03c0","Mf"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}},"msub":{"mi":["f","s"]}}}}}}],"mo":"="}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"5"}}]}}}},"br":{},"sub":["s","s"],"b":"66"},"The output (not shown) of the averaging filters , will have J-bits where J>L. For example, in one embodiment if L=4 bits and M=8, corresponding to an OSR=10, then J=10 bits. As discussed above, for an OSR=10, accuracy of about K=7 bits at the output of the two stage low pass filter is expected. So K-bits of the J-bit low pass filter output is the K-bit digital output signal  inputted to the digital to analog converter (DAC) , and the second digital low pass filter  of the second stage . The output of the DAC  is the analog approximation signal , which can be considered the sum of the analog input signal Vin(z) and the quantization error E(z) after passing through the low pass filter ; which is described by Equation (6):\n\n()=[in()+()][ave]\u2003\u2003(6)\n","It is to be appreciated that the low pass filter  rejects much of the quantization noise that has been shifted to higher frequencies by noise shaping of the delta sigma modulator , so V(z)  is now a signal that has been limited to frequencies that are approximately equal to the bandwidth of the analog input signal . The analog approximation signal V(z)  is an input to the analog subtract circuit . The other input  to the analog subtract circuit  is the analog input signal Vin(z)  after passing through in one embodiment, a cascade of two analog sinc averaging filters . The analog sinc averaging filters  can be realized in a straight forward manner with a circular buffer track and hold circuit and analog adder. The frequency response of the analog low pass filter  and analog delay , is exactly the same as the digital low pass filter  of the first stage . Thus, the filtered and delay analog signal  input to analog subtract circuit  is expressed by Equation (7):\n\n\u2032in()=in()[ave()]\u2003\u2003(7)\n","It is very important that the digital and analog low pass filters  and , respectively, have identical transfer functions. The resulting analog signal  of the subtract circuit  is expressed by Equation (8):\n\n()=\u2212()[ave()]\u2003\u2003(8)\n","It is to be appreciated that for conventional pipelined ADCs, the output of the DAC is an unfiltered sum of the input signal and the quantization noise of flash first stage ADC. The quantization error from a flash ADC has a uniform spectral density function (constant over frequency from 0 to f\/2). Thus, the quantization error has a magnitude that uniformly distributed between +\/\u2212\u0394\/2 (where \u0394 is the resolution of the flash ADC) and has a frequency that is equally likely to be any value from 0 to f\/2.","On the other hand, for the PDSM ADC  of the present invention, the quantization noise at the output of the sigma delta modulator  has been shifted to higher frequencies by modulator noise shaping. Additionally, the low pass filter  rejects most of the high frequency noise components to reduce the power of the quantization noise and increase resolution of the first stage  from L to K-bits. It is also noted that any linearity error of the first stage modulator  and quantizer  would be included in the error denoted as E(z) above and offset by the error correction. The final operation of the first stage  is to multiply the resulting analog signal  of the subtract circuit by 2to obtain the error signal  that has the same dynamic range as the analog input signal .","Stage Two","The error signal  of the first stage  is then the input to the second stage modulator . The second stage modulator\/low pass filter combination  and  operate in the same manner as the first stage  to produce a J-bit digital representation signal  of the amplified analog error signal , which is described by [E(z)2Tave(z)].","The J-bit digital signal  of the low pass filter  can be expressed as Equation (9):\n\n()=[\u2212()2ave()+()]ave()\u2003\u2003(9)\n\nwhere E(z) is the noise shaped quantization error of the second stage modulator .\n","The K-bit digital output signal  of the first stage  is passed through the third digital low pass filter  to produce the R-bit digital signal  that can be expressed as Equation (10):\n\n()=[in()+()]ave()\u2003\u2003(10)\n","The digital error correction circuit  adds V(z) and V(z) after shifting V(z) k\u22121 places to the right (divide by 2) to obtain the P-bit digital signal , which is described by Equation (11):\n\n()=in()ave()+()ave()\/2\u2003\u2003(11)\n\nwhere E(z) is quantization noise from the second stage modulator .\n","As discussed above, the low pass filters  and , of the second stage  increase the bits that are combined in the digital error correction circuit  causing more overlap and some randomizing of the interface between the two signals.","Finally the P-bit digital signal V(z)  is passed through the digital reconstruction filter  (and decimation if appropriate). The digital reconstruction filter  has a frequency response of Tave(z) for frequencies in the pass band, so it compensates for the amplitude reduction caused by the averaging filters in low pass filter . The digital reconstruction filter  is adapted to reject signals with frequencies higher than the pass band, including quantization noise. This facilitates obtaining a final resolution of N-bits where N>2K.","Thus, it is to be appreciated that the PDSM ADC  allows high resolution with at least two stages  and , and with relatively low over sampling ratios and relatively high bandwidths. In addition, the accuracy requirements of key components in the first stage  (digital to analog converter, analog subtract, and analog multiply) are reduced because of the action of the digital low pass filters  and  of the second stage . In one embodiment, the cascade of two averaging filters of length M in each low pass filter  and  cause a randomizing of component mismatch errors and other uncorrelated errors which will tend to average to zero. Accordingly, the digital low pass filters  and  also increase the number of bits that are combined in the digital error correction circuit  resulting in some randomizing of the interface between the two signal being combined. This reduces the component accuracy requirements and helps eliminate the need for sophisticated error correction techniques. Similarly, the analog low pass filter  of the first stage  helps to reduce the accuracy requirements of the first stage analog sample and hold, and adder circuits. Also due to the non-linearity errors of the first stage modulator , L-bit quantizer  are included in the first stage error signal  which are then canceled out by the digital correction circuit  of the second stage  at the output of the PDSM ADC .","Additional stages can be added for higher resolution. For example, if three stages are required the second stage would need a DAC, analog-averaging filter, analog subtract, and analog multiplier circuit like the first stage. Then the third stage would be the same as the second stage described above. If the third stage needs to supply only L\u22121 bits, then the third stage would need only an L-bit quantizer.","The PDSM ADC  provides the potential to increase the bandwidth\/resolution envelope compared to currently available ADCs. The PDSM ADC two-stage architecture shown by  was verified using MATLAB's Simulink\u00ae simulator software, which down stated the high resolution\/broad bandwidth performance of the present invention. The Simulink version of the two-stage PDSM ADC is shown by .","For the simulation, the delta sigma modulators were implemented with 4 bit quantizers and all analog mathematical functions were ideal. The cascaded averaging filters were of length M=8, and were realized by using the appropriate transfer function in the z domain. The reconstruction filter was implemented by a gain factor that were equal to T\u22124ave(\u03c9), where \u03c9 is the frequency of the input signal. Thus, the reconstruction filter compensated over for the attenuation of input amplitude caused by the low pass filters, but did not provide any additional filtering action to further eliminate quantization noise. The resolution was determined by subtracting the input signal from the final output signal of the ADC to determine the error.","A plot of output error (input signal\u2212output signal) is shown in  for a 5 MHz input signal with peak amplitude of 1, and a sampling frequency of 100 MHz (OSR=10) used in the simulation software outlined by . As illustrated, an error indicates greater than 13 bit resolution can be obtained with the two stage PDSM ADC  with an OSR=10 and using the two stage averaging filters with M=8. Similarly results are obtainable for any case where the OSR=10; for example an input frequency of 50 MHz and sampling frequency of 1 GHz. If the OSR is increased to 12.5, then the resolution increases to over 14 bits. If the reconstruction filter included rejection of noise beyond the pass band, then results are improved.","Additional resolution can be obtained by using a three-stage PDSM architecture as discussed above. The third stage is only a 4 bit quantizer, since the objective is 16 bit resolution. This configuration was captured using MATLAB\/SIMULINK and the simulation results for an OSR=10 and M=8 indicates the resolution is greater than 16 bits. The Matlab simulation results demonstrate the feasibility of the PDSM architecture using the cascade of two synchronized averaging filters of length M, where M=0.8*OSR. The results demonstrate high resolution with relatively low over sampling ratios and only 2 or 3 stages of pipelining.","Implementation","A two-stage version of the PDSM ADC  has been designed using the TSMC 0.35 \u03bcm CMOS process. The PDSM ADC  in this embodiment uses first order delta sigma modulators with 4 bit quantizers, averaging filters of length 8, and sampling frequencies of 100 MHz. Simulations indicate that for an input of 5 MHz (OSR=10), the first stage produces 6\u20137 bits and the second stage produces 7\u20138 bits of resolution.","While the invention has been particularly shown and described with reference to the preferred embodiments thereof, it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes in form and details may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention encompassed by the appended claims."],"GOVINT":[{},{}],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The organization and manner of operation of the invention, together with further features and advantages thereof, may best be understood by reference to the following description taken in connection with the accompanying drawing in which:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 2"]}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
