---
title: New-word pronunciation learning using a pronunciation graph
abstract: A method and computer-readable medium convert the text of a word and a user's pronunciation of the word into a phonetic description to be added to a speech recognition lexicon. Initially, a plurality of at least two possible phonetic descriptions are generated. One phonetic description is formed by decoding a speech signal representing a user's pronunciation of the word. At least one other phonetic description is generated from the text of the word. The plurality of possible sequences comprising speech-based and text-based phonetic descriptions are aligned and scored in a single graph based on their correspondence to the user's pronunciation. The phonetic description with the highest score is then selected for entry in the speech recognition lexicon.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07590533&OS=07590533&RS=07590533
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 07590533
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20040310
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF ILLUSTRATIVE EMBODIMENTS","Syllable-like-unit (SLU) Set"],"p":["The present invention relates to speech recognition. In particular, the present invention relates to improving new-word pronunciation by combining speech and text-based phonetic descriptions to generate a pronunciation.","In speech recognition, human speech is converted into text. To perform this conversion, the speech recognition system identifies a most-likely sequence of acoustic units that could have produced the speech signal. To reduce the number of computations that must be performed, most systems limit this search to sequences of acoustic units that represent words in the language of interest.","The mapping between sequences of acoustic units and words is stored in at least one lexicon (sometimes referred to as a dictionary). Regardless of the size of the lexicon, some words in the speech signal will be outside of the lexicon. These out-of-vocabulary (OOV) words cannot be recognized by the speech recognition system because the system does not know they exist. For example, sometimes during dictation, a user will find that a dictated word is not recognized by the system. This can occur because the system has a different pronunciation defined for a particular word than the user's pronunciation, i.e. the user may pronounce the word with a foreign accent. Sometimes, the word is not in the vocabulary at all. Instead, the recognition system is forced to recognize other words in place of the out-of-vocabulary word, resulting in recognition errors.","In a past speech recognition system, a user can add a word that was not recognized by the speech recognition system by providing the spelling of a word and an acoustic sample or pronunciation of the word with the user's voice.","The spelling of the word is converted into a set of phonetic descriptions using letter-to-sound rules. The input word is stored as the only entry of a Context Free Grammar(CFG). It is then scored by applying the acoustic sample to acoustic models of the phones in the phonetic descriptions. The total score for each of the phonetic descriptions includes a language model score. In a CFG, the language model probability is equal to one over the number of branches at each node in the CFG. However, since the input word is the only entry in the CFG, there is only one branch from the start node (and the only other node in the CFG is the end node). As a result, any phonetic description from the letter-to-sound rules always has a language model probability of 1.","In a separate decoding path, the acoustic sample is converted into a phonetic description by identifying a sequence of syllable-like units that provide the best combined acoustic and language model score based on acoustic models for the phones in the syllable-like units and a syllable-like unit n-gram language model.","The score for the phonetic sequence identified through the letter-to-sound CFG and the score for most likely sequence of syllable-like units identified through the syllable-like unit n-gram decoding are then compared. The phonetic sequence with the highest score is then selected as the phonetic sequence for the word.","Thus, under this prior art system, the letter-to-sound decoding and the syllable-like unit decoding are performed in two separate parallel paths. This has been less than ideal for a number of reasons.","First, because the two paths do not use a common language model, the scores between the two paths cannot always be meaningfully compared. In particular, since the language model for the CFG always provides a probability of 1, the score for the letter-to-sound phonetic description will usually be higher than the syllable-like unit description, which relies on an n-gram language model that is usually significantly less than 1. (The language model probability for the syllable-like units is of the order of 10-4).","Because of this, the prior art system tends to favor the phonetic sequence from the letter-to-sound rules even when the acoustic sample is better matched to the phonetic description from the syllable-like unit path.","The second accuracy problem occurs with generating pronunciations for combination words such as \u201cvoicexml\u201d. It is important to note that the CFG path and the n-gram syllable path are independent of each other in the prior art system. Thus, a combination word like \u201cvoicexml\u201d can result in pronunciation errors because the selected pronunciation must be either the CFG pronunciation or the n-gram syllable pronunciation. However, Letter-to-sound (LTS) rules used with a CFG engine tend to perform well on relatively predictable words, like \u201cvoice\u201d but poorly for unpredictable words like \u201cxml\u201d where the correct pronunciation is almost unrelated to how it is spelled.","In contrast, the n-gram syllable model generally performs reasonably well in generating a pronunciation for words like \u201cxml\u201d because it attempts to capture any sequence of sounds or syllables in the acoustic sample, regardless of the spelling. However it does not perform as well as a CFG engine for a predictable word like \u201cvoice\u201d.","For these reasons, pronunciation errors can result from combination words that combine, for example, a predictable word with an acronym such as \u201cvoicexml\u201d if the phonetic descriptions from the two decoding systems are evaluated in two separate paths.","A speech recognition system for improving pronunciation of combination words such as \u201cvoicexml\u201d would have significant utility.","A method and computer-readable medium convert the text of a word and a user's pronunciation of the word into a phonetic description to be added to a speech recognition lexicon. Initially, a plurality of at least two possible phonetic descriptions are generated. One phonetic description is formed by decoding a speech signal representing a user's pronunciation of the word. At least one other phonetic description is generated from the text of the word. The plurality of possible sequences comprising speech-based and text-based phonetic descriptions are aligned to generate a pronunciation graph. The pronunciation graph is then re-scored by re-using the user's pronunciation speech. The phonetic description with the highest score is then selected for entry in the speech recognition lexicon.","One aspect of the invention is the use of syllable-like units (SLUs) to decode the acoustic pronunciation into a phonetic description. The syllable-like units are generally larger than a single phoneme but smaller than a word. The present invention provides a means for defining these syllable-like units using a mutual information based data driven approach that does not require language specific linguistic rules. A language model based on these syllable-like units can be constructed and used in the speech decoding process.","Another aspect of the present invention allows users to enter an audible pronunciation of a word that is very different from a typical pronunciation that corresponds with the spelling. For example, a foreign word can be audibly pronounced while the text of an English word is entered. Under this aspect of the invention, a new-word phonetic description added to the lexicon can be retrieved from the lexicon and converted into an audible signal comprising, for example, a foreign word translation of an English word.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["100","100","100","100"]},"The invention is operational with numerous other general purpose or special purpose computing system environments or configurations. Examples of well known computing systems, environments, and\/or configurations that may be suitable for use with the invention include, but are not limited to, personal computers, server computers, hand-held or laptop devices, multiprocessor systems, microprocessor-based systems, set top boxes, programmable consumer electronics, network PCs, minicomputers, mainframe computers, telephony systems, distributed computing environments that include any of the above systems or devices, and the like.","The invention may be described in the general context of computer-executable instructions, such as program modules, being executed by a computer. Generally, program modules include routines, programs, objects, components, data structures, etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. The invention may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment, program modules may be located in both local and remote computer storage media including memory storage devices.","With reference to , an exemplary system for implementing the invention includes a general purpose computing device in the form of a computer . Components of computer  may include, but are not limited to, a processing unit , a system memory , and a system bus  that couples various system components including the system memory to the processing unit . The system bus  may be any of several types of bus structures including a memory bus or memory controller, a peripheral bus, and a local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. By way of example, and not limitation, such architectures include Industry Standard Architecture (ISA) bus, Micro Channel Architecture (MCA) bus, Enhanced ISA (EISA) bus, Video Electronics Standards Association (VESA) local bus, and Peripheral Component Interconnect (PCI) bus also known as Mezzanine bus.","Computer  typically includes a variety of computer readable media. Computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by computer  and includes both volatile and nonvolatile media, removable and non-removable media. By way of example, and not limitation, computer readable media may comprise computer storage media and communication media. Computer storage media includes both volatile and nonvolatile, removable and non-removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions, data structures, program modules or other data. Computer storage media includes, but is not limited to, RAM, ROM, EEPROM, flash memory or other memory technology, CD-ROM, digital versatile disks (DVD) or other optical disk storage, magnetic cassettes, magnetic tape, magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices, or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by computer . Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions, data structures, program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term \u201cmodulated data signal\u201d means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example, and not limitation, communication media includes wired media such as a wired network or direct-wired connection, and wireless media such as acoustic, RF, infrared and other wireless media. Combinations of any of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.","The system memory  includes computer storage media in the form of volatile and\/or nonvolatile memory such as read only memory (ROM)  and random access memory (RAM) . A basic input\/output system  (BIOS), containing the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within computer , such as during start-up, is typically stored in ROM . RAM  typically contains data and\/or program modules that are immediately accessible to and\/or presently being operated on by processing unit . By way of example, and not limitation,  illustrates operating system , application programs , other program modules , and program data .","The computer  may also include other removable\/non-removable volatile\/nonvolatile computer storage media. By way of example only,  illustrates a hard disk drive  that reads from or writes to non-removable, nonvolatile magnetic media, a magnetic disk drive  that reads from or writes to a removable, nonvolatile magnetic disk , and an optical disk drive  that reads from or writes to a removable, nonvolatile optical disk  such as a CD ROM or other optical media. Other removable\/non-removable, volatile\/nonvolatile computer storage media that can be used in the exemplary operating environment include, but are not limited to, magnetic tape cassettes, flash memory cards, digital versatile disks, digital video tape, solid state RAM, solid state ROM, and the like. The hard disk drive  is typically connected to the system bus  through a non-removable memory interface such as interface , and magnetic disk drive  and optical disk drive  are typically connected to the system bus  by a removable memory interface, such as interface .","The drives and their associated computer storage media discussed above and illustrated in , provide storage of computer readable instructions, data structures, program modules and other data for the computer . In , for example, hard disk drive  is illustrated as storing operating system , application programs , other program modules , and program data . Note that these components can either be the same as or different from operating system , application programs , other program modules , and program data . Operating system , application programs , other program modules , and program data  are given different numbers here to illustrate that, at a minimum, they are different copies.","A user may enter commands and information into the computer  through input devices such as a keyboard , a microphone , and a pointing device , such as a mouse, trackball or touch pad. Other input devices (not shown) may include a joystick, game pad, satellite dish, scanner, or the like. These and other input devices are often connected to the processing unit  through a user input interface  that is coupled to the system bus, but may be connected by other interface and bus structures, such as a parallel port, game port or a universal serial bus (USB). A monitor  or other type of display device is also connected to the system bus  via an interface, such as a video interface . In addition to the monitor, computers may also include other peripheral output devices such as speakers  and printer , which may be connected through an output peripheral interface .","The computer  may operate in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers, such as a remote computer . The remote computer  may be a personal computer, a hand-held device, a server, a router, a network PC, a peer device or other common network node, and typically includes many or all of the elements described above relative to the computer . The logical connections depicted in  include a local area network (LAN)  and a wide area network (WAN) , but may also include other networks. Such networking environments are commonplace in offices, enterprise-wide computer networks, intranets and the Internet.","When used in a LAN networking environment, the computer  is connected to the LAN  through a network interface or adapter . When used in a WAN networking environment, the computer  typically includes a modem  or other means for establishing communications over the WAN , such as the Internet. The modem , which may be internal or external, may be connected to the system bus  via the user input interface , or other appropriate mechanism. In a networked environment, program modules depicted relative to the computer , or portions thereof, may be stored in the remote memory storage device. By way of example, and not limitation,  illustrates remote application programs  as residing on remote computer . It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are exemplary and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers may be used.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0037","num":"0036"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":["200","200","202","204","206","208","210"]},"Memory  is implemented as non-volatile electronic memory such as random access memory (RAM) with a battery back-up module (not shown) such that information stored in memory  is not lost when the general power to mobile device  is shut down. A portion of memory  is preferably allocated as addressable memory for program execution, while another portion of memory  is preferably used for storage, such as to simulate storage on a disk drive.","Memory  includes an operating system , application programs  as well as an object store . During operation, operating system  is preferably executed by processor  from memory . Operating system , in one preferred embodiment, is a WINDOWS\u00ae CE brand operating system commercially available from Microsoft Corporation. Operating system  is preferably designed for mobile devices, and implements database features that can be utilized by applications  through a set of exposed application programming interfaces and methods. The objects in object store  are maintained by applications  and operating system , at least partially in response to calls to the exposed application programming interfaces and methods.","Communication interface  represents numerous devices and technologies that allow mobile device  to send and receive information. The devices include wired and wireless modems, satellite receivers and broadcast tuners to name a few. Mobile device  can also be directly connected to a computer to exchange data therewith. In such cases, communication interface  can be an infrared transceiver or a serial or parallel communication connection, all of which are capable of transmitting streaming information.","Input\/output components  include a variety of input devices such as a touch-sensitive screen, buttons, rollers, and a microphone as well as a variety of output devices including an audio generator, a vibrating device, and a display. The devices listed above are by way of example and need not all be present on mobile device . In addition, other input\/output devices may be attached to or found with mobile device  within the scope of the present invention.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0042","num":"0041"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 3"],"b":["300","302","302"]},"The digital data is provided to a frame construction unit , which groups the digital values into frames of values. In one embodiment, each frame is 25 milliseconds long and begins 10 milliseconds after the beginning of the previous frame.","The frames of digital data are provided to a feature extractor , which extracts a feature from the digital signal. Examples of feature extraction modules include modules for performing Linear Predictive Coding (LPC), LPC derived cepstrum, Perceptive Linear Prediction (PLP), Auditory model feature extraction, and Mel-Frequency Cepstrum Coefficients (MFCC) feature extraction. Note that the invention is not limited to these feature extraction modules and that other modules may be used within the context of the present invention.","Feature extractor  can produce a single multi-dimensional feature vector per frame. The number of dimensions or values in the feature vector is dependent upon the type of feature extraction that is used. For example, mel-frequency cepstrum coefficient vectors generally have 12 coefficients plus a coefficient representing power for a total of 13 dimensions. In one embodiment, a feature vector is computed from the mel-coefficients by taking the first and second derivative of the mel-frequency coefficients plus power with respect to time. Thus, for such feature vectors, each frame is associated with 39 values that form the feature vector.","During speech recognition, the stream of feature vectors produced by feature extractor  is provided to decoder , which identifies a most likely or probable sequence of words based on the stream of feature vectors, system lexicon , application lexicon , if any, user lexicon , language model , and acoustic model .","In most embodiments, acoustic model  is a Hidden Markov Model consisting of a set of hidden states, with one state per frame of the input signal. Each state has an associated set of probability distributions that describe the likelihood of an input feature vector matching a particular state. In some embodiments, a mixture of probabilities (typically 10 Gaussian probabilities) is associated with each state. The Hidden Markov Model also includes probabilities for transitioning between two neighboring model states as well as allowed transitions between states for particular linguistic units. The size of the linguistic units can be different for different embodiments of the present invention. For example, the linguistic units may be senones, phonemes, diphones, triphones, syllables, or even whole words.","System lexicon  consists of a list of linguistic units (typically words or syllables) that are valid for a particular language. Decoder  uses system lexicon  to limit its search for possible linguistic units to those that are actually part of the language. System lexicon  also contains pronunciation information (i.e. mappings from each linguistic unit to a sequence of acoustic units used by acoustic model ). Optional application lexicon  is similar to system lexicon , except application lexicon  contains linguistic units that are added by a particular application and system lexicon  contains linguistic units that were provided with the speech recognition system. User lexicon  is also similar to system lexicon , except user lexicon  contains linguistic units that have been added by the user. Under the present invention, a method and apparatus are provided for adding new linguistic units, especially to user lexicon .","Language model  provides a set of likelihoods or probabilities that a particular sequence of linguistic units will appear in a particular language. In many embodiments, language model  is based on a text database such as the North American Business News (NAB), which is described in greater detail in a publication entitled CSR-III Text Language Model, University of Penn., 1994. Language model  can be a context-free grammar, a statistical n-gram model such as a trigram, or a combination of both. In one embodiment, language model  is a compact trigram model that determines the probability of a sequence of words based on the combined probabilities of three-word segments of the sequence.","Based on acoustic model , language model , and lexicons , , , decoder  identifies a most likely sequence of linguistic units from all possible linguistic unit sequences. This sequence of linguistic units represents a transcript of the speech signal.","The transcript is provided to an output module , which handles the overhead associated with transmitting the transcript to one or more applications. In one embodiment, output module  communicates with a middle layer that exists between the speech recognition engine of  and one or more applications, if any.","Under the present inventions, new words can be added to user lexicon  by entering the text of the word at user interface  and pronouncing the word into microphone . The pronounced word is converted into feature vectors by A\/D converter , frame construction  and feature extractor . During the process of adding a word, these feature vectors are provided to a lexicon update unit  instead of decoder . Update unit  also receives the text of the new word from user interface . Based on the feature vectors and the text of the new word, lexicon update unit  updates user lexicon  and language model  through a process described further below.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0053","num":"0052"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 5","FIG. 4"],"b":["322","314","316","314"]},"At step , the user enters the new word by pronouncing the word into microphone  to produce a user supplied acoustic sample . User supplied acoustic sample  is converted to feature vectors  as described above, which are provided to lexicon update unit . Specifically, feature vectors  are provided to syllable-like unit (SLU) engine  to generate a most likely sequence of syllable-like units that can be represented by feature vectors  at step  of . SLU engine  comprises or accesses SLU dictionary  and acoustic model  to generate the most likely sequence of SLUs, typically based on a highest probability score. SLU engine  then converts the most likely sequence of syllable-like units into a sequence of phonetic units, which is provided to alignment module . SLU dictionary  is described in greater detail in the description corresponding to  below.","It is important to note that in some cases the user's pronunciation of a new word can be very different than a typical pronunciation. For instance, a speaker might pronounce an English word by substituting a foreign translation of the English word. This feature, for example, would permit a speech recognition lexicon to store the text or spelling of a word in one language and the acoustic description in a second language different from the first language.","At step , the user enters the text of a new word to produce user supplied text sample . Note that step  may be performed before, after, or concurrently with step . User supplied text sample  is provided to grammar module , which converts the text into a list of possible text-based phonetic sequences at step . Specifically, grammar module  constructs a grammar such as a context free grammar for user supplied text sample . Grammar module  comprises or accesses lexicon  and Letter-to-sound (LTS) engine . Grammar module  first searches lexicon  comprising system lexicon , optional application lexicon , and user lexicon  to retrieve possible phonetic descriptions, pronunciations, or sequences for user-supplied text sample , if any.","LTS engine  converts user-supplied text sample  into one or more possible phonetic sequences, especially when the word is not found in lexicon . This conversion is performed by utilizing a collection of pronunciation rules  that are appropriate for a particular language of interest. In most embodiments, the phonetic sequences are constructed of a series of phonemes. In other embodiments, the phonetic sequence is a sequence of triphones. Grammar module  thus generates one or more possible text-based phonetic sequences  from lexicon  and LTS engine .","Referring back to , best phonetic sequence  from SLU engine  and list of possible phonetic sequences  from grammar module  are provided to alignment module . At step , alignment module  aligns phonetic sequences  and  in a similar manner as well-known alignment modules and\/or methods for calculating speech recognition error rates due, for example, from substitution errors, deletion errors, and insertion errors. In some embodiments, the alignment can be performed using a minimum distance between two sequence strings (e.g. a correct reference and a recognition hypothesis). Alignment module  generates a list, graph or table of aligned phonetic sequences.","At step , alignment module  places the aligned phonetic sequences in a single graph. During this process, identical phonetic units that are aligned with each other are combined onto a single path. Differing phonetic units that are aligned with each other are placed on parallel alternative paths in the graph.","The single graph is provided to rescoring module . At step , feature vectors  are used again to rescore possible combinations of phonetic units represented by paths through the single graph. Under one embodiment, rescoring module  performs a Viterbi search to identify the best path through the graph using acoustic model scores generated by comparing the feature vectors  produced by the user's pronunciation of the word with the model parameters stored in acoustic model  for each phonetic unit along a path. This scoring is similar to the scoring performed by decoder  during speech recognition.","Score select and update module  selects the highest scoring phonetic sequence or path though the single graph. The selected sequence is provided to update user lexicon  at step  and language model  at step .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0062","num":"0061"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 4"],"b":["602","603","408","405"]},"Block  illustrates a most likely phonetic sequence generated such as by SLU engine  in  and step  in . Thus, the best pronunciation for the acoustic or spoken version of the word \u201cvoicexml\u201d is as follows:\n\n","In this case, either the user did not enunciate the phonetic unit \u201cv\u201d or the SLU model did not predict the phonetic unit \u201cv\u201d well. As a result, the phonetic unit \u201cv\u201d, which would be expected, was dropped from the beginning of the phonetic sequence.","At block  a list of possible phonetic sequences  and  for the spelling or text version of the word \u201cvoicexml\u201d is generated by LTS engine  including the following sequences of phonetic units:\n\n","The phonetic sequences from blocks  and  are combined by alignment module  in an alignment structure shown in block . Typically, this alignment is performed using dynamic programming and a cost function that is based on the differences between the phonetic sequences given various alignments. In block , the aligned phonetic units appear in the same vertical column. It is noted that some columns have a \u201c-\u201d which represents an empty path that does not have a phonetic unit associated with it, meaning that column is optional or skippable.","Block  illustrates a single graph constructed from aligned structure  comprising possible phonetic sequences that can be formed from the aligned structure. Block  represents a search structure in which phonetic units are placed on paths between nodes. Within the structure, transitions are permitted between phonetic units identified from the SLU engine, speech-based phonetic units, and phonetic units identified by the LTS engine, text-based phonetic units. Block  also illustrates that a selected path can include \u201cskips\u201d where no phonetic unit is included from a particular column in the path.","As described above, the phonetic sequence or path is selected using the user's pronunciation of the word and the acoustic model. Block  illustrates the selected phonetic sequence or path in accordance with the present invention, and is provided below:\n\n","Note that the final path begins with a phonetic sequence predicted by the LTS engine but ends with a phonetic sequence predicted by the SLU engine. Under the prior art, this would not be possible. Thus, the present invention selects a phonetic sequence from a single graph that incorporates possible phonetic sequences from both a speech based SLU engine and a text-based LTS engine to generate a more accurate pronunciation of a word.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0070","num":"0073"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 7","FIG. 7"],"b":"409"},"The method of  employs mutual information (MI) to construct an SLU set and uses an algorithm similar to the algorithm described in Ph.D. thesis entitled, \u201cModeling Out-of-vocabulary Words For Robust Speech Recognition\u201d by Issam Bazzi, 2000, which was used in a different context. In the present invention, a set of syllable-like units of a predetermined or limited size, e.g. 10,000 units, is constructed given a large phonetic dictionary, e.g. a training dictionary of perhaps 50,000 or more words with phonetic descriptions.","At block , the initial SLU set Sis equal to a set of phones P={p, p, . . . p}, typically the 40 phones found in the English speech recognition system, so that S={(s, s, . . . s}={p, p, . . . p}, where m and n are the number of SLUs and phones, respectively, and m=n initially.","Let (u,u) be any pair of SLUs in a current iteration. At block , the mutual information of pairs of linguistic units (u,u) found in entries in the dictionary is calculated with the following equation.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0074","num":"0077"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00001","num":"00001"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mi":"MI","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":"u","mn":"1"},{"mi":"u","mn":"2"}],"mo":","}}},{"mrow":{"mi":"Pr","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":"u","mn":"1"},{"mi":"u","mn":"2"}],"mo":","}}},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mi":"log","mfrac":{"mrow":[{"mi":"Pr","mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":"u","mn":"1"},{"mi":"u","mn":"2"}],"mo":","}}},{"mrow":[{"mi":"Pr","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"msub":{"mi":"u","mn":"1"}}},{"mi":"Pr","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"msub":{"mi":"u","mn":"2"}}}],"mo":"\u2062"}]}}],"mo":"="}},{"mrow":{"mi":"Eq","mo":[".","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"1.1em","height":"1.1ex"}}},"mn":"1"}}]}}}},"br":{},"sub":["1","2","1","2","1","2","1","2","1","2","1 ","2"]},"Unigram probabilities Pr(u) and Pr(u) are calculated using the following equations:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0076","num":"0079"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00002","num":"00002"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mi":"Pr","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"msub":{"mi":"u","mn":"1"}}},"mo":"=","mfrac":{"mrow":[{"mi":"Count","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"msub":{"mi":"u","mn":"1"}}},{"mi":"Count","mo":["\u2062",")"],"msup":{"mo":["(","*"]}}]}}},{"mrow":{"mi":"Eq","mo":[".","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"1.1em","height":"1.1ex"}}},"mn":"2"}}]},{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mi":"Pr","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"msub":{"mi":"u","mn":"2"}}},"mo":"=","mfrac":{"mrow":[{"mi":"Count","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"msub":{"mi":"u","mn":"2"}}},{"mi":"Count","mo":["\u2062",")"],"msup":{"mo":["(","*"]}}]}}},{"mrow":{"mi":"Eq","mo":[".","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"1.1em","height":"1.1ex"}}},"mn":"3"}}]}]}}},"br":{},"sub":["1","2","1 ","2 ","1","2"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0077","num":"0080"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00003","num":"00003"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mi":"Pr","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":"u","mn":"1"},{"mi":"u","mn":"2"}],"mo":","}}},{"mrow":[{"mi":"Pr","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":"u","mn":"2"},{"mi":"u","mn":"1"}],"mo":"\u2758"}}},{"mi":"Pr","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"msub":{"mi":"u","mn":"1"}}}],"mo":"\u2062"}],"mo":["=","\u2062"],"mi":{}}}},{"mtd":{"mrow":{"mo":["=","\u2062"],"mi":{},"mrow":{"mfrac":[{"mrow":[{"mi":"Count","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":"u","mn":"1"},{"mi":"u","mn":"2"}],"mo":","}}},{"mi":"Count","mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"u","mn":"1"},"mo":"\u2062","msup":{"mo":[",","*"]}}}]},{"mrow":[{"mi":"Count","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"msub":{"mi":"u","mn":"1"}}},{"mi":"Count","mo":["\u2062",")"],"msup":{"mo":["(","*"]}}]}],"mo":"\u2062"}}}},{"mtd":{"mrow":{"mo":["=","\u2062"],"mi":{},"mfrac":{"mrow":[{"mi":"Count","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":"u","mn":"1"},{"mi":"u","mn":"2"}],"mo":","}}},{"mi":"Count","mo":["\u2062",")"],"msup":{"mo":["(","*"]}}]}}}}]}},{"mrow":{"mi":"Eq","mo":[".","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"1.1em","height":"1.1ex"}}},"mn":"4"}}]}}}},"br":{},"sub":["1","2","1","2"]},"At block , the pair (u,u) having the maximum mutual information is selected or identified. At block , the pair (u,u) with maximum mutual information is merged into a new and longer syllable-like unit u. New syllable-like unit ureplaces or substitutes for pair (u,u) in the words in the training dictionary.","At block , a decision is made whether to terminate the iterations. In some embodiments, parameters controlling the maximum length of an SLU can be used. For example, the maximum syllable-like unit length can be set to be 4 phones. If the selected length is reached, then abort merging the selected pair and instead check the next pair with highest mutual information. If no more pair is available or if the number of SLUs (m) reaches the desired number, or the maximum mutual information falls below a certain threshold, the method of  proceeds to block  where SLU set S is output. Otherwise, the method returns to block  where mutual information of syllable-like units is re-calculated after the new unit u is generated and unigram and bigram counts of affected ones are re-computed. In one embodiment, only one pair of syllable-like units is merged at each iteration. In other embodiments, however, a selected number of pairs (e.g. 50 pairs) can be merged at each iteration, if speed is a concern such as in Bazzi's thesis.","When the algorithm of  terminates, the input or training dictionary is segmented into the final set of SLUs. A syllable-like unit n-gram can then be trained from the segmented dictionary and implemented with the present invention. This data driven approach has been found to achieve slightly better accuracy than rule-based syllabification approaches. More importantly, however, the approach can be used in any language without code change because language specific linguistic rules are not needed.","Although the present invention has been described with reference to particular embodiments, workers skilled in the art will recognize that changes may be made in form and detail without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 7"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
