---
title: Method for reposting a good for sale using a consignment node
abstract: A method and apparatus for creating a computerized market for used and collectible goods by allowing the electronic present of goods from one market to another in a trusted network, allowing the electronic auctioning of goods, enabling an electronic agent to search the markets for locate a good, and enabling an electronic agent to search for the owner of a hard to find good.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07831477&OS=07831477&RS=07831477
owner: eBay Inc.
number: 07831477
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20040413
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS"],"p":["This application is a continuing application, and claims benefit under 35 U.S.C. \u00a7120, of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 08\/427,820, filed Apr. 26, 1995 now abandoned.","The present invention relates to used and collectible goods offered for sale by an electronic network of consignment stores. More specifically, the present invention may be an electronic \u201cmarket maker\u201d for collectable and used goods, a means for electronic \u201cpresentment\u201d of goods for sale, and an electronic agent to search the network for hard to find goods.","Certain items and used goods have a large following of collectors. These items include baseball cards, dolls, pens, watches, comic books, stamps, coins, and the like. It is well known to establish shops specializing in these items. It is also well-known to establish boards for the sale of used goods. And is known to sell new goods on a special television channel like the Home Shopping Channel.","The prior art does not provide a means to electronically market used goods or provide an avenue to allow participants to speculate on the price of collectable or used goods in an electronic market place. Thus, to address the short comings of the art the present invention has the following objectives:","To establish a computer means for a used good store or consignment store to sell used goods and collectibles electronically and to provide the automatic electronic re-sale of goods purchased.","To establish a market for goods with a dominant electronic \u201cmarket maker\u201d node to allow collectors to speculate on the collectable goods market.","To provide the excitement of a \u201clive\u201d auction house type atmosphere to remote participants in a electronic auction.","To provide data analysis to the market makers of collectable good or consignment node users on the price, price movements, and quantity of collectable goods in the virtual market.","To provide an electronic agent interface for participants to search a plurality of consignment nodes to search for a used good or collectable item.","To provide a means to track down the owner of a particular used or collectable good.","Further, to provide a trusted network of consignment nodes to provide a means to electronically present a used good or collectable to an electronic market.","The present invention is a network of consignment nodes. A consignment node is a computer database of used goods preferably operated by a used good, collectable shop keeper or a bailee. All consignment nodes users or operators, hereinafter users, are \u201ctrusted\u201d licensees or franchisers of the software and hardware necessary to create and operate a consignment node. Thus, the network provides a trusted means for consignment node users, e.g. shop keepers, to establish electronic markets for collectable goods, establish electronic auctions, establish a means for searching each others shops to locate hard to find collectibles items, and a means to electronically present goods to a market. The present invention will allow, or license, certain consignments nodes to become a dominant market maker for a particular class of goods, for example, a consignment node franchise may be given the rights to establish the dominant market for collectable antique pens. Other consignment nodes, after taking physical possession of a good, may make an electronic presentment of that good to such a dominant consignment node market. Thus, a local collector of antique pens may bring a pen to a convenient consignment node in small town, USA, the consignment network would allow this collector to electronically \u201cpresent\u201d his pen to the dominant market make node for antique pens in for example, Chicago. Participants, e.g. customers and collectors (hereinafter \u201cparticipants\u201d), may reach a dominant node's market, or any other consignment nodes electronic store, from his or her home by logging on from a PC located at the participant's home to their locally operated consignment node and reaching the distant consignment node through the network of consignment nodes. Thus, each consignment node user, e.g. shop keeper, has a potential participant, i.e. customer base, of all consignment node participants. In other words, a potentially huge customer base that incurs the minimal cost of a local consignment node connection may reach any other consignment node through the consignment node network. And local collector's may economically participate in the collectable markets by using local access to a convenient consignment node \u201ctrusted\u201d bailee, and electronically presenting collectable goods to a dominant market.","A consignment node in a simple form may have a computer , a digital camera , a bar code scanner , a display , a printer , a keyboard , a database  and a network connection  collectively called hereinafter a consignment node. The present invention also has a user interface application program to execute an a user or participant's data terminal .","The consignment node may have four modes of operation: a software download mode, an auction mode, a market mode, and an agent mode. The software download mode allows a participant to log into the consignment node and receive a download of a participant interface application program. The auction mode allows a participant, from the participant interface application program, to log into a consignment node to partake in an electronic auction. The market mode allows a participant with the participant interface program to log into a consignment node to browse the consignment node database to search for a used or collectable good. The agent mode allows a participant to log into a consignment node to formulate a search request for a particular used good or collectable. The consignment node may search its own database for the requested good and\/or generate agents to search and report back a search request of other consignment nodes.","The present invention may allow a participant to electronically purchase goods from a consignment node and to select whether the good should be shipped to a participant designed location or the participant may take electronic legal ownership of a good and post a new participant defined offer or reserve price. By the interaction of a plurality of participants buying and selling collectibles on a consignment node, posting \u201cbuy at\u201d and \u201csell at\u201d quantities and prices the consignment node may establish a market or become a \u201cmarket maker\u201d for collectable goods. A participant may also elect to electronically transfer or present a good to a different consignment node or market. This allows a participant to speculate with collectable goods on the consignment node network's different markets and not incur the shipping costs with physically moving the goods, while providing a trusted means to assure potential buyers of the good's bona fide availability.","The consignment node operator or purveyor, hereinafter referred to as the consignment node user, establishes his consignment node by creating a database of used goods or collectibles, hereinafter the term \u201cgoods\u201d shall be used to reflect used goods, new goods and, collectibles. The user takes the first good to be put on the database and invokes the consignment node software to create a data record. For example, the user owns a baseball card collector shop and the user wants to post his Babe Ruth collection. The user in this instance invokes the consignment node to \u201cbuild the database mode\u201d and the invention initializes the digital camera . The user then \u201cphotographs\u201d or digitizes the image of the particular Babe Ruth card. The consignment system then displays an empty database record on the display to accept text information concerning the card.","The user fills out the display record with information concerning the particular Babe Ruth card. The consignment node verifies that enough information has been filled out in the displayed computer record, as well known to the electronic database arts, and accepts the record. It should be noted that the consignment node database record has data fields for the consignment node user to add value to his consignment node postings with subjective information such as condition of the card, special features such as autographed by Babe Ruth, and the like. Thus, the consignment node user may build business goodwill into his particular consignment node operation by establishing his own particular subjectivity and quality standards in item postings.","After the data record or the particular Babe Ruth card is accepted by the consignment node the system may print out a bar code label on the printer . The user may then put the particular Babe Ruth card into a plastic bag and affix the bar code label to the bag. The bar code labeling system becomes a useful inventory management tool discussed below.","It is understood in this first example that the consignment node user is the legal and equitable owner of the Babe Ruth card and that the user posted a reserve or offer price on the particular card at his posting. In a second illustrative example, a local resident would like to post, for example, his Frank Robinson baseball card. The resident brings his Frank Robinson card to the baseball card store and tells the consignment node user he would like to offer his Frank Robinson card for a consignment sale. Again, the consignment node user invokes the system database posting mode and \u201cphotographs\u201d the Frank Robinson card with digital camera . As above, the user fills in the system generated display prompt for information concerning the Frank Robinson card. The resident informs the user of the reserve or offer price and signs or agrees to a consignment contract with the consignment node user to accept the consignment terms to pay the consignment node user on the sale of the card, for example 6%, of sales price as a consignment fee. Again, the system may print the appropriate bar code for the Frank Robinson card. The consignment node user then takes possession of the card and may affix the bar code label to an appropriate cardholder. It should be noted by the consignment node user may again \u201cadd value\u201d to his consignment node by entering subjective criteria in the database entry for authenticity, condition, special attributes and the like. The participant or local resident may now electronically present his Frank Robinson card to any consignment node, consignment node auction or consignment node market maker in the consignment node network.","These processes may be repeated again and again to establish a substantial database of goods for sale. It should be noted that the consignment node user may at his discretion take postings from reputable dealers or collectors via a facsimile machine or other forms of electronic or verbal presentment of a good for sale. It is within the sound discretion of an individual consignment node user to establish these practices. It is within the scope of the invention, however, to take electronic postings from other consignment node users or individuals over the network, as discussed below. Each consignment node user may be a franchisee of a central franchiser and the franchiser may police the network to give quality control, detect fraud and revoke the franchises or licenses of poor quality consignment node users. Thus, the consignment node is a \u201ctrusted\u201d network for consignment node users providing value to the network by imposing a quality and performance structure on the consignment nodes.","The Sale","A buyer, hereinafter participant, may electronically log onto a consignment node via a network connection by use of a PC with participant interface software, through an interactive television application, workstation or the like. The network connection drivers for the consignment node are discussed in detail below. The participant may enter the browse node and peruse the consignment node database of goods. It is understood that the participant may receive the image taken with a digital camera  of the goods at the participant terminal. The participant, upon finding for example the above-posted Frank Robinson card may decide to purchase the card. The participant may present electronic payment to the consignment node by entering a credit card number and expiration date or other forms of electronic payment. It is understood that a secure and\/or encrypted means may be established between a participant's interface application and a consignment node to transfer sensitive or theft prone information. Moreover, a participant may establish an account with his local consignment node to be debited and credited with the funds used and generated with his transactions.","The consignment node may, for example, clear the transaction by charging the participant's charge card account and crediting the consignment node store account by well-known credit card clearing techniques. After the consignment node has cleared the transaction the system electronically transfers ownership of the Frank Robinson card to the participant. The participant may then be presented with the choice of directing the delivery of the Frank Robinson card to a desired location or may choose to post a new reserve or offer price for the card and direct the card to remain in the possession of the consignment node user. Thus, the consignment node allows a participant to speculate on the price of the Frank Robinson card and establishes an electronic market for the Frank Robinson card. It is understood that the consignment node may have many Frank Robinson cards available, thus by the interaction of collectors electronically buying and selling the collectibles it will establish a market price for a Frank Robinson card or any other good. For each transaction, the consignment node user extracts the small consignment fee, e.g., 6% of the sales price, thus the consignment node user directly benefits from operating a reputable consignment node. If the participant elects to take delivery of the purchased goods then the consignment node may track the delivery and ownership of this good to this particular participant in a data record. This data record may be useful to speed the posting of the good, should the participant later decide to re-post and sell the good, and it also creates a valuable database of records to track the possession and ownership of a collectable. This feature may be useful in the agent mode, e.g., tracking down very hard to find items, discussed more fully below.","The Auction","For a rare good, a good in a volatile market, or a good's initial posting the consignment node user or participant may wish to auction the good, with or without reserve, to the highest bidder. In this mode, the good may be posted on the consignment node by the means described above but the data record representing the good is identified as waiting for an auction date and may not be purchased on the electronic market. Alternatively, an item may be in the electronic market of the consignment node with a high reserve price that may be lowered in the auction or liquidation mode. Here the consignment node user or the good's participant owner may enter a protected data field a confidential reserve price for the auction mode. The consignment node user arranges by invoking the appropriate consignment node program a time and date for an electronic auction. The consignment node user or good's participant owner may establish, in a data record that represents the good, a desire for the item to be auctioned. For example, a pawnshop operator of a consignment node may have several Rolex watches he wishes to auction with reserve this Saturday night at 7:00 p.m. The consignment node user, here a pawnshop, identifies on the Rolex watch records the auction date and the confidential reserve price. The consignment node system may \u201cadvertise\u201d auction dates, items and auction terms in the consignment node log on welcome message discussed below. Moreover, a good that is identified as awaiting an auction date may be viewed before auction in the consignment node browse mode by a perspective auction participant.","At the auction date, perspective participants log onto the consignment node auction mode locally or through the consignment node network and await the first good to be auctioned. It is understood that in the best mode of the invention the participant will have a data terminal with a digital to analog converter such as a \u201csound blaster\u201d and speaker, the digital to analog capability may be used in the auction mode to bring the aural excitement of an auction, e.g., the call of the heckler, the caller and bidders, home to the auction participant. This is discussed in more detail below.","The consignment node takes the first item to be auctioned and posts the image of the good and the good's text record to the participants. The consignment node then posts the opening bid. It is understood that the bid postings may be in a protocol that invokes the generation of an auctioneer's voice at the participant terminals. The participants may then respond with a higher bid. The consignment node mode scans electronically the participants for bids and accepts the highest bid. If bids are tied the consignment node may take the first highest bid by the participants log on order. A particular bidding participant receives a special acknowledgment from the consignment node that her bid was accepted. The consignment node then posts the higher bid to all the electronic auction participants. The consignment node repeats this process until no higher bid is received for a predetermined amount of time and closes the auctioning of that particular good. The consignment node then checks whether the highest bid received is greater than the reserve price, if appropriate. The consignment node may then post sold! and the sell price to all participant terminals and proceed to post the next item for auction. Again a successful purchaser may elect to direct delivery of the good or post the good on the electronic market at a new participant determined offer price.","It is understood that the terms of the auction sale are posted and agreed to by the participants before allowing a participant to bid on goods in compliance with local requirements and statutes. It is also understood that a participant may make electronic payment for the goods or establish a line of credit or collect on delivery terms within a particular consignment node user's discretion. This may be established by a relationship between a local consignment node user and a local participant at the local consignment user's discretion.","It should be noted that a consignment node user may sell virtual advertising space or a central master node e.g., the franchiser, may coordinate the sale of advertising space on a pool of consignment nodes to reach target market participants. For example, if a participant has purchased or speculated in antique pens, and advertisers of an antique pen specially consignment node wishes to target market individuals on the network who have purchased collectable pens in the past. A central coordinated master node may sell advertising to an advertiser for the log on message or e-mail targeted participants and users. Thus, the network of consignment nodes can establish a market for target marketing or blanketed advertising of goods and services sold locally or on a network level by a central node.","The Agent","The Agent Mode allows a consignment node participant to search a plurality of consignment nodes and purchase records for a used good. A participant may log onto his local consignment node to shop. This participant, for example, may be interested in purchasing a particular used coin for her collection. The participant may invoke a consignment node Agent to search the network of consignment nodes for this coin. The participant fills in the search parameters for this coin, for example, a 1872 U.S. penny from the Denver Mint. The consignment node Agent task handler verifies the Agent form is sufficiently filled out and accepts the task. The Agent checks a list of other consignment nodes network addresses kept by the local consignment node database and generates an Agent communication message to each consignment node on the list and begins to establish communications to the other consignment nodes. An Agent message between consignment nodes begins by coordinating or reconciling the database on each consignment node of the locations and\/or address of other consignment nodes. If a consignment node has a different list of consignment nodes in its database it will pass the node update information to the other consignment node. The consignment node originating the Agent task will generate a new Agent task to accommodate the information concerning the new consignment node. Once the consignment node database of consignment nodes is reconciled, the Agent will search the consignment node database for the goods requested. The Agent will report back whether the search of the local market database was successful and how many good that matches the Agent search request it found. An Agent may also search the consignment node database of past transactions to identify an owner of a particular good. The Agent may then report that John Doe of Main Street, U.S.A. was the last known purchaser of a 1872 U.S. penny from the Denver Mint at this node. It is understood that differing levels of privacy are available to consignment node purchasers, so as only allowing the local consignment node user to view past purchaser information and\/or provide the Agent with an option of contacting that consignment user so he may contact the prior purchaser, thus, protecting privacy while allowing bona fide offers to reach the prior purchaser in confidence.","Once some of the Agents start reporting back to the Agent originating consignment node, the originating consignment node may report the results to the consignment node participant of the Agents results. Such results may give the total number of matching items found thus providing the local participant\/collector an indication of the depth of this market. It is understood that a local consignment node user may charge participants for Agent requests.","Computer Implementation","In the preferred embodiment of the present invention a consignment node may use a multitasking operating system such as UNIX, OS\/2 or VMS. However, a Microsoft DOS or Windows implementation is within the scope of the present invention. The consignment node may be networked via TCP\/IP and the internet or a private TCP\/IP network or X.25 private or public network or service providers network of ISDN, ATM and the like. It is understood, that a consignment node may support a plurality of protocols simultaneously. Moreover, it is understood that the participant interface application program may execute on a wide variety of platforms such as PC's, MAC's, Power PC's, workstations, cable set-top boxes, video game hardware and the like and are within the scope of the present invention.","It is understood that the get session identification procedure  is a routine that monitors the communication ports and virtual communication ports residing on a protocol stack. The consignment node may use, for example, a X.25 interface card, available from Eicon Corporation or Frontier Corporation to execute an X.25 protocol stack in a PC workstation. The get session identification  program may monitor the X.25 protocol for incoming calls. If the program identifies an incoming call it may answer the call by transmitting the appropriate X.25 packet to the network on the appropriate virtual channel. It is understood that other protocols, such as TCP\/IP, DECNET, SNA and ATM are within the scope of the present invention and that multiple protocol stacks may simultaneously execute in a consignment node. Therefore, the get session identification program  may have multiple instances to connect and monitor the various protocols. After the get session identification  has appropriately answered an incoming call to the consignment node, it may invoke the display welcome message and menu routine .","It is understood that the get session identification  provides sufficient information to the display welcome message and menu  to allow the display welcome message and menu  to connect to the appropriate session or virtual channel. At this juncture, if the participant is using an approved interface program, the interface program will send a predetermined code to indicate its version and other characteristics of its display driver. If a participant is logging in from a TTY terminal or other terminal the display welcome message and menu  may detect this information and send the appropriate TTY welcome message. It is understood that the welcome message is viewed by the consignment node user as virtual advertising space that may be sold by the consignment node user or coordinated with the master control node (discussed in detail below). The participant may respond to the display welcome message and menu  program by giving an appropriate log on response . The get log on response  may verify and grant a level of access privileges to the participant. It is understood that the consignment node user may require the get log in response  to retrieve a credit card number, pin number, user ID and the like, to grant access privileges. If a participant is using a TTY terminal those sessions may be shunted to the download interface program (DIP)  routine to receive an appropriate interface program from the consignment node. The DIP  may present a list of choices as to what version interface program should be downloaded, such as DOS, Windows, UNIX, MAC platforms and what transfer program is desired such as Kermit, Xmodem, FTP and the like. A participant with a participant interface program may also elect to receive a new interface program from the DIP . It is understood that an older, no longer supported interface program participant may be shunted to the DIP  to receive a new interface program.","A participant with a supported interface program may select the auction , market  or agent handler  sections of the consignment node. If a participant selects auction  the participant may be presented with a menu of auction selections such as auctions in session, future auction times, dates, locations and topics, and auction preview. If a participant selects auctions in session the participants session is passed to the appropriate auction handler, as discussed below. If a participant selects future auctions the participant will be given a list of future auction times, dates, terms, locations and topics of auctions on this and other consignment nodes. It is understood that these displays represent a virtual advertising opportunity for the consignment node user and the advertising space may be sold by the consignment node user or by the master control node. If the participant elects the auction preview, the auction process  passes the participant session to the market session  with data that indicates an auction preview desired by the user.","If the participant selects the market  choice the participant is given a menu of markets that the participants may browse, discussed further below. If the participant selects the agent handler  the participant may be provided with an electronic form to create a search for a good. The participant may then execute this Agent's search request to search the network of consignment nodes databases to look for the desired goods. The Agent is discussed more fully below. The Agent Handler  also receives incoming calls from other agents to process the external agents search request on the consignment node. The participant interface and consignment node participant functions are discussed in detail below. The discussion now turns to the operation of the consignment node by the user.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0047","num":"0046"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},"The consignment node user may invoke the consignment node program to enter the posting  mode to create a data record for the good. The posting  mode initializes  the consignment node to receive information on a new good. The initialization  step displays a data record with data fields on the consignment node terminal for the user to fill in information on the good. The initialization step  also initializes the consignment node peripheral devices such as the digital camera  and the printer . The consignment node user then \u201cphotographs\u201d or digitizes the image of the good from one or more perspectives as well known to the digital camera arts. The consignment node receives the digitized image(s) at receive image  step. The consignment node program then prompts the consignment node user for information on the good . The consignment node receives information  that the consignment node user inputs to the data record displayed at step . The consignment node program verifies  that the necessary information, such as owners name, reserve price, market or auction designation is in the data record. The verify step  will reject the record and return the consignment node user data entry mode  if the record does not have the minimum information. If the record is verified  as complete enough to commit to the consignment node database, a data record is created  and linked into the consignment node database. The consignment node program then generates and prints a bar code  that indicated the data record. The bar code system is used by the consignment node to maintain an accurate inventory and is a hook for local sales (discussed below). The posting routine may then exit  and return from the posting program. By repeating the posting routine of  the consignment node user may build a database of goods for the consignment node market, auction and\/or agent searches.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0049","num":"0048"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":["250","252","254","256","258","262","264","260","262","264","266","268","270","272","274","278","278","280","270"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0050","num":"0049"},"figref":"FIG. 5","b":["300","258","264","300","300","302","300","306","308","308","310"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0051","num":"0050"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 2","FIG. 2"],"b":["350","350","350","352","354","356","362","358","358","360","358","360"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0052","num":"0051"},"figref":"FIG. 7","b":["400","400","402","402","404","404","406","408","410","410","412","404","416","422"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0053","num":"0052"},"figref":["FIG. 8","FIG. 2","FIG. 7"],"b":["450","450","452","454","456","458","460","462","458","460","463","464","456","466","458","460","462"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0054","num":"0053"},"figref":["FIG. 9","FIG. 1","FIG. 7"],"b":["500","502","504","506","508"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0055","num":"0054"},"figref":"FIG. 10","b":["550","554","554","556"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0056","num":"0055"},"figref":"FIG. 11","b":["600","602","604","606","608","610"]},"Many variations of the present invention are possible with the present invention and are within the spirit and scope of the present invention. Those skilled in the arts will be able to make many variations on the present invention once this invention is known to the arts."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["10","22","24","12","14","16","18","20","26","28"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0034"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0037","num":"0036"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0037"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0039","num":"0038"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0040","num":"0039"},"figref":"FIG. 9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0041","num":"0040"},"figref":"FIG. 10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0042","num":"0041"},"figref":"FIG. 11"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
