---
title: Method for self-adjusting power at a wireless station to reduce inter-channel interference
abstract: The performance and ease of management of wireless communications environments is improved by a mechanism that enables access points (APs) to perform automatic channel selection. A wireless network can therefore include multiple APs, each of which will automatically choose a channel such that channel usage is optimized. Furthermore, APs can perform automatic power adjustment so that multiple APs can operate on the same channel while minimizing interference with each other. Wireless stations are load balanced across APs so that user bandwidth is optimized. A movement detection scheme provides seamless roaming of stations between APs.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07295537&OS=07295537&RS=07295537
owner: Autocell Laboratories, Inc.
number: 07295537
owner_city: Acton
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20040218
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["FIELD OF THE INVENTION","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF EXEMPLARY EMBODIMENTS"],"p":["The invention relates generally to wireless networks, and more particularly to wireless network configuration and power level adjustment for network performance optimization.","The proliferation of laptop and hand-held portable computers has produced a concomitant need for robust, reliable, and high performance wireless networks to maximize the mobility advantages of these devices and increase the ease of construction and management of these wireless networks. Current wireless networks, such as IEEE 802.11b, 802.11a, 802.11g, (etc) networks, are subject to certain limitations that can limit a mobile user's network performance and reliability. For instance, only a very limited number of radio channels are available. In the current state of the art, wireless access points cannot effectively share the same channel in the same area because of radio and control protocol interference. So, bandwidth over a given area is limited by the number of non-overlapping channels available. Also, current wireless networks require manual site engineering to control the placement of access points and channel distribution between access points, raising the cost and complexity of the wireless network installation process. Furthermore, user roaming between wireless access points is inconsistent. Once associated with an access point, a user will tend to remain associated with that access point even if another access point is capable of providing higher performance for the user. It would be desirable to provide wireless networking solutions which overcome the above described inadequacies and shortcomings of current wireless networks.","In accordance with the principles of the invention, various apparatus, methods, and computer program products are provided to improve the performance and ease of management of wireless communications environments. For example, a mechanism is provided to enable access points (APs) to perform automatic channel selection. A wireless network can therefore include multiple APs, each of which will automatically choose a channel such that channel usage is optimized. Furthermore, APs can perform automatic power adjustment so that multiple APs can operate on the same channel while minimizing interference with each other. Further aspects of the invention are used to cause load balancing of stations across APs so that user bandwidth is optimized. Novel movement detection schemes provide seamless roaming of stations between APs. These and further aspects of the invention enable the provision of automatically configurable, high performance wireless communications environments.","In accordance with the present invention, a fully automatic control system is provided for wireless communications environments. Referring to , a typical wireless communications environment  includes access devices  (one shown) that interface between a wired communications medium  and wireless devices  to provide network access to the wireless devices . Wireless devices  can thus communicate with wired devices  and with each other via the access device . These access devices  are referred to by various names depending upon the wireless architecture employed, and are herein referred to as \u201caccess points\u201d or \u201cAPs\u201d. The wireless devices  also have various architecture dependent names and are herein referred to as \u201cstations\u201d or STAs. A wireless communications capable device may be an AP, or a STA, or both.","Various types of wireless communications environments  exist. Wireless communications environments include for example wireless data networks and wireless I\/O channels. An example of a wireless data network is described in \u201cIEEE Standard for Information technology\u2014Telecommunications and information exchange between systems\u2014Local and metropolitan area networks\u2014Specific requirements\u2014Part 11: Wireless LAN Medium Access Control (MAC) and Physical Layer (PHY) specifications\u2014Amendment 1: High-speed Physical Layer in the 5 GHz band\u201d, incorporated herein by reference (hereinafter \u201c802.11\u201d). Furthermore, various different 802.11 \u201cmodes\u201d are defined. For example, in IEEE 802.11 compatible wireless networks, wireless devices may be arranged in an \u201cinfrastructure mode\u201d, whereby the network is configured such that STAs  communicate with other network devices via an AP , as shown in . 802.11 compatible devices may also be arranged in \u201cad-hoc\u201d mode, whereby all the STAs  are within transmission range and can communicate directly with each other. Furthermore, wireless \u201cmesh\u201d technologies exist, whereby each wireless device acts as both an AP and a STA. Wireless I\/O channels can be used to provide I\/O communications, for example, between servers and storage devices via the \u201cBluetooth\u201d Standard, or between home entertainment audio and video components, or between wireless telephone handsets and base stations. The various aspects of the invention apply to generally to wireless networking architectures, including those used in wide area networks, metropolitan area networks, enterprise networks, and home networks, and wireless I\/O channel architectures, as they exist now and as they are developed.","According to aspects of the invention, an arbitrary number of wireless access points (APs) can be placed in arbitrary positions, and all APs and STAs will automatically configure themselves for optimal channel usage, power levels, and STA\/AP associations. So, in a wireless networking environment, channel usage is optimized while interference between APs is minimized. Wireless devices such as wireless enabled laptops or hand-held computing devices or Internet protocol telephones, are transparently and seamlessly distributed between APs such that network performance is optimized from the perspective of the user of the wireless device. And, in a wireless I\/O channel environment that might be employed for example in a home, audio, video, and other appliances may be moved without performance degradation, and channel usage for each appliance may be optimized so that the appliances do not interfere with each other.","In order to expedite the understanding of the invention, certain examples will be described as they apply to the relatively well known 802.11 wireless LAN architecture, with the understanding that the principles of the invention apply more generally to any wireless communications environment. A preferred implementation of the inventive principles will then be described as embodied in an 802.11 wireless network","The following aspects of the invention contribute to its advantages, and each will be described in detail below.\n\n","Since exemplary examples will refer to the 802.11 networking environment, the following information provides relevant context, while understandably not limiting the invention to 802.11 environments.","In an 802.11 network, APs periodically send frames called \u201cBeacons\u201d. STAs listen for Beacons. When an unassociated STA (i.e. a STA that is not yet able to communicate on the wireless network) hears Beacons at what it deems to be a reasonable power level, it can attempt to authenticate with the AP sending the Beacons, and then associate with that AP. Once authenticated and associated, the STA is able to send data frames to other STAs on the wireless network via the AP.","More particularly, APs and STAs send and respond to three different types of frames, known as Class 1 Frames, Class 2 Frames, and Class 3 Frames. Class 1 Frames include control frames and management frames, and can be sent regardless of whether a STA is authenticated and associated with an AP. A Beacon is a type of Class 1 frame. Class 2 Frames are sent only once a STA is authenticated, and include for example association request\/response messages. Class 3 Frames can be sent only if associated, and include data frames.","In order to maximize user bandwidth and throughput, the invention automatically optimizes the operation of multiple APs for a given wireless communications environment. In accordance with the exemplary IEEE 802.11a networking standard, 13 non-overlapping frequencies are available for use by the APs. Each AP is capable of transmitting and receiving data at a maximum rate of 54 Mbps. The actual rate at which data is transmitted and received between an AP and a STA depends upon many factors, including the distance between the AP and the STA, the structures located between the AP and the STA, and the environmental interference occurring on the particular frequency. One skilled in the art will realize that the invention is not limited by the maximum data rates of current wireless technology, nor is it limited by currently understood radio frequency attenuation factors. The principles of the invention will continue to be applicable as wireless technology evolves.","Consider an area such as the wireless network shown in , wherein 8 users (shown as STAs ), which may be mobile laptops, PDAs, and the like, share a space including a single AP  operating on one of the 13 available 802.11a frequencies, denoted \u201cf\u201d. The 8 users  share the bandwidth provided by the AP . If all 8 users  are located close enough to the AP such that the AP provides a 54 Mb bit maximum data rate, then all 8 users 16 share the AP's bandwidth such that each user maintains 6.75 Mb throughput on average. (The invention contemplates the fact that data traffic is bursty and that a user in the present example may attain 54 Mb throughput for a short interval, but for purposes of simplicity, the average throughput over time for a given user is discussed.)","Now, referring to , a second AP  has been added in the area. The second AP  operates on a different one of the 13 frequencies, denoted \u201cf\u201d, such that the two APs  do not interfere, nor do their associated STAs . As shown, 4 of the 8 users have roamed to the second AP . Now each user maintains 13.5 Mb throughput on average. Addition of further APs on different frequencies further increases user average throughput.","In accordance with the invention, a Dynamic Radio Control Protocol (DRCP) provides a mechanism for an arbitrary collection of STAs and APs to automatically control the frequency and power of their radios in order to extend the properties exemplified in  to maximize overall system performance. DRCP messages are passed between APs and APs, as well as between APs and STAs to implement this functionality. Eight types of messages are used: DRCP Preclaim, DRCP Claim, DRCP Announce, DRCP Bid, DRCP Accept, DRCP Registration Request, and DRCP Registration Acknowledge.","DRCP Preclaim and Claim messages are exchanged between APs during AP initialization, and are used to aid automatic channel selection in accordance with the invention. DRCP Announce messages are sent by APs and received by STAs during STA optimization. These Announce messages inform invention-enabled STAs of available invention-enabled APs to which they may choose to associate, and provide information about APs that STAs can use to aid a decision as to whether to request to roam to another AP. DRCP Bid messages are sent by STAs to APs during STA optimization. These messages inform invention-enabled APs of invention-enabled STAs that are requesting association to the APs. DRCP Accept messages are sent by APs to STAs in response to DRCP Bid messages. These messages inform a STA that it may associate with the AP it is requesting to associate with. DRCP registration request and acknowledge messages are exchanged by invention-enabled APs and STAs to indicate to each that the other is DRCP capable.","The DRCP protocol employing these messages will first be described as used in a generic wireless communications environment. The detailed implementation of each of these messages will then be further described in terms of a preferred embodiment in an 802.11 environment.","The aspects of the invention are now described as they apply to AP initialization and optimization, and then as they apply to STA initialization and optimization. It is noted that, though many of the inventive aspects described herein with regard to STAs and APs are advantageous when implemented, they are not required to be implemented in a wireless communications environment. Performance advantages are achieved when only the APs, or only the STAs, or both implement one or more of the various aspects of the invention.","1. AP Initialization","During AP initialization, APs perform automatic channel selection. In accordance with the channel selection aspect of the invention, APs located in the same wireless network automatically select channels for operation such that they do not interfere with nearby APs. The invention contemplates that different bands of frequencies are available, for example based on 802.11 version and the country in which the network is deployed. According to a preferred embodiment, APs attempt to select a channel, in each band in which the AP is equipped to operate, which is least likely to interfere with other APs that are already deployed. APs also quarantine channels in accordance with rules associated with regulatory domains (Europe, etc.) so they don't interfere with other wireless applications (radar, etc.). In the event that one AP selects a free channel, and another AP selects the same free channel at the same time (i.e. a channel selection \u201cCollision\u201d), the APs' media access control (MAC) addresses are used as a tie breaker. If the other AP is a standard AP that does not include the improvements associated with the current invention, then the invention-enabled AP will direct its own radio to the \u201cnext best\u201d channel. The AP repeats the channel selection phase for each band of frequencies.","More particularly, referring to , before a newly added AP  starts to \u201cBeacon\u201d (i.e. broadcast management packets to other APs and STAs), the AP  first examines a list of RF bands supported by the AP , and the list of channels supported and not quarantined by the radio which implements the Physical Layer (PHY) for each RF band. The AP  then selects a channel in each band according to the following algorithm:","For each band:","Scan Intervals occur periodically. During a Scan Interval (step ), the AP  passively scans all channels which the AP supports within the band (step ). The AP  gathers a list of active APs , the channels on which they are operating, and the power at which the beacons from each AP  was heard. This information is used to build a table called a channel map  (step ), which contains a list of all APs  heard from, the channel on which they were heard, and the signal strength at which they were heard. There is a separate channel map  for each band. The AP  sorts the channel map to produce a list of APs  in ascending order of power level (step ).","Referring to , a channel is now selected by the AP  as follows. First, the AP  peruses the channel map (step ), and if there is a channel on which no AP  is operating (i.e. signal strength=0) (step ), then the AP  selects that channel (step ). Otherwise, the AP  peruses the list for the channel transmitting the weakest signal (step ). The AP  now enters a time interval referred to as the \u201cclaiming period\u201d (step ).","If the AP  selected a channel having the weakest signal strength, the AP  notes the channel-ID of the channel that it has selected, the received power level on the channel, and the AP-ID of the AP that generated that power level (step ). It will use the power level value as a baseline against which to detect increases in received power on its selected channel. If the AP  selected an empty channel, the baseline power level will be the AP's noise floor.","The AP  then advertises its intention to use the selected channel by periodically transmitting DRCP Claim messages during the claiming period (step ). Claim messages are transmitted at full power. During this claiming period, the AP  receives all Beacons, DRCP Claim messages, and DRCP Announce messages transmitted on the currently chosen channel (step ) and uses the information contained therein to build an \u201cOther APs\u201d table  (,  step ). For each Beacon it receives, the AP  notes the AP-ID and the received power level in the Other APs table . For each Claim or Announce message it receives, the AP  notes the AP-ID of the AP that sent the message, the received power level, and the transmit power backoff (TP backoff) in the Other APs table . The TP Backoff value indicates how far from maximum power the sending AP's radio has been turned down, and will be explained in more detail in the AP Power Adjustment section. The AP  also marks the entry for that AP-ID as being DRCP capable. A normalized received power value is calculated by adding the TP Backoff value to the received power value. The normalized received power value equalizes the AP power levels for comparison purposes. When the AP  receives a Beacon or DRCP message from an AP for which it already has an entry, it updates the entry and stores the received power and TP_backoff values as a list.","If another AP  starts to radiate significant energy on the selected channel, one of two events must have occurred. The new AP  is either not running DRCP, or a conflict has occurred with another DRCP-active AP, where a race condition has caused the other DRCP-active AP to select the same channel at the same time. This is called a Channel Selection Collision (CSC).","At the end of the claim period (step ), the AP  stops sending Claim messages and evaluates the information it has collected, its CSC data, to determine if a CSC has occurred. It looks to see if the received power in any entry is greater than the baseline power level it recorded for the channel (step ). If so, it looks to see if the received power is exceeded in at least half of the power level values for the entry (step ). If so, the AP  checks to see whether the AP in the entry is DRCP capable (step ).","If the other AP is not DRCP active, the AP  defers to the non-DRCP-active AP and starts the entire channel selection process over again.","If the other AP is DRCP-active, then a CSC is assumed to have occurred. When a CSC has occurred, the MAC address of the other AP is compared to the MAC Address of this AP . If the MAC address of this AP  is numerically higher than the observed MAC address (step ), this AP  starts the channel selection process over again.","If at the end of the claiming period, the AP has succeeded in claiming the selected channel, it begins running on the channel. The AP starts beaconing, begins sending DRCP Announce messages, and prepares to enter the Optimization stage in order to run its Auction and Power Adjustment functions (step ).","A variation on the channel selection process of  can be employed to improve channel selection coverage when several APs  are powered on all at once. Referring to , each AP, upon power-up, sends a claim message on a first channel chosen from the channel map\u2014for purposes of example designated channel  (steps , ). All APs scan all channels. All APs scanning on channel  will hear each other's claim messages. During the claiming period, an AP will ascertain whether channel  is in fact available for use by it. Accordingly, the AP listens for other DRCP Claim messages on the same channel, which would indicate that another invention-enabled AP is trying to use the same channel (step ). The AP  keeps track of the number of different APs it hears (based on AP IDs the claim messages received) and the average signal strength of claim messages from each AP. The AP  builds an adjacency vector (adjacency count, adjacency power total) (step ). Adjacency count represents the number of APs heard on the channel. Adjacency power total represents the sum of the average power levels for each AP heard. Each AP sends its adjacency vector to all the other APs in its claim messages step . If a DRCP claim message is received (step ), in this case on channel , the AP  first compares its adjacency count with the adjacency count received in the claim message (step ). If the AP 's adjacency count is higher than that received in the claim message, this probably indicates that the AP  is closer to the center of the network. The AP  therefore continues to claim the channel during the claim period. If the AP's adjacency count is the same as the adjacency count received in the claim message (step ), the AP  then compares its own adjacency total power to the adjacency total power value received in the claim message. If the AP 's own adjacency total power is higher than that received in the claim message (step ), this may also indicate that the AP  is closer to the center of the network, and therefore the AP  continues to send claim messages on the channel. If the AP 's own adjacency total power is the same as that received (step ), then the AP  performs the previously described MAC address test step ). If the AP  finds that its own adjacency count or adjacency power are lower than any received in claim messages, or that in the event of a tie on these values that its MAC address is higher, it ceases to send claim messages on the channel and returns to peruse the channel map (step ). Otherwise, the AP  continues to send claim messages including its adjacency vector (step ). If, at the end of the claiming period (step ), the AP 's adjacencies are greater than other AP's adjacencies, the AP  has won the channel and proceeds to the AP optimization phase (step ). According to this method, the APs closest to the center of a multi-AP network obtain the first channel assignments and subsequent channels are assigned to the other APs.","Referring to , a preferred embodiment of the automatic channel selection algorithm is shown. For each band:","Scan Intervals occur periodically. During a Scan Interval (step ), the AP  scans all channels which the AP supports within the band, receiving Beacons and Announce messages (step ). The information received in the Beacon and Announce messages is used to build a table called the \u201cScan table\u201d (step ). An example of a Scan table  is shown in . The Scan table  includes an entry for each AP  from which a Beacon or Announce message has been received. For each entry, there is stored the AP-ID and the channel on which that AP  was heard. Also stored is a \u201crxPowerRunningTotal\u201d value that represents the sum of the signal strengths of each message received from that AP . Also stored is a \u201crxPowerSampleCount\u201d value that represents the number of messages received from the AP . A DRCP flag is set if an Announce message has been received from the AP . The entryAge entry is incremented every time the channel is scanned. The \u201crxPowerAvg\u201d is calculated during a Preclaim interval as will be further described.","As the scan progresses, the rxPowerSampleCount values in the Scan table  are monitored, and if any one of them exceeds a threshold, herein labeled \u201cthreshold 1\u201d (step ), the AP  proceeds to step  to build a channel map. In addition, if any entryAge value in the table exceeds a certain threshold \u201cthreshold2\u201d (step ), the AP  will proceed to step . Also, if the number of scans completed exceeds a certain threshold \u201cthreshold3\u201d (step ), the AP  will proceed to step . Otherwise the AP  continues scanning and updating the Scan table .","An example of a preferred channel map  is shown in . The channel map  contains an entry for each channel ID. To build the channel map, the AP  peruses the Scan table  and calculates the \u201crxPowerAvg\u201d value for each entry, as:\n\nRxPowerAvg[]=Scan table[].rxPowerRunningTotal\/Scan table[]rxPowerSamplecount;\n","For each channel, the AP-ID with the highest rxPowerAvg value is entered in the channel map . The AP's rxPowerAvg value is entered into the channel map  as the highestPwrlevel parameter.","In certain network implementations, it is undesirable to locate two operating APs  within a certain distance of each other, because doing so does not increase network performance and may reduce it. So, according to a preferred option, once the channel map has been assembled, the AP  checks the channel map to see if any of the highestPwrlevel values in the map exceed a certain threshold power level (step ). The threshold power level is chosen to indicate that the AP  is located too close to another AP. If any highestPwrlevel exceeds the threshold power level, the AP  is placed in \u201cStandby mode\u201d (step ). The AP  in Standby mode waits for a period of time herein referred to as \u201cStandby Interval\u201d before returning to start another scan interval (step ).","If no highestPwrlevel values are found to exceed the threshold power level, the AP proceeds to assemble a triplet channel map  (step ). As shown in , the AP  sorts a channel map into triplets, for example, channels ,  and , channels ,  and , channels ,  and , etc. The power heard on each channel in the triplet is averaged into a triplet average. The list of triplets is sorted in ascending order, with the triplet with the lowest average power at the top of the list. The AP  starts at the top of the list and looks for the first triplet in which the power heard on the center channel of the triplet is less than or equal to the power heard on the two adjacent channels, and selects this channel (step ). If no such triplet is available, the AP selects the channel with the lowest triplet average. In the example shown in , AP  chooses channel . This process advantageously minimizes interference between channels by selecting channels that do not tend to have high power adjacent channel usage.","The AP  then records the baseline power for the selected channel as the highestPwrlevel value for the channel, and records the AP-ID of the AP at that power level (step ). A Preclaim Interval is now entered (step ). During the Preclaim interval, the AP transmits Preclaim messages on the selected channel (step ). The AP  also receives Beacon, Announce, and Preclaim messages on the channel (step ). The AP  uses the received messages to update the Scan table (step ). The AP  continues to update the Scan table until one of two Preclaim intervals expires. During the min Preclaim interval (step ), the rxPowerSampleCount value for each AP-ID on the selected channel is checked to see if a minimum sample size threshold has been exceeded. If so, the Preclaiming interval ends and the AP proceeds to check to see whether too many APs are operating on the selected channel (step ). Otherwise, the Preclaiming period extends until the end of the max Preclaim interval (step ).","In some network environments, and in particular environments of limited area, the operation of too many APs on the same channel does not increase network performance and may cause a performance reduction. So, according to a preferred option, the AP checks to see if there are too many APs operating on the network (step ). The number of different AP-IDs present in the Preclaim APs table is used to make this determination. If there are too many APs operating on the selected channel at a power level greater than a defined threshold, the AP  enters Standby mode","If there are not too many APs operating on the selected channel, the AP  calculates an \u201cadjacency vector sum\u201d (step ). The adjacency vector sum is calculated over all APs on all channels as:\n\nAdjacency vector sum=sum(Preclaim APs[].ReceivedPowerTotal\/Preclaim APs[].count)\n\nThe adjacency vector sum is used as a tiebreaker if necessary during the Claiming interval, to be further described.\n","The AP  now enters the Claiming interval (step ). During the Claiming interval, the AP  transmits Claim messages on the selected channel (step ). Claim messages include the adjacency vector sum. The AP  also receives all Beacon, Announce, and Claim messages on the selected channel (step ). The AP  uses the information contained in the received messages to build a \u201cClaim APs table\u201d  (step ). An example of the Claim APs table is shown in . The Claim APs table  contains an entry for each AP-ID. The received power level of each message received from a given AP is stored in the Claim APs table  as a list of values (shown as column \u201cReceivedPowerlevel). Furthermore, for each Announce or Claim message received, a DRCP flag is set. The AP continues to update the Claim APs table until the end of the Claiming interval (step ).","The AP  then evaluates the Claim APs table  (step ) to ascertain whether any other APs were heard from. If no entries exist in the Claim APs table  (step ), the AP  has \u201cwon\u201d the selected channel. The AP  can then begin Beaconing and sending Announce messages on the channel (step ). If the Claim APs table  includes one or more entries, then if the selected channel was empty at the beginning of the Claiming Interval (step ), the AP  concedes the channel and returns to re-scan (step ). Otherwise, if the channel was not empty, then if the ReceivedPowerlevel values for all entries in the table are less than the baseline level recorded during PreClaiming plus a threshold level (e.g. 2 db) (step ), then the AP has won the channel (step ). However, if the AP does find a ReceivedPowerlevel value that exceeds the baseline power level plus the threshold level, and that entry is associated with an AP-ID that was not the one recorded on the channel during the PreClaiming Interval, then the AP checks the entry's DRCP flag (step ). If the DRCP flag indicates that the AP-ID associated with the entry is not DRCP capable, then the AP returns back to the scan interval to re-start the channel selection process. If the DRCP flag indicates that the AP-ID associated with the entry is DRCP capable, then the AP compares its adjacency vector with the adjacency vector received in the other AP's Claim messages (step ). If the AP's adjacency vector is less than the other AP's adjacency vector, the AP concedes the channel and returns to re-scan. If the AP's adjacency vector is not less than the other AP's adjacency vector, then the AP checks to see if the adjacency vectors are equal (step ). If they are, the MAC addresses of the two APs are compared (step ). If the AP's MAC address is greater than the other AP's MAC address, the AP has \u201cwon\u201d the channel (step ). Otherwise, the AP concedes the channel and returns to re-scan (step ). One skilled in the art will realize that the MAC address comparison decision is arbitrary and can be made in the opposite manner.","1. AP Optimization","Once an AP is running on a channel, it continuously performs the following functions to optimize its configuration in the wireless LAN:\n\n","In order to perform Radio Power Adjustment, the AP  maintains a number of tables. The tables include information received from other APs and STAs operating on the selected channel. This information is used to ascertain such things as power levels of other devices on the channel, and distances between devices on the channel, in order to control the AP's power level.","2.a.1.1 AP KnownAPs Table","Each AP  maintains a number of tables that it consults to perform power adjustment. One such table is the AP KnownAPs Table . As shown in , once initialized on a channel, an AP  receives Beacons and DRCP Announce messages from all other APs  operating within the range of its radio, on its channel (steps , , ). The AP  uses these received messages to build the AP KnownAPs table . For each message it receives, the AP  checks to see if it has an entry in the AP knownAPs table for the AP-ID in the message (step ). If found, the AP  updates the entry (step ), otherwise it creates a new one (step ), up to a maximum of Max_APs entries (step ). The value of Max_AP is design dependent.","Referring to , the AP  stores the following fields in the corresponding AP knownAPs table  entries:\n\n","The AP-ID, TP Backoff, and Max Power fields are extracted from each DRCP Announce and Hello message received. The TP Backoff value is stored as a list of values for each message received from each AP-ID. The sample size is the number of TP Backoff values received for each AP-ID.","Since Announce messages are only sent by DRCP-enabled APs, the AP  also marks the entry as DRCP-active. APs sending Beacons which contain no DRCP fields are not marked DRCP-active. For each message received, the AP adds the TP Backoff value to the received power level to determine a normalized received power level, as follows:\n\nnormalized_power=avg(received_power+tp_backoff);\n","Accounting for the TP backoff in the normalized power level provides a value that is consistent and can be used for comparison with power level measurements from other APs.","Received beacons do not explicitly carry a TP backoff value, however, since beacons are always transmitted at full power they effectively carry a TP backoff value of zero. Thus, the AP  can update the AP KnownAPs table  based on a received Beacon. In this case the AP  stores the TP backoff value as zero, and sets the normalized power and the Max Power to the received power level value.","Additionally, the AP  keeps an Age for each entry. The Age is reset to zero, \u201c0\u201d, each time a Beacon or DRCP Announce is received from the AP corresponding to the entry. Entries are aged as part of the AP Power Adjustment process.","2.a.1.2 AP AssociatedSTAs Table","APs  also continuously maintain a table of the STAs  that are associated with it\u2014the AP AssociatedSTA table. Referring to , for every associated STA , the AP  monitors and collects signal strength information for data packets received (step ). If an entry for the STA already exists in the AP AssociatedSTAs table (step ), that entry is updated (step ). Otherwise a new entry is created for the STA (step ). The collected data is periodically analyzed by the AP for AP power adjustment purposes. In addition, whenever a DRCP-active STA  becomes associated with an AP , it sends a Registration Request message to the AP . Registration Request messages are sent by the STA  to the AP  periodically until a Registration Acknowledge message is received by the STA . Upon receipt of a Registration Request from an STA  (step ), the AP  updates the entry in the AssociatedSTA Table and marks it as a DRCP-active STA (step ) and sends a Registration Acknowledge message to the STA  (step ).","As shown in , the AP 's AP AssociatedSTA Table  maintains the following information about each STA:\n\n","During the channel selection process, the AP  transmits at maximum power, that is, it uses a TP backoff value of zero. Once the AP  has successfully Claimed a channel, it calculates a TP Backoff value and adjust its transmit power for data transmissions down, in accordance with this value to minimize same channel interference and maximize channel\/bandwidth re-use. The calculation of the TP Backoff value is now further described.","Generally, with reference to , AP power adjustment is accomplished as follows: The AP  peruses its AP KnownAPs table (step ). The AP  finds the AP in the table with the highest TP Backoff value. The AP  then sets its own Max TP backoff value to the highest TP Backoff value (step ). This Max TP Backoff value, if used as the AP 's TP Backoff value, would reduce the AP 's transmit power to a level just below the range of the nearest AP operating on the same channel.","Once the Max TP backoff is calculated, the AP then scans the AssociatedSTA table to ascertain the distance to the farthest associated STA  (step ). The distance to the farthest associated STA  is compared to the distance to the closest AP  operating on the same channel (step ). If the distance to the farthest associated STA  is less than the distance to the closest AP , the AP's TP Backoff value is left at Max TP Backoff (step ). If the distance to the farthest associated STA is greater than the distance to the closest AP operating on the same channel (step ), then the Max TP backoff value is adjusted back down to accommodate this STA (step ), and the AP's TP backoff is set to this adjusted value (step ). This power adjustment is periodically repeated to account for changes in the AP KnownAPs table and the AP AssociatedSTAs tables change (step ). Power adjustement may be repeated every second, for example, in an 802.11 environment.","In accordance with the preferred embodiment for use in a wireless data networking environment, as shown in , APs perform the above described power adjustment as follows. First, the AP  checks to see if its Avoid Other WLANs flag is set (step ). The AvoidOtherWLANs flag is a configuration parameter which can affect Power Adjustment. In many wireless networking architectures, it is possible for several APs to occupy the same channel while serving different physical networks. For example, in the 802.11 architecture, several APs can serve different ESSs. The AvoidOther WLANs flag is false by default. When set to false, the AP  will ignore any other APs on the same channel who's physical network is different from this AP 's physical network (e.g. ESS ID). This option is useful for cases when there are multiple APs in relatively close proximity that are on different networks. In this case, the operator may prefer to run his AP at the maximum power level to provide the best possible signal for all stations on his network.","If the Avoid Other WLANs flag is not set, the AP  sets its TP Backoff to 0 (step ). The AP  will therefore transmit at full power as long as the Avoid Other WLANs flag is not set. If the Avoid Other WLANs flag is set, the AP proceeds with the power adjustment process and will not interfere with other APs even if they are operating on a different network.","The AP  processes the information in the AP KnownAPs table every Hello Interval (step ), to perform power adjustment. The Hello Interval is architecturally and design dependent. In an 802.11 environment, the Hello Interval may be for example the 100 ms beacon interval. The knownAPs table entries are first aged before other processing is performed. The age of each entry is incremented (step ), and any entries whose age exceeds Max AP Entry Age are deleted (steps , ). Thus, if an AP hasn't been heard from in a while, it is aged out of the table to prevent it from affecting this AP 's power adjustment calculations.","As previously described, the normalized power field of an entry, \u201cn\u201d, of the AP KnownAPs table is determined by averaging over several received power measurement samples. The greater the number of samples used to derive the value, the more accurate the measurement. The AP accounts for the inaccuracy in this value by subtracting a standard error, based on the sample size, from the normalized power level, as shown in the following formula. Note, in an 802.11 environment, the normalized power level is expected be a negative number, ranging in value from \u221225 to \u221290 dBm.\n\nAP knownAPs[].corrected_power=AP knownAPs[].normalized_power\u2212getStandardError(sample_size);\n","In this formula, the function \u201cgetStandardError\u201d would return the standard error for the sample size of \u201csample_size\u201d in each entry \u201cn\u201d. For example, table I in  shows the standard error values for a number of sample sizes for RF signal measurements. This formula is applied to each entry \u201cn\u201d in the AP KnownAPs table to calculate the corrected_power values for each entry (step ).","The AP KnownAPs table is then scanned for the entry corresponding to the AP which was heard at the highest corrected_power level. This corrected_power level is compared to the AP 's noise floor (step ). (The AP's noise floor is a measure of background power on the channel.) If the AP  finds that the highest corrected_power level is less than the AP 's noise floor, then the AP  may transmit at maximum power without interfering with the other APs on the channel. It therefore leaves its Max TP Backoff value at 0 (step ). If the AP , however, finds that the highest corrected_power level is higher than the AP 's noise floor, it needs to set a TP Backoff to avoid interfering with that AP. In this case the AP  calculates Max TP Backoff by subtracting its noise floor from the corrected_power associated with that AP (step ).","Once it has calculated Max TP Backoff, the AP  must then determine if there are any associated STAs  that are farther away (ie who's signal strength is weaker than) the highest_power_AP. The AP 's AssociatedSTAs table is analyzed to find the STA  that is the greatest distance from the AP (step ). The normalized power and sample size values for this STA are used to calculate a corrected_Power value for this STA as previously described. The lowest power STA's corrected_power level is compared to the AP 's noise floor (step ). If the corrected_Power level is less than the noise floor, then the AP  needs to run at full power to cover the STA, so the AP TP Backoff value is set to 0 (step ). If the corrected_power level is greater than the AP 's noise floor, then the STA TP Backoff value is set to the corrected_power level minus the noise floor (step ).","Next, Max TP Backoff is compared to STA TP Backoff (step ). The AP's TP Backoff (\u201cmy TP Backoff\u201d) is set to the lower of the two backoff values to avoid interference with the closest AP while ensuring coverage for the farthest STA. So, If STA TP Backoff is less than Max TP Backoff, then my TP Backoff is set to the Max TP Backoff value (step ). If STA TP Backoff is greater than Max TP Backoff, then the my TP Backoff value is set to the STA TP Backoff value plus some minimum signal-to-noise ratio (step ).","The AP  then adjusts its transmit power by the value of my TP Backoff (step ), and uses my TP Backoff as the value of TP Backoff in its Announce messages. According to the preferred embodiment, the AP will transmit data at a power level adjusted by TP Backoff, but will tranmsit DRCP management messages (e.g. Claim, Announce, Accept) at full power. So, APs can always hear management messages passed between each other.","Furthermore, various different wireless networking architectures may provide a mechanism for clearing the wireless channel, further increasing the probability that the management messages will be received. For example, in the 802.11 architecture, the AP issues a Clear to Send (CTS) message to clear the channel (step ), and then sends a DRCP Announce message at maximum power (step ). After sending the Announce message at maximum power level, the AP resumes use of its calculated TP backoff value for data packets to minimize same-channel interference, as described above.","2.a.1.3.i AP Power Adjustment During Station Movement","When a STA  is associated with an AP , the AP  keeps track of the distance between the STA  and the AP . If the AP  is using a non-zero TP Backoff value, and the AP  ascertains that the STA  is moving out of range of the AP  at backed off power, then the AP  can adjust its TP Backoff value to accommodate the STA 's movement.","The distance between an AP  and an associated STA  is calculated and stored in the AssociatedSTAs table in units of \u201cBanzais\u201d. The Banzai is a unit of distance derived from a measurement of received signal strength from an AP  operating with a known transmit power backoff. In an 802.11 environment, for example, a received signal strength measurement is generally expected to range in value from \u221225 dBm to \u221290 dBm, but depending upon possible antenna gain at the high end or sensitivity at the low end, may range from 0 dBm down to \u2212100 dBm. A transmit power backoff is generally expected to range in value from 0 dB to 65 dB. Given a received signal strength measurement of \u201creceived_power\u201d and transmit power backoff of \u201cTP Backoff\u201d from an AP, the distance to that AP in Banzais is calculated as follows:\n\ndistance_in_banzais=ABS[MIN[0, (received_power+tpbackoff)]]\n","Algorithms for movement detection are described in more detail later. For purposes of AP power adjustment, as previously described, the AP  collects multiple samples of received_power and TP Backoff values for each STA  over time, and the distance between the AP and the STA is calculated over all these samples. The AP  detects movement by continuously checking to see if the difference between the distance to each station, derived from a set of long term samples, is sufficiently smaller that the current distance measurement based on the most recently collected samples, to indicate that the STA  is moving away from its AP .","If the AP  detects that the STA  is moving away and the STA  is within a given Short Term Standard Error Banzais of the current edge of the transmit signal (based on the current TP Backoff), then the AP  switches to a TP Backoff of 0 until it no longer has any moving STAs associated with it.","More particularly, referring to , to detect STA movement, the AP  collects a long term samples of distance values for a STA  (step ), and then continuously collects short term sample size distance values for the STA  (step ). The difference between the long term distance and short term distance values is compared to a Moving Threshold value plus the standard error in the two distance measurements in order to eliminate false movement detection. (See section 6 for more information.) A station is considered to be moving when the short term distance exceeds the long term distance by more than the Moving Threshold plus the sum of the errors in the two measurements. The following pseudo code describes this comparison.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0135","num":"0167"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00001","num":"00001"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"left"}},"thead":{"row":{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":"IF ((AssociatedSTAs[n].short_term_distance -"},{"entry":"AssociatedSTAs[n].distance) >"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003(movingThreshold + longTermStdError + shortTermStdError))"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003(step 324)"},{"entry":"THEN"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003moving = TRUE (step 326)"},{"entry":"ELSE moving = FALSE; (step 328)"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}},"If the AP  detects that the STA  is moving, the AP  sets its TP Backoff to 0 so that it transmits data at maximum power (step ). The AP  remains at maximum power until it detects that the STA  is no longer moving, or quiet. If the AP  determines that it is no longer moving before the STA  loses the association to its AP, the AP  resumes normal processing of received signal strength to determine a new appropriate TP Backoff value as previously described (step ).","Once the AP  detects that the STA  is moving, it begins using another test to detect when the STA  has stopped moving. To detect that the STA  has stopped moving, the AP  compares the distance to the STA , derived using the Long Term Sample Size, to the distance derived from the most recent Short Term Sample Size samples. The AP  looks to see when this difference is less than just the standard error in the two measurements to determine that the STA  has stopped moving. This test is performed as follows (step ):",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0138","num":"0170"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00002","num":"00002"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"35pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"182pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"IF ((AssociatedSTAs[n].short_term_distance -"]},{"entry":[{},"AssociatedSTAs[myAP].distance)"]},{"entry":[{},"< (longTermStdError + shortTermStdError)) THEN"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003moving = FALSE; (step 332)"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}}}},"br":{}},"The purpose of the Auction is to accomplish the distribution of STAs  across APs  in a manner that optimizes wireless communications performance. The goal is to have STAs  associate to their nearest AP  while taking loading (the sum of the individual loads of the STAs  already associated to the AP ) into account. This allows the RF footprints of the APs  and STAs  to be minimized, while ensuring that no AP  is overloaded.","STAs  learn of available APs  through the Announce messages transmitted by the APs . As will be further described with regard to STA optimization, a STA  calculates a \u201cbiased distance\u201d to each AP  it hears from, including its own AP, using the received power and loading information from the Announce messages. A STA  will send a Bid message to an AP that is \u201cbetter\u201d than the STA's current AP, where better means that the AP has a lower biased distance. The Bid message contains the value of the difference between the biased distance from the STA  to the destination AP  and the biased distance to the STA 's current AP. This value is called the biased distance delta.","In particular, referring to , the AP  collects any received Bids over a period of Auction Interval (steps ,). If a Bid is received from a STA  from which a Bid has already been received (step ), the new bid information replaces the previous bid information (step ). Otherwise a new entry is created for the STA  (step ). In either case the bid entry's age is reset (step ).","At the end of Auction Interval (step ), the AP  processes the received bid information. (The Auction Interval in an exemplary 802.11 environment may be on the order of, for example, 7.5 seconds.) The age of all bid entries is incremented by one (step ) and then any bid entry whose age is greater than Max Bid Age is deleted (step ). The list is then sorted by biased_distance_delta value (step ).","The AP  selects the bid entries with the highest biased distance delta values, up to acceptsPerAuction entries, and sends a DRCP Accept message to each of the STAs  corresponding to those entries (step ). The IDs of each STA  being sent an Accept is put in a list of outstanding accepts (step ), and a count of accepted STAs who have not yet associated and registered is noted as numAcceptsOut (step ). At this point the next auction period begins.","In addition to receiving DRCP Bids, the AP  also receives an indication any time a STA  associates to the AP . Referring to , on receipt of the indication (step ), the AP checks to see if it has bid information from the newly associated STA  (step ). Any bid information found for the newly associated STA  is deleted (step ). The AP  also checks to see if the STA  is in the list of outstanding accepts (step ), and if the STA  is in the accepts outstanding list that entry is deleted (step ) and the numAcceptsOut count is decremented (step ). At the end of the Auction Interval, any outstanding accepts from the previous auction cycle are considered to have timed out, hence the list of outstanding accepts is emptied and numAcceptsOut is reset. These processes continue as long as the AP  is active on a given channel.","3. STA Initialization:","The purpose of the STA initialization phase is to find and associate to a suitable AP  to provide the STA  with access to the wireless LAN, and to prepare for the operation of the DRCP protocol and algorithms.","Referring to , when started, the STA  produces a list of channels supported by the STA  (step ). In multi-PHY-variant STAs (e.g., STAs supporting multiple bands such as 802.11a\/b\/g), the channel list will include all of the channels that are supported across the various supported bands.","First, the STA  scans for beacons on all channels across all supported bands (e.g., STAs supporting multiple bands such as 802.11a\/b\/g will scan all channels in each of the a, b, and g bands.) (step ) The AP  that is received at the greatest signal strength is selected (step ).","Preferably, where multiple bands are supported, the selection of an AP  also takes into account a preference for the higher bandwidth bands so that, for example as implemented in an 802.11 environment, an AP  on an 802.11a or 802.11g channel is given some preference to one operating on an 802.11b channel.","Once an AP  is chosen, the STA  authenticates and associates to that AP (step ). Any security policies that control association are executed at this point.","During initialization, the STA  also enables the DRCP protocol so that the STA  will receive DRCP Announce messages (step ). The STA  then proceeds to the STA optimization phase (step ).","4. STA Optimization","Once it has made its initial association and has access to the wireless LAN, the STA continuously performs the following functions to optimize its configuration:\n\n","The process by which the STA  canvasses the other channels to determine whether to send a DRCP Bid message is now described in further detail. In order to monitor DRCP Announce messages, a STA  periodically tunes its radio to the channels other than the one to which it is currently associated. However, the STA  must remain associated to its current AP  so that it does not lose data packets. So, packets must be buffered during the time that the STA  is canvassing. Various wireless communications architectures may provide different means for packet buffering.","Generally, referring to , during a periodic scan interval (step ), the STA  causes the AP  to which it is currently associated to temporarily buffer the packets destined for the STA  (step ). Packet buffering can be initiated in a variety of ways. For example, the STA  may send a DRCP message to the AP  to cause the buffering, or the AP  may periodically turn on buffering and notify the STA  that it has done so. While the STA 's packets are being buffered, the STA  tunes its radio to another channel and listens for Beacons and DRCP Announce messages on that channel (step ). This information is used by the AP  to determine whether to bid for another AP. When the scan interval is complete, packet buffering is turned off and the STA  receives its buffered packets from the AP  (step ).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0154","num":"0190"},"figref":"FIG. 25"},"The 802.11 power save mode is intended for use by STAs  so that they can turn off their radios for periods of time in order to save power. STAs  can indicate to APs  that they are entering this power save mode. In response, APs  buffer the STAs' packets while the STAs  are \u201csleeping\u201d. APs  periodically send special Beacon messages to the STAs . STAs  wake up in response to these special Beacon messages. These Beacon messages include information as to whether any data is buffered for the STA . The STA  \u201cwakes up\u201d if data is buffered for it.","STAs  operating in an 802.11 environment in accordance with the preferred embodiment of the invention use the 802.11 power save mode to go off-channel and canvass other channels for DRCP Announce messages. After the channel canvass is complete, the STA  reverts to normal power save mode. Stations that have not been set to Power Save Mode by management are caused by the STA  to act as if they've been set to the Power Save Mode. STAs  that have already been set to Power Save Mode by management will have even more time to canvass.","In particular, referring to , at the start of a scan interval (step ), the STA  inquires about the current state of its power save mode. The power save mode that was set by management (active, power save) is remembered (step ). The power save mode is set to power save, and the listen time (time the STA  stays asleep), if any, is increased by a period of time herein referred to as scan time (step ). At the beginning of the power save cycle, the STA  actually stays awake temporarily, instead of dozing as it told the AP it was going to do. It is during this time that other channels are canvassed for beacons and DRCP Announce messages (step ). After the canvass is done the STA  resumes its power save cycle (step ). This process repeats every scan interval. Whenever the STA  is not canvassing, it restores the remembered management set power save mode. The scan interval may be for example twice per Beacon interval.","Stations that have not been set to Power Save Mode by management are caused by the STA  to act as if they've been set to Power Save Mode, with listen interval set to the minimum value (i.e., every Beacon). STAs  that have already been set to Power Save Mode by management will have the most amount of time to canvass.","During the canvass time the STA  tunes its radio to a different channel in order to passively listen for beacons and DRCP Announce messages. The STA  keeps track of which channels have been canvassed, stepping through all of the channels until all supported channels have been canvassed. The STA  keeps track of all DRCP Announce messages, and the power level at which they were received.","4.a.1 STA KnownAPs Table","The STA  receives beacons and DRCP Announce messages from all APs  within the range of its radio. These are processed to build a table of all known APs , the \u201cSTA knownAPs\u201d table , as shown in . The STA knownAPs table includes the following parameters for each entry:\n\n","The STA Known APs table  is built as shown in . For each Beacon or Announce message received (steps , ), the STA  checks to see if it has an entry in the STA KnownAPs table  for the AP-ID in the message (step ). If found, the STA updates the entry (step ), otherwise it creates a new one (step ), up to a previously set maximum herein referred to as Max APs entries (step ).","The STA  stores the following fields from received beacons in the STA knownAPs table entries:\n\n","The STA  stores the following fields from received Announce messages in the corresponding STA knownAPs table entry:\n\n","The STA  also notes the received power level that accompanied the beacons and Announce messages and uses these values along with the TP backoff values to calculate the distance to the APs in Banzais, as previously described. (Again, since non-DRCP APs will always send beacons at full-power, the TP Backoff value for these is set to 0.)","The Received Power and TP Backoff entries are lists, where each entry in each list corresponds to a Beacon or Announce message received for the corresponding AP-ID. The received power level value and correspondingly, the distance in Banzais, are subject to variability in the RF channel. The STA  saves a number of these distance measurements for each entry in the knownAPs table, so that it can use averaging to compensate for this variance, to be further described. For its own AP (i.e. the AP to which the STA is currently associated), the STA  averages over a relatively large number of distance values, herein referred to as \u201cLong Term Sample Size\u201d distance values. For all other entries, the STA uses fewer, \u201cBid Sample Size\u201d, distance values.","Additionally, the STA keeps an Age for each entry. The Age is reset to zero, \u201c0\u201d, each time an Announce message is received from the AP corresponding to the entry. Entries are aged as part of the STA Bidding process, described below.","4.b STA Power Adjustment","Referring to , an associated and registered STA  receives all Announce messages from the AP  to which it is associated. Upon receipt of an Announce message (step ), the STA notes the TP Backoff value in the Announce message and adopts that value as the STA's own TP Backoff (step ).","4.c STA-Bidding","Each time the STA Canvassing function completes a canvass of all channels, the STA  analyzes the information in the STA knownAPs table to see if there is a potential \u201cbetter\u201d AP  with which to associate. The notion of what constitutes a better AP takes into account the distance to the AP in Banzais, the available data rate, and the loading (number of associated STAs) on the AP, if known.","Referring to , the STA Bidding process operates generally as follows. When the canvass is complete and a sufficient number of samples have been collected on each channel (step ), the STA knownAPs table  entries are aged before other processing is performed (step ). The age of each entry is incremented, and any entries whose age exceeds Max AP Entry Age are deleted (step ). Since the age field is cleared each time an Announce message or Beacon is received, this aging process will eliminate APs from whom nothing has been heard for \u201cMax AP Entry Age\u201d bidding cycles.","As mentioned, the STA  uses averaging to compensate for variance in its distance measurements. It requires Long Term Sample Size distance values for the STA knownAPs entry corresponding to its AP, before it performs further processing of the table (step ). Once the STA  has Long Term Sample Size distance values for its own AP, it then waits until it has Bid Sample Size distance values for all entries in the knownAPs list at that time before it begins looking for a better AP (step ). This is to avoid making a decision to move to a new AP before it has sufficient information about the other APs in the network. However, to avoid the potential for waiting indefinitely, it will not delay processing the knownAPs list for any new APs that were added after it has Long Term Sample Size distance values for its own AP.","Working with the entries for which there are sufficient distance measurement samples, the STA  looks for a potential better AP. In summary, a biased distance is calculated for each entry, which takes into account the available data rate as well as the loads on the APs (step ). The data rate is deduced based on the received signal strength and the technology being used (i.e., in an 802.11 environment, the 802.11 mode of operation (a,b,g)). After calculating the biased distances for all of the entries in the STA knownAP table, the AP with the lowest biased distance is considered to be the best candidate and, if it appears better than its current AP (step ), a Bid is sent (step ).","More particularly, referring to , for each entry \u201cn\u201d in the STA knownAPs table (denoted KnownAPs[n]), the following processing is performed on entry knownAPs[n]. An index of \u201cmyAP\u201d corresponds to the entry for the AP to which the STA is currently associated, i.e., knownAPs[myAP] is the entry for the STA 's current AP.","As previously described, the distance field in the STA knownAPs table , knownAPs[n].distance per entry, is the distance in Banzais, to the corresponding AP, averaged over a number, Bid Sample Size, of measurement samples. As previously noted, this value is subject to variance in the RF channel. The bid selection process should preferably yield the choice of a \u201cbetter\u201d AP only when the new AP actually would provide better performance for the STA, and not when the new AP simply appears to be better due to this variance. The variance in the new AP's distance measurement is represented by a \u201cBid Sample Std Error\u201d value related to the bid sample size, and the variance in the current AP's distance measurement is represented by a \u201cLong Term Std Error\u201d value related to the long term distance sample size. It is advantageous to minimize the error in the distance measurement for a given entry n, in comparison to the STA's current AP. This is done by using a corrected distance that is set to the distance to the STA's current AP, if the entry falls within the sum of the standard errors on the two distance measurements. The corrected distance, \u201ccorrected_distance\u201d, is determined as follows:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0174","num":"0228"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00003","num":"00003"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"left"}},"thead":{"row":{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":"IF ( ABS [knownAPs[n].distance - knownAPs[myAP].distance] \u2266"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003(Bid Sample Std Error + Long Term Std Error)) (step 470) THEN"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003corrected_distance = knownAPs[myAP].distance (step 472)"},{"entry":"ELSE corrected_distance = knownAPs[n].distance; (step 474)"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}},"br":{}},"The corrected distance to each AP  is recorded in the STA knownAPs list. This distance is then used in conjunction with data related to the particular wireless environment in which the AP  is operating to derive an estimate on the expected load factor for the STA. For example, in an 802.11 environment, the distance and 802.11 mode (a,b,g) are used to retrieve the expected data rate for the STA  from the distance_to_rate table:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0176","num":"0230"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00004","num":"00004"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"left"}},"thead":{"row":{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":"knownAPs[n].data_rate = distance_to_rate [knownAPs[n].mode ]"}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"126pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"91pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"[ knownAPs[n].corrected"]},{"entry":[{},"distance ];"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"112pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"105pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"(step 376)"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}}]}},"br":{},"figref":"FIG. 31"},"Then, the expected load for this datarate is retrieved from the rate_to_load table:","knownAPs[n].my_load_factor=rate_to_load[knownAPs[n].data_rate]; (step )","An example of a rate_to_load table for 802.11 networks is shown in Table III in . One skilled in the art will realize how to implement distance-to-rate and rate-to-load tables from specifications for other wireless environments. The corrected_distance and my_load_factor parameters are determined in this manner for each entry n in the STA Known APs table .","Any entries in the knownAPs list that represent non-DRCP APs need to be given default values for their load_factors so that they can be considered by the Stations for associations as well. These default load_factors are derived from a default number of STAs per AP value that should be consistent across the network and a default \u201caverage data rate\u201d per technology. That is:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0181","num":"0235"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00005","num":"00005"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"21pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"196pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"if (knownAPs[n].DRCP_Enabled == FALSE) then"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003knownAPs[n].load_factor = STAs_per_AP *"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003rate_to_load [ default_rate [ knownAPs[n].mode] ];"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}}}}},"When determining the load of the STA 's current AP (myAP), when myAP is a non-DRCP AP, then its default load_factor value is preferably incremented by the STA's load on that AP. This helps to support a consistent view of the load of that AP both before and after a STA associates with it\u2014that is, since the STA adds its own load to the default load of its prospective (non-DRCP) AP before it makes a decision to associate with it, it must also add its load to the default load for this AP after it has associated with it.","4.c.2 Biased Distance Calculation","Using the my_load_factor to the AP , the load_factor currently on the AP  (received from Announce messages) and the corrected distance to the AP , the STA  calculates a biased_distance value to account for the loading on the prospective AP  in comparison to the loading on the STA 's current AP, as shown in . The biased distance is calculated as described by the following formula:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0184","num":"0238"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00006","num":"00006"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"203pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"knownAPs[n].biased_distance ="]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003knownAPs[n].corrected_distance *"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003(knownAPs[n].load_factor+knownAPs[n].my_load_factor)\/"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003knownAPs[myAP].load_factor)\u2003\u2003(step 490)"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}}}}},"Next, a biased distance to the STA 's current AP  is calculated to account for the loading on the current AP  relative to the loading on the prospective AP. This calculation is made as follows:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0186","num":"0240"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00007","num":"00007"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"203pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"knownAPs[n].my_ap_rel_biased_distance ="]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003knownAPs[myAP].distance *"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003knownAPs[myAP].load_factor\/"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003(knownAPs[n].load_factor+knownAPs[n].my_load_factor)"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003(step 492)"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}}}},"br":{},"b":"16"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0187","num":"0241"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00008","num":"00008"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"189pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003knownAPs[n].biased_distance_delta ="]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003knownAPs[n].my_ap_rel_biased_distance -"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003knownAPs[n].biased_distance"]},{"entry":[{},"(step 494)"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}}}},"br":{},"b":["16","496","16","16","498","500","502","16","504","502","506","16","508","16","510","512"]},"If a DRCP Accept is received with the AP-ID matching the selected APs AP-ID (step ), the STA sets its TP backoff value to zero (step ) and associates with the AP from which the Accept was received (step ). The STA  now sends a DRCP Registration Request to the AP (step ) and starts a timer (step ) to go off every Registration Timeout Interval. When the timer expires (step ), the STA  sends out another DRCP Registration Request and resets the timer. Upon receipt of a DRCP Registration Acknowledge (step ), the timer is disabled (step ).","If no DRCP Accept is received (step ) in response to the STA's Bid message after a certain period of time (step ), the STA remains associated with its current AP.","After the STA  has associated with a new AP, the STA  waits until it has collected a large number, Long Term Sample Size, of distance measurements to its new AP before it resumes this process of evaluating the knownAPs table for bidding.","4.d STA Movement Detection","When a STA  is associated with an AP , the STA  receives DRCP Announce messages from all APs  within the range of its radio. Referring to , once the STA  has collected Long Term Sample Size of distance measurements from Announce messages received from its AP  (step ), it can begin the movement detection process.","The STA  continuously collects Short Term Sample Size distance values to the current AP (step ). To detect movement, the STA  compares the distance to its AP , derived from averaging over the long term using Long Term Sample Size, to the short term distance, derived from averaging the most recent Short Term Sample Size samples. This difference is compared to a Moving Threshold value plus the standard error in these two measurements in order to eliminate false movement detection. A station is considered to be moving when the short term distance exceeds the long term distance by more than the Moving Threshold plus the sum of the errors in the two measurements. The following pseudo code describes this comparison.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0193","num":"0247"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00009","num":"00009"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"left"}},"thead":{"row":{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":"IF ((knownAPs[myAP].short_term_distance -"},{"entry":"knownAPs[myAP].distance) >"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003(movingThreshold + longTermStdError + shortTermStdError)) (step"},{"entry":"544) THEN"}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"84pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"133pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["\u2003\u2003moving = TRUE","(step 546)"]},{"entry":["ELSE moving = FALSE;","(step 547)"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}},"Once the STA  detects that it is moving (step ), and as long as the STA  does not detect that it has stopped moving, the STA  refrains from participating in the bidding process (step ), seeking a new AP only if warranted by the deterioration of its current association. If the STA  determines that it is no longer moving before the STA  loses the association to its AP, the STA  resumes normal operation including participation in the bidding process.","As in movement detection, to detect that the STA  has stopped moving, the STA  compares the distance to its AP , derived using the Long Term Sample Size, to the distance derived from the most recent Short Term Sample Size samples. The STA  looks to see when this difference is less than just the standard error in the two measurements to determine that the STA  has stopped moving. The following pseudo code describes this test.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0196","num":"0250"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00010","num":"00010"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"left"}},"thead":{"row":{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":"IF ((knownAPs[myAP].short_term_distance -"},{"entry":"knownAPs[myAP].distance) <"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003(longTermStdError + shortTermStdError)) (step 550) THEN"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003moving = FALSE (step 552)"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}},"br":[{},{}],"b":["16","554"]},"In accordance with the preferred embodiment, the previously described functionality is implemented in software in APs  and STAs  respectively. Referring to , the software is implemented in accordance with a layered architecture, such that it contains a platform dependent module that interacts with a platform independent module. This architecture is advantageous for porting the inventive functionality between different wireless architecture platforms. As shown each AP  includes a platform independent module  that interacts via an AP API  with an AP platform dependent module . Likewise, each STA  (one shown) includes a STA platform independent module  that interacts via a STA API  with a STA platform dependent module . In environments where the APs  are connected to each other via a wired network , DRCP messages may be passed directly between the APs  via the wired network . In environments where the APs are interconnected via only the wireless network , APs  interact with each other and with STAs  by passing DRCP messages to the respective platform dependent layer, which causes wireless platform specific protocol messages to be passed between the APs  and STAs  to implement the DRCP protocol.","Referring to , there is shown a representation of the AP architecture of  as it applies to in an 802.11 networking environment. The AP Radio Management Agent (ARMA)  is the platform independent layer of the software. The AP Radio Manager (ARM)  is the platform dependent layer of the software. The ARM software is actually implemented within several different 802.11 platform specific elements of the AP. More information on these elements can be found in the incorporated 802.11 specification.","Referring to , the Station Radio Manager (SRM)  is the platform dependent portion of the STA software. As shown, the SRM communicates with various 802.11 platform specific elements. The Station Radio Management Agent (SRMA)  is the platform independent portion of the STA software. Likewise, the AP radio manager is the platform dependent portion of the AP software, communicating with 802.11 platform specific elements. SRMAs communicate with ARMAs through the use of DRCP messages as previously described.","These DRCP messages are now described in further detail. Generally, DRCP messages could be encoded as standard LLC data frames, and the invention does not preclude such an implementation. But, according to the preferred embodiment as implemented in an 802.11 networking environment, DRCP management messages are encoded as new types in existing Class 1 Frames. DRCP messages are addressed either to a Group MAC Address, or to an individual MAC address, and are distinguished by the presence of the DRCP Protocol Identifier in the Protocol Identification Field of a SNAP PDU.","The DRCP messages are now described in detail as they operate on an IP WLAN. Some DRCP messages are transmitted as IEEE 802.11 MAC management frames of subtype Beacon on the wireless LAN only, while others are transmitted as data frames encoded as LLC 1 Unnumbered SNAP PDUs on the wireless LAN or the wired\/wireless network between APs.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0202","num":"0256"},"figref":"FIG. 38"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0203","num":"0257"},"figref":"FIG. 39"},"In accordance with the preferred embodiment, the SRMAs and ARMAs interact with the SRMs and ARMs to generate and\/or collect information needed to produce or interpret DRCP protocol messages. It is noted that the DRCP protocol could be implemented over non-802-11 primitives without departing from the principles of the invention. The following describes the primitives used in an 802.11 environment.","5.a Enhancements to Standard 802.11 MAC Service Interface","The ARMAs and SRMAs transmit and receive DRCP messages over a standard 802 MAC Service Interface, with some enhancement. The receive interface is enhanced in both the STA and the AP to allow the SRM and the ARM to indicate to the SRMA and ARMA respectively, the power at which DRCP messages are received. In particular, the semantics of the 802.11 MA-UNITDATA.indication service primitive are modified as shown by the underlined text, to add a received power parameter as follows:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0206","num":"0260"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00011","num":"00011"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"21pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"112pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"84pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"MA-UNITDATA.indication","("]},{"entry":[{},{},"source address,"]},{"entry":[{},{},"destination address,"]},{"entry":[{},{},"routing information,"]},{"entry":[{},{},"data,"]},{"entry":[{},{},"reception status,"]},{"entry":[{},{},"priority,"]},{"entry":[{},{},"service class,"]},{"entry":[{},{},"received power"]},{"entry":[{},{},")"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}}}}},"The received power parameter specifies the signal strength, expressed in dBm, at which the MSDU was received. The received power value indicates the current level at which the sending device is heard, but does not provide an indication of whether or not the sending device is transmitting at full power. The potential power level at which a device might be heard can be determined when the transmit power backoff (i.e., the amount, in dB, by which the radio is turned down) in use by the device is also known.","5.b Enhancements to the Standard 802.11 Management Interface","BSS Description","The BSSDescription Parameter contains a list of elements that describe the BSS. An additional element is added to this list:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0209","num":"0263"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00012","num":"00012"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"4"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"91pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["Name","Type","Valid Range","Description"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Received Power","Integer","\u22121 to \u221299","Indicates the power (in dBm)"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"at which the Beacon from this"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"BSS was received."]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}},"br":{}},"This mechanism is provided to allow the ARMA to send DRCP Messages encoded in 802.11 Management frames of type Beacon.","MLME-SENDDRCP.request","This primitive is used by the ARMA to request that the ARM send a DRCP Message over the wireless media, encoded in an 802.11 Management frame of type Beacon. As shown in , this is a special type of Beacon frame wherein the fixed portion of the Beacon frame is as defined as in the 802.11 standard, and the variable portion of the frame is replaced by a single information element that carries the DRCP message.","The primitive parameters are as follows:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0213","num":"0267"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00013","num":"00013"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"4"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"105pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"21pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"77pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"MLME-SENDDRCP.request","(",{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"Destination Address"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"Message Length"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"DRCP Message"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"Quiet Channel"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"CTS Duration"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},")"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"4"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"35pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"98pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Name","Type","Valid Range","Description"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["Destination","MAC","N\/A","A specific DRCP group MAC"]},{"entry":["Address","Address",{},"address as appropriate to the"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"message type."]},{"entry":["Message","Unsigned","\u20020 . . . 2312","Indicates the number of octets"]},{"entry":["Length","Integer",{},"in the DRCP Message field."]},{"entry":["DRCP","DRCP","N\/A","DRCP Message"]},{"entry":["Message","Message"]},{"entry":["Quiet","Boolean","FALSE (0),","Indicates whether the STAs"]},{"entry":["Channel",{},"TRUE (1)","associated to the AP should be"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"quieted for the Beacon transfer"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"by the transmission of a Clear"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"To Send (CTS) frame"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"immediately prior to the"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"Beacon transfer."]},{"entry":["CTS","unsigned","16 . . . 255","Indicates the value to be"]},{"entry":["Duration","integer","_sec","placed in the duration field of"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"the CTS frame. The value"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"represents the time, in"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"microseconds, required to"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"transmit the pending Beacon"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"frame, plus one short"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"interframe space (SIFS)"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"interval. This parameter is"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"only used when the quiet"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"channel parameter is true."]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}},"This primitive is generated by an ARMA to request that a DRCP Message be sent on the wireless media encoded in an 802.11 Management frame of type Beacon. DRCP Claim and Hello messages are sent in this manner. As previously described, the ARMA may optionally quiet the channel before sending a DRCP Hello message by first by sending a CTS frame. In particular, if the Quiet Channel parameter is TRUE, the ARM transmits a Clear To Send (CTS) frame immediately prior to the Beacon transfer. The DRCP Hello CTS Destination MAC Address is placed in the Receiver Address (RA) of the CTS frame. The duration field of the CTS is set to the value of the CTS Duration parameter.","The fixed portion of the Beacon frame is as defined in the 802.11 standard. The DA is set to the Destination Address parameter value, the SA is the AP's MAC address, and the BSS ID is the DRCP Default BSS-ID. The variable portion of the frame is replaced by a single information element with an Element ID of DRCP Protocol, with a Length field value of the Message Length parameter and the Information field containing the DRCP Message.","MLME-SENDDRCP.confirm","This primitive confirms the transmission of a DRCP message to the ARMA. The primitive parameters are as follows:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0217","num":"0271"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00014","num":"00014"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","pgwide":"1"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"4"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"112pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"112pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"MLME-SENDDRCP.confirm","(",{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"ResultCode"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},")"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"4"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"91pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"91pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Name","Type","Valid Range","Description"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["ResultCode","Enumeration","SUCCESS,","Indicates the"]},{"entry":[{},{},"INVALID_PARAMETERS,","result of the"]},{"entry":[{},{},"NOT_SUPPORTED","MLME-SENDDRCP.request"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}},"This primitive is generated by the MLME as a result of an MLME-SENDDRCP.request to send a DRCP message encoded in an 802.11 Management frame of type Beacon. The ARMA is thus notified of the result of the Send DRCP request.","Power Management Fib","As previously described, one way that a STA can support periodic canvassing is to indicate to the AP that it is in power save mode, thereby causing the AP to buffer the STAs packets while the STA is canvassing. This mechanism supports a STA's ability to indicate to the AP that it is in power save mode, without actually going into power save mode.","MLME-POWERMGTFIB.request","This primitive requests the SME to use the power save mode interaction with the AP to allow time to canvass other channels. The primitive parameters are as follows:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0221","num":"0275"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00015","num":"00015"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"35pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"140pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"MLME-POWERMGTFIB.request","("]},{"entry":[{},{},")"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"5"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"35pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"63pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"63pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"Name","Type","Valid Range","Description"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]},{"entry":[{},"Null","N\/A","N\/A","No parameters"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}}]}}},"This primitive is generated by an SRMA to cause the MLME to borrow part of the doze time (if the STA is in power save mode) or all of the doze time (if the STA is in active mode) in order to canvass other channels.","This request causes the SRM to:\n\n","This request prepares the SRM to:\n\n","This primitive confirms the change in power management mode to the SRMA. The primitive parameters are as follows:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0226","num":"0288"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00016","num":"00016"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","pgwide":"1"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"21pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"133pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"119pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"MLME-POWERMGTFIB.confirm","("]},{"entry":[{},{},"ResultCode"]},{"entry":[{},{},")"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"4"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"91pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"98pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Name","Type","Valid Range","Description"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["ResultCode","Enumeration","SUCCESS,","Indicates the"]},{"entry":[{},{},"INVALID_PARAMETERS,","result of the"]},{"entry":[{},{},"NOT_SUPPORTED","MLME-POWERMGMTFIB.req"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}},"This primitive is generated by the MLME as a result of an -.request to mimic power save mode. The SRMA is thus notified of the change of power mode indicated.","Power Save Start","This mechanism notifies the SRMA that it can begin to canvass.","MLME-PSSTART.indication","This primitive indicates to the SRMA the start of the power save cycle. The STA does not actually power off its radio and enter the sleep state at this point, but preferably, it should not transmit outgoing frames after sending this indication until it receives an -.request. The primitive parameters are as follows:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0230","num":"0292"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00017","num":"00017"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"35pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"133pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"49pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"MLME-PSSTART.indication","("]},{"entry":[{},{},")"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"5"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"35pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"63pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"63pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"Name","Type","Valid Range","Description"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]},{"entry":[{},"Null","N\/A","N\/A","No parameters"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}}]}}},"This primitive is generated by an SME to indicate the start of power save cycle. The SRMA is thereby notified of the start of the power save cycle.","Power Management Restore","This mechanism further supports a STA's ability to indicate to the AP that it is in power save mode, without actually going into power save mode.","MLME-PWRMGMTRESTORE.request","This primitive tells the MLME that it should restore the user-configured power save mode. This primitive allows the SRMA to tell the MLME that it no longer needs to lie to the AP about power save (that control over power save is passed back to the MLME). The primitive parameters are as follows:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0234","num":"0296"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00018","num":"00018"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"154pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"35pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"MLME-PWRMGMTRESTORE.request","("]},{"entry":[{},{},")"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"5"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"35pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"63pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"63pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"Name","Type","Valid Range","Description"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]},{"entry":[{},"Null","N\/A","N\/A","No parameters"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}}]}}},"This primitive is generated when the canvass mechanism is taken out of service. The receipt of this primitive causes the SRM to restore the saved power management mode settings and:\n\n","This primitive confirms the change in power management mode to the SRMA. The primitive parameters are as follows:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0237","num":"0301"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00019","num":"00019"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","pgwide":"1"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"147pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"126pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"MLME-PWRMGMTRESTORE.confirm","("]},{"entry":[{},{},"ResultCode"]},{"entry":[{},{},")"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"4"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"91pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"112pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Name","Type","Valid Range","Description"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["ResultCode","Enumeration","SUCCESS,","Indicates the result of the"]},{"entry":[{},{},"INVALID_PARAMETERS,","MLME.PWRMGMTRESTORE.req"]},{"entry":[{},{},"NOT_SUPPORTED"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}},"This primitive is generated by the MLME to confirm that the SME has executed an -.request. It is not generated until the change has been indicated. Upon receipt of this primitive, the SRMA is notified of the change of power mode indicated.","Power Management Fib Continue","Once canvassing is complete, this mechanism informs the SRMA that it \u201chas control\u201d of the radio and communicates power save state (awake or doze).","MLME-PWRMGMTFIBCONTINUE.request","This primitive tells the MLME that it's safe to enter the awake state and transmit frames if desired. The primitive parameters are as follows:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0241","num":"0305"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00020","num":"00020"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"4"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"161pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"21pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"21pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"MLME-PWRMGMTFIBCONTINUE.request","(",{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},")"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"5"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"35pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"63pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"63pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"Name","Type","Valid Range","Description"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]},{"entry":[{},"Null","N\/A","N\/A","No parameters"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}}]}}},"This primitive is generated when the SRMA is has completed canvassing. Upon receipt, the MLME enables transmission of user data frames, if necessary.","MLME-PWRMGMTFIBCONTINUE.confirm","This primitive confirms the change in allowed power management state. The primitive parameters are as follows:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0244","num":"0308"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00021","num":"00021"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","pgwide":"1"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"154pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"133pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["MLME-PWRMGMTFIBCONTINUE.confirm","(",{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"ResultCode"]},{"entry":[{},{},")"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"4"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"91pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"126pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Name","Type","Valid Range","Description"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["ResultCode","Enumeration","SUCCESS,","Indicates the result of the"]},{"entry":[{},{},"INVALID_PARAMETERS,","MLME.PWRMGMTFIBCONTINUE.req"]},{"entry":[{},{},"NOT_SUPPORTED"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}},"This primitive is generated by the MLME to confirm that the SME has executed an -.request. It is not generated until the change has been indicated. Receipt by the SRMA serves as notification of the change of the allowed power save mode.","Channel Out","This mechanism supports the ability to indicate to an ARMA that a channel has gone out of service.","MLME-CHANNELOUT.indication","This primitive reports to the ARMA that a channel that was previously available has become unavailable. The primitive parameters are as follows:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0248","num":"0312"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00022","num":"00022"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"126pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"77pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"MLME-CHANNELOUT.indication","("]},{"entry":[{},{},"Channel"]},{"entry":[{},{},")"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"5"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"35pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"70pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"Name","Type","Valid Range","Description"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]},{"entry":[{},"Channel","Integer","0-255","Channel identifier"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}}]}}},"This primitive is generated by the MLME when a channel becomes unavailable. Receipt of this primitive causes the ARMA to remove the channel from its channel map.","Channel in","This mechanism provides the ability to indicate to an ARMA that a channel has gone into service.","MLME-CHANNELIN.indication","This primitive reports to the ARMA that a channel that was previously unavailable has become available. The primitive parameters are as follows:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0252","num":"0316"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00023","num":"00023"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"119pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"84pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"MLME-CHANNELIN.indication (",{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"Channel"]},{"entry":[{},{},")"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"5"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"35pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"70pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"Name","Type","Valid Range","Description"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]},{"entry":[{},"Channel","Integer","0-255","Channel identifier"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}}]}},"br":[{},{}]},"This mechanism supports the ability to detect any other APs using the same channel.","MLME-BEACONNOTIFY.request","This primitive requests the MLME to notify the ARMA whenever a beacon is received. There is one indication for each Beacon received. An indication is generated any time a Beacon is received on the current channel. The primitive parameters are as follows:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0255","num":"0319"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00024","num":"00024"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"119pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"98pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["MLME-BEACONNOTIFY.request","("]},{"entry":[{},"Notify Enable"]},{"entry":[{},")"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"4"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"49pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"98pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Name","Type","Valid Range","Description"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["Notify Enable","Boolean","True or False","When True, indicates that the"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"PIOTE is to be notified of any"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"Beacons received. When"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"False, this mechanism is to be"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"disabled."]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}},"This primitive is generated by an ARMA when it wants to be notified of any beacons received on its own channel. Receipt of this primitive by an MLME causes the MLME to enable a mode whereby the ARMA will be notified if any Beacon is received.","MLME-BEACONNOTIFY.confirm","This primitive confirms the change in the beacon notification mechanism. The primitive parameters are as follows:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0258","num":"0322"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00025","num":"00025"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"119pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"98pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["MLME-BEACONNOTIFY.confirm","("]},{"entry":[{},"ResultCode"]},{"entry":[{},")"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"4"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"63pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"70pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Name","Type","Valid Range","Description"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["ResultCode","Enumeration","SUCCESS,","Indicates the"]},{"entry":[{},{},"INVALID","result of the"]},{"entry":[{},{},"PARAMETERS,","MLME-"]},{"entry":[{},{},"NOT","BEACONNOTIFY."]},{"entry":[{},{},"SUPPORTED","request"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}},"This primitive is generated by the MLME as a result of an -.request. Reciept of this primitive by the ARMA serves as notification of the change of Beacon Notify as indicated.","MLME-BEACONNOTIFY.indication","This primitive reports to the ARMA that a Beacon was received on the data channel. The primitive parameters are as follows:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0261","num":"0325"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00026","num":"00026"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"119pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"98pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["MLME-BEACONNOTIFY.indication","("]},{"entry":[{},"BSSDescription"]},{"entry":[{},")"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"4"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"77pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},{},"Valid",{}]},{"entry":["Name","Type","Range","Description"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["BSSDescription","BSSDescription","N\/A","The BSS Description"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"(including any additional"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"Description Elements"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"defined in 0) pertaining"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"to an individual Beacon"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"that was rceived."]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}},"This primitive is generated by the MLME if a beacon is received on the data channel. Note that a separate -.indication is generated for each beacon received, so the primitive parameter will only ever contain a single BSSDescription. Upon receipt of this primitive, The ARMA is notified of the Beacon and the signal strength at which it was received.","5.c DRCP Messages Preferred Implementation","The following describes the manner in which the above described primitives are used to implement DRCP messages in an 802.11 environment.  shows a summary of the DRCP messages that are used to implement the previously described functionality.  shows field definitions used in DRCP messages, as follows:","DRCP PreClaim",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0264","num":"0328"},"figref":"FIG. 42","ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0021","list-style":"none"},"li":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0021-0001","num":"0000"},"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0022","list-style":"none"},"li":["Destination Address\u2014DRCP All ARMAs Group MAC Address","Message Length\u201412","DRCP Message\u2014PreClaim Message","Quiet Channel\u2014FALSE (0)","CTS Duration\u20140\n\nDRCP Claim\n"]}}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0265","num":"0334"},"figref":"FIG. 43","ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0023","list-style":"none"},"li":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0023-0001","num":"0000"},"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0024","list-style":"none"},"li":["Destination Address\u2014DRCP All ARMAs Group MAC Address","Message Length\u201416","DRCP Message\u2014Claim Message","Quiet Channel\u2014FALSE (0)","CTS Duration\u20140\n\nDRCP Announce\n"]}}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0266","num":"0340"},"figref":"FIG. 44","ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0025","list-style":"none"},"li":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0025-0001","num":"0000"},"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0026","list-style":"none"},"li":["Destination Address\u2014DRCP All Agents Group MAC Address","Message Length\u201416","DRCP Message\u2014Announce Message","Quiet Channel\u2014FALSE (0)","CTS Duration\u20140\n\nDRCP Bid\n"]}}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0267","num":"0346"},"figref":"FIG. 45"},"DRCP Accept",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0268","num":"0347"},"figref":"FIG. 46"},"DRCP Registration Request",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0269","num":"0348"},"figref":"FIG. 47"},"DRCP Registration Acknowledge",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0270","num":"0349"},"figref":"FIG. 48"},"6. Movement Detection","As previously described, APs and STAs ascertain movement based upon evaluation of short and long term averages of parameters, along with expected error measurements. In accordance with an aspect of the invention, movement detection is achieved through application of a broader inventive concept that provides a way to ascertain the dynamic attributes of a system based upon short and long term averages of discrete data measurements. The principles of this invention apply to any system in which a discretely measured variable may change widely. For purposes of clarity, however, the invention is now described in terms of its particular application to wireless networks.","In a wireless network such as the one shown in , a wireless networking user (heretofore also referred to as \u201cSTA\u201d) is associated with an access point (AP). The AP provides associated users with network connectivity via radio frequency (RF) signals. Various APs are used to provide seamless RF coverage, so that when the user moves away from one AP toward another AP, the user will associate with the closer AP (or the AP that is more lightly loaded) and seamless network functionality is thereby maintained. It is therefore important to be able to ascertain the location of a user relative to an AP so that a determination can be made as to whether the user is currently moving. This allows the system to assure that the user rapidly becomes associated with the closest AP so the overall system performance is maximized. As a user moves toward or away from an AP, the received power level (i.e. the power of the RF signal received by the user from the AP) goes up or down respectively. Thus, one way to ascertain user movement is by monitoring received power levels.","However, received power levels can appear to vary greatly even when a user is not moving. For example, the opening or closing of a doorway can cause either a gain or attenuation in the user's received power level. A person waving their hand near the user's antenna can even cause a gain or attenuation in received power level. Environmental interference can also cause changes in received power levels. These various changes in power level can cause a user to appear to be moving when in fact he or she is not. This can cause the user to roam needlessly between APs, particularly in environments where APs are close together and their transmit power levels are lower than maximum power. Alternatively, variations in signal power due to these effects can mask the fact that the user is indeed moving. In this case, the system could fail to detect the motion and fail to associate the user with the appropriate AP.  shows an example graph of discrete measurements of received power vs. time for a user who is not moving. As can be seen, the inaccuracies in data sampling prevent any assumption of movement in one direction or the other.","As a more particular example, consider an 802.11a wireless network. APs in such a network provide a maximum bandwidth of 54 Mbps. Bandwidth drops with distance from the AP. Assume that adjacent APs have their transmit power adjusted so that each provides a 54 Mbps cell on the order of about 10 feet in diameter. A walking user might be able to transition through such a cell in 2 seconds. On the other hand, a user sitting at his desk (near the center of the cell, right next to the AP) who gets up and leaves travels only 5 ft, not 10 ft to the edge of the cell\u2014so, it may take the user only just over a second to be in the aisle and out of the cell. These examples provide a motivation for why rapid power estimates based on discrete measurements must be made. Increasing sampling rates increases accuracy, but this also causes more overhead in terms of wireless channel bandwidth, interrupt activity and processing overhead on the user device. Some user devices could be simple appliances such as phones, digital assistants, etc. and have very limited processing power. So a trade-off must be made between sample rate and overhead.","According to one possible implementation, power levels are measured at intervals over a window of time and a roaming decision is made. In an 802.11a network, when a user is about 1 ft from an AP whose power is set so that it has a 54 Mbps cell which is about 10 ft in diameter, the user's true mean power level should be about \u221238 dbm. Assume a 99% confidence interval around the true mean (i.e. the power level to be estimated) is desired. Yet, there is a variability to the measurements because of environmental effects (hand waving, etc.) as well as inherent inaccuracy in the implementation measurement itself. Assume these inaccuracies and statistical variability in the data result in distribution of the data with a standard deviation, \u03c3=15 dbm. Referring to , if only 8 samples are taken in such a statistical distribution, then the 99% confidence interval around this (true) mean is \u221223.4 dbm to \u221252.6 dbm.","The 99% confidence interval has a range of |52.6\u221223.4|=29.2 dbm, or about 30 dbm. This is about \u00b115 dbm. So, because of the variability in the signal, if only 8 samples are taken, all that can be known is that the \u201ctrue power\u201d lies somewhere between \u221223.4 dbm and \u221252.6 dbm and that such conclusion can be drawn with 99% assurance.","If less accuracy can be tolerated, for example 95% or even 90% confidence, the resultant range would be narrower. But, lower confidence intervals increase the likelihood of \u201cfalse positives\u201d. A false positive occurs when a user is ascertained to be moving when in fact he or she is not, causing the user to needlessly roam to another AP. It is desirable to minimize such false positives as they needlessly consume valuable bandwidth.","When a user doubles his or her distance from an AP, the user's received power decreases by 6 db. So, when a user moves from 1 foot away to 2 feet to 4 feet away from the AP (almost to the edge of the cell), the (true) average received power has decreased from \u221238 dbm to \u221244 dbm to \u221250 dbm respectively. But, as seen in , when trying to estimate the average received power from eight samples taken during this motion with a 99% confidence interval in the data, it cannot be ascertained that the user has moved. This is because the true mean is really unknown. All that is known is that it lies somewhere between \u221223.4 dbm and \u221252.6 dbm. So, when only these few samples are taken, it cannot be ascertained whether the user is moving away from the AP, getting closer to the AP, or not moving at all.","Of course increasing the number of samples taken decreases the range of error. If 20 power samples are taken, then the 99% confidence interval is \u221229.1 dbm to \u221246.9 dbm. But, taking lots and lots of samples will take too long unless channel overhead is increased.","Now consider taking n samples to produce an estimate, and then taking n more to produce a second estimate. The two estimates are then compared to see if a conclusion can be drawn as to whether the user is moving. If the confidence intervals around each estimator are large, e.g. 99%, then there exists a spectrum of outcomes and again it cannot be ascertained as to whether the user is moving toward or away from the AP, or not moving at all. In , to tell that the user is moving away from the AP with 99% assurance, the upper edge of the right confidence interval must be positioned below the lower edge of the left confidence interval.","Consider two basic scenarios regarding motion in wireless networks:\n\n","In the instance of scenario #1, which describes the very large majority of user activity in wireless networks, the accuracy of the power estimate can be greatly improved. In accordance with the principles of the invention, two averages of the received signal strength are maintained as above. But, one is the most recent Nsamples taken over a sliding window, and the other is a long term average, using Nsamples. So both a long term average and a short term average are maintained. Referring to , the confidence interval around the long term average is very small. The error in the estimate is almost completely removed. Therefore, the potential uncertain outcomes in the decision are reduced.","In , when the user is moving away from the AP, the upper edge of the right confidence interval will fall below the long term average (which has essentially a confidence interval of close to \u00b10 db.)","For a given application, one needs to ascertain how many samples (N) must be taken such that the long term average estimate has essentially 0 error. Also, it is desirable to ascertain how few samples (N) are needed in the short term average to be able to make a decision with 99% accuracy.","Assume a user starts at a position 1 foot away from the AP and moves towards the edge of the 10 ft cell. The goal is to find out how few samples are required to ascertain that the user is moving with 99% accuracy, in order to produce the most robust implementation from an overall performance perspective. If it were possible to \u201cperfectly\u201d measure power, a \u22126 db drop would be observed each time the user doubles his distance from the AP. Referring to , if the power level is \u221238 dbm when the user is at 1 foot, it is \u221244 dbm at 2 feet and \u221250 dbm at 4 feet which is almost at the edge of the cell. As can be seen in the Figure, when the short term average is \u221250 dbm and the upper edge of the 99% confidence interval is just below \u221238 dbm, then the confidence interval has a width of \u00b112 db. To achieve such a confidence interval, 14 samples (N) are required in the short term, given the previously assumed standard deviation of the data, \u03c3=15 db. With these 14 samples, the 99% confidence interval is \u221260.7 dbm<\u221250<\u221239.2 dbm.","In this wireless network example, it has been assumed that a user can walk from the center of the cell to the edge of the cell in 1.5 seconds. So, samples need be taken every 1.5\u00f714\u2248100 milliseconds. As a further improvement, it would be desirable to use 16 samples so that division can be done by a processor via a shift operation. This increases computational efficiency on the user's machine. This increases the sample rate a negligible amount.","Regarding the long term average, it may be reasonable to tolerate a \u00b11 db confidence interval around the long term estimate. The tighter this interval needs to be, the longer the user has to stay near the AP, or stay relatively stationary within a certain area, to cause the average to converge. It is desirable to calculate how little time the user needs to stay in place to achieve an accuracy of \u00b11 db with 99% confidence. Assume, reasonably, that signal strength samples are taken based on messages received from the AP every 50 milliseconds. Referring to the table shown in , it is seen that if the user stays near the AP (1 ft) for about 1.5 minutes, and samples occur every 50 milliseconds, the accuracy of the power estimate becomes less than \u00b11 db.","The preferred implementation for the current wireless network example thus utilizes: (a) a short term average over N=16 samples, (b) a long term average over 2048 samples, and (c) \u201cN\u201d which is the number of samples taken so far in computing the long term average. The process is as follows:\n\n","In an environment where users tend to remain in a cell for less than 1 second, the long term estimate could be used based on fewer samples. However, this will result in an increased risk of false positives. Several alternatives can be considered to mitigate the occurrence of false positives:\n\n","To generalize, in a system wherein particular dynamic attributes are to be ascertained (e.g. \u201cis the wireless network user in motion\u201d), short term and long term averages of a system variable (e.g. signal strength) are calculated. An acceptable difference between the short and long term averages is calculated which positively identifies the system characteristic (e.g. the user has moved.)","Referring to , the steps are generally as follows:\n\n","In  there is shown a block diagram showing a wireless networking system that implements the invention. A user (STA ) communicates with an AP  over the wireless network. The user sends messages to the AP that indicate the received signal strength from the AP as perceived by the user. These messages are collected by the AP (). A processor  in the AP uses the messages to compute the short and long term averages according to the process as described in . When it is ascertained that the user has moved, an indication  is set.","In  there is shown a block diagram of a preferred embodiment of a wireless networking system that implements the invention. A user device (STA ) communicates with an AP over the wireless network. The user message collection mechanism  receives messages from the AP and monitors the received signal strength of the messages. A processor or hardware state machine  in the user device uses the signal strength of the messages to compute the short and long term averages according to the process as described in . When the user device ascertains that it is moving, the user sends an indication or message  to the AP requesting to roam.","In  there is shown one mechanism that can be used by the processor in the implementations of either  or  to maintain the short and long term averages needed to perform the process of  to ascertain movement. Two ring buffers  and  are maintained\u2014one for the short term average and one for the long term average. Ring buffers are used so that power sample averaging can be accomplished over a sliding window in time. In a ring buffer, as a new sampled is added to the buffer, the oldest sample is removed. In the wireless networking example previously described, the short term average ring buffer stores the most recent 16 samples, and the long term average ring buffer stores on the order of 1024 or 2048 samples. Of course these sample sizes will vary depending on the application. It may also be reasonable to use an accumulator-based average for the long term average, but such an approach could be subject to buffer overflow.","A short term average  and long term average  are calculated based on the contents of the respective ring buffers  and . A comparator  uses a stored allowed range  and the short term average  and long term average  to produce the movement indication  in accordance with the process of .","In  there is shown an alternate mechanism that can be used by the processor in either  or  to maintain the short and long term averages needed to perform the process of  to ascertain movement. According to this mechanism, a ring buffer accumulates a small number of samples, for example 16, for computation of the short term average. Each short term average computation is saved (-). After a certain number of short term averages have been computed and saved, the long term average is computed as the average of all the accumulated short term averages. This approach is known as \u201cbatched means\u201d. This approach is advantageous for use in systems containing limited memory resources.","Though the above described aspects of the invention have been exemplified as they apply to wireless networks and, in some particularity, 802.11 networks, it will be clear to the skilled practitioner that the invention can be employed in any wireless communications environment, including wireless data networks, wireless phone networks, and wireless I\/O channels. All aspects of the invention may be implemented in either hardware or software. The preferred embodiment has been described as a software architecture because of its advantageous ease of portability between various hardware platforms.","It will be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations, and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations, can be implemented by computer program instructions. These computer program instructions may be loaded onto a computer, embedded device microprocessor (such as that found in an AP or STA), or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine, such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing the functions specified in the flowchart block or blocks. These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer-readable memory that can direct a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to function in a particular manner, such that the instructions stored in the computer-readable memory produce an article of manufacture including instruction means which implement the function specified in the flowchart block or blocks. The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer or other programmable apparatus to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide steps for implementing the functions specified in the flowchart block or blocks.","Those skilled in the art should readily appreciate that programs defining the functions of the present invention can be delivered to a computer in many forms; including, but not limited to: (a) information permanently stored on non-writable storage media (e.g. read only memory devices within a computer such as ROM or CD-ROM disks readable by a computer I\/O attachment); (b) information alterably stored on writable storage media (e.g. floppy disks and hard drives); or (c) information conveyed to a computer through communication media for example using baseband signaling or broadband signaling techniques, including carrier wave signaling techniques, such as over computer or telephone networks via a modem.","While the invention is described through the above exemplary embodiments, it will be understood by those of ordinary skill in the art that modification to and variation of the illustrated embodiments may be made without departing from the inventive concepts herein disclosed. Moreover, while the preferred embodiments are described in connection with various illustrative program command structures, one skilled in the art will recognize that the system may be embodied using a variety of specific command structures. Accordingly, the invention should not be viewed as limited except by the scope and spirit of the appended claims."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0005","num":"0004"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0006","num":"0005"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0007","num":"0006"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0008","num":"0007"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIGS. 8A and 8B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":["FIG. 9","FIG. 8"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":["FIG. 10","FIG. 8"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":["FIG. 11","FIG. 8"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":["FIG. 12","FIG. 8"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 13"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 14"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 15"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 16"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 17"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":["FIGS. 18A and 18B","FIG. 13"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 19"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 20"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 21"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":"FIG. 22"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":"FIG. 23"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIG. 24"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":["FIG. 25","FIG. 20"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":"FIG. 26"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":"FIG. 27"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":"FIG. 28"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":"FIG. 29"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"figref":"FIG. 30"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0034"},"figref":"FIG. 31"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"figref":"FIG. 32"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0037","num":"0036"},"figref":"FIGS. 33A and 33B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0037"},"figref":"FIG. 34"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0039","num":"0038"},"figref":"FIG. 35"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0040","num":"0039"},"figref":"FIG. 36"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0041","num":"0040"},"figref":"FIG. 37"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0042","num":"0041"},"figref":"FIG. 38"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0043","num":"0042"},"figref":"FIG. 39"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0044","num":"0043"},"figref":"FIG. 40"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0045","num":"0044"},"figref":"FIG. 41"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0046","num":"0045"},"figref":"FIG. 42"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0047","num":"0046"},"figref":"FIG. 43"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0048","num":"0047"},"figref":"FIG. 44"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0049","num":"0048"},"figref":"FIG. 45"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0050","num":"0049"},"figref":"FIG. 46"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0051","num":"0050"},"figref":"FIG. 47"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0052","num":"0051"},"figref":"FIG. 48"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0053","num":"0052"},"figref":"FIG. 49"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0054","num":"0053"},"figref":"FIG. 50"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0055","num":"0054"},"figref":["FIG. 51","FIG. 3"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0056","num":"0055"},"figref":"FIG. 52"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0057","num":"0056"},"figref":"FIG. 53"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0058","num":"0057"},"figref":"FIG. 54"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0059","num":"0058"},"figref":"FIG. 55"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0060","num":"0059"},"figref":"FIG. 56"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0061","num":"0060"},"figref":"FIG. 57"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0062","num":"0061"},"figref":"FIG. 58"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0063","num":"0062"},"figref":"FIG. 59"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
