---
title: Request initiated collateral content offering
abstract: A system and method in accordance with the present disclosure provide collateral information to a user receiving primary information via a first user interface. The system and method receives a user request for the collateral information. A context is defined from the primary information. A user's probable collateral information needs are derived from the context. The system and method then map the needs to one or more information repositories, and query the information repositories and retrieve collateral information satisfying the needs. The collateral information is presented via at least one user interface, which may include the first user interface. The system and method provide user controls via the at least one user interface to facilitate exploration of the collateral information by the user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08260874&OS=08260874&RS=08260874
owner: Northwestern University
number: 08260874
owner_city: Evanston
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20040112
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS REFERENCES TO RELATED APPLICATIONS","STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENT INTEREST","FIELD OF THE DISCLOSURE","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY OF THE DISCLOSURE","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS"],"p":["The present application claims priority from U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60\/439,280, entitled \u201cREQUEST INITIATED COLLATERAL CONTENT OFFERING,\u201d filed Jan. 10, 2003, which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.","The U.S. Government has no interest in the present application.","The inventive concepts relate to systems and methods used in presenting content to users. More specifically, the inventive concepts relate to systems and methods for providing content that is related or collateral to primary content.","The current broadcast model of television programs, and radio programs for that matter, provides no context oriented means of interaction with members of the audience. The producers of such programs have limited resources (e.g., primarily the time and expertise to delve to extended depths in all topic areas), and thus they generate programs suitable for the greatest number of viewers or listeners in their target audience, and one that fits within the time constraints of medium (e.g., television). All members of the audience, however, are not identical in their information needs and interests.","As an example, television broadcast news is one type of program for which at least some viewers may find themselves wanting for more information (or content). That is, news is insufficient for conveying complete and useful information to all television viewers, since the information needs or wants of all viewers differ. For the most part, a person's information needs are grounded in his or her context or task. Not only will such contexts and tasks differ among viewers, they may also differ for a given viewer over time. However, current systems and methods of presenting programs via television and radio, as examples, treat such programs as an end product. They offer no way for a viewer to quickly gain access to related or collateral information.","Research in the indexing and retrieval of broadcast news and in the retrieval of information relevant and useful to viewers of broadcast news has primarily focused on news summarization, the generation of personalized news broadcasts (i.e., \u201cpersonalcasts\u201d), and providing news on demand (NOD), see Brown, M. G., Foote, J. T., Jones, G. J. F., Sparck Jones, K., and Young, S. J., -, Proceedings of ACM Multimedia. San Francisco, pp. 35-43, (1995); Maybury, M., , Communications of the ACM, 43(2), pp. 33-34, (February 2000) (hereinafter \u201cMaybury\u201d); and Wilcox, L., and Boreczky, J. S.:, , HICSS, pp. 259-266, (1998). Also, related to this work are automated question and answer systems, which attempt to provide synthesized answers to user queries, see Light, M., Maybury, M., , Communications of the ACM, 45(5), pp. 54-59, (May 2002). A survey of much of this work can be found in Maybury.","These systems generally require explicit interaction by the user to attempt to communicate his or her context to the system or to know her needs up front and provide queries for the information of interest, so they are not particularly efficient from the user's perspective. However, the user often does not know the information that he or she wants ahead of time, and even if he or she does, communicating with an information retrieval (IR) engine is a task that is difficult to do proficiently, even for advanced users. In addition, as previously discussed, news stories that discuss a topic of interest to the viewer likely do not go into sufficient detail, and the use of many traditional IR systems by the user to retrieve additional information is subject to information overload. For example, use of Internet search engines, such as Google, to find expanded and useful information often result in too numerous potentially matching documents. Typically, many of these documents are similar, but not necessarily useful to the user.","A system and method in accordance with the present disclosure provides related or collateral information to a user receiving a primary information via a first user interface system. Such a system includes means for, and such a method includes the steps of, receiving a user request for the collateral information; defining a context from said primary information; deriving a user's probable collateral information needs from the context; mapping the needs to one or more information repositories; querying the information repositories and retrieving collateral information satisfying the needs; presenting the collateral information via at least one user interface, which may include the first user interface; and providing user controls via the at least one user interface to facilitate exploration of the collateral information by the user. The system works to present information that is not only relevant, but also useful to the viewer. This information is obtained through careful information source selection based on the viewer's context in real time.","In some forms, an exemplary method and system according to this disclosure may include providing collateral content automatically, as a companion or an alternative to request-based providing of content.","A system and method in accordance with the present disclosure provides related or collateral information to a user receiving primary information via a first user interface. Wherein, the preferred embodiment includes receiving a user request for the collateral information; defining a context from said primary information; deriving a user's probable collateral information needs from the context; mapping the needs to one or more information repositories; querying the information repositories and retrieving collateral information satisfying the needs; presenting the collateral information via at least one user interface, which may include the first user interface; and providing user controls via the at least one user interface to facilitate exploration of the collateral information by the user.","Generally, as used herein, the terms \u201ccontent\u201d and \u201cinformation\u201d are considered to be synonymous, unless otherwise stated. And, a user interface may include, but is not limited to, audio input and\/or output means, video input and\/or output means, IR and\/or RF signal input means or any other form of digital or analog input and\/or output means, or any combination of the foregoing. Also, as used herein the term \u201ccollateral\u201d content or information is considered to mean any content which has a relationship to the primary information; there are no particular restrictions imposed on such relationships.","In the preferred embodiment, broadcast television news is used as a representative program. Broadcast news was selected as an illustrative example because the news is fairly well structured and viewer information needs are easy to identify. However, those skilled in the art will appreciate that methods and systems according this disclosure may be implemented with other types of programs in any of a variety of forms of media. There is no limit to the types of television programs or content can be used, including, but not limited to sports events, political debates, sitcoms, movies, weather, music videos, game shows, soap operas, educational programs, commercials and so on. Methods and systems according to this disclosure may also be used with radio programs, so long as a means is provided for user interaction such that a request related to the primary information can be formed. Also, Methods and systems according to this disclosure may be used with any type of broadcast, such as those presented via a network (e.g., Internet, Web, and so on). The program may be live or recorded; it is immaterial. It is only necessary that a context can be defined with respect to the primary information.","The broadcast news content is used as an index of events and stories, as opposed to considering broadcast news to be the terminus of the viewer's exploration of the story. The system provides a gateway from this index into expanded and useful information, gathered from both general and domain specific information repositories, regarding areas of the news that are of specific interest to each individual viewer, as described more fully below. In the preferred form, the broadcast news is closed captioned (CC), so the content is available as fairly well structured text. This type of well structured information allows for relatively easy and reliable context determination. In other embodiments, other types of structure may be used, e.g., message formats, or cues within unstructured content could be used to define or determine a context for the primary information.","Preferably, the system provides television viewers with just in time information to fill their information needs as they arise. A viewer's information needs are grounded in the context of what she is currently viewing on television, referred to as the primary information or content. A representation of this context is built by analyzing the content.","A collection of probable information needs is derived from the context. In the broadcast news embodiment, a model is formed that identifies information needs for viewers of the news. For broadcast news, the model may identify five major dimensions (or areas) of information exploration: 1) related coverage, 2) focused opinions, 3) in depth analysis of the subject, 4) explanation of key entities, and 5) a general overview or background of the subject. Other, or different areas may be defined. Using a representation of the context to ground the information needs, the system provides content that will be useful to the viewer in exploring one or more of these areas. Each of these areas, for example, may be considered to define types of relationships to the primary content.","Each need is mapped to one or more information repositories, which are queried for the requested collateral information that will satisfy the viewer's needs. Categories of information repositories are identified for satisfying each of the specified areas of information needs. For instance, related coverage in the form of news stories about the same topic can be retrieved from online newspapers and other web based news media. These sources are most similar to the broadcast media and provide more breadth. A range of opinions can be provided on the same story by identifying opinioned or biased media. Information needs for understanding the story in more depth are fulfilled by detailed documents provided by domain specific information repositories, such as a business analyst's review of a company. The viewer may want answers to pointed questions about a person, country, business or another entity discussed or featured in the story. Searching repositories with specific types of content allows the system to present the viewer with in-depth information regarding the areas of interest. For example, if the viewer is watching a story about new progress in the Middle East peace process, news sources of opinioned information are presented, including newspapers local to the Middle East. Whereas, if the story is about a business, sources providing in-depth analysis and information about companies can be queried. Finally, some viewers may not have been following a particular story, but may have later developed an interest and require a summary of the story, which is provided by domain specific repositories, such as the history of a country.","Continuing with the Middle East example, if a television viewer is watching a news story detailing the most recent Israeli-Palestinian developments, and the viewer is not familiar with the situation and would like a history of what is going on, she merely needs to press an \u2018interest\u2019 button provided on her television remote control. The system will establish a representation for the viewer's needs, by analyzing the same primary content that the viewer has been watching. The system, as previously mentioned, will infer several information needs that the viewer is likely to have, including interest in 1) related stories, 2) opinions regarding the current story, 3) more detailed coverage of the current story, 4) a broad overview of the history of the larger story of which this story is a part, and 5) background and history of the key players.","The system will then dynamically select resources to query for information to satisfy these needs. In the above example, the system might query general news sources such as The New York Times, the Chicago Sun Times, and Google News to satisfy need 1), and to a lesser degree to satisfy need 3). Once the system has identified the story as being related to the Middle East, it can generate or obtain varied opinions on the story by querying the Jerusalem Post and the Cairo Times, for example, in order to satisfy need 2), which will also generate additional information related to needs 1) and 2). Information satisfying needs 4) and 5) is obtained by retrieving encyclopedia style entries (as well as maps) for countries in the region, as well as any political leaders mentioned in the story, from InfoPlease.com and Encarta, for example.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":["FIG. 1","FIG. 1","FIG. 1"],"b":["100","100","100","100"]},"With respect to , the viewer's interaction with the system may occur through a web enabled device , and through interaction with the set top box (STB)  directly, as an example. Device  may be any type of network enabled device, such as a personal computer, laptop computer, personal digital assistant, cellular telephone and so on, as could STB . An STP server  may be provided for general content management and support of STB , such as with cable or TiVo systems. As is shown in , a remote control device  may be provided with the STB , or with the cable or TiVo device, to facilitate viewer interaction and request generation. A viewer's interest is expressed by pressing, for example, an \u201cinterest\u201d button on remote  associated with the STB . Ultimately, this triggers the system to push content to a nearby display of device , for example. Or, interest may be expressed by the viewer directly browsing with the device  through a web interface (e.g., a web browser). The interest is expressed as a request that comes to a coordination server  by, for example, web enabled device  or STB server .","The primary function of the coordination server  is to interpret viewer interaction with the system, determine a list of needs, and then communicate with all of the other servers to satisfy these needs. When the viewer selects a link to primary information from the user interface, that request is mapped to an information template by the coordination server . Coordination server  retrieves a representation of the current context. In the preferred form, the context is determined from the closed captioning (CC) content processed by a data processing server . The context is used to bind parameters for the information requests specified in the information template that are needed by the query server . That is, the coordination server  uses the context of the viewer to determine what information repositories (not shown) contain relevant and useful information for the viewer. Such database repositories may take any of a variety of forms, including network accessible database systems and web sites and on-line real time information providers.","Once the database repositories are selected by the coordination server , queries are generated using query terms from database  and submitted to query server , which has access to the repositories via a network  (e.g., the Internet). Once returned to the query server , the data from the repositories is aggregated and handed off to the user interface (UI) server , which, along with direction provided by the viewer to the UI server , determines which collateral content is displayed and how it is formatted. UI server  formats the content by selecting a template from a selection of formatting templates. The formatting templates may be predefined templates related to the capabilities of the user interface of device .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":["100","301","303","305","307","309","311"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":["100","400","402","404","402","400","406","402","404","406","404","400","408","402","404","410","802"]},"The data processing system  may be coupled via bus  to a display , such as a cathode ray tube (CRT) or liquid crystal display (LCD), for displaying information to an operator. An input device , including alphanumeric and other keys, is coupled to bus  for communicating information and command selections to processor . Another type of user input device is cursor control , such as a mouse, a trackball, or cursor direction keys and the like for communicating direction information and command selections to processor  and for controlling cursor movement on display .","The data processing system  is controlled in response to processor  executing one or more sequences of one or more instructions contained in main memory . Such instructions may be read into main memory  from another machine-readable medium, such as storage device . Execution of the sequences of instructions contained in main memory  causes processor  to perform the process steps described herein. In alternative embodiments, hard-wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement the disclosure. Thus, embodiments of the disclosure are not limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software.","The term \u201cmachine readable medium\u201d as used herein refers to any medium that participates in providing instructions to processor  for execution. Such a medium may take many forms, including but not limited to, non-volatile media, volatile media, and transmission media. Non-volatile media includes, for example, optical or magnetic disks, such as storage device . Volatile media includes dynamic memory, such as main memory . Transmission media includes coaxial cables, copper wire and fiber optics, including the wires that comprise bus . Transmission media can also take the form of acoustic or light waves, such as those generated during radio wave and infrared data communications.","Common forms of machine readable media include, for example, a floppy disk, a flexible disk, hard disk, magnetic tape, or any other magnetic medium, a CD-ROM, any other optical medium, punch cards, paper tape, any other physical medium with patterns of holes, a RAM, a PROM, and EPROM, a FLASH-EPROM, any other memory chip or cartridge, a carrier wave as described hereinafter, or any other medium from which a data processing system can read.","Various forms of machine-readable media may be involved in carrying one or more sequences of one or more instructions to processor  for execution. For example, the instructions may initially be carried on a magnetic disk of a remote data processing system, such as a server. The remote data processing system can load the instructions into its dynamic memory and send the instructions over a telephone line using a modem. A modem local to data processing system  can receive the data on the telephone line and use an infrared transmitter to convert the data to an infrared signal. An infrared detector can receive the data carried in the infrared signal and appropriate circuitry can place the data on bus . Bus  carries the data to main memory , from which processor  retrieves and executes the instructions. The instructions received by main memory  may optionally be stored on storage device  either before or after execution by processor .","Data processing system  also includes a communication interface  coupled to bus . Communication interface  provides a two-way data communication coupling to a network link  that is connected to a local network . For example, communication interface  may be an integrated services digital network (ISDN) card or a modem to provide a data communication connection to a corresponding type of telephone line. As another example, communication interface  may be a local area network (LAN) card to provide a data communication connection to a compatible LAN. Wireless links may also be implemented. In any such implementation, communication interface  sends and receives electrical, electromagnetic or optical signals that carry digital data streams representing various types of information.","Network link  typically provides data communication through one or more networks to other data devices. For example, network link  may provide a connection through local network  to a host data processing system or to data equipment operated by an Internet Service Provider (ISP) . ISP  in turn provides data communication services through the world large packet data communication network now commonly referred to as the Internet . Local network  and Internet  both use electrical, electromagnetic or optical signals that carry digital data streams. The signals through the various networks and the signals on network link  and through communication interface , which carry the digital data to and from data processing system , are exemplary forms of carrier waves transporting the information.","Data processing system  can send messages and receive data, including program code, through the network(s), network link  and communication interface . In the Internet example, a server  might transmit a requested code for an application program through Internet , ISP , local network  and communication interface .","The data processing system  also has various signal input\/output ports (not shown in the drawing) for connecting to and communicating with peripheral devices, such as USB port, PS\/2 port, serial port, parallel port, IEEE-1394 port, infra red communication port, etc., or other proprietary ports.","In one embodiment, the system forms its representation of the viewer's context based on the content of the television broadcast, e.g., from the associated CC text. For live news broadcasts, CC is typically generated by a human transcriber, in real time. Although, automated speech-to-text systems or other applications could also be used to generate CC. Regardless of how it is generated, there are several conventions for CC that are useful, such as using \u201c>>\u201d to indicate change in speaker. Frequently for broadcast news \u201c>>>\u201d is used to indicate a change in topic. CC has drawbacks as well. For example, it is acceptable and expected, according to the CC standards, to paraphrase to control the rate of text for CC. Also, CC frequently contains spelling errors, and since it is generated live for news there is no editing to correct such errors. In broadcasts which are not live, such errors tend to be much less common, unless the CC is generated live at the time of transmission or presentation. Finally, the use of the \u201c>>>\u201d topic change marker is optional, and is inserted based on the judgment of the transcriber. While these issues make using CC as a word-for-word transcription less than ideal, the system tends to be quite tolerant to this \u201cnoisy\u201d environment.","The preferred embodiment uses a TiVo Personal Video Recorder (PVR) as its access point to the television broadcast. TiVo was chosen because of its current large market share. Additionally, there is a relatively large community actively working to extend TiVo's functionality and to provide tools for accessing its data. The TiVo box also provides the ability to store large quantities of video and have near instant random access to it for playback. The TiVo has been augmented with a program to export the CC contents (in ASCII format) called TiVovbi that has been wrapped by a server to export this data over TCP\/IP sockets, as is known in the art. Another server was placed on the TiVo to export the current state of the TiVo user interface (e.g. main menu, show menu, play back of video, etc.) and events generated by the remote, such as when the \u201cinterest\u201d button is triggered. These additional servers may be considered to be included as part of STB server  in .","It is important to note that the system is not dependent on the TiVo, but is capable of running on any system that is able to export CC, and optionally to export remote events generated by the user. A lightweight PC equipped with a CC decoder card would likely function just as well for providing CC data. However, such a configuration would not have all of the added advantages of a PVR, such as video storage and playback and added user interface features.","The data processing server  is responsible for analyzing the CC provided by the STB server  and for generating a representation of the viewer's context. Various approaches for constructing context representations can be used to generate a representation of the viewer's context based on the CC. Examples of methods and systems for constructing context representations can be found in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10\/629,602, entitled \u201cAUTOMATIC METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR TRANSFORMING REPRESENTATIONS OF CONTEXT FOR USE BY INFORMATION SERVICES,\u201d filed Jul. 30, 2003; and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10\/629,680, entitled \u201cMETHOD AND SYSTEM FOR ASSESSING RELEVANT PROPERTIES OF WORK CONTEXTS FOR USE BY INFORMATION SERVICES,\u201d filed Jul. 30, 2003, both of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entireties.","As CC is streamed in, the first stage of the data processing server  tokenizes the input into words, numbers, CC specific markings, and so on. These tokens allow the rest of the system to have a standard representation of the CC. As each token is generated, it is streamed into a parser that builds a general representation of the story.","The parser includes a segmentation engine, a classification engine, and an entity detection engine. The parser maintains a representation of the viewer's current context. This representation is comprised of a term vector for approximating the content of the story, which is dynamically adjusted as tokens are streamed into the parser. A term vector is a message comprised of one or more terms from the parsed CC; these terms are used to determine the context. \u201cStop listed\u201d tokens are words and symbols that are extremely undistinguishing (e.g., \u201ca\u201d, \u201cand,\u201d \u201cthe\u201d, etc.), so are not used to characterize the information context, or applied to the term vector. Detection of a new topic, and thus a new context for the viewer, is handled by the segmentation engine. When a segment change is detected, the ending segment's context representation is archived to the data store  and a new context representation is initialized.","The context contains not only the term vector representation of the news story, but also a list of topics the story could fall under, and entities specifically referenced by the story. All of the features of this representation are then used to determine what information would be useful and relevant to the viewer, and what repositories should be queried. In the preferred form, the system currently has two methods for segmenting stories. The first is to use the CC new topic marker \u201c>>>\u201d. The CC transcriber frequently enters this marker whenever she deems the topic to have switched. The transcriber must make this judgment without knowing what is actually coming up, as it is done in real time. The marker must be entered before she begins transcribing the next story. It is also optional for the transcription to include these markers. That being said, when the markers are present they are usually highly accurate. If there is an extra marker, it is debatable as to Whether it would be appropriate to generate a new context. Typically, when there is an extra marker a new side or tangent of the story is being discussed, and the system is quite tolerate of this. In fact, it is possible that the more fine-grained segmentation could be beneficial.","When these segmentation markers are not present, the system relies on cue phrases to detect the beginning of a news story. The vocabulary of cue phrases is based on typical segue way words, such as \u201ccoming up next . . . \u201d, anchor to reporter segue way, \u201cand now to our reporter in . . . \u201d, and commercial break and return from commercial break phrases, such as \u201cwe'll be right back\u201d. In cases where both are provided, the \u201c>>>\u201d CC topic change marker provides most of the information to the segmentation engine.","Tags for topic categories are generated by the classification engine. Examples of topic tags include, but are not limited to, \u201cmedical\u201d, \u201cMiddle East\u201d, \u201cweather\u201d, and \u201csports\u201d. Each topic has its own classifier, and it should be noted that the classifiers are not mutually exclusive by design. For example, if the story is classified as being relevant to the Middle East, the coordination server  will request information from repositories that are local to the Middle East. Whereas, if the story is classified as \u201cmedical\u201d, high detail sources specific to the medical domain can be queried. Term vectors are analyzed within a given topic, to see if a given term occurrence meets threshold requirements. A given story could be tagged by several classifiers. In the preferred form, information is only gained through positive recognition by a classifier of terms related to the topic. Negative information may optionally be utilized in other embodiments.","Each classifier contains a list of words and phrases, or a vocabulary for each topic. Each vocabulary may be hand-built, wherein entries may be selected based on their value as discriminators, judged by Term Frequency Inverse Document Frequency (TFIDF). In other embodiments, the vocabulary may be built in other manners, such as automatically, or it may be provided by a third party. The manner of building the vocabulary is not particularly significant. Each entry is given a value, again based on its discrimination value. The overall classifier is then given a threshold. Each classifier keeps a running counter that is reset for every segment. When an entry in the vocabulary is seen, the classifier adds its value to the counter. If the counter ever crosses the threshold, the classifier will then tag the story as being of the topic associated with that vocabulary.","It should also be noted that vocabulary entries can be made with negative entries, should there be words or phrases that are inversely correlated to the topic of consideration. However, this could raise a problem for stories that cross the threshold and then are brought back under the threshold by negative words. Currently the system tags the story whenever the threshold is crossed, and will not remove a tag from a story.","The third and final piece of information contained in the context representation is a list of identified entities. Entities are generally specific proper nouns that the overall system has extended knowledge of, which can be presented to the viewer. Examples of entities include, but are not limited to, the names of businesses or their products, countries, Congressmen, specific medical terminology, such as diseases or drug names, and so on. Entities are detected in a very straightforward manner. The parser is initialized with a mapping of sequences of tokens (i.e., phrases) to entity codes. When a known token sequence is seen, the corresponding entity code is then added to the current segment's context representation. It should be noted that a given entity code could have several phrases that trigger it, and a given phrase can trigger multiple entities, for example, the business entity code for Sony could be triggered by the tokens \u201cSony\u201d or \u201cVaio\u201d, and the token \u201cMicrosoft\u201d might generate entity codes for the business Microsoft and for the name \u201cBill Gates\u201d.","The query server  performs data acquisition from network accessible  sources, as well as providing caching support for this information. The underlying system for data acquisition used by query server  in the preferred embodiment, is based on the Info Source Adapter (ISA) system, known in the art. To gain access to a data source through the ISA system, a definition for that source must be written in the ISA system's XML based language. Requests can then be made to an ISA server (e.g., query server ) specifying only the information that is desired, along with any information that is relevant for the ISA system to gather the requested information. For example, to get the price of Microsoft stock, a request would be generated for \u201cstock_price\u201d and the variable \u201cticker_symbol\u201d would be bound to \u201cMSFT\u201d. The ISA server would then identify what information repository or repositories contain the requested information, a query would be generated, and the data would be retrieved and returned to the requestor. When many viewers are using the system, the caching implementation not only reduces load on the system, but also on the information repositories it uses, by shielding them from multiple (i.e., redundant) requests. It also effectively reduces source to viewer latency.","The results of the query are routed back to the UI server . The UI server  selects an information-formatting template based on the primary information being explored by the viewer, or context. This formatting template is then applied to the data generated by the query server , which was forwarded to the UI server  through the coordination server . In the preferred embodiment, there is a one-to-one mapping between information templates and information formatting templates, but this need not be the case in other embodiments.","While the foregoing has described what are considered to be the best mode and\/or other preferred embodiments, it is understood that various modifications may be made therein and that methods and systems according to this disclosure may be implemented in various forms and embodiments, and that they may be applied in numerous applications, only some of which have been described herein. As used herein, the terms \u201cincludes\u201d and \u201cincluding\u201d mean without limitation. It is intended by the following claims to claim any and all modifications and variations that fall within the true scope of the inventive concepts.","For example, several methods could be implemented for altering the segmentation engine when the CC topic change marker is not present. Concepts related to discourse cues and the idea of looking for orthographic markers could be implemented, as for example discussed in Hirschberg, J., and Litman, D., , Computational Linguistics, 19(3): 501-529, (1993). A real time implementation of Text Tiling for broadcast news could also be implemented when no discourse cues are present, as, for example, discussed in Hearst, M. A., -, Proceedings of the ACL, (1994).","Two methods of segmentation which could also be implemented were discussed Mani, I., House, D., Maybury, M., Green, M., -, Intelligent Multimedia Information Retrieval, pp. 241-258, (1997). One method uses cue phrases of fine resolution to detect four different categories of segments based on varying discourse cues. The other method detects a handoff between the anchor and the reporter, based on discourse patterns and the use of names. Not only does this method identify story segments, but it also identifies the names of the anchor and the reporter, which could be valuable to facilitate exclusion of these from queries.","The addition of other forms of media into the system can also be accommodated, as previously discussed. The preferred embodiment discussed the use of primarily Internet based information repositories, however, within the system itself there may be provided large quantities of content (e.g., broadcast news), which may be segmented and indexed before use. Providing access to these content segments through an efficient and easy story level interface would be highly useful and introduce greater flexibility and value into the system. In other forms, integration of the system with the viewer's television watching environment may be provided, such as merging information display with the television itself, and more natural interfaces potentially using speech recognition. In some form, a split screen or window approach may be provided in a STB, rather than requiring a separate device.","As previously mentioned, an exemplary system of this disclosure can be implemented for a wide variety of programs or for viewer interaction with all television programs. As an example, one type of television program to consider is sitcoms. Viewers of the evening news have different goals or needs for their interaction than do viewers of sitcoms. Capturing these differences in the viewer's context is important and will dictate what information is presented. For example, sitcom viewers would more likely be interested in fan sites, show listings, or plot and character summaries. Viewers might be interested in the actors and actresses, for example, learning what movies they have appeared in, or when is the next time they will be on TV, and so on. There are many different areas of television to explore, including: do-it-yourself shows, cooking shows, documentaries (nature, history, etc.), kids television, sports, and even commercials, all of which have their own context and method for which to interact with the viewer.","Beyond providing collateral content based on user request, in various embodiments, the present invention may include providing collateral content continually and automatically or as determined by triggers of various kinds monitoring the primary content, for example, a topic. Therefore, a system in accordance with the present disclosure could provide content as previously described, but as a function of the primary content without the need for a user request. In such cases, these other approaches to providing collateral content may be a companion or an alternative to providing content in response to a user request. Such other manners of providing collateral content could be provided as a function of a variety of factors or parameters. When provided automatically, the category of content (e.g., related coverage, focused opinions, in depth analysis, and so forth) could be predetermined or preset by the user or by the system, as examples, could be determined based on past history (e.g., categories most frequently requested by the user or the STB), could be determined based on the user's role (e.g., child, medical researcher, financial analyst, etc.), could be determined as a function of the freshness (or date) of available collateral content, or could be determined as a function of a strength of correlation with the primary content. Other implementations for determining the collateral information may also be used, including approaches for determining a category, individual content items or files within a category, and\/or individual content items or files among the categories.","The disclosure has been described with reference to specific embodiments thereof. It will, however, be evident that various modifications and changes may be made thereto without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the disclosure. The concepts described in the disclosure can apply to various operations of the networked presentation system without departing from the concepts. The specification and drawings are, accordingly, to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0061","num":"0060"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00001","num":"00001"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"center"}},"thead":{"row":[{"entry":"APPENDIX"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":"Acronym List"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":{}}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"4"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"49pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"112pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},{},"CC","Closed Captioning"]},{"entry":[{},{},"DB","Database"]},{"entry":[{},{},"HTML","Hyper-Text Mark-Up Language"]},{"entry":[{},{},"IP","Internet Protocol"]},{"entry":[{},{},"IR","Information Retrieval"]},{"entry":[{},{},"ISA","Info Source Adapter"]},{"entry":[{},{},"NOD","News On Demand"]},{"entry":[{},{},"PC","Personal Computer"]},{"entry":[{},{},"PVT","Personal Video Recorder"]},{"entry":[{},{},"STB","Set Top Box"]},{"entry":[{},{},"TF","Term Frequency"]},{"entry":[{},{},"UI","User Interface"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}}]}}}],"GOVINT":[{},{}],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The drawing figures depict preferred embodiments by way of example, not by way of limitations. In the figures, like reference numerals refer to the same or similar elements.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 4"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
