---
title: Mobile terminal application subsystem and access subsystem architecture method and system
abstract: A mobile-terminal platform system having an application subsystem and an access subsystem. The access subsystem includes hardware and software for providing connectivity services. The application subsystem includes hardware and software for providing user application services. The application subsystem and the access subsystem communicate via a defined interface. Each of the application subsystem and the access subsystem are adapted to be independently scaled.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07707592&OS=07707592&RS=07707592
owner: Telefonaktiebolaget L M Ericsson (PUBL)
number: 07707592
owner_city: Stockholm
owner_country: SE
publication_date: 20040527
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF EXEMPLARY EMBODIMENTS OF THE INVENTION"],"p":["This patent application claims priority from and incorporates by reference the entire disclosures of: 1) U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60\/510,578, filed on Oct. 10, 2003, and 2) U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60\/510,558, filed on Oct. 10, 2003. This patent application incorporates by reference the entire disclosure of U.S. Pat. No. 7,536,181, granted on May 19, 2009. This patent application incorporates by reference the entire disclosure of a U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10\/857,320.","1. Technical Field","The present invention generally relates to mobile-terminal platform systems, and more particularly, but not by way of limitation, to mobile-terminal platform systems that are readily scalable with respect to both access services and application services.","2. History of Related Art","Since cellular telecommunications systems were first introduced in the 1980's, mobile terminals utilized in the cellular telecommunications systems have become increasingly complex. Mobile terminals were initially designed to primarily provide voice telephony services. In later years, mobile terminals were developed that also included the ability to transfer user data not related to that of a voice telephone call. Such user data included, for example, data to be transferred over a dial-up network connection initiated via a personal computer.","Currently, so-called third generation (3G) systems are being developed. 3G systems combine high-speed access with traditional voice communications and provide a user with access to internet browsing, streaming audio\/video, positioning, video conferencing, as well as many other capabilities other than traditional voice telephony.","The Third Generation Partnership Project (3GPP) was established in an effort to ensure compatibility among several 3G systems being developed around the world. The Universal Mobile Telephone System (UMTS) is being developed by 3GPP to provide a 3G system that includes terrestrial and satellite systems capable of delivering voice, data, and multimedia anywhere in the world.","The drastically-increased functionality that is being included in cellular telecommunications systems via the 3GPP standardization has placed substantial demands on mobile-terminal developers to be used in the cellular telecommunications systems. This demand is exacerbated by the fact that a mobile terminal is a so-called resource-scarce environment that is limited in size, memory, and power. Mobile-terminal developers have traditionally designed, fabricated, and marketed substantially-complete mobile terminals that include all of the hardware and software needed for basic terminal operation, as well as the hardware and software needed to provide the features and capabilities desired by the developer or a particular user based upon their perception of market needs. As market demand has increased for mobile terminals with additional capabilities not traditionally found in mobile terminals, such as, for example, multimedia, including cameraphone features, mp3 players, videophony features, short range wireless communication features, such as, for example, BLUETOOTH, and Universal Serial Bus (USB) connectivity, the traditional mobile-terminal design, fabrication, and marketing approaches have not been able to provide the flexibility to quickly adapt to rapid changes in market demands or satisfy the diverse requirements of multiple users.","There is, accordingly, a need for a method of and system for a scalable mobile-terminal platform that addresses the demands discussed above.","A mobile-terminal platform system includes an application subsystem and an access subsystem. The access subsystem includes hardware and software for providing connectivity services. The application subsystem includes hardware and software for providing user-application services. The application subsystem and the access subsystem communicate via a defined interface. Each of the application subsystem and the access subsystem may be independently scaled.","A method of creating a mobile-terminal platform system includes providing an application subsystem and providing an access subsystem. The application subsystem includes hardware and software for providing user-application services. The access subsystem includes hardware and software for providing connectivity services. The application subsystem and the access subsystem are inter-operably connected via a defined interface. At least one of the application subsystem and the access subsystem may be independently scaled. Access to the access subsystem and the application subsystem is permitted only via a middleware of the application subsystem.","Embodiment(s) of the present invention will now be described more fully with reference to the accompanying Drawings. The invention may, however, be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein. The invention should only be considered limited by the claims as they now exist and the equivalents thereof.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["100","100","100","100"]},"The architecture of the mobile-terminal platform system  includes a functional split between an access subsystem  and an application subsystem . The functional split may be viewed as a separation between standardized communication protocols handled by the access subsystem  and end-user functionality handled by the application subsystem . The functional split may also be viewed as a separation between real-time control handled by the access subsystem  and high-performance execution handled by the application subsystem . High-performance execution refers to so-called best-effort execution, while real-time control refers to control in which meeting deadlines in a timely fashion is important. The functional split permits a more predictable performance estimate on the application subsystem  relative to platform systems that do not employ a functional split. The functional split may be used to permit the application subsystem  and the access subsystem  to be independently optimized and integrated for different responsibilities handled by the access subsystem  and the application subsystem , respectively.","The functional split may be used to permit the access subsystem  to handle critical functionality for type approval of the mobile-terminal platform system  and also to permit the access subsystem  to be utilized in a stand-alone mode as part of, for example, a telematics solution. The functional split may also permit use of various different operating systems on the access subsystem  and the application subsystem , such as, for example, OSE, SYMBIAN OS, or WINDOWS CE. However, the functional split need not be a mere adaptation towards an operating system in which the operating system only treats the access subsystem  as a modem, but can instead be, for example, a gateway as discussed in detail in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10\/857,320. The functional split may also be adapted to permit the access subsystem  to serve as a trusted entity that checks code to be loaded on the application subsystem  before the code is run on the application subsystem . The application subsystem  may be either untrusted or not-completely trusted.","The mobile-terminal platform system  includes a plurality of service stacks -, each of which includes integrated hardware and software components that provide various functionalities of the mobile-terminal platform system . The service stacks - include a plurality of service stacks -, which are part of the access subsystem , and a plurality of service stacks -, which are a part of the application subsystem . The service stacks - include communications stacks, a Universal Mobile Telecommunications Standard (UMTS) access service stack , a data communications (datacom) service stack , a basic service stack , and an interface (IF) service stack  being exemplary service stacks shown as part of the access subsystem . Each of the service stacks - includes integrated software and hardware, as shown in . The application subsystem  includes a plurality of application stacks, an IF service stack , an operation service stack , an application platform service stack , a man-machine interface and multimedia (MMI and MM) service stack , and a multimedia protocol service stack  being exemplary stacks shown as part of the application subsystem .","The IF service stack  corresponds to and communicates with the IF service stack . Data communications  and control  between the access subsystem  and the application subsystem  occur via the IF service stack  and the IF service stack . The control  is shown at a higher level on  relative to the data communications  in order to illustrate that the data communications  are a lower-level communication than the control . Each of the service stacks - includes integrated software and hardware, as shown in . The access subsystem  and the application subsystem  include an access middleware (OPA)  and an application middleware (OPA) , respectively. The access middleware (OPA)  has an application programming interface and a method of communicating with the application programming interface. In contrast, the application middleware  has an application execution environment and an application programming interface (OPA).","The access subsystem  is adapted to support connectivity, such as, for example, WCDMA (Wideband Code Division Access), EDGE (Enhanced GSM Data Evolution), GPRS (General Packet Radio Service), and BLUETOOTH, and may also include an IP-centric solution capable of routing data between different interfaces. The term EDGE, as used herein, means and refers to at least one of EGPRS (Enhanced General Packet Radio Service), and ECSD (Enhanced Circuit Switched Data). The UMTS access service stack  is adapted to handle standardized communications according to, for example, WCDMA, GSM, EDGE, and GPRS. The datacom service stack  handles data communications according to, for example, UART, USB, IrDA, UART, and BLUETOOTH.","In contrast to the access subsystem , the application subsystem  is adapted to support user applications, such as, for example, multimedia, MMI, and other user applications. User applications are applications that an end user of the mobile-terminal platform system  uses. The access subsystem  and the application subsystem  may, for example, be implemented on the same die or as separate application-specific integrated circuits (ASICs).","The basic service stack  is adapted to handle access-subsystem-specific support for an operating system used by the mobile-terminal platform system . The basic service stack  may, for example, include security functions, subscriber identity module (SIM) access, and system control. The IF service stacks  and  are together adapted to handle functionality required to interface between the access subsystem  and the application subsystem . Although shown as two separate stacks, the IF service stack  and the IF service stack  may be implemented on a single die. The IF service stacks  and  are both present regardless of whether implemented on a single die or not. The multimedia protocol service stack  addresses functionality above IP such as, for example, object exchange (OBEX) and BLUETOOTH application services.","The operation service stack  is adapted to handle system functions such as, for example, system control, system data handling, component management, proxy management, core application security, application cryptographic functions, smart card functions, and application terminal management. The application platform service stack  is adapted to handle services such as, for example, SMS\/EMS services, cell broadcast service, phone book service, platform accessory services, clock service, and positioning application service.","The MMI and MM service stack  is adapted to handle services such as user interface (UI) services, audio services and control, voice control services, graphics (display) services, image services, camera services, and video services. The MMP service stack  is adapted to provide application protocol services, including, for example, multimedia protocols, WAP protocols, OBEX protocol, and BLUETOOTH application services. The MMP service stack  may provide protocols for both packet-switched and circuit-switched bearers.","The mobile-terminal platform system  may be adapted to offer and support a range of different application environments for development of applications on the application subsystem . Each application environment has its own characteristics. An application environment is characterized by: the way applications are developed (programming language support, compilation, and linkage); the type of binaries executed (e.g., ARM object files, JAVA class files); the functional services that are offered; and potential restrictions in use. Support for multiple application environment alternatives facilitates a wide range of products with varying demands such as, for example, cost, ease of use, time-to-market, functionality set, size, and portability. The functional split may also be adapted to permit the access subsystem  to be trusted and check code to be loaded on the application subsystem , which may either untrusted or not-completely trusted, before the code is run on application subsystem .","The mobile-terminal platform system  is scalable in the sense that it enables the configuration of services required for development of cost-centric and size-centric devices. Such a configuration may, for example only provide a native application environment for development of small, efficient, and static applications. In contrast, using a runtime execution environment for non-native applications supported by the mobile-terminal platform system  would allow for development of more advanced products with support for, for example, both native and downloadable applications. Services provided by the mobile-terminal platform system  are typically abstracted from internal platform structures and data types; therefore, applications are unaffected by internal changes to the mobile-terminal platform system , as long as the functionality of the mobile-terminal platform system  remains unchanged.","The mobile-terminal platform system  typically offers an application environment for native applications. A native application environment provides functional services directly through the application middleware (OPA) . The application middleware (OPA)  may thus include support for dynamic invocation of selected native platform services. The access middleware (OPA)  and the application middleware (OPA)  may be viewed as a split Open Platform API (OPA). This split between the access middleware (OPA)  and the application middleware (OPA)  is typically invisible to application developers. Services that are located on the access subsystem  are typically not directly reachable by application developers from the access middleware (OPA)  or the application middleware (OPA) .","Data communication functions are divided between the access subsystem  and the application subsystem . From an OSI reference model point of view, the physical, data link, network and transport layers are located on the access subsystem , while the session, presentation and application layers are located on the application subsystem .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0034"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":["200","200","200","200"]},"Data communication stacks and external interfaces are placed on the access subsystem  in order to achieve better real-time characteristics, tighter integration, and enhanced value to users. The access subsystem  is adapted to control external connections; therefore, services such as always-best\/cheapest-connected can be implemented on the access subsystem . The access subsystem  may be scalable to support different network standards, such as, for example, WCDMA, GSM\/GPRS, and EDGE.","The access subsystem includes access hardware , the access hardware  including a central processing unit (CPU)  and a digital signal processor (DSP) , overall functionality of the combination of the CPU  and the DSP  being logically illustrated by the access hardware , the access CPU software , and DSP software . The access CPU software  is loaded on the access CPU , while the DSP  has the DSP software  loaded thereon. Functionality performed by the access hardware  includes functions performed by UMTS access service hardware , datacom service hardware , basic service hardware , and IF service hardware .","The UMTS access service hardware  includes a GSM\/GPRS\/EDGE (GGE) block  and a WCDMA block , as well as the DSP . In the access subsystem , the DSP  performs the functions of the UMTS access service hardware, including the GGE block  and the WCDMA block . Although the DSP  is shown as part of the access hardware , a DSP need not necessarily be part of the UMTS access service hardware  or included as a part of the access hardware  at all.","The GGE block  is connected to an RF block , while the WCDMA block  is connected to an RF block . Each of the RF block  and the RF block  is connected to a bandselect & switch block  for the purpose of transmitting via respective power amplifier blocks  and . The bandselect & switch block  connects, for the purpose of receiving, the RF block  and the RF block  to an antenna  via the power amplifier blocks  and . The UMTS access service hardware  also has a universal asynchronous receiver transmitter (UART) interface  and a pulse code modulation (PCM) interface .","The datacom service hardware  includes a UART interface , a universal serial bus (USB) interface , an IrDA interface , a BLUETOOTH (BT) interface , and a UART interface . The basic service hardware  includes a power management interface  and a subscriber identity module (SIM) card interface . The IF service hardware  includes an access\/application interface (AAIF) .","The access CPU software  includes UMTS access service software , datacom service software , basic service software , and IF service software . The access CPU software  also includes a hardware abstraction layer (HAL) . The HAL  isolates dependencies between software and hardware portions of the access subsystem . Also shown as a part of the access CPU software  is an access middleware (OPA) . The access middleware (OPA)  includes an OPA access module  and a proxy\/stub . No execution environment control is typically needed on the access subsystem , since the application developers can control the access subsystem  but cannot place any applications on the access subsystem .","For a given service stack - shown in , a corresponding combination of service software, HAL, and hardware shown in the access subsystem  performs analogous functionality. For example, the UMTS access service stack  roughly corresponds to the combination of the UMTS access service hardware , the HAL , and the UMTS access service software , such that the UMTS access service software , the HAL , and the UMTS access service hardware  together perform UMTS access services.","When an external operating system (i.e., an operating system on an application subsystem other than the application subsystem  shown in ) is used with the access subsystem , the external operating system will typically include all functionality present on the application subsystem , and may even duplicate some functionality located on the access subsystem , such as, for example, BLUETOOTH or TCP\/IP functionality. The external operating system uses the functionality available on the access subsystem  via a communication interface. No changes to the access subsystem  should be needed when an external operating system is used, if the external operating system is able to communicate with the access subsystem  via the AAIF .","In order to simplify for type approval and real-time requirements of circuit-switched voice call audio, circuit-switched voice is typically handled on the access subsystem . Thus, audio processing is typically performed on the DSP  and delivered via digital audio interface towards an application subsystem, such as the application subsystem . The PCM interface  makes type approval and test & verification easier. It can, however, also be utilized for, for example, telematics solutions or external BLUETOOTH solutions.","UMTS access services are performed by a combination of the UMTS access service software , the HAL , and the UMTS access service hardware . The UMTS access services include support for various wireless communication standards, such as, for example, GSM, GPRS, EDGE, and WCDMA according to 3GPP. The UMTS access services may include functionality for circuit-switched voice, circuit-switched data, packet-switched data, short message service, supplementary services, and cell broadcast. The UMTS access services may be adapted to support, for example, GSM\/GPRS\/EDGE or GSM\/GPRS\/EDGE\/WCDMA. The UMTS access services may also be adapted to provide full support for switching between WCDMA and GSM\/GPRS\/EDGE in idle and dedicated mode. HSDPA support may also be implemented.","The UMTS access services may also be adapted to support circuit-switched services to supply interfaces to manage call setup and handling. The call-setup-and-handling interfaces may include circuit-switched voice and data calls and provide functionality to manage calls by setting up, answering, and disconnecting regular voice calls, including emergency calls. The circuit-switched services may also have functionality to manage data calls in a similar way as voice calls. The UMTS access services may also be adapted to handle audio control of the access subsystem and basic functionality for positioning services. The positioning services may include, for example, support for assisted GPS and OTDOA.","In similar fashion to the UMTS access services, datacom services are performed by a combination of the datacom service software , the HAL , and the datacom service hardware . The datacom services typically include two types of services: 1) sockets services; and 2) COM-port services. A sockets interface allows applications to communicate with UDP or TCP connected services via an IP-based network using, for example, UMTS, BLUETOOTH, or USB. Both circuit-switched and packet-switched UMTS (e.g., GSM\/GPRS\/EDGE\/WCDMA) bearers may be supported. DUN server (PPP server) functionality may be provided for IP traffic over a circuit-switched UMTS bearer. Examples of clients that use these services are WAP and multimedia applications.","The datacom services may also be adapted to permit dial-up networking from a laptop or PDA using any of a plurality of physical interfaces, such as, for example, the BT interface  or the IrDA interface . Both circuit-switched and packet-switched UMTS (e.g., GSM\/GPRS\/EDGE\/WCDMA) bearers may also be supported. The datacom services may include PPP to support dial-up-networking service towards a packet-switched bearer from, for example, a laptop, PDA, or PC. RS232 services may be used to support dial-up networking from a laptop, PDA, or PC using asynchronous serial communication.","BLUETOOTH services may be used to support dial-up networking from a laptop, PDA, or PC using a BLUETOOTH radio bearer. In addition, audio and telephony control services for a BLUETOOTH headset may be supported. The BLUETOOTH services may include host functionality for, for example, WAP over BLUETOOTH. An IrDA service may be used to support dial-up networking from, for example, a laptop, PDA, or PC using infrared communication according to IrDA. IrDA may also be used for object exchange. USB service may be used to support a slave role in order to allow dial-up networking from, for example, a USB-enabled laptop, PDA, or PC according to the sub-class specification for Wireless Mobile Communication Devices. USB On-The-Go (USB OTG) may also be supported. An AT command service may be used to allow dial-up networking from, for example, a laptop, PDA, or PC via an external interface.","The datacom services may be enhanced with a network access point or packet-based UMTS network according to zero-configuration access to packet networks (ZAP). For access to packet-switched services, an SNMP server and a special-purpose MIB (for terminals supporting packet-switched services) may be provided as an alternative to AT commands and DUN server functionality.","The datacom service software  may include the following software modules (not explicitly shown): BLUETOOTH and BLUETOOTH driver; IrDA and IrDA driver; USB and USB driver; RS232, ACB and UART drivers; IP; SNMP; AT; and modem Services. Modem functionality is typically implemented via a connection between an external interface and UMTS. The modem functionality is completely handled by the access subsystem.","Basic services are provided by a combination of the basic service software , the HAL , and the basic service hardware . The basic services may include the following functionalities: SIM access; access security; system control; and distributed-component-model support. SIM\/USIM application toolkit (SAT\/USAT) services may be used to offer related functionality to an application developer. The SAT\/USAT services operate as a link between a SIM card and a user equipment (UE) that incorporates the access subsystem . One use of the SAT\/USAT services is to inform the SIM card about the outcome of proactive commands sent to the UE (i.e., whether the UE should return responses such as DisplayText or Select\/Item to the SIM card to notify the card about the result of the command).","The basic services represent general access services, such as, for example: system control; SIM; core access security; access cryptographic; access terminal management; component management; and proxy management. The system control handles power-up and power-down of the access subsystem. The system control also controls different operating modes that the access subsystem  can work in, such as, for example, radio-off. The SIM card interface  handles SIM, USIM, SIM AT, USIM AT, and WIM on SIM. The SIM card interface  is intimately connected to system security modules, as the security modules are the interface for applications towards security tokens on a SIM card.","Access cryptographic includes low-level security functionality needed by applications such as, for example, browsers and execution environments. Security hardware support may be included on the access subsystem . When the security hardware support is on the access subsystem , necessary cryptographic hardware is present on the access subsystem  irrespective of what type of application platform is used. A cryptographic interface towards cryptographic hardware may also be provided. Access terminal management handles secure remote control of terminal access-related security settings, credentials, and configuration.","The component management and the proxy management are related to the DCM technology used for the access middleware (OPA) . A component manager keeps a table of all installed components. When a remote component is requested, the component manager notifies the proxy manager, who sets up the needed proxy-stub pairs for the remote access. The proxy\/stub  takes care of the marshalling and de-marshalling of the communication.","IF services are performed by a combination of the IF service software , the HAL , and the IF service hardware . The IF services handle functionality required to interface between the access subsystem  and an application subsystem, such as the application subsystem . The IF services carry all traffic, data, and control, between the access subsystem  and an application subsystem, including digital audio between the access subsystem  and the application subsystem. Different quality-of-service (QoS) modes may be provided as a feature of the IF services.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0057","num":"0056"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 1"],"b":["300","300","200","300","200","200"]},"The application subsystem  includes application hardware . The application hardware  includes an application CPU . Application CPU software  is loaded on the application CPU . The application hardware  includes IF service hardware , operation service hardware , application platform service hardware , man-machine interface (MMI) and multimedia (MM) service hardware , and multimedia protocol (MMP) hardware . The hardware - logically represent functions performed by the application CPU  with the application CPU software  loaded thereon.","The application CPU software  includes IF service software , operation service software , application platform service software , MMI and MM service software , and MMP service software . Also included within the application CPU software  is a HAL  corresponding to each of the service softwares -. The application CPU software  also includes an application middleware (OPA) . The application middleware (OPA)  includes a Java EXE block , an Open Application Framework (OAF) block , an OPA block , and an SDK toolset . Within the application middleware (OPA) , the OPA  serves as an interface accessible by the application developer. Although the OPA  is shown in  as part of the application middleware (OPA) , implementation of the OPA  may physically reside on the access subsystem .","The application subsystem  typically handles all application services that can be configured to a specific product; therefore, the application subsystem  scales with the type of services needed and the performance of the services supported. The functionality of the application subsystem  may be exported to an application developer through the application middleware (OPA) .","The IF service hardware  includes an AAIF . The AAIF  interfaces with, for example, the AAIF  of the access subsystem . The operation service hardware  includes an external memory interface (EMIF) , an inter-integrated-circuit-bus interface , a battery interface , and a memory card interface .","The MMI and MM service hardware  includes a graphic acceleration module (XGAM) hardware block . The MMI and MM service hardware  includes a general purpose input-output (GPIO) interface , a keypad interface , a personal data interchange (PDI) interface , a camera data interface (CDI) , and an I2S interface .","The access subsystem  may be used in conjunction with an application subsystem such as the application subsystem  or other application subsystems running various operating systems, such as, for example, OSE, SYMBIAN, or WINDOWS CE. While the hardware and software of the access subsystem  remain basically unchanged, the chosen operating system may run on various hardware, including, but not limited to, the application subsystem . Depending on the interface method and hardware used, the operating system may need to be equipped with custom drivers or access-application communication devices to utilize the functionality of the access subsystem . How this is done will depend on the chosen operating system and on how much of the functionality of the access subsystem  is to be used by the chosen operating system and hardware.","When the access subsystem  and the application subsystem  are used together, the application middleware (OPA)  is typically the only interface that is exported to application developers. Thus, the application developers do not need to know the details of communications between the access subsystem  and the application subsystem . From the application developers' point of view, the application subsystem  and the access subsystem  typically are designed to act together as a single entity so that the functional split therebetween is not visible to the application developer.","OPA implementation within the access middleware (OPA)  of the access subsystem  and the application middleware (OPA)  of the application subsystem  may be according to at least two options. In the first option, the entire OPA (e.g., the entire combined functionality of the access middleware (OPA)  and the application middleware (OPA) ) resides on the application subsystem  and communications from the entire OPA with a platform comprising the access subsystem  and the application subsystem  is made via internal communications. In a second option, parts of the entire OPA that are access-related are implemented on the access subsystem . In the second option, any split of the entire OPA into two parts is not visible to the application developer and any proxy needs to implement function calls between the application subsystem  and the access subsystem . When the second option is utilized, the access subsystem  may be used in a stand-alone mode for, for example, telematics solutions, or together with an external application subsystem as discussed above. Communications between the portions of the entire OPA implemented on the application subsystem  (or an external subsystem) and the access subsystem  occur via the AAIF  and the AAIF .","Data communication functions are divided between the access subsystem  and the application subsystem . From an OSI reference model point of view, the physical, data link, network and transport layers are located on the access subsystem , while the session, presentation and application layers are located on the application subsystem .","For a given service stack - shown in , a corresponding combination of service software, HAL, and hardware shown in  performs analogous functionality. For example, the operation service stack  roughly corresponds to the combined operation service software , HAL , and operation service hardware . Thus, operation services are performed by the combination of the operation service software , the HAL , and the operation service hardware .","The operation service software  typically includes software modules for system control, system data handling, component management, proxy management, XML tool kit, core application security, application cryptographic functions, smart card functions, and application terminal management. System control refers to coordination of activation, execution, and deactivation of core functionality of the application subsystem . Persistent data handling (PDH) is used by applications to store data related to operation thereof in a structured tabular manner. PDH allows applications to search data or sort data. The XML tool kit is typically a generic module intended for both platform internal and external use, aiding applications with handling of XML documents. When using the XML tool kit, applications need only a rudimentary knowledge about XML and its syntax. The core application security module contains software reprogramming protection mechanisms, including factory flashing and secure software upgrading.","The application cryptographic module provides cryptographic services to applications such as, for example, a browser email client or a java run time environment. The cryptographic services may include, for example, cryptographic computation, secure storage and certificate handling. The application terminal management software module handles secure remote control of terminal application-related security settings, credentials, and configuration.","The operation service hardware  may include, for example, a mixed-signal ASIC that manages startup timing. Following a power reset, software typically takes control of the platform and voltages can be changed in power-saving modes programmed and activated using a hardware signal. Fully-automated voltage, temperature, current, and event watches can also be implemented to minimize loading of the CPU .","Application services are performed by a combination of the application platforms service software , the HAL , and the application platform service hardware . The application platform services may include, for example, SMS\/EMS services, cell broadcast service, phone book service, platform accessory services, clock service, and positioning application service. An MMS client is not necessarily part of the platform system itself, as the MMS client is typically realized on an application level. Functionality for the MMS client is typically exported via the OPA .","A messaging transport service may be used to permit an application developer to access processes that save, delete, create, and send an individual SMS or EMS. The cell broadcast service provides functionality for handling all messages received on a cell broadcast channel, which is a point-to-multi-point broadcast service. Phonebook services permit storage, retrieval, modification, deletion, and searching of records on a SIM\/USIM card or in a phonebook database. The clock service handles client application requests for time information derived from a UE real time clock (RTC). The positioning application service provides processes for handling positioning requests and verification procedures.","MMI and MM services are performed by a combination of the MMI and multimedia service software , the HAL , and the MMI and MM service hardware . The man-machine interface (MMI) and multimedia (MM) services support user interface operation. Services provided by the MMI and MM services may include: user interface (UI) services; audio services and control (including system sounds and music player); voice control services; graphics (display) services; image services; camera services; and video services.","The user interface functionality typically includes a UI server, which provides fundamental UI functionality, and a UI toolkit, which handles additional UI functionality. The UI server handles control of access to display and LEDs, supplies a window system that performs the task of routing input events such as keystrokes and touchscreen activities to the proper application, and schedules output of graphics and user notifications, except for sounds.","User input events, such as key presses from a keyboard\/touch screen and pen events from a touch screen, may be routed from hardware drivers, mapped into logical events in the UI Server, and directed to the proper application via the OPA . The applications can make use of input methods to translate raw input data into more useful formats. A general mechanism for invoking input methods is implemented in the platform system; application developers may add the actual input methods separately as extensions to the OPA.","The image services provide functionality to handle images in a variety of formats. Images can be decoded, encoded, or edited, and can be stored in internal memory or on a removable memory card. Images can be downloaded via the network or acquired via, for example, a built-in camera or camera accessory. Padding of images that are larger than the display itself may be supported, as may be functions such as zooming, dithering, cropping, and rotation.","The camera services offer functions for use of a camera server. The camera server is responsible for any internal camera. The camera services interface provides processes for: taking and storing a picture; starting and stopping the camera; retrieving and setting camera capabilities; using a viewfinder mode; and recording video.","Audio and video services offer functions to play and record audio and video to and from supported (stored) media files. A user can set volume, adjust audio band equalization, and choose the type of audio or BLUETOOTH accessory to use before playing content. The content can be stored in internal memory or on an external memory card. Audio and video codecs can also be used for streaming and conversational audio\/video functionality. Voice control services offer functionality for isolated word recognition, AMR-encoded voice tags, magic word, and voice-activated dialing or answering.","Scalability in the MMI and MM services is provided in terms of functional configuration and performance configuration. It is possible to add and remove multimedia functionality, such as, for example, functionality for audio codecs, video codecs, still-image codecs, three-dimensional (3D) graphics, and audio equalizer. Multimedia functionality influences RAM and flash consumption. It is also possible to remove hardware accelerator blocks, such as, for example, those for 3D graphics. The functionality is not necessarily completely removed; rather, performance may instead be reduced. Accelerator-block performance may also be configured by RAM speed and size. The MMI & MM services include all multimedia support excluding circuit switched voice call functionality, which is typically provided by the access subsystem .","Multimedia protocol (MMP) services are provided by a combination of the MMP service software , the HAL , and the MMP hardware . MMP services provide application protocol services, including, for example, multimedia protocols, WAP protocols, OBEX protocol, and BLUETOOTH application services. The MMP services provide protocols for both packet-switched and circuit-switched bearers. The multimedia protocols that may be supported are, for example, RTP, RTSP, SIP, and H.324M. The MMP services may also be adapted to support conversational multimedia services according to the 3GPP IP Multimedia Core Network Subsystem (IMS). The conversational multimedia services may include, for example, both real-time video and voice sessions (e.g., VoIP) and non-real-time presence and instant-messaging services. The control protocol for these services is typically SIP.","For video conferencing services, the H.223 and H.245 protocols may be supported. Other application capabilities can also be added, including, for example, data synchronization or MMS. OBEX protocol provides services for data exchange to\/from an external device and may be initiated either by an application using the OPA or by a client in an external device. The BLUETOOTH application services include processes for identification of available BLUETOOTH-capable devices.","The application subsystem  owns the analog audio interface. Thus, the access subsystem  must deliver a digital audio stream via an interface connected to the application subsystem . This interface is typically a PCM data channel over the access-application interface. During a circuit-switched voice call, the application subsystem must route PCM data to a mixed-signal circuit (not shown in ). This routing can be made in both hardware and software. However, the application can process the digital audio prior to delivery.","In terms of circuit-switched audio, the responsibility of the application subsystem  is to provide an audio path from the access-application interface to the interface of the mixed-signal circuit (not shown in ). The application subsystem  can introduce more audio processing, such as mixing in other sound sources and recording of an ongoing voice call. For non-circuit-switched voice-call audio, the application subsystem  provides audio codecs and only requests a data path between the access subsystem  and the application subsystem .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0084","num":"0083"},"figref":["FIGS. 4-6","FIG. 4","FIG. 5","FIG. 6"]},"Each of the exemplary implementations shown in  may be adapted to integrate EDGE functionality together with GSM\/GPRS such that signal processing is performed on a single DSP located on the access subsystem. Integrating the EDGE functionality with GSM\/GPRS functionality may allow prior platform work to be leveraged and also permits more flexibility in signal processing algorithms for GSM\/GPRS. In addition, reuse of common elements by GSM\/GPRS and EDGE may serve to reduce total costs. The DSP may be used for basic circuit-switched voice processing, such as, for example, noise suppression, adaptive multi-rate (AMR) speech encoding and decoding, echo cancellation, and acoustic compensation.","Further, in the implementations shown in , development, verification, and type approval may be simplified by separating access services, which are performed by the access subsystem, from generic applications. The application subsystems shown in  are typically built around a cache-based microcontroller. Although no application-subsystem DSP is shown in the implementation illustrated in , an application-subsystem DSP may be included in the application subsystem if needed. Moreover, even though each of the implementations shown in  includes a DSP for signal processing, implementations of a scalable platform system without a DSP are possible, and may indeed be desirable under certain circumstances.","As will be further illustrated below relative to , a wide scope of implementations may be supported by the platform system. In designing the implementations, consideration is given to various possible implementations that may be generated from the platform system and allowance made for the possibility of unique characteristics of a circuit included in each of the implementations as well as scalability of any common elements included in the implementations. Although each of the implementations shown in  is typically implemented using one or more ASICs, implementations using other components may be developed and utilized as deemed appropriate by a designer. As will be apparent to those having skill in the art, the platform system is scalable, such that low-performance to high-performance implementations may be readily developed with a minimal number of integrated circuits and to reuse already-developed software from a previously-developed implementation.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0088","num":"0087"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 4"],"b":["400","402","404","406","408","410","412","404","414","404","416","418"]},"The access subsystem  includes GSM\/GPRS\/EDGE hardware , a CPU , a DSP , and an AAIF . As noted above, communication between the application subsystem  and the access subsystem  occurs via the AAIF  and the AAIF . The CPU  may be a RISC processor such as, for example, the ARM7 processor. In the embodiment shown in , the access subsystem  and the application subsystem  are implemented on the same chip.","Various external interfaces are part of the application subsystem  and the access subsystem . For example, a camera interface , a display interface , a keyboard interface , a smart card interface , a multimedia card\/secure digital (MMC-SD) memory interface , and a speaker\/microphone interface  are included as part of the application subsystem . An infrared data association (IrDA) interface , a universal serial bus (USB) interface , and a subscriber identify module (SIM) interface  are shown and included in the access subsystem . A battery  is shown connected to the mixed-signal circuit . Each of the access subsystem  and the application subsystem  may have a plurality of general purpose input\/outputs (GPIOs) and\/or universal asynchronous receiver\/transmitters (UARTs), as indicated by reference numerals  and .","A shared random access memory (RAM)  is shown serving both the access subsystem  and the application subsystem . A NAND flash memory  is shown connected to the application subsystem . Although the flash memory  is illustrated as a NAND flash memory, any suitable type of flash memory may be used. For example, NOR flash memory may be used in place of part of the shared RAM , since NOR flash memory is capable of eXecution In Place (XIP), whereas NAND flash memory is not capable of XIP.","In the mobile terminal , both the access subsystem  and the application subsystem  baseband functionality are integrated onto a common chip. The mobile terminal  represents a cost-centric solution with minimal functionality and without WCDMA support. Therefore, no WCDMA block or associated radio-frequency (RF) support are present. In addition, because the mobile terminal  represents a cost-centric solution, the CPU  and the GAM  are typically less-expensive lower-performance modules than what would be used in more high-performance mobile terminals.","A memory system comprising the RAM  and the NAND flash memory  is chosen to have low cost without compromising performance relative to current, bandwidth, and other considerations. In order to reduce the overall number of chips, the application subsystem  and the access subsystem  are shown sharing the RAM . In a typical implementation of the mobile terminal , software for the access subsystem  and the application subsystem  is downloaded from the NAND flash memory  to the RAM .","As noted above, the access subsystem  and the application subsystem  communicate with one another via the AAIF  and the AAIF . The mixed-signal circuit  provides power supplies needed by the mobile terminal  as well as power management, audio amplifier, and level shifting for some external interfaces. The mixed-signal circuit  also includes audio functionality for transforming digital audio to analog audio and vice versa. The mixed-signal circuit  shown in  will also be used in the mobile terminals shown in ; however, low dropout regulators (LDOs) not present in the mobile terminal  will typically be supported in higher-end mobile terminals.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0095","num":"0094"},"figref":"FIG. 5","b":["500","400","500","502","504","402","502","505","506","508","508","422","506","509","510"]},"The WCDMA block  is connected to a WCDMA transmit block . The WCDMA transmit block is connected to a power amplifier block . In addition, the access subsystem  is served by a dedicated RAM . The access subsystem , the WCDMA transmit block , the GSM\/GPRS\/EDGE transmit block , the power amplifier block , and the power amplifier block  are typically implemented on the same chip. The application subsystem  includes a CPU . The CPU  may be a RISC processor identical to the CPU  or one having different capabilities than the CPU . For example, the CPU  may be an ARM9 processor.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0097","num":"0096"},"figref":"FIG. 6","b":["600","600","500","502","600","502","600"]},"A performance upgrade to the mobile terminal  relative to the mobile terminal  is focused upon an application subsystem  of the mobile terminal . The application subsystem  includes a CPU . The CPU  is more powerful than the CPU  and may be, for example, an ARM11 processor. The application subsystem  also includes the AAIF , which is identical to the AAIF  in the application subsystem  and in the application subsystem . However, the application subsystem  includes more graphic and multimedia support than the application subsystem  as indicated by a GAM+MULTIMEDIA HW ACCELATOR (GMMA) module . The inclusion of the CPU  and the GMMA module  allow the mobile terminal  to be targeted towards high-end applications such as, for example, smart phones or personal digital assistants (PDAs).","A memories block  is shown connected to the application subsystem . The memories block  is shown as a blank box because the type, amount, and configuration of the memories block  is dependent upon the applications to be run on the mobile terminal  and therefore could vary greatly.","A NAND flash memory  is shown connected to the access subsystem . The NAND flash memory  is shown as sharing a bus with the RAM . In the configuration shown in , it might not always be possible to download from the application subsystem , particularly if the access subsystem  needs its own non-volatile memory. Thus, the NAND flash memory  may be used to download data to the access subsystem . The NAND flash memory , although shown as being in a NAND configuration, may also be, for example, NOR flash one or two bit cell technology or a NAND flash memory realized as NAND with a NOR flash interface (e.g., MMDOC), since the interface between the NAND flash memory and the RAM  and the access subsystem  is the only supported interface to the access subsystem . However, it is also possible that the NAND flash memory  could be moved to access the application subsystem  in similar fashion to that shown with respect to the mobile terminal .","In various embodiments of the invention, watch-dog-timers are provided in both the access subsystem  and the application subsystem , as well as in a mixed-signal part, in an effort to ensure that any single subsystem failure may be readily handled. The previous Description is of embodiment(s) of the invention. The scope of the invention should not necessarily be limited by this Description. The scope of the present invention is instead defined by the following claims and the equivalents thereof."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["A more complete understanding of the present invention may be obtained by reference to the following Detailed Description of Exemplary Embodiments of the Invention, when taken in conjunction with the accompanying Drawings, wherein:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 6"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
