---
title: Methods and apparatus for safe, fault-tolerant control of complex technical systems
abstract: A system to control a dynamic system, comprising actuators, sensors, a control module and a plurality of observers to monitor the state of the actuators is disclosed. Certain embodiments of the invention comprise a global failure detection and identification module, a baseline controller, and a retrofit controller. Methods to control the dynamic system are disclosed. Some of the methods utilize a second-order mathematical model of the dynamics of the actuators. In some embodiments, this mathematical model is parameterized by a loss-of-effectiveness (LOE) parameter and a lock-in-place (LIP) parameter. The method may further comprise the step of detecting disturbance conditions and structural damage conditions.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07454255&OS=07454255&RS=07454255
owner: Scientific Systems Company, Inc.
number: 07454255
owner_city: Woburn
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20041015
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS","FIELD OF THE INVENTION","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","PRIOR ART","DISADVANTAGES OR LIMITATION OF PRIOR ART","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","OVERALL DESCRIPTION OF A PREFERRED EMBODIMENT","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF PREFERRED EMBODIMENT","System Model and Failure Representation","Second-Order Actuator Dynamics with Measurable Rate","Second-Order Dynamics with Non-Measurable rates","Global FDI Subsystem","Disturbance Rejection Subsystem","Adaptive Retrofit Reconfigurable Controller","REFERENCES"],"p":["This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60\/528,085, filed Dec. 9, 2003, entitled \u201cMethods and apparatus for safe, fault-tolerant control of complex technical systems\u201d.","The invention relates to the field of Fault Tolerant Control Systems (FTCS), including the fields of Failure Detection and Identification (FDI) and Adaptive Reconfigurable Control (ARC). In particular, the invention relates to an adaptive, reconfigurable retrofit control system that may be implemented in conjunction with a baseline control system.","Contemporary technical systems such as processing or power plants, aerial and space vehicles, and air traffic management system are characterized by a large number of highly complex and interconnected subsystems. A typical complex system consists of a large number of subsystems and components such as sensors, actuators, power supplies, and control computers. All these components and subsystems are prone to failures either due to the wear and tear, or due to manufacturing flaws or improper usage. Failures or other faults in such subsystem or components, if not properly accommodated for, may lead to catastrophic consequences. Hardware redundancy is one way in which the deleterious effect of faults and failures on the system performance can be prevented. The resulting system consists of double, triple, or quadruple redundant sensors, actuators and control computers which substantially increases costs of the system. For this reason the concept of software redundancy, also referred to as the analytic redundancy has attracted a lot of attention in different areas of engineering. The realted techniques have been shown to be able to compensate for actuator faults and failures by redistributing the control effort among the healthy actuators, and using healthy sensors to infer the measurements from failed sensors. This concept has found particularly fertile ground in the area of flight control.","An important aspect of aviation safety for manned aircraft and Intelligent Autonomy for Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAV) is on-line Failure Detection, Identification and Reconfiguration (FDIR) whose role is to quickly and accurately detect and identify subsystem and\/or component failures, distinguish between failures and disturbances, and achieve effective control reconfiguration that maintains the performance of the vehicle close to the desired one. While there are many results available regarding detection, identification and accommodation of different types of failures and upsets, there have been virtually no attempts to arrive at a fully integrated Fault Management System (FMS) that would constantly monitor the vehicle's health and take appropriate actions in the presence of many different types of failures and disturbances even when they occur simultaneously. Current approach to this problem is to design separately FDIR systems for sensors failures, control effector or actuator failures, and structural damage, and integrate them with the reconfigurable controller. Due to the heterogeneous nature of such a system, its Verification and Validation (V&V) is often a tedious process of demonstrating that the system will achieve the desired performance under a variety of circumstances. Hence there is a need to develop a fully functional modular FDIR system whose design is integrated from the outset so that the FDI algorithms for a large number of different failures and upsets are developed in concert with the reconfigurable control laws. This enables easy integration, guarantees certain properties of the overall system, and, consequently, simplifies its V&V process.","Substantial development time and cost is involved in the certification of flight control software for aircraft. Current software validation and verification methods used during the certification process are based on extensive and tedious computer simulations of the flight control algorithms on high-fidelity piloted aircraft simulators in different flight regimes. While this high level of development time and cost may be acceptable during the development of a new aircraft, it is often difficult to justify during upgrades to an existing aircraft. As a result, in many cases only incremental changes to flight control software are considered when upgrading an aircraft and\/or software. Confining the scope of changes in this fashion shortens the time and cost associated with validation, verification, and certification while still assuring that flight control system and aircraft will perform as desired. In contrast, implementing completely new control algorithms for existing aircraft would require the corresponding control software to repeat the entire validation, verification, and software certification process.","Existing failure detection, identification and reconfiguration (FDIR) techniques for technical systems often involve control systems having two main subsystems, namely, a failure detection and identification (FDI) subsystem and a reconfigurable control subsystem that can be either adaptive or non-adaptive. In many situations it is beneficial to retain the original nominal or baseline controller whose design has evolved over long periods of time, and which achieves desired control objectives in the nominal (i.e., no failure\/fault\/damage) case while upgrading the reconfigurable controller. In such situations, the reconfigurable controller may be implemented as a retrofit module (i.e., as an add-on signal) that enables the designer to retain the nominal baseline controller designed for the no-failure\/fault\/damage case, even while achieving all the benefits of adaptive reconfigurable control for failure\/fault\/damage accommodation.","Even though the idea of retrofit control is appealing due to the ability to retain a \u201ctrusted\u201d baseline controller, work in this area in the context of FDIR has been limited. Existing approaches tend, for example, to assume that the failures are described by a constant vector. This substantially narrows the class of failures that can be handled, since many failures result in perturbations that can be described as both time-varying and\/or state dependent disturbances.","Some approaches utilize on-line estimation of a large number of parameters, which are used in the reconfigurable control law. These approaches may not be viable as a practical matter, and in any case, verification and validation of such systems represents a formidable problem. In addition, on-line adjustment of a large number of parameters inevitably slows down the failure detection and identification process, which may result in performance deterioration and system instability.","On-line FDI and adaptive reconfigurable control has been an area of active research. For instance, in the area of flight control, several techniques have been developed and some of them have been flight tested [3] [7] [8]. Direct adaptive reconfigurable control algorithms that use feed-forward neural networks for failure compensation were developed in [4] and used by Boeing under the RESTORE program [8] [3]. These algorithms were tested under a limited number of single failure cases through flight tests of X-36 UAV. Indirect adaptive control has been used in the context of FDIR in [7] [2][5] where a large number of parameters was adjusted to achieve the objective, resulting in slow FDI and transients during control reconfiguration. FDIR algorithms based on the concept of Multiple Models, Switching and Tuning (MMST) were developed in [22] [13], and indirect adaptive control-based FDIR algorithms that adjust only a few estimates of failure-related parameters were developed in [15] [10]. Both types of algorithms can handle both Lock-In-Place (LIP) and Loss-Of-Effectiveness (LOE) failures. While the MMST-based algorithms are well suited for zero-order actuator dynamics, the algorithms from [15] [10] can handle first-order actuator dynamics. Algorithms from [10] can also reject state-dependent disturbances. References [21] [20][19] describe an indirect adaptive control system for accommodation of wing damage for the Boeing's Tailless Advanced Fighter Aircraft (TAFA). An initial design of the retrofit adaptive reconfigurable controller for control effector failure accommodation is given in [12]. Initial discussion on the design of integrated FDIR systems is given in [9].","Reference [23] describes a patent on a fault tolerant automatic control system utilizing analytic redundancy. The major difference between the said patent and the aparatus and method described here is that the former is well suited for sensor failures only, while the latter addresses the problem of actuator and control effector failures. These are two very different problems since the sensor failure affects only the measurement vector and the corresponding state estimate while the control actuators are intact, and commonly does not destabilize the system even when the failure is not compensated for. On the other hand, the actuator or control effector failures directly affect the plant, and need to be compensated for using the remaining operational actuators or control effectors to maintain the stability of the system. Hence the compensation mechanisms are completely different, and the case of actuator or control effector failures is also much more critical from the system safety point of view since fast control reconfiguration is needed to prevent the performance deterioration and system instability.","The disadvantages of the existing results in the area of aircraft FDIR are:\n\n","In one aspect, the present invention relates to adaptive, reconfigurable control systems. In one embodiment, an adaptive reconfigurable control system is implemented in conjunction with a baseline control system. In another embodiment, on-line failure detection and identification, and control system reconfiguration functionality are implemented in a control system. In still another embodiment, an adaptable reconfigurable controller is implemented as a retrofit controller (i.e., producing an add-on signal) that functions in conjunction with a nominal (or baseline) controller. This permits retention of the nominal controller.","In a second aspect, the invention addresses control system performance issues associated with actuator failures, control effector failures, and damage to the system (e.g., an aircraft). By way of example, an actuator failure occurs when a hydraulic cylinder fails while being used to drive (or actuate) a flight control surface (e.g., an elevator).","In various embodiments of the invention, actuators and control effectors are mathematically characterized by second-order dynamics. The second-order dynamics are modeled and parameterized in terms of a small number of failure-related parameters. Characterizing and modeling the actuators in this manner simplifies the design of failure-detection and failure-identification observers and algorithms related to parameter estimation even while accurately describing a large number of failure or fault cases. The modeling techniques contemplated are capable of handling a large set of failure conditions, including Lock-In-Place (LIP, which corresponds to a stuck actuator), Float (which corresponds to an actuator having zero-effectiveness), Hard-Over (which corresponds to the actuator moving to an extreme position regardless of the command provided to the actuator), and Loss-Of-Effectiveness (which corresponds to a condition where the actuator is only partially operational).","In another aspect, the invention addresses control system performance issues in which the resulting failure-detection and failure-identification observers and parameter estimation algorithms achieve very fast detection and identification of failures. The reconfiguration of a control system is also fast, thus assuring that the system will be stable and robust (e.g., from a control design and implementation perspective) and also achieve the desired performance.","In still another aspect, the invention addresses control system performance issues to enable the failure detection and identification system to handle both failures and failure recoveries. Various embodiments of the invention are well suited to perform under conditions in which the plant can be open-loop unstable and has significant actuator dynamics.","In yet another aspect, the invention addresses control system performance issues in a manner in which the retrofit failure detection, identification, and reconfiguration system is active only after a failure. In a no-failure case, the controlled system or process may be controlled by a nominal (or baseline) controller.","Another aspect of the invention involves controlling a dynamic system. A method according to one embodiment involves receiving a signal from a control module, receiving a signal from a dynamic system, producing a modifier (e.g., add-on) signal in response to the control-module signal and the dynamic-system signal, and adding the modifier signal to the control-module signal to control an operation of the dynamic system. The modifier signal may be based on a mathematical model of second-order dynamics of at least one actuator of the dynamic system. For example, the second-order dynamics may represent a failure condition of the at least one actuator.","In another embodiment, a system for modifying a control signal applied to a dynamic system includes a first control module. The first control module is responsive to an output signal of a second control module and an output signal of a dynamic system. In this embodiment, the system also includes a means for combining the output signal of the first control module with the output signal of the second control module to control the dynamic system. The first control module may include a mathematical model of second-order dynamics of at least one actuator of the dynamic system. For example, the second order-dynamics may represent a failure condition of the at least one actuator.","In other aspects of the invention, the present invention provides systems adapted to practice the aspects of the invention set forth above.","The purpose of the invention is to solve the difficult problem of fast, accurate and robust detection and identification of multiple simultaneous flight control actuator failures and surface damage, and effective reconfiguration of the remaining healthy effectors to achieve the flight performance close to that of the healthy aircraft. The invention is also referred to as the FTCS (Fault Tolerant Control System). The FTCS solves this problem by effectively combining several new and efficient algorithms.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0031"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0032"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0033"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":["320","330"]},"Block  is the Global FDI subsystem. Its role is to accommodate control surface damages. The related algorithm is described by equations (24) and (25). The algorithm is based on modeling the surface damage as the LOE of the control effectors. Two types of LOE failures can occur: the LOE of the actuator due to a damaged mechanism or fluid leak resulting in lowered effector movement, or the control surface LOE due to damage. The first type, actuator LOE, can be detected by the decentralized FDI algorithm, since it compares the measured actuator position with the commanded one. Damage to the effector that does not change the motion of the actuator cannot be detected in this manner, and the Global FDI needs to be used in this case.","Block  also carries out a disturbance rejection function. Control actuator or effector failures can, in most cases, generate state-dependent disturbances acting on the vehicle. To compensate for the effect of such disturbances, the FTCS comprises of a disturbance rejection module. This module is effectively combined with the Global FDI algorithm so that the disturbance estimates are generated from the Global FDI observer. Two algorithms have been interchangeably used for disturbance rejection: (i) The algorithm based on Variable Structure adaptation and (ii) The algorithm based on gradient adaptation. These algorithms are described by equations (28)-(30).","Block  is the Adaptive Retrofit Reconfigurable Controller (ARRC). The role of this subsystem is to correct the control signal, generated by the baseline controller, and compensate for the effect of control actuator failures, surface damage, and state-dependent fault-generated disturbances. The ARRC is described in detail by equations (31)-(38).","Functional Operation","Decentralized FDI system (block ): This system takes the signal  generated by the controller  and the measured output  of the actuators , and uses these in the FDI observers in , designed based on the dynamics of the actuators, to generate the estimates of the LIP and LOE parameters.","These estimates (signals ) are fed into 350. The adjustment of the LIP and LOE estimates is carried out based on the error between the measured and estimated actuator outputs.","Global FDI (block ): This system has the current control signal  and the state of the system  as the inputs. These signals are used in the Global FDI observer that generates an estimate of the systems states, as well as the estimates of the damage matrix parameters describing surface damage. The damage matrix parameter estimates are adjusted using the error between the estimated and measured state of the system.","Disturbance Rejection (block ): To achieve effective disturbance rejection, Global FDI observer is augmented by the disturbance estimate term. This estimate is adjusted using the error between the measured and estimated state of the system. Adaptive Retrofit Reconfigurable Controller (ARRC) (block ): This system collects all the estimates of failure-related parameters (signal ) and estimates of the disturbance vector and damage matrix parameters (signal ), and uses them in the retrofit signal () that is added to the output of the baseline controller.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0041"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 3","FIG. 4","FIG. 3"],"b":["450","492"]},"Unique or Novel Features of the Innovation","The FTC system has the following novel or unique features:\n\n","System Dynamics: The invention is concerned with the following class of models of system dynamics:\n\n{dot over (\u03c7)}(\u03c7)\u2003\u2003(1)\n\n{dot over (\u03c7)}(\u03c7)+(\u03c7)+\u03be(\u03c7)\u2003\u2003(2)\n\n=\u2212\u03bb(),\u2003\u2003(3)\n\nwhere \u03c7\u03b5denotes the state vector, \u03c7\u03b5, \u03c7\u03b5, \u03c7=[\u03c7\u03c7], u\u03b5and u\u03b5denote respectively the controller output vector and the plant input vector, \u03be\u03b5denotes an uncertain disturbance vector, and \u03bb>>1 denotes the actuator gain. The system can be open-loop stable or unstable.\n","The above model is subject to the following assumption:","Assumption 1:","(1) State of the system is measurable;","(2) For a closed bounded set of states S, G(\u03c7) G(\u03c7) is invertible for all \u03c7\u03b5S;","(3) f(\u03c7), G(\u03c7) and \u03be(\u03c7) are sufficiently smooth functions (functionals) of their argument;","(4) m>p; and","(5) |\u03be|\u2266c+d\u03c6(\u03c7), where \u03c6(\u03c7)=[(\u03c6(\u03c7)\u03c6(\u03c7) . . . (\u03c6(\u03c7)]is a known vector function of the state.","The desired dynamics of the plant is described by the following reference model:\n\n{dot over (\u03c7)}(\u03c7\u2212\u03c7)+(\u03c7)\u2003\u2003(4)\n\n{dot over (\u03c7)}\u03c7\u2003\u2003(5)\n\nwhere \u03c7=[\u03c7\u03c7]denotes the state of the reference model, \u03c7\u03b5, matrix A=[\u0100A]is asymptotically stable, and r\u03b5denotes a vector of bounded piece-wise continuous reference inputs.\n","We introduce the following assumption:","Assumption 2: The state of the reference model is bounded for a set of reference inputs and for \u03c7\u03b5S.","Actuator and Control Effector Failures: The invention is concerned with the following actuator and control effector failures: include: (i) Lock-In-Place (LIP); (ii) Hard-Over Failure (HOF); (iii) Float; and (iv) Loss of Effectiveness (LOE). These types of control effector failures can be parameterized as follows:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0044","num":"0057"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00001","num":"00001"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":["u","i"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"t"}},{"mo":"{","mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["u","ci"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"t"}},"mo":","}},{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["k","i"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"t"}},"mo":"=","mn":"1"},"mo":","}},{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mi":["for","all","t"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":[{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}}]},"mo":"\u2265","mn":"0"}},{"mrow":{"mi":["No","Failure","Case"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":[{"mtext":"-"},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}}]}}]},{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":["k","i"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"t"}},{"msub":{"mi":["u","ci"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"t"}}],"mo":"\u2062"},"mo":","}},{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mn":["0","1"],"mo":["<","\u2264","<"],"msub":{"mi":["\u03b5","i"]},"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["k","i"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"t"}}},"mo":","}},{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mi":["for","all","t"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":[{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}}]},"mo":"\u2265","msub":{"mi":["t","Fi"]}}},{"mrow":{"mi":["Loss","of","Effectiveness"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":[{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}}]}}]},{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mn":"0","mo":","}},{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["k","i"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"t"}},"mo":"=","mn":"1"},"mo":","}},{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mi":["for","all","t"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":[{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}}]},"mo":"\u2265","msub":{"mi":["t","Fi"]}}},{"mrow":{"mi":["Float","Type","of","Failure"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":[{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}}]}}]},{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["u","ci"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"msub":{"mi":["t","Fi"]}}},"mo":","}},{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["k","i"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"t"}},"mo":"=","mn":"1"},"mo":","}},{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mi":["for","all","t"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":[{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}}]},"mo":"\u2265","msub":{"mi":["t","Fi"]}}},{"mrow":{"mi":["Lock","in","Place","Failure"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":[{"mtext":"-"},{"mtext":"-"},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}}]}}]},{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":{"msub":[{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"msub":{"mi":["u","i"]}},"mi":"min"},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"msub":{"mi":["u","i"]}},"mi":"max"}],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":[{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.6em","height":"0.6ex"}}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}}],"mi":"or"},"mo":","}},{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["k","i"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"t"}},"mo":"=","mn":"1"},"mo":","}},{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mi":["for","all","t"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":[{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}}]},"mo":"\u2265","msub":{"mi":["t","Fi"]}}},{"mrow":{"mi":["Hard","Over","Failure"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":[{"mtext":"-"},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}}]}}]}]}}],"mo":"="}}},"br":[{},{},{},{},{},{},{}],"sub":["Fi ","i ","i","i","i","c","c ","F","F","F ","F ","F","F","F","F","F","1","2","2","2","1","c","1","1 "],"in-line-formulae":[{},{},{},{},{},{}],"i":["{dot over (u)}","u\u2212ku","{dot over (u)}","u","ku","\u2212u"],"sup":["\u2212","2"]},"Here a description of the algorithms for the second-order actuator dynamics with measurable rate is included.","Observer: To design an observer for the model (7), (8), a derivative of the expression (7) is taken for \u03b2=0 to obtain:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0046","num":"0059"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00002","num":"00002"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":{"mrow":{"msub":{"mover":{"mi":["u","\u00a8"]},"mn":"1"},"mo":["=","\u2062"],"mi":{},"mrow":{"mi":"\u03c3","mo":"\u2062","msub":{"mover":{"mi":"u","mo":"."},"mn":"2"}}}}},{"mtd":{"mrow":{"mo":["=","\u2062"],"mi":{},"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mrow":{"mo":"-","msub":{"mi":"\u03bb","mn":"2"}},"mo":"\u2062","msub":{"mover":{"mi":"u","mo":"."},"mn":"1"}},{"msup":{"mi":"\u03c3","mn":"2"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"\u03bb","mn":"1"},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":["ku","c"]},{"mi":"u","mn":"1"}],"mo":"-"}}}}],"mo":"+"}}}},{"mtd":{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mo":["=","\u2062"],"mi":{},"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mo":"-","mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":"\u03bb","mn":"1"},{"mi":"u","mn":"1"}],"mo":"."}},{"msub":[{"mi":"\u03bb","mn":"2"},{"mover":{"mi":"u","mo":"."},"mn":"1"}],"mo":"\u2062"},{"msub":[{"mi":"\u03c3\u03bb","mn":"1"},{"mi":["ku","c"]}],"mo":"\u2062"},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mn":"1","mo":"-","mi":"\u03c3"}},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"msub":[{"mi":"\u03bb","mn":"1"},{"mi":"u","mn":"1"}]}],"mo":["-","+","+"]}},"mo":","}}}]}}},"br":[{},{},{}],"sup":"2","sub":["1","1 ","2","1","1","2 ","2","2","2","1","c","1"],"in-line-formulae":[{},{},{},{}],"i":"ku"},"Since bother unknown parameters are in the second equation of the transformed systems, the observer is now chosen in the form:\n\n{circumflex over ({dot over (\u03b7)}=\u2212\u03bb\u03b7+{circumflex over (\u03c1)}\u03bb(\u2212\u03b7)\u2212\u03c4\u2003\u2003(10)\n\nwhere \u03c4>0, and \u00ea={circumflex over (\u03b7)}\u2212\u03b7. We let \u03c9={circumflex over (k)}u\u2212\u03b7and \u03c9=u.\n\nAdaptive Adjustment Laws: The following adaptive adjustment laws are chosen to adjust {circumflex over (\u03c1)} and {circumflex over (k)}:\n\n{circumflex over ({dot over (\u03c3)}={\u2212\u03b3},\u2003\u2003(11)\n\n{\u2212\u03b3},\u2003\u2003(12)\n\nwhere the projection operator is used to keep the parameter estimates within the parameter bounds.\n","Here we present the algorithm for the case of second-order actuator dynamics with non-measurable rates.","We first define the following variables:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0049","num":"0062"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00003","num":"00003"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":["u","iF"]},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mfrac":{"mn":"1","mrow":{"mi":["s","\u03bb"],"mo":"+"}},"mo":"\u2062","msub":{"mi":["u","i"]}}},{"mi":"i","mo":"=","mn":"1"}],"mo":[",",",",","],"mn":"2"}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"13"}}]},{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["u","cF"]},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mfrac":{"mn":"1","mrow":{"mi":["s","\u03bb"],"mo":"+"}},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["u","c"]},"mo":"."}}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"14"}}]}]}}},"br":[{},{},{}],"in-line-formulae":[{},{}],"i":["u","a","u","+a","ku","\u2212u"],"sub":["2","2","2F","1","cF","1F","1","1 ","2","2"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0050","num":"0063"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00004","num":"00004"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mi":"\u03c3","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"msub":{"mi":"u","mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":"\u2062","mi":"F"}}},{"mrow":[{"mfrac":{"mn":"1","mrow":{"mi":["s","\u03bb"],"mo":"+"}},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mi":"\u03c3","mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"msub":{"mi":"u","mn":"2"}},{"mrow":[{"mfrac":{"mn":"1","mrow":{"mi":["s","\u03bb"],"mo":"+"}},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mi":"s","mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"msub":{"mi":"u","mn":"1"}},{"msub":{"mi":"u","mn":"1"},"mo":"-","mrow":{"mi":"\u03bb","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"u","mrow":{"mn":"1","mo":"\u2062","mi":"F"}},"mo":"."}}}],"mo":"="}],"mo":"="}],"mo":"="}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"16"}}]}}}},"br":{},"sub":["1 ","1F"]},"From (15) we now have:\n\n=(\u03bb)()+\u03c3().\u2003\u2003(17)\n","We now use (7) to obtain:\n\n=\u03c3(\u03bb\u2212)()+\u03c3(),\u2003\u2003(18)\n\nwhere we used the fact that, since \u03c3\u03b5{0, 1}, we have that \u03c3=\u03c3.\n\nObserver: In this case we build the observer as:\n\n={circumflex over (\u03c3)}(\u03bb)()+{circumflex over (\u03c3)}()\u2212\u03c4().\u2003\u2003(19)\n","Let \u00ea=\u00fb\u2212u, \u03c6={circumflex over (\u03c3)}\u2212\u03c3, \u03c6={circumflex over (k)}\u2212k, \u03c9=(\u03bb\u2212a)(u\u2212\u03bbu)+a({circumflex over (k)}u\u2212u), and \u03c9=au,","Adaptive Adjustment Laws: In this case the following adaptive laws are chosen:\n\n{circumflex over ({dot over (\u03c3)}={\u2212\u03b3\u03c9},\u2003\u2003(20)\n\n{\u2212\u03b3\u03c9}.\u2003\u2003(21)\n","The Global FDI system is concerned with the control surface LOE due to damage.","The system model is of the form:\n\n{dot over (\u03c7)}(\u03c7)\u2003\u2003(22)\n\n{dot over (\u03c7)}(\u03c7)+(\u03c7)\u2003\u2003(23)\n\nwhere D is the matrix of damage parameters, analogous to the K matrix in the decentralized FDI algorithm, and u are the measured actuator positions.\n\nObserver: Since D appears only in the second equation, the observer is designed in the form:\n\n{circumflex over ({dot over (\u03c7)}(\u03c7)+(\u03c7)\u2212\u039b({circumflex over (\u03c7)}\u2212\u03c7)\u2003\u2003(24)\n\nAdaptive Adjustment Laws: The adjustment laws for the damage parameter estimates {circumflex over (d)}are now of the form:\n\n{\u2212\u03b3}\u2003\u2003(25)\n\nwhere bis the transpose of the ith column of the B-matrix, and \u00ea={circumflex over (\u03c7)}\u2212\u03c7. Two tuning parameters are included in this algorithm: \u039b, which controls the speed of the convergence of the observer, and \u0393, which controls the rate of change of {circumflex over (D)}.\n","Baseline Controller: This controller assumes that actuator dynamics can be neglected (i.e. u=u), and that there are no disturbances (i.e. \u03be\u22610):\n\n(\u03c7)((\u03c7)(\u03c7))(\u03c7)+\u2003\u2003(26)\n\nwhere W=W>0 denotes a control allocation matrix. Upon substituting the expression (26) onto (2) we obtain:\n\n{dot over (\u03c7)}(\u03c7)\n\n{dot over (\u03c7)}\u03c4.\n\nUpon substituting the reference model equations (4), (5) we obtain:\n\n\u0117=\u0100e\n\n\u0117=Ae\n\nSince the matrix A=[\u0100A]is asymptotically stable, the above system is stable.\n\nDisturbance Observer: The disturbance observer is of the form:\n\n{circumflex over ({dot over (\u03c7)}({circumflex over (\u03c7)}\u2212\u03c7+(\u03c7)\u2003\u2003(27)\n\n{circumflex over ({dot over (\u03c7)}({circumflex over (\u03c7)}\u2212\u03c7)+(\u03c7)+(\u03c7)\u2003\u2003(28)\n\nwhere {circumflex over (\u03be)} denotes the estimate of \u03be. Two algorithms for adjusting {circumflex over (\u03be)} are presented next.\n\nVariable Structure Adaptation: Let \u00ea={circumflex over (\u03c7)}\u2212\u03c7 and \u00ea={circumflex over (\u03c7)}\u2212\u03c7, i=1, 2 denote the estimation errors. That Variable Structure adjustment law is of the form:\n",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0055","num":"0068"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00005","num":"00005"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mover":{"mi":"\u03be","mo":"^"},"mi":"i"},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mrow":[{"mo":"-","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["c","i"]},"mo":"+","mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["d","i"]},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["\u03c6","i"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"x"}}}}}},{"mi":"sign","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"munderover":{"mo":"\u2211","mrow":{"mi":"j","mo":"=","mn":"1"},"mi":"n"},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":["p","ji"]},{"mover":{"mi":"e","mo":"^"},"mi":"j"}],"mo":"\u2062"}}}}],"mo":"\u2062"}},{"mi":"i","mo":"=","mn":"1"},{"mi":"p","mo":"."}],"mo":[",",",",",","\u2062",",","\u2062"],"mn":"2","mi":"\u2026","mstyle":[{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.6em","height":"0.6ex"}}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.6em","height":"0.6ex"}}}]}}},"br":[{},{},{},{},{}],"sub":["i","i ","i","i","i","[\u2212 ",{"sub2":"i"},", ",{"sub2":"i"},"]","i","i","i","c","m","m"],"o":["\u03be","\u03be"],"in-line-formulae":[{},{},{},{}],"i":["=Proj","\u00ea","}, i=",", . . . , p,","u","=WG","G","WG","[\u2212f","A","\u03c7+B"],"sup":["T","T","\u22121"]},"ARRC Design for LOE Failures: The objective here is to find a signal \u03bd(t) such that, for a given UN(t), the control input applied to the aircraft:\n\n()=()+\u03bd(),\u2003\u2003(31)\n\nachieves the desired objective.\n","Assuming that G(\u03c7) is approximately constant over an interval of interest (i.e G(\u03c7)\u2245B), the desired add-on signal is:\n\n\u03bd*=()(*).\u2003\u2003(32)\n\nWe choose the actual signal as:\n\n\u03bd=()(*)\u2003\u2003(33)\n\nwhere {circumflex over (K)} denotes the estimate of K.\n","Alternatively, \u03bd* and \u03bd can be chosen as:\n\n\u03bd*()()\u2003\u2003(34)\n\n\u03bd=()()\u2003\u2003(35)\n\nARRC Design for LIP Failures: In this case \u03bd* and \u03bd are chosen as:\n\n\u03bd*=\u03a3()(\u2212\u03a3)()\u2003\u2003(36)\n\n\u03bd()(\u2212{circumflex over (\u03a3)})()\u2003\u2003(37)\n\nARRC Design for Combined LIP and LOE Failures: Finally, we can combine both derivations to provide the combined LOE-LIP retrofit controller with control allocation:\n\n\u03bd=()[()()\u2003\u2003(38)\n","In all cases the elements of the matrices {circumflex over (\u03a3)} and {circumflex over (K)} are adjusted using the adaptive laws (11) and (12) in the case of measurable rates, or (20) and (21) in the case when the rates are not measurable.","The following is a list of publications referred to in the current disclosure by means of the corresponding numerals.\n\n","[9] J. D. Bo{hacek over (s)}kovi\u0107 and R. K. Mehra, \u201cAn Integrated Fault Management System for Unmanned Aerial Vehicles\u201d, in Proceedings of the 2nd AIAA Unmanned Aerospace Vehicles, Systems, Technologies, and Operations Conference and Workshop, San Diego, Calif., Sep. 15-18, 2003.\n\n"],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0027"},"figref":["FIG. 1","FIG. 2"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0028"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0029"},"figref":"FIG. 4"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
