---
title: Printer with audio or video receiver, recorder, and real-time content-based processing logic
abstract: A system and method for monitoring events from a media stream and triggering an action in response to detected events. The action is preferably based on information relating to the event received by the system. The system can generate a paper document that reflects some aspects of the detected event such as a summary describing the event. The system can also generate a network message (e.g., email or paging call) in response to the detected event. In other embodiments, the system stores multimedia in memory in response to the detected event. The system can also generate an audio on a speaker or a video on a video display system attached to the printer based on the detected event.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08077341&OS=08077341&RS=08077341
owner: Ricoh Co., Ltd.
number: 08077341
owner_city: Tokyo
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20040330
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["RELATED APPLICATIONS","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS"],"p":["This application claims priority from U.S. Provisional Patent Application entitled \u201cPrinter Including One or More Specialized Hardware Devices\u201d filed on Sep. 25, 2003, having Ser. No. 60\/506,303, and U.S. Provisional Patent Application entitled \u201cPrinter Including Interface and Specialized Information Processing Capabilities\u201d filed on Sep. 25, 2003, having Ser. No. 60\/506,302, each of which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.","This application is also related to the following applications, each of which was filed on Mar. 30, 2004 and each of which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety: application Ser. No. 10\/814,931, entitled \u201cPrinter Having Embedded Functionality for Printing Time-Based Media,\u201d application serial No. 10\/814,700, entitled \u201cPrinter User Interface,\u201d and application Ser. No. 10\/814,932, entitled \u201cPrinter With Hardware and Software Interfaces for Media Devices,\u201d.","1. Field of the Invention","The present invention relates generally to document printers and more particularly to systems and methods that can monitor an event and trigger an action in response.","2. Background of the Invention","Monitoring of a live video and\/or audio feed is desirable in many situations. For example, a person may wish to monitor a live radio or television feed for weather-related events such as the Emergency Alert System (EAS) issued by the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) to state and local broadcasters. A person may also wish to monitor user-defined events such as the appearance of a specified set of keywords in the closed caption of a TV broadcast, or the appearance of a given image (e.g., the face of Jonathan Hull) in a video stream, or the occurrence of an audio event (e.g., gun shot) in an audio stream.","The monitoring of such events typically requires the individual monitoring of live audio or video broadcasts, or the monitoring of recordings of the broadcasts. This can be both inefficient and tedious for the person performing the monitoring, and for a live broadcast, it requires the person to be present during the broadcast. Moreover, monitoring of a recorded broadcast may delay delivery of critical information.","What is needed is a system and method for monitoring media feeds for a specified event and alert the user of the event.","The present invention overcomes the deficiencies and limitations of the prior art by providing a system and method for a printer that can detect specified events from a media feed and trigger an action in response.","The action is preferably based on information relating to the event received by the system. In one embodiment, the system generates a paper document that reflects some aspects of the detected event such as a summary describing the event. In a second embodiment, the system generates a network message (e.g., email or paging call) in response to the detected event. In a third embodiment, the system stores multimedia in memory in response to the detected event. In a fourth embodiment, the system can generate audio on a speaker or video on a video display system attached to the printer based on the detected event. In all of these embodiments, the system performs an action (in addition to or instead of printing) in accordance with information relating to the event.","In certain embodiments, the system interacts with the user or the media source before the printer performs the action in accordance with information relating to the detected event.","The features and advantages described in the specification are not all inclusive and, in particular, many additional features and advantages will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art in view of the drawings, specification, and claims. Moreover, it should be noted that the language used in the specification has been principally selected for readability and instructional purposes, and may not have been selected to delineate or circumscribe the inventive subject matter.","A preferred embodiment of the present invention is now described with reference to the figures where like reference numbers indicate identical or functionally similar elements. Also in the figures, the left most digit(s) of each reference number typically correspond(s) to the figure in which the reference number is first used. In the following description, for purposes of explanation, numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the invention. It will be apparent, however, to one skilled in the art that the invention can be practiced without these specific details. In other instances, structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid obscuring the invention.","Reference in the specification to \u201cone embodiment,\u201d \u201ccertain embodiments\u201d or \u201can embodiment\u201d means that a particular feature, structure, or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the invention. The appearances of the phrase \u201cin one embodiment\u201d in various places in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.","The present invention also relates to apparatus for performing the operations herein. This apparatus may be specially constructed for the required purposes, or it may comprise a general-purpose computer selectively activated or reconfigured by a computer program stored in the computer. Such a computer program may be stored in a computer readable storage medium, such as, but is not limited to, any type of disk including floppy disks, optical disks, CD-ROMs, and magnetic-optical disks, read-only memories (ROMs), random access memories (RAMs), EPROMs, EEPROMs, magnetic or optical cards, or any type of media suitable for storing electronic instructions, and each coupled to a computer system bus.","The algorithms and displays presented herein are not inherently related to any particular computer or other apparatus. Various general-purpose systems may be used with programs in accordance with the teachings herein, or it may prove convenient to construct more specialized apparatus to perform the required method steps. The required structure for a variety of these systems will appear from the description below. In addition, the present invention is not described with reference to any particular programming language. It will be appreciated that a variety of programming languages may be used to implement the teachings of the invention as described herein.","Now referring to ), there is shown a system that is usable in connection with the present invention. A media feed is sent from a media source  to a processing logic . As used herein, the term \u201cmedia feed\u201d refers to anything in the print stream sent to the printer, including both printing and non-printing data. In an embodiment, a media feed may comprise the closed caption of a television broadcast, a digital media file (such as MPEG movies, Quicktime video, MP3 audio, WAV audio), or audio or video streams such as those obtained from a radio or television broadcast. In certain embodiments, the media source  may comprise a receiver for receiving a media feed and a recorder for recording the media feed. A receiver may be coupled to an antenna, a satellite dish, and\/or a cable line for receiving radio, television, satellite broadcasts, and\/or cable television broadcasts.","In ), the media feed  is sent over a network , such as the internet, an intranet, a wireless connection, a wide area network, or the like. The processing logic  receives the media feed  and performs an action based on an event that is triggered by the monitoring of the media feed. The processing logic  contains decision logics to monitor the media feed  based on a user-defined event or a pre-defined event. As used herein, an \u201cevent\u201d refers to anything (e.g., sounds, images, text, etc.) the system is monitoring. Examples of events include tone sequences or digital data embedded in a broadcast signal that is indicative of National Weather Service (NWS) or the Emergency Alert System (EAS) alerts but could also include user-defined events such as the appearance of a specified set of keywords in the closed caption a TV broadcast, or the appearance of a given image (e.g., face image of Jonathan Hull) in a video stream, or the occurrence of a sound (e.g., gun shot) in an audio stream.","The action performed by the processing logic  may be any of a number of actions, such as entering data in a database, sending a notification or confirmation, adding data to a web page, etc. One example of an action performed by the processing logic  is to send data to a component . The component  may comprise a cell phone, a pager, an email engine, a database, a speaker, a video display unit, a storage element, and the like. Thus, for example, an event detected by the processing logic  may trigger the processing logic  to generate audio on a speaker coupled to the processing logic  based on the event detected in the input audio or video streams. In another embodiment, the processing logic  might respond to an event detected in the input audio or video stream by populating a webpage located on a database with information relating to the event. In other embodiments, the processing logic  may generate a network message (e.g., an email or paging call). The email or webpage could contain a textual representation for the event and the time when it occurred or it could contain a document (e.g. an Adobe Acrobat file) that describes the event. In certain embodiments, the processing logic  could extract information (such as time of the event, a textual description of the event, or a graphic representation of the event) from the media feed  or from other sources located on the network . For example, the processing logic  may be programmed to gather information regarding an EAS alert from certain web pages located on the Internet that contain information on the EAS alert. In other situations, the processing logic may obtain information regarding a detected event from a database  located on the network .","In certain embodiments, the processing logic  also generates a document in response to a detected event and causes a print engine  to print the document  describing or summarizing information associated with the detected event. Again, the information describing the event could be gathered from the media feed  or from a source on the network .","It will be understood that the actions performed by the processing logic  as described above are examples only. It will be understood that other responses are possible. For example, video could be generated on a video display (e.g., showing a television broadcast) in response to an event detected by the processing logic .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":"FIG. 1(","i":"b","b":["102","106","106","108","102","106"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":"FIG. 1(","i":"c","b":["106","108","104","104"]},"It will be understood that the system configurations shown in )-() are examples only and are included to show some configurations usable with the present invention. It will be understood that other configurations are possible. For example, the connections between the media source  and the processing logic  and between the processing logic  and the component  can both be network connections.","Now referring to , there is shown an embodiment of a printer  wherein the audio and video receiver and recorder are embedded in the printer . In , the printer  comprises a media receiver , a media recorder , a processing logic , a print engine , a speaker , and a display  (touch screen and\/or video display capable of displaying a media feed). The media receiver  comprises a radio, television, satellite, and\/or cable receiver. The receiver obtains media broadcasts through various means, including an antenna , a satellite dish , and\/or a cable line (not shown). A media feed from a media broadcast is recorded on the media recorder . The media recorder  may record audio or video feeds. The processing logic  monitors the media feed from the media recorder  for a pre-defined or user-defined event. When an event is detected the processing logic  causes the print engine  to print a document  describing the event. In certain embodiments, the processing logic may also cause audio to be played on the speaker  in response to an event.","Printed document  illustrates an embodiment of the present invention wherein the system is used to detect NWS and\/or EAS alerts. In this embodiment, the processing logic  contains Tone sequence decoding logic to detect tone sequences or digital data embedded in the media that are indicative of an NWS or an EAS alert. The processing logic  generates a document indicating the date and time of the alert (in this example, an earthquake alert at 11:45) and a weather forecast. The processing logic  can extract information regarding the alert from the media feed or from other sources such as Internet web pages with information relating to the event, as described above. Moreover, as illustrated, the description of the event could contain textual representations as well as graphics representations. In this example, the processing logic  obtains key frames from the media feed and causes the print engine  to print a document  with bar codes linking the key frames to different segments of a video file that may be used to replay a recorded video describing the event. Closed caption texts from the media feed may also be printed alongside the video key frames to describe the event. The processing logic  may also cause audio relating to the NWS or EAS alert to be played on the speaker  (e.g., tune into a radio station with weather alert). Live video could also be played on the speaker  or the display  either as the result of an event being detected or in response to commands that were entered on the console or on the web interface.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 3"],"b":["300","301","302","301","316","301","324","301","301","306","307","304","318","320","322","321","308","314","325","323","301"]},"The means for receiving media broadcasts  is coupled to the media receiver . In an embodiment, the system  could receive media broadcasts via an antenna, a satellite dish, and\/or a cable wire. Thus, the system  could receive one frequency or multiple frequencies simultaneously. In such an embodiment, the receiver  could receive television, radio, cable television, and\/or satellite broadcasts. The media receiver  is coupled to the media recorder , which records the media broadcasts obtained from the receiver . In other embodiments, the media receiver  is coupled to the processing logic , thereby allowing media feeds form the media receiver  to be directly processed by the processing logic .","Live media feeds from the media recorder  are coupled to the decoding logic  decoding logic  decodes tone sequences and digital data embedded in a broadcast signal such as the EAS alerts issued by the FCC broadcasts, an NWS alert or an Emergency Broadcast System (EBS) alert. These tone sequences or embedded digital data may correspond to a myriad of emergency alerts, weather-related warnings and other information issued by the FCC or other branches of the government. Those skilled in the art will recognize that the decoding logic  could be implemented using a digital signal processor (DSP) or a general-purpose processor.  illustrates the decoding logic  as a separate unit from the processing logic , and the decoding logic  is coupled to the processing logic . It will be understood that the decoding logic  could also be embedded in the processing logic .","In an embodiment, the media recorder  provides a live media feed to the processing logic . If the media feed is in analog format, the analog-to-digital converter  can convert the analog signal to a digital format before feeding the media signal to the processing logic . In certain embodiments, the video feed can be sent to the processing logic via the network . As described above, the processing logic  monitors the media feed for a user-defined or pre-programmed event. Once an event is detected, the processing logic  may gather additional information about the event. For example, it may extract information about the event from a preprogrammed Internet website located on the network , or it may capture additional information from a pre-programmed video feed located on the network  or the storage , or it may extract information from the media feed itself The processing logic  can then generate a summary of the event. The processing logic  could generate a document that summarizes the event and send it to the print engine  to produce a printed document . The processing logic could also generate a network message (e.g., an email or a paging call) over the network  in response to the detected event. The network message could contain information about the event. The processing logic  could also store the information about the event in the storage . In certain situations (such as an EAS weather alert), the processing logic  could respond by controlling switch  to allow broadcasting of the media feed of the event on speaker  and\/or video display . For example, a radio announcement of an EAS weather alert could be played on speaker . In another example, upon a receipt of an EAS alert, the processing logic  could request the local NEXRAD satellite image from a specified web address, a web cam picture from a certain location, and construct an Adobe Acrobat file with a textual description of the event and the time it occurred. Those skilled in the art will recognize that other responses to a detect event could be generated.","In other embodiments, the printer  includes an electronic output system  that can be designed to produce an electronic output related to the multimedia data in any desired format. Because of the great variety of types and formats of electronic outputs, the electronic output system  may take any of a number of forms for producing an electronic output desired by the user. For example, the electronic output system  may comprise a removable media device with a media writer (e.g., a writeable DVD or CD, flash card, memory stick, and the like), an audio speaker, a video display system, a storage device, and the like. In particular implementations, the printer  may have only one or only a subset of the various components shown, and in addition it may have other types of not shown.","In another embodiment, the printer  includes a communication interface  that allows the printer  to be communicatively coupled to another electronic device. Depending on the desired input, the interface  may allow the printer  to communicate with a wide variety of different peripheral devices that can provide the printer  multimedia data to print. Without intending to limit the types of devices, the interface  may allow the printer  to received media data from peripheral devices such as computer systems, computer networks, digital cameras, cellular telephones, PDA devices, video cameras, media renderers (such as DVD and CD players), media receivers (such as televisions, satellite receivers, set-top boxes, radios, and the like), digital video recorders (such as a TiVO), a portable meeting recorder, external storage devices, video game systems, or any combination thereof. The connection type for the interface  can take a variety of forms based on the type of device that is intended to be connected to the printer  and the available standard connections for that type of device. For example, the interface  may comprise a port for connecting the device using a connection type such as USB, serial, FireWire, SCSI, IDE, RJ11, parallel port (e.g., bidirectional, Enhanced Parallel Port (EPP), Extended Capability Port (ECP), IEEE 1284 Standard parallel port), optical, composite video, component video, or S-video, or any other suitable connection type.","The printer  also contains a user interface console  that is coupled to the processing logic . In certain embodiments, the user interface console  allows the user to define events to be monitored by the processing logic , and it allows the user to program the processing logic  to respond to specific events in specific manners. For example, a user can use console  to program the processing logic  to monitor EAS events. The user could also program the processing logic to generate and print a document summarizing any detected EAS event. The user could program the processing logic  to extract information from a specified Internet website whenever a specific event is detected. The user could also program the processing logic  to trigger the speaker  to broadcast a preprogrammed radio station that has information about the EAS alert when an EAS event is detected. It will be understood that a user could program other events and responses. For example, the system  could be used to monitor the appearance of specified set of keywords in the closed caption of a television broadcast, or the appearance of a given image in a video stream, or the occurrence of a specified sound in an audio stream. Moreover, those skilled in the art will also recognize that the system  may be designed to automatically detect certain events and provide certain responses without user interactions.","In certain embodiments, the printer  could also be controlled remotely via the network . For example, the printer  could be controlled by a web page located on the network  that is supplied when the user enters the Internet address for the printer  in a web browser. The user could enter descriptions of events that the processing logic  should monitor and the expected responses to the events. In another embodiment, the processing logic  can also run a web server using a database on the storage .","In other embodiments, the printer  could be controlled by a print dialog box that pops up when the user sends any documents to the printer . One of the options available to the user is to print a template document where that template shows what events are to be detected and the appearance of the document that is generated in response to those events.","Although system  depicts various elements (e.g., media receiver , media recorder , processing logic , decoding logic , print engine , console , speaker , etc.) as being embedded in the printer , it will be understood that in alternative embodiments these elements may reside as separate units. For example, the processing logic  and the Tone sequence decoding logic  may be a single separate unit coupled to another unit containing the print engine , or the media receiver  and recorder  may be a single unit coupled to a unit containing the processing logic, or the speakers and video display may be separate units, and the like.","The printer  may include other embodiments of the electronic output system , the communication interface , and any number of embedded elements described in co-pending U.S. patent application entitled, \u201cPrinter Having Embedded Functionality for Printing Time-Based Media,\u201d filed Mar. 30, 2004, which application is incorporated by reference in its entirety.","An advantage of the present invention is the ability to monitor a live media feed for certain events. For example, the system  can perform live monitoring of the content of radio or television broadcasts and generate printouts and storage of multimedia in response to detected events. In a preferred embodiment, the present invention as exemplified in system  can monitor events that occur when the user is not present. The instant generation of a paper output or a network message when events occur allows the user to pick up a print-out off the printer or review the network message at any later time without needing to press any other buttons or do anything else. Those events can be summarized very well with a paper document that is easy to browse. The utility of paper printouts may increase as more events occur since a paper representation can be easier to browse than an online representation. Also, the paper will be there if a power failure occurs after it is printed. As described above, the system can also generate electronic versions of the paper summaries and email them to users.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0048","num":"0047"},"figref":"FIG. 5","b":["300","301","502","304","504","504","300","304","504","300","504","506","510","301","508"]},"Interactive Communication with a Printer",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0049","num":"0048"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},"In general, conventional printer drivers in modern operating systems are not designed to facilitate interactive information gathering. Because the print job can be redirected to another printer, or the printing protocol does not allow such interactive sessions, the operating system does not encourage interaction with the user. Once initial printer settings are captured, further interactions are generally not allowed in conventional printers. One approach to this problem is to embed metadata into the print stream itself, as noted above. However, it is possible that the printer could need to ask the user for more information, in response to computations made from the data supplied by the user. In addition, the printer might itself delegate some tasks to other application servers, which might in turn need more information from the user. So-called \u201cWeb services\u201d or \u201cgrid computing\u201d systems are examples of the sort of application server that the printer might trigger.","In order to allow this interaction, without modifying printer driver architecture of the underlying operating system, an extra mechanism, such as the one shown in , is constructed. A \u201cUI Listener,\u201d program  listens to a network socket, accepts requests for information , interacts with a user to obtain such data, and then sends the data back to the requester.","Once a print request  is sent by user  and notification  requested from the UI listener , the print job  is sent by application . Here, the print job  contains embedded information including the network address of the UI listener , authentication information, and the latest time that the client will be listening for requests.","If the printer requires additional information of confirmation, it sends a request , which is detected by the UI listener, which displays a dialog box to obtain input from the user . An example of such a request might be a request for a password or user confirmation code that the user must enter to access a database . The user's input is included in a reply  sent to the printer. If the reply does not satisfy the printer it may ask for additional information (not shown). If the reply does satisfy the printer, it takes a next step. This step might be to perform an external action such as sending an email (not shown). The next step might also be sending a request for information  to an application server (such as a database) . In this example, application server  also sends a request for information , which is detected by the UI listener. The user is prompted  and his response forwarded to the application server . In this example, a reply is then sent form the application server  to the printer . It will be understood that a particular embodiment may include either or none or requests  and  without departing from the spirit of the present invention.","A program such as that shown in  may have a fixed set of possible interactions, or may accept a flexible command syntax that allows the requester to display many different requests. An example of such a command syntax would be the standard web browser's ability to display HTML forms. These forms are generated by a remote server, and displayed by the browser, which then returns results to the server. In this embodiment, however, the UI listener is different from a browser in that a user does not generate the initial request to see a form. Instead, the remote machine generates this request. In the described embodiment, the UI listener is a server, not a client.","Because network transactions of this type are prone to many complex error conditions, a system of timeouts would be necessary to assure robust operation. Normally, each message sent across a network either expects a reply or is a one-way message. Messages which expect replies generally have a timeout, a limited period of time during which it is acceptable for the reply to arrive. In this embodiment, embedded metadata would include metadata about a UI listener that will accept requests for further information. Such metadata preferably includes at least a network address, port number, and a timeout period. It might also include authentication information, designed to prevent malicious attempts to elicit information from the user. Because the user cannot tell whether the request is coming from a printer, a delegated server, or a malicious agent, prudence suggests strong authentication by the UI listener. If the printer or a delegated application server wishes more information, it can use the above noted information to request that the UI listener ask a user for the needed information.","Examples of Printers with Embedded Media Devices","Printer with Embedded National Weather Service Radio Alert Receiver","The printer  includes a radio receiver (e.g., ) tuned to the National Weather Service frequency as well as a tone decoding circuit (e.g., ) that can recognize the tone signals used to indicate an alert message. This printer  can construct a log of all the alerts it hears and print that log, it can also apply speech recognition in an attempt to construct a printable representation for the alert message. It can also ring a bell and audibly play the alert message on a speaker attached to the printer. It can also send an email message or Internet paging message to the registered owner or owners of the printer.","Printer with Embedded TV Emergency Alert System (EBS) Alert Monitor","The printer  includes a cable TV (or broadcast TV) receiver (e.g., ) tuned to a \u201cresponsible\u201d local station known to broadcast EAS alerts, as well as a tone decoding circuit (e.g., ) that can recognize the tone signals used to indicate an alert message. This printer can construct a log of all the alerts it hears and print that log, it also does a frame grab and saves a copy of the screen image associated with the alert message, it can also apply speech recognition in an attempt to construct a printable representation for the alert message that includes the image grabbed from the TV signal. It can also ring a bell and audibly play the alert message on a speaker  attached to the printer. This obviates the need for the user to have the TV turned on to receive the alert. It can also send an email message or Internet paging message to the registered owner or owners of the printer.","Printer with Embedded Audio Recorder","The printer  is plugged in to an audio source and it's recorded onto an internal disk. The printer generates a summary of what's on the disk. Optionally, this is a Video Paper document.","Printer with Embedded Video Recorder","The printer  is plugged in to an audio source and it's recorded onto an internal disk. The printer generates a summary of what's on the disk. Optionally, this is a Audio Paper document.","Printer with Embedded Single-channel TV Receiver","The user can walk up to the printer  and dial in a TV channel (e.g., on user interface console ). The current program appears on a small monitor (e.g., ) on the printer. The user can stand there and watch TV and at any point choose to print a keyframe. This can also be controlled from a print dialog box.","Printer with Embedded Single-channel AM\/FM\/Shortwave Radio Receiver","The user can walk up to the printer , dial in a radio station (e.g., on user interface console ), listen to what's being broadcast, and at any point choose to print a document that shows the time when the button was pushed as well as a waveform for the audio.","Printer with Embedded Single-channel Satellite Radio Receiver","The user can walk up to the printer  and dial in a satellite TV channel (e.g., on user interface console ). Note that the printer must also be connected to a satellite TV antenna (e.g., ). The current program appears on a small monitor on the printer. The user can stand there and watch TV and at any point choose to print a key frame. This can also be controlled from a print dialog box.","Printer with Embedded Multi-channel TV Receiver","The user can watch more than one channel at the same time (like on PIP Picture In Picture TV sets) and choose to print key frames from any of the available sources.","Printer with Embedded Multi-channel AM\/FM\/Shortwave Radio Receiver","The user can listen to more than one channel at the same time, perhaps using a stereo speaker system (e.g., ) on the printer , and selectively choose to print a document that shows a time stamp for when the button was pushed.","Printer with Embedded Multi-channel Satellite Radio Receiver","The user can watch more than one satellite TV channel at the same time (like on PIP Picture In Picture TV sets) and choose to print key frames from any of the available sources. Note: the printer  must be plugged into more than one satellite TV antenna (e.g., ).","Upon reading this disclosure, those skilled in the art will appreciate still alternative systems and methods with the disclosed principles of the present invention for detecting specified events from a media feed and triggering an action in response. Thus, while particular embodiments and applications of the present invention have been illustrated and described, it is to be understood that the invention is not limited to the precise construction and components disclosed herein and that various modifications, changes and variations, which will be apparent to those skilled in the art, may be made in the arrangement, operation and details of the method and apparatus of the present invention disclosed herein without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined in the appended claims."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTIONS OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The invention has other advantages and features which will be more readily apparent from the following detailed description of the invention and the appended claims, when taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings, in which:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 1(","i":"a"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 1(","i":"b"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 1(","i":"c"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 3"]}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
