---
title: Propelling charge support for a mortar cartridge
abstract: A propelling charge support comprises horseshoe-shaped clips for engaging the tail fin and holding the propelling charges together for protection, a rounded saddle for holding the propelling charges of the cartridge, and winged edges to protect the propelling charges and aid in removal of the propelling charge support from the tail fin. The propelling charge support further comprises a flat outer surface on which the propelling charge support loaded with propelling charges can rest while being installed onto the tail fin. It comprises a fin engagement clip that interfaces with a fin blade when installed on the cartridge, and that prevents rotation of the propelling charge support and propelling charges about the tail fin axis during rough handling and transportation, preventing damage to the propelling charges.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07059251&OS=07059251&RS=07059251
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 07059251
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20040909
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"GOVINT":[{},{}],"heading":["FEDERAL INTEREST STATEMENT","FIELD OF THE INVENTION","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS"],"p":["The inventions described herein may be manufactured, used and licensed by or for the U.S. Government for U.S. Government purposes.","The present invention generally relates to protection of munitions during storage, transportation and handling. More specifically, the present invention pertains to a propelling charge support for protecting 60 mm mortar cartridge propelling charges without the use of foam. In addition, the invention also serves as an assembly aid.","Munitions, such as 60 mm mortar cartridges, typically utilize some form of propelling charge support assembly to protect the propelling charges during transportation and handling. Conventional propelling charge support assemblies utilize foam to cushion the 60 mm mortar cartridge propelling charges. Although conventional propelling charge support assemblies have proven to be useful, it would be desirable to present additional improvements.","The type of foam utilized on the conventional propelling charge support assembly is required to meet stringent performance requirements during tactical use. Foam that meets these stringent performance requirements has been difficult to procure and can be expensive. Further, foam degrades with age. As the foam degrades, the ability of the propelling charge support assembly to protect munitions also degrades. In addition, conventional propelling charge support assemblies using foam require additional manpower during assembly, which leads to higher propelling charge support assembly unit costs.","What is needed is a propelling charge support for munitions that does not require foam yet still provides adequate protection for the 60 mm mortar cartridge during transportation and handling. The need for such a system has heretofore remained unsatisfied.","The improved propelling charge support satisfies this need, providing protection without the use of foam for munitions such as a 60 mm mortar cartridge. The improved propelling charge support comprises horseshoe-shaped clips for engaging the tail fin and holding the cartridge together for protection. The tail fin comprises six individual fin blades. The improved propelling charge support further comprises a rounded saddle for holding the propelling charges securely. The improved propelling charge support has winged edges to protect the charges and aid in removal of the propelling charge support from the tail fin of the cartridge. The improved propelling charge support further comprises a flat outer surface on which the propelling charge support can rest while the propelling charge support is assembled to the cartridge tail fin.","In one embodiment, the improved propelling charge support comprises a fin engagement clip that interfaces with an individual fin blade on the tail fin when installed on the cartridge. The fin engagement clip prevents rotation of the improved propelling charge support and propelling charges about the tail fin axis, preventing damage to the propelling charges.","The improved propelling charge support eliminates the use of foam, while still providing protection to the cartridge during transportation and handling. This is a less expensive alternative to conventional propelling charge support assemblies because the foam is expensive and difficult to obtain. The improved propelling charge support has long life and resists degradation through age.","Further, eliminating the use of foam reduces manufacturing time compared to that of conventional approaches. Conventional propelling charge support assemblies require foam be secured to the propelling charge support with glue or tape. This process is time consuming and expensive.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["10","10"]},"As shown in the cut away drawing of , improved propelling charge support  protects the four propelling charges shipped with a 60 mm mortar cartridge  (also referenced herein as cartridge ).","The improved propelling charge support  is illustrated by the long side perspective view of . The length L of the improved propelling charge support  is approximately 9.86 cm, the height H is approximately 4.83 cm, and the width W(see ) is approximately 4.45 cm.","The improved propelling charge support  comprises a rounded saddle  with aggressive etching. The rounded saddle  comes in contact with the propelling charges . The aggressive etching of the rounded saddle  prevents movement of the propelling charges  relative to the improved propelling charge support .","The improved propelling charge support  comprises retaining clips  for engaging the tail fin of the cartridge . The improved propelling charge support  further comprises two detented clips  for engaging the propelling charges . One non-detented clip  is illustrated in . The retaining clips  and the non-detented clip  are shaped to constrain propelling charges  during transportation and handling. The non-detented clip  and the retaining clip  keep charges from moving along a cartridge during transportation or severe handling such as a drop.","The improved propelling charge support  is further illustrated by the end perspective view of . The improved propelling charge support  comprises winged edges . The winged edges  protect the propelling charges  from impact and aid during removal of the improved propelling charge support  from the cartridge .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 6"],"b":["10","405","205","10","405","12","10","15","10","12","15","12","10"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 5","b":["10","10","505","505","510","15","505","10","12","12"]},"It is to be understood that the specific embodiments of the invention that have been described are merely illustrative of certain applications of the principle of the present invention. Numerous modifications may be made to the system and method for protecting a 60 mm mortar cartridge prior to use with an improved propelling charge support described herein without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The various features of the present invention and the manner of attaining them will be described in greater detail with reference to the following description, claims, and drawings, wherein reference numerals are reused, where appropriate, to indicate a correspondence between the referenced items, and wherein:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIGS. 2A and 2B","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIGS. 6 and 7"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
