---
title: Boiling heat transfer surface
abstract: A system to create and maintain a gas/vapor cavity about a hull surface includes a fence selectively extendable above and below the hull surface. A gas venting means is positioned beneath the hull surface downstream from the fence. The vented gas can be used to create a gas/vapor cavity downstream from said fence and cover the hull surface. A heat source is also positioned downstream from the fence and beneath the hull surface. The heat source is capable of heating the hull surface to create or maintain the gas/vapor cavity on the hull surface. A sensor and controller can also be provided to control the cavity.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=06951179&OS=06951179&RS=06951179
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 06951179
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20040730
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"GOVINT":[{},{}],"heading":["STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENT INTEREST","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","OBJECTS AND SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS"],"p":["The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.","(1) Field of the Invention","The present invention relates generally to a system for increasing the performance of aquatic vehicles. More particularly, this invention relates to a system for a vehicle that creates and maintains a gas\/vapor cavity to reduce drag and increase propulsion efficiency. The gas\/vapor cavity can also be used to reduce noise received by a sonar system.","(2) Description of the Prior Art","Undersea vehicles, such as torpedoes, are restricted in speed and range by the size of their power plants and amount of fuel they carry. Another significant factor limiting performance is the amount of drag created as the vehicles go through water. Considerable research by designers of aquatic vehicles to reduce drag is ongoing, but acceptable results are still being sought.","Thus, in accordance with this inventive concept, a need has been recognized in the state of the art a system to create and maintain a gas\/vapor cavity on the hull of an aquatic vehicle to reduce drag and thereby increase system efficiency.","The first object of the invention is to provide a system for reducing drag and increasing propulsion efficiency of an aquatic vehicle.","Another object is to provide a system for reducing drag and increasing propulsion efficiency on a undersea vehicle using ventilation gas, gas recycling, and heat to create and maintain a controllable, stable gas\/vapor cavity.","Another object is to provide a system for reducing drag, increasing propulsion efficiency, and isolating a sonar array from self-generated noise of the aquatic vehicle.","These and other objects of the invention will become more readily apparent from the ensuing specification when taken in conjunction with the appended claims.","Accordingly, the present invention is a system to create and maintain a gas\/vapor cavity about a hull surface of an aquatic vehicle which includes a fence selectively extendable above and below the hull surface. A gas venting means is positioned beneath the hull surface downstream from the fence. The vented gas can be used to create a gas\/vapor cavity downstream from said fence and cover the hull surface. A heat source is also positioned downstream from the fence and beneath the hull surface. The heat source is capable of heating the hull surface to create or maintain the gas\/vapor cavity on the hull surface. A sensor and controller can also be provided to control the cavity.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIGS. 1 and 2","b":["10","12","14","12","16","18","12","20","22","24","26","20","28","20","30","20","30","32","12","32","34","36","38","40","16","40","40","42","18","18","44","42","26","32","40","36","44","42","26","32","40","36"]},"In operation, once the water flow  exterior to surface  reaches a certain velocity, controller  activates actuator  to deploy fence . Deployed fence  induces cavitation downstream from fence  by creating a pressure drop in water . As fence  is deployed to extend into flow  of water , controller  activates gas source  and ventilation gas (shown by arrow ) is vented through outlet . Ventilation gas  helps maintain gas\/vapor blanket . Controller  also activates heat sources , and heat is applied to shell elements . The temperature of upper surface  rises more rapidly because of the decreased heat transfer present in a vapor\/solid interface. Thus, gas\/vapor blanket  can be maintained without use of fence  to provide cavitation. Sensor  allows monitoring of surface  to allow controller  to control actuator , heat sources  and pump .","Control of the heat flux from heat sources  into shell elements  will allow a gas\/vapor blanket \u2032 to surround sonar array  even after upstream fence  is retracted, as shown in . Sonar array  is surrounded by gas\/vapor blanket \u2032 and is thusly isolated to a large degree from shell-borne noise contamination coming from surface member . Modification of constituents of system  to accommodate a wide variety of other underwater platforms will readily suggest themselves to one skilled in the art.","Heat transfer-ventilation system  of the invention provides for decreased drag and results in increased range and speed. System  also permits the use of supercavitation at deep depths and can operate over multiple speed ranges during a single run. System  decreases the level of self-generated noise and hence increases the performance of the vehicle's sonar arrays.","Heat transfer-ventilation system  has the ability to create a gas\/vapor cavity  over an underwater vehicle. Waste heat onboard the vehicle can be utilized to efficiently and quickly create gas\/vapor cavity  with a minimum amount of ventilation gas . System  has means to affect and control the stability of gas\/vapor cavity  at variable speeds. Heat transfer-ventilation system  can use supercavitation to control thermal properties of surface  and can cycle between gas\/vapor cavities  that are recirculated at different speeds for low speed and high speed operation.","It is understood that heat transfer-ventilation system  could be made in accordance with this invention in different sizes and configurations for different undersea vehicles without departing from the scope of the invention herein described. System  having a means to create gas\/vapor cavity  and then heating a surface to maintain cavity  could be adapted to any underwater and\/or surface platform. Heat transfer-ventilation system  could be operated over a range of surface temperatures with or without waste heat from an engine. System  could be used with or with the recirculation of gas via pump . Having this disclosure in mind, selection of suitable components from among many proven contemporary designs and compactly interfacing them as disclosed herein can be readily done without requiring anything beyond ordinary skill.","The components and their arrangements as disclosed herein all contribute to the novel features of this invention. Heat transfer-ventilation system  of this invention provides a reliable and cost-effective means to improve the efficiency of undersea vehicles. Therefore, system  as disclosed herein is not to be construed as limiting, but rather, is intended to be demonstrative of this inventive concept.","It will be understood that many additional changes in the details, materials, steps and arrangement of parts, which have been herein described and illustrated in order to explain the nature of the invention, may be made by those skilled in the art within the principle and scope of the invention as expressed in the appended claims."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["A more complete understanding of the invention and many of the attendant advantages thereto will be readily appreciated as it becomes better understood by reference to the following detailed description when considered in conjunction with the accompanying drawings wherein like reference numerals refer to like parts and wherein:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1"]}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
