---
title: Routing device and method for use with a HTTP enabled computer peripheral
abstract: The invention features a system and method for programming, integrating, and controlling the operation of computer peripherals. In brief overview, a computer peripheral is provided with a network communications protocol stack that includes a hypertext transfer protocol (HTTP) layer. The HTTP layer permits the computer peripheral to function as a thin web server. As such, the computer peripheral is able to respond to HTTP requests. In one embodiment, the invention includes a router that is in communication with the computer peripheral. The computer peripheral has an assigned HTTP port number and an assigned network address. The router includes a routing table that associates the computer peripheral's assigned HTTP port number with the computer peripheral's assigned network address. According to this embodiment, a message with a computer peripheral HTTP port number identifier is forwarded to the computer peripheral by the router.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07568015&OS=07568015&RS=07568015
owner: Hand Held Products, Inc.
number: 07568015
owner_city: Skaneateles Falls
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20040407
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS","FIELD OF THE INVENTION","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["This application is related to the application No. 10\/819,655 enumerated below, filed with the United States Patent and Trademark Office contemporaneously with the present application on Apr. 7, 2004 by Express Mail and subject to assignment to the same assignee of this application, the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety: entitled \u201cHTTP Enabled Computer Peripheral.\u201d","The invention relates generally to computer peripherals connected to computing devices or computer networks. More particularly the invention relates to enabling computer peripherals to respond to hypertext transfer protocol requests.","Currently there are a myriad of computer peripherals that can be attached to a computer network or to a computing device to provide input data or to enhance the functionality of the computing device or of computers attached to the computer network. Common examples of such peripherals include: a computer mouse, keyboards, printers, external disk drives, and the like.","Typically creating an environment in which computer peripherals can easily interface with a computer network or a computing device has been a significant challenge. First, each device usually has its own software and hardware interfaces requiring specific device drivers and sometimes special physical connections for each device. For example, enabling the easy connectivity of computer printers, one of the most common computer peripherals, requires that personal computer operating systems now typically come equipped with hundreds of printer device drivers. For more specialized devices manufactured by a host of companies, such a solution is not practical. An alternative approach has been to include device driver material with each peripheral device. This approach has the disadvantage of requiring user intervention to establish proper operation.","A further approach has been to attempt to standardize the operation of classes of computer peripherals so that a single device driver can be used for an entire class of devices. For example with point-of-sale cash registers, many associated peripheral devices have RS232 or RS488 physical interfaces and software interfaces defined according to an IBM standard. Similarly with image scanners, the TWAIN standard has been proposed. This approach also has disadvantages. First, each class of peripheral device still has its own specific hardware and software interfaces. In addition, such standards may not be ideal for all devices within the class. For example, the TWAIN standard was designed for flatbed scanners, and, therefore, simple instructions for hand-held image readers, such as a trigger pull, are not easily supported. Further, these specific interfaces when combined with the corresponding instruction set require significant technical expertise for developers wishing to integrate the use of a particular computer peripheral into an application.","For example, a developer will frequently be required to dedicate significant time to learning a computer peripheral specific application programming interface (API). Commonly these APIs in addition require a developer to be conversant with advanced computer programming languages such as C or C++. Further, once the new operating code has been written, the operating system must be recompiled and distributed to potentially thousands of terminals throughout a network. Also, prior to the distribution of the recompiled code in some systems, such as the operating system Windows\u00ae CE, extensions to the operating system must be reviewed, evaluated, certified by Microsoft\u00ae WHQL (or another third party) and given tentative approval pending the results of actual implementation. In general, therefore, the specialized technical skills combined with the distribution and approval challenges presented by the integration of new and specialized computer peripherals represents a significant barrier to their adoption by IT professionals and the general public.","What is needed is a system and method to allow a broad range of computer peripherals to be automatically recognized and to function without user intervention when connected to a computer network or a computing device. Further what is needed is a system and method to allow for the easy programming and integration of such computer peripherals.","In one aspect the invention features a hypertext transfer protocol enabled computer peripheral for augmenting the functionality of an associated computing device. The hypertext transfer protocol enabled computer peripheral comprises an interface module for exchanging communications with the associated computing device. The associated computing device can be of an arbitrary form factor. The computer peripheral also comprises a data module in communication with the interface module. The data module is adapted to perform at least one of a data input and a data output function. Further the computer peripheral comprises a network communications protocol stack module in communication with the interface module and the data module. Additionally the computer peripheral comprises a hypertext transfer protocol layer module in the network communications protocol stack module. The hypertext transfer protocol layer module enables the computer peripheral to respond to hypertext transfer protocol requests from the associated computing device. Further the computer peripheral has an address that includes a reference to the associated computing device.","In one embodiment, the reference is a network address. In a further embodiment the network address is an Internet protocol address. In another embodiment, the reference is a hypertext transfer protocol localhost reference. In various embodiments of the hypertext transfer protocol enabled computer peripheral, the exchanged communications include messages identified by hypertext transfer port numbers or messages identified by computer peripheral textual identifiers. In another embodiment, the computer peripheral also comprises a transfer control protocol\/Internet protocol layer module and\/or a user datagram protocol layer module in the network communications protocol stack module.","In additional various embodiments of the hypertext transfer protocol enabled computer peripheral, the associated computing device is a portable data terminal, a transaction terminal, a cash register, or a personal data assistant. In further various embodiments, the hypertext transfer protocol enabled computer peripheral is an image reader, a magnetic stripe card reader, a smart card reader, a RF payment reader, a RFID reader, a receipt printer, a biometric reader, or a fingerprint reader.","In another embodiment, the hypertext transfer protocol enabled computer peripheral comprises a decoding module in communication with the data module. The decoding module decodes data collected by the data module. In a further embodiment the hypertext transfer protocol enabled computer peripheral also comprises an extensible markup language module that parses hypertext mark-up language documents to extract hypertext mark-up language commands. In various additional embodiments, the interface module, the data module, the network communications protocol stack module, and the hypertext transfer protocol layer module are implemented in different combinations of hardware and software.","In another embodiment of the hypertext transfer protocol enabled computer peripheral, the associated computing device is located within a first housing and the computer peripheral is located within a second separate housing. In an additional embodiment, the computer peripheral is integrated within a housing of the associated computing device. In a further embodiment of the computer peripheral, the interface module includes components designed in accordance with the CompactFlash standard.","In another aspect the invention features a hypertext transfer protocol enabled computer peripheral for augmenting the functionality of an associated computing device. The hypertext transfer protocol enabled computer peripheral comprises an interface module for exchanging communications with the associated computing device. The associated computing device can be of an arbitrary form factor. The computer peripheral also comprises a data module in communication with the interface module. The data module is adapted to perform at least one of a data input and a data output function. Further the computer peripheral comprises a network communications protocol stack module in communication with the interface module and the data module. Additionally the computer peripheral comprises a hypertext transfer protocol layer module in the network communications protocol stack module. The hypertext transfer protocol layer module enables the computer peripheral to respond to hypertext transfer protocol requests from the associated computing device. Further, functionality provided by the data module is lacking from the associated computing device in the absence of the computer peripheral.","In another aspect the invention features a hypertext transfer protocol enabled computer peripheral for augmenting the functionality of an associated computing device. The hypertext transfer protocol enabled computer peripheral comprises an interface module for exchanging communications with the associated computing device. The associated computing device can be of an arbitrary form factor. The computer peripheral also comprises a data module in communication with the interface module. The data module is adapted to perform at least a computer memory function. Further the computer peripheral comprises a network communications protocol stack module in communication with the interface module and the data module. Additionally the computer peripheral comprises a hypertext transfer protocol layer module in the network communications protocol stack module. The hypertext transfer protocol layer module enables the computer peripheral to respond to hypertext transfer protocol requests from the associated computing device. Further the computer peripheral has an address that includes a reference to the associated computing device. In one embodiment, the reference is a network address. In another embodiment the network address is an Internet protocol address. In a further embodiment, the reference is a hypertext transfer protocol localhost reference","In another aspect the invention features a modular data collection system comprising a base unit and a modular data collection peripheral unit. The base unit has a housing, a processor, a memory, and a first mechanical connector. The modular data collection peripheral unit is devoid of a browser, is in communication with the base unit, and has a second housing. The modular data collection peripheral unit also has a processor and a software module that allows the peripheral unit to respond to hypertext transfer protocol requests.","In one embodiment of the modular data collection system, the base unit has a first electromechanical connector and the modular data collection peripheral unit has a second electromechanical connector. The first and second electromechanical connectors allow the modular data collection peripheral unit to be detachably attached to the base unit.","In various additional embodiments of the modular data collection system, the base unit is a transaction terminal, a portable data terminal, a personal data assistant, or a cash register. In further various embodiments of the modular data collection system, the modular data collection peripheral unit is an image reader, a smart card reader, a magnetic stripe reader, a biometric reader, a finger print reader, a receipt printer, a RFID reader, or a RF payment reader.","In another aspect, the invention features a system for enabling hypertext transfer protocol communication. The system comprises a plurality of computing devices each of which have a display, interface mechanisms, a network interface, and a computer peripheral interface. The system also comprises a plurality of computer peripherals, each of the plurality of computer peripherals is associated with and in communication with one of the plurality of computing devices via said computer peripheral interface. Each of the plurality of computer peripherals includes a data module that has hardware adapted to perform at least one of a data input function and a data output function. The system additionally comprises a central computer in communication with said plurality of computing devices. The central computer responds to hypertext transfer protocol requests from the plurality of computing devices and the plurality of computer peripherals respond to hypertext transfer protocol requests from the plurality of computing devices and from the central computer.","In various embodiments of the system, the plurality of computing devices includes transaction terminals, portable data terminals, personal data assistants, and\/or cash registers. In additional various embodiments, the plurality of computer peripherals include image readers, magnetic stripe readers, RFID readers, RF payment readers, smart card readers, biometric readers, finger print readers and\/or receipt printers.","In another aspect, the invention features a method that enables a router to forward hypertext transfer protocol port number identified messages. The method comprises establishing communication between the router and a computer peripheral, requesting that a network address be assigned to the computer peripheral, and transmitting an advertisement by the computer peripheral. The advertisement includes at least the computer peripheral's assigned network address and a hypertext transfer protocol port number assigned to the computer peripheral. The method also comprises configuring the router to automatically associate the hypertext transfer protocol port number assigned to the computer peripheral with the network address of the computer peripheral in response to the advertisement. Further, the method comprises forwarding the hypertext transfer protocol port number identified message to the computer peripheral based on at least the hypertext transfer port number assigned to the computer peripheral.","In one embodiment of the method, the forwarding of the hypertext transfer protocol port number identified message to the computer peripheral is also based on at least determining a version of the computer peripheral. In another embodiment of the method, the forwarding of the hypertext transfer protocol port number identified message to the computer peripheral is also based on at least determining a network proximity of said computer peripheral.","In one embodiment of the method, the network address is an Internet protocol address. In another embodiment of the method, the Internet protocol address is assigned by a Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol server. In a further embodiment of the method, the Internet protocol address is assigned in response to a request from a Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol client on the computer peripheral. In yet another embodiment of the method, the advertisement further includes at least a list of capabilities of the computer peripheral. In yet an additional embodiment of the method, the router is contained in a computing device, and the computing device maintains a list of capabilities of attached computer peripherals. In yet a further embodiment, the method also comprises transmitting an advertisement by the computing device. The advertisement from the computing device includes at least hypertext transfer protocol port numbers of attached computer peripherals and capabilities of attached computer peripherals.","In yet another aspect, the invention features a system that enables messages to be forwarded based on at least hypertext transfer protocol port numbers. The system comprises a router in communication with a computer peripheral that has an assigned hypertext transfer protocol port number and an assigned network address. The system also comprises a routing table in the router that automatically associates the assigned hypertext transfer protocol port number and the assigned network address in response to an advertisement from the computer peripheral. The advertisement includes at least the assigned hypertext transfer protocol port number and the assigned network address.","In one embodiment of the system, the network address is an Internet protocol address. In another embodiment of the system, the Internet protocol address is assigned by a Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol server. In a further embodiment, the Internet protocol address is assigned in response to a request from a Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol client on the computer peripheral. In another embodiment of the system, the advertisement further includes at least a list of capabilities of said computer peripheral. In yet another embodiment of the system, the router is contained in a computing device that maintains a list of capabilities for a plurality of attached computer peripherals. In yet an additional embodiment of the system, the computing device transmits an advertisement including at least hypertext transfer protocol port numbers and capabilities for each of the plurality of attached computer peripherals.","In various embodiments of the system, the computing device is a transaction terminal, a portable data terminal, a personal data assistant, or a cash register. In further various embodiments, the computer peripheral is an image reader, a RFID reader, a RF payment reader, a smart card reader, a biometric reader, a finger print reader or a receipt printer. In an additional embodiment of the system, the hypertext transfer protocol port numbers are assigned dynamically.","In a further aspect, the invention features an apparatus for enabling a router to forward hypertext transfer protocol port number identified messages. The apparatus comprises means for establishing communication between the router and a computer peripheral. The apparatus also comprises means for requesting that a network address be assigned to the computer peripheral. In addition the apparatus comprises means for transmitting an advertisement by the computer peripheral. The advertisement includes at least the assigned network address and a hypertext transfer protocol port number assigned to the computer peripheral. The apparatus further comprises means for configuring the router to associate the hypertext transfer protocol port number assigned to the computer peripheral with the network address of the computer peripheral automatically in response to the advertisement. Additionally the apparatus comprises means for forwarding the hypertext transfer protocol port number identified message to the computer peripheral based on at least the hypertext transfer port number assigned to the computer peripheral.","In one embodiment of the apparatus, forwarding the hypertext transfer protocol port number identified message to the computer peripheral is also based on at least determining a version of the computer peripheral. In another embodiment of the apparatus, forwarding the hypertext transfer protocol port number identified message to the computer peripheral is also based on at least determining a network proximity of the computer peripheral. In a further embodiment of the apparatus, the network address is an Internet protocol address. In yet another embodiment of the apparatus, the Internet protocol address is assigned by a Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol server. In yet an additional embodiment of the apparatus, the Internet protocol address is assigned in response to a request from a Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol client on the computer peripheral. In yet a further embodiment of the apparatus, the advertisement further includes a list of capabilities of said computer peripheral. In still another embodiment of the apparatus, the router is contained in a computing device that maintains a list of capabilities of attached computer peripherals. In still an additional embodiment, the apparatus further comprises means for transmitting an advertisement by the computing device. The advertisement from the computing device includes at least hypertext transfer protocol port numbers of attached computer peripherals and capabilities of attached computer peripherals.","The invention features a system and method for programming, integrating, and controlling the operation of computer peripherals. In brief overview, a computer peripheral is provided with a network communications protocol stack that includes a hypertext transfer protocol (HTTP) layer. The HTTP layer permits the computer peripheral to function as a thin web server. As such, the computer peripheral is enabled to respond to HTTP requests. According to one embodiment of the invention, a computing device, such as a portable data terminal, can treat the computer peripheral, such as a bar code scanner, as one of the ports in the HTTP protocol. With the computer peripheral HTTP enabled, programming the computing device to utilize the computer peripheral can be accomplished by writing an extensible mark-up language (XML) document that optionally includes a program component such as a javascript.","In one embodiment, the invention includes a router that automatically configures itself to properly forward messages with HTTP port identifiers in response to the attachment of a HTTP enabled computer peripheral. In another embodiment, the router in the computing device includes a Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP) server and\/or a DHCP client. In an additional embodiment, the computer peripheral includes a DHCP client. In a further embodiment, the HTTP layer resides on a transfer control protocol\/Internet protocol (TCP\/IP) layer. In an alternative embodiment, the HTTP layer resides on a User Datagram Protocol (UDP) layer. In yet another embodiment, the network communications protocol stack in the computer peripheral includes a XML parser.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0048","num":"0047"},"figref":["FIG. 1","FIG. 1","FIGS. 6A"],"b":["10","10","14","18","22","26","30","14","18","18","14","14","10","14","14","14","14","14","14","14","14","6","7","18","14","18"],"i":["a, ","a ","a ","a ","a, ","b, ","c, ","b ","c "]},"Referring to the network  in further detail, the network  can represent a single local area wired or wireless network or alternatively the network can include a plurality of interconnected networks. In one embodiment, the PDT's are connected to a local wireless network according to any of the 802.11 standards. In an additional embodiment, the wireless network is a TCP\/IP network and each PDT is assigned a unique IP address. For example, if there were 100 PDTs their addresses could run from 192.128.1.1 to 192.128.1.100. In this embodiment the central computer  is also in communication with the local area wireless network and is assigned a unique IP address. As discussed below the assignment of IP addresses can be handled by a DHCP server. In one embodiment the local network includes a Domain Name Server (DNS) so that the central computer  and the PDTs can be addressed, respectively, as:\n\n",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0050","num":"0051"},"figref":["FIGS. 2A and 2B","FIGS. 2A and 2B","FIGS. 2A and 2B"],"b":["14","18","14","40","18","42","18","14","18","18","19","21","23","19","18","14","20","28","24"],"i":["a ","a ","a. ","a ","a ","a "]},"In one embodiment, the electromechanical interface is designed in accordance with the CompactFlash standard as described in the CompactFlash Specification version 2.0 maintained at the website http:\/\/www.compactflash.org. The CompactFlash Specification version 2.0 document is herein incorporated by reference in its entirety. In another embodiment, the electromechanical interface is designed in accordance with the PC Card Standard as described by, for example, the PC Card Standard 8.0 Release\u2014April 2001 maintained by the Personal Computer Memory Card International Association (PCMCIA) and available through the website at http:\/\/www.pcmcia.org. The PC Card Standard 8.0 Release\u2014April 2001 Specification version 2.0 document is herein incorporated by reference in its entirety. In further embodiments, the electromechanical interface is designed in accordance with the Secure Digital standard for memory and the Secure Digital Input Output for interfacing with input\/output devices. In additional embodiments, the electromechanical interface can be constructed in accordance with alternative proprietary or non-proprietary couplings that provide electrical and mechanical interfaces between the computer peripheral  and the PDT With the insertion portion  inserted into the receptacle portion , the electrical and mechanical connectors of the insertion portion  and the receptacle portion  are rigidly in contact thereby establishing a fixed relative position and electrical communication between the image reader and decoder and the PDT ","To facilitate interaction with a user, the PDT also includes a display  and a plurality of interface mechanisms , such as buttons and joysticks. In an alternative embodiment, the communication between the PDT and the computer peripheral  need not include the direct attachment of the computer peripheral  to the PDT and can be, for example, via a cable or a wireless connection. In additional alternative embodiments, the mechanical and electrical coupling components include moveable elements that permit a flexible attachment of a computer peripheral  to a computing device . Although only one computer peripheral is shown in , the invention contemplates that more than one computer peripheral can be attached to a computing device  such as the PDT ",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0053","num":"0054"},"figref":"FIG. 2C","b":["14","18","18","42","50","52","51","50","54","50","56","20","58","14","40","50","52","51","50","34","50","56","38","50","56","24","58","24","32","28","54","54","14"],"i":["a ","a, ","a, ","a, ","a ","a, ","a ","a, ","b, ","b, ","b ","b, ","b ","c, "]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0054","num":"0055"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 1","FIG. 3"],"b":["10","100","104","106","18","18","18","100","22","104","106","14","104","104","104","106"],"i":["a, ","b, ","c. ","a. "]},"As shown in , the browser  is in communication with the web server  by way of the router  and the network . The connection between the web server  and the router  includes an interface In the embodiment where the browser  and the router  are both resident on the PDT the communication between the browser  and the router  includes internal software and electrical interfaces. The router  is also in communication with a plurality of physical interfaces (generally ). The physical interfaces  can be any of those commonly used to connect computer peripherals  such as USB, Ethernet, PCMCIA, RS232, RS488, CompactFlash, PCMCIA PC Card, infrared, Bluetooth, wireless, and the like. In the embodiment shown in , an image reader and decoder is connected to the physical interface a magnetic stripe reader and decoder is connected to the physical interface and a RFID reader and decoder is connected to the physical interface Although only three computer peripherals  are in communication with the router  in , the invention contemplates that an arbitrary number of computer peripherals  can be placed in communication with the router . Also as show in , the router  includes a DHCP server  and the computer peripherals  each include a DHCP client . The operation of the DHCP server  and the DHCP clients  in assigning IP addresses is described in more detail below. The router  also includes a capabilities list , for storing information regarding the capabilities of the attached computer peripherals , and a routing table (generally ). In alternative embodiments, the capabilities list  is stored elsewhere in the PDT or on another device in the network . As used herein the term routing table covers the variety of data structures, such as associational tables, that can be used by a router  in routing or forwarding messages.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0056","num":"0057"},"figref":["FIG. 4A","FIG. 4A","FIG. 4A"],"b":["130","106","18","18","3500","18","3600","18","3700","3500","18","3600","3700","18","18","106","26","22","22","110","22"],"i":["a ","a ","b ","c ","a. ","b ","c ","d "]},"Referring to , a one embodiment of a process  for configuring the router  to forward or direct network communication with HTTP port number identifiers to the proper computer peripherals  is shown. The process  includes dynamically allocating IP addresses to the computer peripherals  and associating the dynamically allocated IP addresses with HTTP port numbers, as shown in the routing table of . In particular, the process  includes attaching (step ) a computer peripheral , for example the image reader and decoder to the router . After the computer peripheral  is attached to the router , the DHCP client  on the computer peripheral , sends (step ) a communication to the router  requesting an IP address. In response to the IP address request, the DHCP server  dynamically assigns (step ) an IP address from a master list and communicates (step ) this IP address, for example the IP address 108.112.12.2 to the computer peripheral . The computer peripheral  stores (step ) its newly assigned and dynamically allocated IP address and then sends (step ) an advertisement. In one embodiment, the advertisement includes the dynamically allocated IP address and the computer peripheral's assigned HTTP port number, for example . In another embodiment, the advertisement also includes a capabilities list for the computer peripheral  including, for example, the imager's pixel size, color capacity, and resolution. In a further embodiment, the advertisement can include a textual identifier for the computer peripheral  as discussed below. In an additional embodiment the advertisement is sent by a communications module in the router .","In an alternative embodiment, the capabilities list is stored in the computer peripheral  and the advertisement contains the name and address of the file containing the capabilities list. For example, the address of the image reader and decoder's capabilities list could be 108.112.12.2:3500\/imager_capability and any device needing the information could access the information by sending a request to the imager reader and decoder to download the imager_capability file. With the information contained in the advertisement, the router  automatically configures itself to associate (step ) the HTTP port number with the dynamically allocated IP address contained in the broadcast message. In an alternative embodiment of the process , the IP addresses are statically as opposed to dynamically allocated.","With the HTTP port number to IP address associations in the routing table the router  is able to direct or forward (step ) communications identified by a HTTP port number to the IP address of the corresponding computer peripheral  based at least on the HTTP port number. Parameters in addition to HTTP port numbers that can be used in forwarding and directing messages in alternative embodiments are discussed below. In addition to updating the routing table , the advertisement is used to add the capabilities of the newly attached computer peripheral  to the capabilities list . For example as shown in , corresponding to the routing table would be a capabilities list  indicating that attached to the router  were the image reader and decoder the magnetic stripe reader and decoder and the RFID reader and decoder In an alternative embodiment, the process  does not include a computer peripheral  being directly physically attached to the router . In this embodiment, the process  can be initiated by the DHCP client's request for an IP address.","In an alternative embodiment, HTTP port numbers can be addressed by textual identifiers, analogous to the functionality provided by a DNS. This allows messages to be identified either by HTTP port number or by textual identifier such as device names such as image_reader, stripe_reader, RFID_reader, and the like. In this embodiment analogous to process , a newly attached computer peripheral is assigned an IP address. The computer peripheral then advertises its capabilities, IP address and port number or name. The router  uses the advertisement to create a routing table with name-to-port-to-IP address associations. As shown in  for the system of , the routing table associates the term image_reader with the HTTP port number  and the dynamically allocated IP address 204.98.156.2, the term stripe_reader with the HTTP port number  and the dynamically allocated IP address 204.98.156.3, and the term RFID_reader with the HTTP port number  and the dynamically allocated IP address 204.98.156.4. Using this routing table the router  can forward messages to the computer peripherals  based either on name or port number.","In an additional embodiment, textual identifiers are dynamically associated with port numbers. This embodiment provides additional flexibility in a legacy environment where certain HTTP port numbers may already be in use. In this embodiment, a computer peripheral  advertises its capabilities, IP address and name. The router  uses the advertisement to create a routing table with name-to-port-to IP address associations. As shown in  for the system of , the routing table associates the term image_reader with the dynamically allocated HTTP port number  and the dynamically allocated IP address 75.210.52.2, the term stripe_reader with the dynamically allocated HTTP port number  and the dynamically allocated IP address 75.210.52.3, and the term RFID_reader with the dynamically allocated HTTP port number  and the dynamically allocated IP address 75.210.52.4. In a further embodiment (not shown), HTTP port numbers are not used and a routing table  associates textual identifiers directly with dynamically or statically allocated IP addresses.","In one embodiment when a computer peripheral  is detached as part of a procedure that allows for communication from the computer peripheral  before removal occurs, the computer peripheral  sends an advertisement that informs the router  that the computer peripheral  will no longer be in communication with the router . In response to this advertisement, the router  removes the port number and associated IP address entry for the computer peripheral  from the routing table . In addition, the router  removes that capabilities corresponding to the detached computer peripheral  from the capabilities list .","In alternative embodiments, procedures are defined to update the routing table  and the capabilities list  when a computer peripheral  is detached without the availability of prior communication, such as when a computer peripheral  is simply unplugged. In one such embodiment, the router  periodically polls the IP addresses listed in the routing table  to confirm that the corresponding computer peripherals  are still attached. In the event that a listed computer peripheral  does not respond, the routing table  and the capabilities list  are updated to reflect that the computer peripheral  has been removed, for example by using a bit that is either set or cleared.","In an additional embodiment, the mapping of HTTP ports to IP addresses is layered on top of the functionality of the Universal Plug and Play (UPnP) architecture. As described in the document \u201cUniversal Plug and Play Device Architecture\u201d version 1.0 dated Jun. 8, 2000 and available at http:\/\/www.upnp.org\/download\/UPnPDA1020000613.htm which document is herein incorporated by reference in its entirety. UPnP is an architecture for pervasive peer-to-peer network connectivity of intelligent appliances, wireless devices, and PCs of all form factors. It is designed to bring easy-to-use, flexible, standards-based connectivity to ad-hoc or unmanaged networks whether in the home, in a small business, public spaces, or attached to the Internet. UPnP is a distributed, open networking architecture that leverages TCP\/IP and Web technologies to enable proximity networking in addition to control and data transfer among networked devices in the home, office, and public spaces.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0065","num":"0066"},"figref":"FIG. 4E","b":["170","18","10","170","174","178","182","182","178","18","182","18","18","18","170","186","18","186","170","174","178","182","186"]},"With reference to , some of the operational components of one embodiment of the image reader and decoder that are used in responding to a HTTP request are shown. The operational components include an imager module  for capturing an image of a one or two dimensional barcode, an indicia, a signature or a graphic, a decoder module  for decoding image data including bar codes and matrix symbols, a controller module  for controlling the operation of the imager module  and the decoder module , and the device module . In various embodiments, the modules , , and  can be implemented hardware and\/or software.","In operation, the device module  receives a HTTP request, for example a request to scan a bar code, from the HTTP layer module . This HTTP request could include as part of the HTTP command:\n\n","Thus according to the invention, IT professionals and programmers in general are provided with a simplified process for integrating the use of computer peripherals  into the operation of computing devices . For example the invention simplifies the process of integrating the use of an image reader and decoder and a magnetic stripe reader and decoder into a transaction application executed by a PDT Among other aspects of the invention, this simplification is based on the transparent nature of HTTP commands and the relatively simple nature of HTML programming as compared with more complex programming languages such as C or C++.","Increasingly IT professionals and programmers for business applications approach the programming of their operations from a process perspective. The HTML programming language is well adapted to this purpose. For example an IT professional or a business application programmer developing a point-of-sale transaction application might first summarize some of the high level steps as:\n\n",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0070","num":"0075"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00001","num":"00001"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"35pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"182pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"<HTML>"]},{"entry":[{},"."]},{"entry":[{},"."]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\/\/ Code for scanning a bar code"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003<P>"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003<INPUT type = \u201ctext\u201d name = \u201cbarcode\u201d"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003src = \u201chttp:\/\/localhost:3500?GET = barcode\u201d"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003<\/P>"]},{"entry":[{},"."]},{"entry":[{},"."]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\/\/ Code for reading a credit card"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003<P>"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003<INPUT type = \u201ctext\u201d name = \u201cmag stripe\u201d"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003src = \u201chttp:\/\/localhost:3600?GET = mag stripe\u201d"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003<\/P>"]},{"entry":[{},"."]},{"entry":[{},"."]},{"entry":[{},"<\/HTML>"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}}}}},"The main components in the HTML code above are the src commands that specify the location of the barcode and magnetic stripe inputs. These locations are given as HTTP Uniform Resource Locators (URLs) where the URLs are associated with a HTTP request and are of the form:\n\nhttp:\/\/host:port\/path?query\n\nwhere host specifies the server name or network address, such as an IP address, of the location of the resource, port specifies the local server port to be utilized in accessing the resource, path specifies the path on the server to the file or program (when provided, the server decides on the interpretation of this information), and query provides arguments to the program (again, the program decides the interpretation of the query terms). In one embodiment, the host:port combination provides an address for the computer peripheral  that can be used, for example, in accessing the computer peripheral  and in forwarding messages to the computer peripheral .\n","In the HTML code excerpt above, the host is specified as localhost. According to HTTP, the term localhost is interpreted as referring to the computing device , in this case the PDT running the browser . As such, when the browser  processes the HTTP request associated with the URL\n\nhttp:\/\/localhost:?GET=barcode\n\na request is sent to the PDT itself. The request includes the port number  and the GET command with its associated information. Upon receiving the HTTP request, the PDT passes the request to the router . Based on the routing table the router  passes the request to the image reader and decoder attached to the physical interface The image reader and decoder then processes the request as above and returns the decoded bar code data to the browser  through the router . As discussed above in one embodiment, the HTTP port numbers can be identified by name so that to address, for example, an image reader the term\n\nhttp:\/\/localhost:\n\ncan be replaced with\n\nhttp:\/\/localhost:image_reader\n\nThe process of getting credit card information from the magnetic stripe reader and decoder is directly analogous to the process described above for getting barcode information.\n","As a further illustration of the interactive capabilities of the invention, the GET commands above could be replaced with other HTTP commands to provide different functionality, operation, and control. For example GET=barcode could be replaced with POST=set UPC. In one embodiment, this command is used to set an operational parameter of an image reader and decoder In particular, the POST=set UPC command could be used to configure the image reader and decoder as to the type of data that will next be read. In so doing, the POST command can be used to optimize the operation of the image reader and decoder by allowing it to process and decode received barcode data without first having to determine the data's barcode type. In other embodiments, the HTTP commands can be used to configure and access various operational parameters of the computer peripherals .","As indicated above, a significant advantage of the present invention is that the programming of a computing device  to utilize a computer peripheral  can be carried out in the simplified and widely familiar XML programming environment. With the invention, a broad range of computer peripherals  can now be treated in the same manner with the integration of each not requiring knowledge of advanced programming languages or manufacturer specific APIs. In addition as discussed above, the operational details of the computer peripherals  are transparent to the programmer. The programmer simply needs to understand the abstract concept performed by the computer peripherals  such as get barcode or get mag stripe.","A further advantage of the invention is that updating a computing device  to execute new code containing newly integrated computer peripherals  is greatly simplified. For example, updating the PDT to execute a new transaction application utilizing the image reader and decoder and the magnetic stripe reader and decoder does not require recompiling the operating system of the PDT and installing it on each of the PDTs In addition the invention avoids the barriers that are presented by integrating functionality into an operating system developed and maintained by a third party.","For example, as the execution of the transaction application is carried out by the browser , updating the PDT to execute a new transaction application simply requires the browser  to download a new web page (for example the HTML document excerpted above) from the central computer . In particular, this process includes the programmer storing a single copy of the newly drafted transaction application on the web server . To acquire a local copy of the HTML document, the browser  would send a HTTP request associated with a URL of the form:\n\nhttp:\/\/central.computer\/PDTapps\/transApp.html\n\nwhere the transaction application is entitled transApp.html and is stored in the PDTapps directory of the central computer . As is standard in HTTP running on TCP\/IP, the request would include the unique address of the client so that that transApp.html could be returned to the appropriate PDT With a copy of the document, the browser  and hence the PDT would be immediately capable of running the transaction application utilizing the attached computer peripherals . In one embodiment, the PDT automatically requests updated operating code in response to a newly attached computer peripheral . The updated operating code could be the transaction application or it could simply be general functionality code that, for example, permitted a user to press one of the buttons  on the PDT to initiate a bar code read or a similar operation for another attached computer peripheral .\n","Another aspect of the present invention is that each computer peripheral  has a unique network address due to its association with a particular PDT This unique network address in combination with the HTTP layer module  means that the computer peripheral  can function as a generic network device with respect to other devices attached to a network. For example referring to , any computing device  that supports HTTP and has access to the network  can direct a request to a particular computer peripheral . In one embodiment, this addressability is used by the central computer  or the remote computer  to enhance the functionality of the computer peripherals .","Referring to , a system \u2032 that is an embodiment of the invention is shown. The system \u2032 displays the enhanced computer peripheral functionality enabled by the computer peripheral addressability aspect of the invention. The system \u2032 includes a plurality of point-of-sale locations . . . , (generally ) such as those that are commonly found in retail environments. Each point-of-sale location  includes a PC Point of Sale (POS) cash register and a transaction terminal Attached to the transaction terminal is a display such as a flat panel display. The PC POS cash registers and the transaction terminals are connected to a local area network (LAN) , such as an Ethernet network or 802.11 wireless network. Additionally part of the system \u2032 and connected to the LAN  is the central computer . In the embodiment shown in , the system \u2032 also includes the remote computer  connected to the central computer  via a wide area network (WAN)  such as the Internet. The PC POS cash register typically includes a personal computer housed in a conventionally known PC housing and multiple interfacing or associated components including a hand-held image reader and decoder a keyboard a cash register drawer a printer and a monitor \u2032.  also shows a product  with a barcode .","In one embodiment of the system \u2032, each PC POS cash register includes a DHCP client  that in combination with a DHCP server  on the central computer  provides each PC POS cash register with a unique dynamically allocated IP address. In addition each PC POS cash register includes a DHCP server  and a router \u2032 and each computer peripheral  includes, as shown explicitly for the hand-held image reader and decoder a network communications protocol stack module  and a DHCP client . These components enable the PC POS cash register to direct HTTP port addressed messages to the dynamically allocated IP addresses of the attached computer peripherals . In one embodiment, the HTTP enablement of the computer peripherals  allows them to be directly addressed from a central location by exploiting the HTTP localhost functionality described above.","The direct addressability of computer peripherals  can enhance the functionality of point-of-sale locations  in general and the hand-held image reader and decoder in particular. For example, it is standard as part of purchasing goods in a retail environment at a point-of-sale location  that the barcode  on the product  will be read and decoded. The decoded barcode data is then used to perform a price look-up by using a price look-up table on the central server  that associates product numbers with product prices. These price look-ups can fail for a number of reasons including the price look-up table containing errors or the hand-held image reader and decoder not being able to decode the barcode  due to, for example, physical distortions in the barcode . In response to such a failure, an operator of the point-of-sale location  may be required to request that a supervisor visit the point-of-sale location  to physically inspect the product .","An alternative approach enabled by one embodiment of the present invention is that in response to a failed price look-up, the hand-held image reader and decoder involved in the transaction can be transmitted a request that directs the hand-held image reader and decoder to take a graphical image of the product  and\/or barcode . In addition to capturing the image, the request can direct the hand-held image reader and decoder to provide instructions to the operator of the steps required to properly capture the image. Such instructions can be included in an XML document transmitted to the hand-held image reader and decoder for presentation to the operator on a display located on the hand-held image reader and decoder After being captured, the image can be transmitted to a supervisor at a central location who can inspect the product  without needing to visit the point-of-sale location . In another embodiment, the image is transmitted to the central computer  for additional graphical processing and\/or the generation of a report to resolve any errors in the price look-up table.","In another embodiment that demonstrates the scalability of the system \u2032, each transaction terminal is equipped with a DHCP client , a DHCP server , a network communications protocol stack module  and a router \u2033. In this embodiment, the transaction terminal functions both as a computing device  and as a computer peripheral . As with the hand-held image reader and decoder described above, the DHCP client  is used as part of dynamically assigning an IP address to the transaction terminal and configuring the router \u2032 with the transaction terminal's assigned HTTP port number. The DHCP server  on the transaction terminal is used as part of dynamically assigning IP addresses to computer peripherals  attached to the transaction terminal and configuring the router \u2033 to properly direct HTTP port addressed messages to the correct computer peripheral . In this embodiment, HTTP enabled computer peripherals  that could be attached to the transaction terminals include but are not limited to image readers and decoders hand-held image readers and decoders magnetic stripe readers and decoders RFID readers and decoders biometric readers and decoders (discussed below), the display etc. In one embodiment as above, each of these computer peripherals  includes a network communications protocol stack module  and a DHCP client .","In one embodiment of the invention, the transaction terminal is attached to a magnetic stripe reader and decoder a fingerprint reader and decoder and the display In this embodiment, the HTTP port numbers of these computer peripherals  are, respectively, , , and . In addition as indicated above, the PC POS cash register is in communication with several computer peripherals whose HTTP port numbers are , , and  for, respectively, the hand-held image reader and decoder the receipt printer and the transaction terminal ",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0084","num":"0089"},"figref":["FIG. 6B","FIG. 4B"],"b":["130","130","130","14","130","14","18","18","130","130","150","130","18","3600","18","3800","18","4100","130","18","3500","18","18","18","3600","18","3800","14","4000","18","4100","18","3900","18","18","18","14","14","14","18","14","130","14","130"],"i":["d, ","e ","d ","c ","e ","b. ","g","h ","d, ","e ","e ","b ","e ","g ","d ","f ","a ","f ","b ","e ","b ","g ","d ","b, ","e, ","g ","b ","b. ","c ","e ","b ","d. ","b ","e. "]},"The entries in the routing table that associate the transaction terminal's computer peripherals with the transaction terminal's IP address were developed in response to an advertisement from the transaction terminal As described above in one embodiment, the advertisement includes at least the HTTP port number of the transaction terminal the transaction terminal's IP address (as assigned by the PC POS cash register's DHCP server ), the HTTP port numbers of the attached computer peripherals and a list of the capabilities of the transaction terminal and the attached computer peripherals This information is used in generating the entries in the routing table and a capabilities list for the PC POS cash register In one embodiment the transaction terminal's advertisement is sent when the transaction terminal is first attached to the PC POS cash register In another embodiment, an advertisement is sent from the transaction terminal whenever its capabilities are changed, e.g. whenever a computer peripheral is added or removed. In an additional embodiment, the transaction terminal sends an advertisement at periodic intervals or in response to polling from the PC POS cash register ","In a further embodiment, duplication in HTTP port numbers can arise. For example if a hand-held image reader and decoder was attached to one of the transaction terminals in , the routing table would include two port  entries each with a different IP address. In general, potential HTTP port number conflicts are resolved by identifying one or more parameters that can be used to distinguish the computer peripherals . The conflict resolving protocols in turn frequently depend on the fact that each computer peripheral  has a unique IP address that allows the computer peripheral  to be individually addressed.","In one embodiment, messages identified by a HTTP port number that is associated with two or more IP addresses are forwarded to the computer peripheral  having the closest network proximity. In one embodiment, the determination of network proximity is based on an analysis of the network domain overlap between the IP address of the router and the IP addresses of the computer peripherals  sharing port numbers. In another embodiment, conflicts between HTTP port numbers are resolved by determining, and then selecting, the computer peripheral  with the latest version.","Frequently duplications in HTTP port numbers do not present operational difficulties as communications are initiated from a computer peripheral . These communications typically include the computer peripheral's unique IP address thereby enabling messages to be directed to the computer peripheral without ambiguity. Embodiments that include computer peripheral initiated communication include those employing event driven programming components. In one embodiment when data from a computer peripheral  is required, the governing application, such as the transaction application, enters a listening mode awaiting communication from a specified HTTP port. At this point, the computer peripheral  initiates communication with the governing program in response to, for example, an event such as a user pulling a trigger on a hand-held image reader and decoder ","According to one embodiment of the invention, each device that assigns IP addresses has information pertaining to all of the devices within the domain to which it assigns IP addresses. In addition at each level in the IP assignment hierarchy, the assigning authority can directly address any device within its domain. For example in response to advertisements from the transaction terminal the hand-held reader and decoder and the receipt printer the capabilities list includes details pertaining to all of the computer peripherals and computing devices within the domain of the PC POS cash register This information is in turn included in an advertisement from the PC POS cash register to the central server . In one embodiment, the PC cash register's advertisement includes at least the capabilities and HTTP port number of the PC POS cash register as well as those of the computer peripherals and computing devices within the PC POS cash register's domain. The advertisement also includes the IP address of the PC POS cash register In the central computer , the PC POS cash register's IP address will be associated with the PC POS cash register itself as well as with the computer peripherals and the computing devices within the PC POS cash register's domain. The process of aggregating information and transmitting advertisements continues as long as there is a shared authority assigning IP addresses.","For example in one embodiment the central computer  and the remote computer  are part of a Virtual Private Network (VPN) and the remote computer  assigns an IP address to the central computer . In this embodiment, the central computer  would send an advertisement to the remote computer  listing the port numbers and capabilities of all of the devices within the network . In this manner at each level in the hierarchy, each device assigning IP addresses has information pertaining to the computer peripherals  and computing devices  within its domain. Further given the HTTP port-to-IP address mapping scheme discussed above, each of the computer peripherals  and computing devices  can be individually addressed.","In one embodiment the HTTP enablement of the computer peripherals  is used to provide enhanced flexibility and functionality for financial transactions. For example some financial transactions that involve amounts above a specified limit can require additional authorization to insure against losses from fraudulent uses. Such transactions can include but are not limited to ATM withdrawals, credit card purchases, debit card purchases and the like. A uniquely addressable HTTP enabled computer peripheral , such as the biometric reader and decoder can be used to provide this additional authorization.","In one embodiment, a process using the invention involves a customer requesting authorization to charge an account with a credit card, a debit card, a smartcard, a RFID card, a RF payment contact or contactless card or the like. As part of the request, a message is transmitted to a central financial processing facility. The authorization processes executed by the financial processing facility could be implemented on a computer system such as the remote computer . In response to the authorization request, the financial processing facility determines that the requested amount is in excess of the account's base limit. According to the protocols of the financial processing facility, any charges in excess of the base limit require additional authorization including the confirmation of the identity of the customer making the request as the account holder. To achieve such confirmation, the remote computer  sends a request forwarded by the central computer  to the PC POS cash register for confirmation data.","In one embodiment of the invention, any computer peripheral  capable of collecting confirmation data is assigned a common HTTP port number, such as port . According to this embodiment, the software executed on the remote computer  requesting the confirmation data and the software on the PC POS cash register directing the financial transaction do not require details regarding the nature or implementation of the collection of the confirmation data. For example in one embodiment, any biometric reader and decoder can equally well be employed. Assuming the identity confirming computer peripheral  meets a specified standard, the biometric reader and decoder could be implemented as a finger print, iris, or other identity confirming biometric reader and decoder. According to this embodiment, the implementation and operational details concerning the identity confirmation are handled by the computer peripheral  and are transparent to the PC POS cash register and the remote computer .","For example according to one embodiment if the identity confirming computer peripheral  is a finger print reader and decoder the steps required to collect the finger print data, such as instructions provided to the customer, are controlled by the finger print reader and decoder itself. For example the process can be initiated by the PC POS cash register with a HTTP request, such as\n\nGET=confirmation data\n\nIn one embodiment in response to the confirmation data request, the fingerprint reader and decoder transmits an XML page containing instructions that are to be presented to the user as to how to properly perform a fingerprint scan. These instructions can be presented on the display and can include diagrams and text explaining to a customer the proper procedure for performing a finger print scan. In an additional embodiment, the computer peripherals  are able to communicate directly with each other so that, for example, the finger print reader and decoder can communicate directly with the display to present the instructions to the customer. In one embodiment, the direct communication between computer peripherals  is conducted according to the General Event Notification Architecture (GENA) as described more fully in the General Event Notification Architecture Base: Client to Arbiter document available at http:\/\/www.upnp.org\/download\/draft-cohen-gena-client-01.txt. The General Event Notification Architecture Base: Client to Arbiter document is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.\n","Once a scan has been performed, the fingerprint reader and decoder can determine whether a valid scan was completed. In the event that the data collected was not satisfactory, the fingerprint reader and decoder can direct the customer to perform an additional scan. In one embodiment prior to sending the additional instructions, the fingerprint reader and decoder analyzes the initial data to determine a likely cause for the failed scan, such as inadequate pressure on the scanner, and includes a probable remedy in the additional instructions. As part of the additional instructions, the fingerprint scanner and decoder can include an image file of the scan for presentation to the customer. Once a successful scan has been completed, the decoded identity confirming data is transmitted to the central financial processing facility for comparison with entries in a database of biometric data. In an alternative embodiment, the customer's correct biometric data is stored on a smart card that is accessed locally by the transaction terminal In this embodiment, the central financial processing facility is simply informed whether the additional confirmation was successful.","As indicated above because each computer peripheral  provides its own instructions and controls its own operation, the invention simplifies the process of drafting and maintaining software and of managing the hardware related to computing devices  with computer peripherals . For example according to the invention, a store with PC POS cash registers can replace some subset of the hand-held readers and decoders with new models or models from a different manufacture without operational complication. The new hand-held readers and decoders maintain the same HTTP port number and differences in operation are handled by the new units themselves. Hence new units can be updated or replaced without the need to modify existing software or operational procedures. By decoupling the operational elements in programs using computer peripherals  and by allowing the computer peripherals  to function autonomously and transparently, the present invention simplifies the process for programmers, IT professionals, and system managers to integrated, update, and modify the use of computer peripherals .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0097","num":"0102"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 6A"],"b":["14","14","14"],"i":["b ","b ","b "]},"The transaction terminal includes a touch screen , a stylus , an indicator , an information message , and an integrated modular magnetic card reader and decoder \u2032. According to the invention, the integrated modular magnetic card reader and decoder \u2032 can be replaced with other modular integrated computer peripherals such as those performing the functionality of image, smartcard, or biometric reading and decoding. The touch screen  and the stylus  are used as user interfaces to provide information to and receive information from a user\/customer. The touch screen  includes a display and a touch pad overlay and among other functions serves as a virtual keypad and signature capture platform.","In the embodiment shown in , the transaction terminal also includes an additional display screen for presenting information to the user\/customer. The display screen can be a LCD flat panel display having a larger size and greater resolution than the touch screen  thereby enabling the presentation of more sophisticated graphics and\/or animation than can be supported by the touch screen . A card  that is processed by the integrated modular magnetic card reader and decoder \u2032 may be, for example, a credit card, a debit card, a customer loyalty card, an electronic benefits card, a company-sponsored benefits card, an identification card, a RFID card, a RF contact or contactless payment card and the like.","Security for the transaction terminal is facilitated by the indicator  and the information message . In operation the indicator  is made responsive to a changing encryption mode signal so that the indicator  is active only when an encryption routine is called. Still further, in accordance with the secure information entry security feature, in one embodiment an information message  is displayed on or about the transaction terminal or visible by a customer\/user of the transaction terminal that informs the customer-user that the customer\/user should enter secure, e.g., PIN information, only if indicator  is active. Information message  is preferably substantially permanently affixed to the transaction terminal so that an unscrupulous party cannot easily remove or destroy message . The operational details of the transaction terminal discussed above also apply to the PDTs and other computing devices  that can be used in accordance with the invention in having computer peripherals  attached.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0101","num":"0106"},"figref":"FIG. 8A","b":["18","18","14","14","14","18","14","14","14","14"],"i":["a, ","b, ","c. "]},"The operational components of the computer peripheral  include an interface module , a data module , an operations module , and a network communications protocol stack module . In various embodiments, the operations module  can provide control, device specific and supplemental functionality such as decoding. As discussed above with respect to , the network communications protocol stack module  in one embodiment includes a TCP\/IP layer module , a HTTP layer module , and optionally a XML module . Also as discussed above, the computer peripheral  has an address and the address includes a reference to the associated computing device . In one embodiment, the reference is the network address, such as the IP address, of the associated computing device . In another embodiment, the reference is a generalized reference, such as the localhost reference used in HTTP, that is translated into a specific reference to the associated computing device  when the generalized reference is interpreted by, for example, a browser.","In one embodiment each of the modules , , , , , ,  in the computer peripheral  are in communication with each other and are implemented in a combination of hardware and\/or software. For example as described with respect to , the hardware can include PCBs, electrical components, and generic and function specific integrated circuit such as microprocessors and computer memory. The software routines can be stored in dedicated or programmable memories such as Programmable Read Only Memories (PROMs), Erasable Programmable Read Only Memories (EPROMs) and\/or Electrically Erasable Programmable Read Only Memories (EEPROMs) for execution in a microprocessor. In alternative embodiments, one or more of the modules , , , , , ,  are implemented entirely as hardware devices or software routines.","The interface module  enables exchange of communications with the associated computing device . In one embodiment, the association is a direct physical connection and the interface module  includes electrical and mechanical connectors for connecting with a corresponding interface module on the associated computing device . The mechanical and electrical connections can create a rigid or a flexible coupling between the computer peripheral  and the associated computing device . In an additional alternative embodiment, the interface module  enables communication without direct physical contact with the associated computing device  such as via a wireless connection. In one embodiment, the interface module is as described above with respect to the insertion portion  in .","In some embodiments the data module  includes hardware that is designed to perform data input and\/or data out functionality. In various embodiments, the functionality provided by the data module  includes scanning or reading bar codes, symbols, graphics or indicia, reading smart card data, reading biometric data, reading fingerprint data, reading RF payment data, reading RFID data, reading magnetic stripe card data, printing documents, displaying information, and the like. In alternative embodiments, the functionality provided by the data module  includes providing cursor position and keyboard stroke data. In another embodiment the data module  includes hardware that is designed to provide computer memory storage. In a further embodiment, the computer memory is supplemental to computer memory already present in the associated computing device  and can be designed for particular purposes such as fast storage and retrieval of digital information such as digitized images, video, sound, and\/or text.","In another embodiment, the functionality provided by the data module  is lacking from the associated computing device  in the absence of the computer peripheral . For example in one embodiment, the PDT of  does not include the capacity to read magnetic stripe data, read RFID data, print receipts or read finger print data prior to the attachment of, respectively, a magnetic stripe reader and decoder a RFID reader and decoder a printer or a biometric reader and decoder .The computer peripherals and are discussed in more detail below with respect to .","As discussed above, the HTTP layer module  in the network communications protocol stack module  enables the computer peripheral  to respond to HTTP requests from the associated computing device . In some embodiments, messages from the associated computing device  are identified by HTTP port numbers or computer peripheral textual identifiers. The TCP\/IP layer module  enables the transmissions of communications according to TCP\/IP. In an alternative embodiment, the network communications protocol stack module  includes a UDP layer module that enables communications to be transmitted according to UDP. In alternative embodiments, other network communication protocols can be used in accordance with the invention. In some embodiments, the HTTP requests are transmitted from alternative devices such as a centralized computer. Also as discussed above, the optional XML module  parses XML documents transmitted from the associated computing device  or alternative sources. The commands contained in the XML document can be used to supplement or alter the operation of the computer peripheral .","In a further embodiment, the computer peripheral is integrated into the associated computing device . In one embodiment, the data module  is the imager , discussed above with respect to . As an example, the imager  can be integrated into an industrial manufacturing apparatus. In this embodiment, the imager  allows the industrial manufacturing apparatus to collect and analyze images as part of product assembly and quality control.","One implementation of some of the operational components of the computer peripheral  shown in  is the non-exhaustive components of the image reader and decoder shown in  where the imager module  is contained in the data module ; the device module , the controller module , and the decoder module  are contained in the operations module . The network communications protocol stack module  is common to both .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0110","num":"0115"},"figref":["FIG. 8B","FIG. 8B"],"b":["18","18","18","18","80","82","84","86","18","18","20","28","32","24","14","14","14","14","18","18","18","18","18","18","82","84","86","20","28","32","24","14","18","18","58","18","82","84","86","20","28","32","24","14","18","18","60","18","82","84","86","20","28","32","24","14","18","18","18","18","20","28","32","24","14","18"],"i":["b. ","b ","a, ","b ","a, ","b, ","c ","b ","b ","c. ","c ","c ","d ","d ","e ","b, ","c, ","d, ","e "]},"In one embodiment, the computer peripherals  are attached to a computing device , such as a base unit, that provides basic computing operations. Specialized functionality, such as image reading and decoding or displaying information, is provided by the computer peripherals . In one embodiment, the base computing unit is contained within its own housing and includes an operating system, a graphical browser, a processor, a memory, and at least one electromechanical connector for connecting at least one computer peripheral . In this embodiment, the computer peripherals  are modular data collection units each of which is contained within its own housing and includes a processor, an electromechanical connector and a software module. The software module allows the modular data collection peripheral unit to respond to hypertext transfer protocol requests. As specialized units in some embodiments, the modular data collection units are devoid of some of the general purpose components contained in some embodiments of the base unit, such as a graphical browser.","In one embodiment, the modular data collection units are designed according to set of standardized parameters to facilitate their easy installation and exchange. For example in one embodiment, the electromechanical connectors are defined such that the modular data collection peripheral units are detachably attachable to the base unit by the base unit's electromechanical connector connecting to the computer peripheral's electromechanical connector.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0113","num":"0118"},"figref":"FIG. 9","b":["18","18","19","21","23","82","84","86","64","18","66","20","28","14","18","18"],"i":["f ","f ","f ","a ","a ","f ","f "]},"Machine-readable storage media that can be used in the invention include electronic, magnetic and\/or optical storage media, such as magnetic floppy disks and hard disks; a DVD drive, a CD drive that in some embodiments can employ DVD disks, any of CD-ROM disks (i.e., read-only optical storage disks), CD-R disks (i.e., write-once, read-many optical storage disks), and CD-RW disks (i.e., rewriteable optical storage disks); and electronic storage media, such as RAM, ROM, EPROM, EEPROM, Compact Flash cards, PCMCIA cards, or alternatively SD or SDIO memory; and the electronic components (e.g., floppy disk drive, DVD drive, CD\/CD-R\/CD-RW drive, or Compact Flash\/PCMCIA\/SD adapter) that accommodate and read from and\/or write to the storage media. As is known to those of skill in the machine-readable storage media arts, new media and formats for data storage are continually being devised, and any convenient, commercially available storage medium and corresponding read\/write device that may become available in the future is likely to be appropriate for use, especially if it provides any of a greater storage capacity, a higher access speed, a smaller size, and a lower cost per bit of stored information. Well known older machine-readable media are also available for use under certain conditions, such as punched paper tape or cards, magnetic recording on tape or wire, optical or magnetic reading of printed characters (e.g., OCR and magnetically encoded symbols) and machine-readable symbols such as one and two dimensional bar codes.","Those of ordinary skill will recognize that many functions of electrical and electronic apparatus can be implemented in hardware (for example, hard-wired logic), in software (for example, logic encoded in a program operating on a general purpose processor), and in firmware (for example, logic encoded in a non-volatile memory that is invoked for operation on a processor as required). The present invention contemplates the substitution of one implementation of hardware, firmware and software for another implementation of the equivalent functionality using a different one of hardware, firmware and software. To the extent that an implementation can be represented mathematically by a transfer function, that is, a specified response is generated at an output terminal for a specific excitation applied to an input terminal of a \u201cblack box\u201d exhibiting the transfer function, any implementation of the transfer function, including any combination of hardware, firmware and software implementations of portions or segments of the transfer function, is contemplated herein.","While the present invention has been particularly shown and described with reference to the preferred mode as illustrated in the drawings, it will be understood by one skilled in the art that various changes in detail may be effected therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined by the claims. For example as mentioned, the embodiments utilizing a portable data terminal or a transaction terminal could equally well be constructed using the other device or an alternative computing device. In addition while transaction terminals and portable data terminal have generally been described as computing devices, they can function as computer peripherals in various embodiments as indicated above. In addition, the creation of computer peripherals that function as generic network devices due to the presence of a network communications protocol stack module including a HTTP layer module could equally be achieved with alternative network communication protocol layer modules. Further while some embodiments of the invention include placing network communications protocol stack modules including HTTP and TCP\/IP layer modules in computer peripherals, similar network communications protocol stack modules may be required on additional devices in the network although their presence has not been explicitly shown."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The above and further advantages of this invention may be better understood by referring to the following description in conjunction with the accompanying drawings, in which like numerals indicate like structural elements and features in various figures. The drawings are not necessarily to scale, emphasis instead being placed upon illustrating the principles of the invention.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":"FIGS. 2A and 2B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":"FIG. 2C"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"figref":["FIG. 4A","FIG. 3"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0034"},"figref":"FIG. 4B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"figref":"FIG. 4C"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0037","num":"0036"},"figref":"FIG. 4D"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0037"},"figref":["FIG. 4E","FIG. 3"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0039","num":"0038"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0040","num":"0039"},"figref":"FIG. 6A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0041","num":"0040"},"figref":["FIG. 6B","FIG. 6A"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0042","num":"0041"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 6A"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0043","num":"0042"},"figref":"FIG. 8A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0044","num":"0043"},"figref":"FIG. 8B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0045","num":"0044"},"figref":["FIG. 9","FIG. 6A"]}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
