---
title: Interacting current spreader and junction extender to increase the voltage blocked in the off state of a high power semiconductor device
abstract: A technique of spreading current flowing in a semiconductor device comprising an electrode, a drift region adjacent to the electrode, a junction termination extension implant region in the drift region, and a current spreader adjacent to the junction termination extension implant region and the electrode. The current spreader is adapted to reduce current densities and electrostatic fields (preferably simultaneously) in an area connecting the electrode with the drift region. Moreover, the current spreader is adapted to spread current flowing from the electrode into the drift region. The semiconductor device further comprises an ohmic metal contact connected to the electrode and an implant pocket in the drift region, wherein the implant pocket is adapted for terminating electrostatic field lines in the semiconductor device. Preferably, the current spreader comprises an ohmic metal and the electrode comprises any of an anode and a cathode.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07304363&OS=07304363&RS=07304363
owner: United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 07304363
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20041126
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["GOVERNMENT INTEREST","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS OF THE INVENTION"],"p":["The invention described herein may be manufactured, used, and\/or licensed by or for the United States Government.","1. Field of the Invention","The invention generally relates to high power semiconductor devices, and more particularly to field termination structures used for enhancing voltage blocking abilities of semiconductor devices.","2. Description of the Related Art","Several field termination structures and techniques are presently utilized in the industry. These include field plates, field rings, beveling, and surface implant termination or junction termination extension (JTE) and they all tend to increase the voltage blocking ability of semiconductor devices. As known to those skilled in the art, field plates are metal contacts that do not conduct but instead alter the surface potential to reduce the curvature of electrostatic fields at the surface of the semiconductor device. Usually, the field plates are isolated from the semiconductor material by an insulating oxide layer disposed in between the field plates and the semiconductor material. Moreover, field rings tend to extend the depletion region boundary along the surface of the semiconductor device and are typically embodied as implanted impurities in the semiconductor surface.","Beveling the edges of a vertical power semiconductor device has been shown to promote structural breakdown to occur within the bulk material of the semiconductor device rather than at the surface by reshaping the device so that higher fields are within the device. Additionally, surface implant termination or JTE usually achieves a less abrupt high to low dopant concentration transition with a gradual decrease in the dopant concentration between the high doped region and the drift region of the semiconductor device. In view of the above techniques, the industry has generally concluded that the JTE is the best field termination to use.","High power semiconductor devices are typically made from silicon and are used in applications of up to several kilovolts. However, applications using high power semiconductor devices may have been limited because of the lack of a p-n junction in silicon bipolar power devices when operating above 150\u00b0 C. as is easily reached when handling high powers. Also, for some silicon devices to block very high voltages, either the drift region had to be very thick, or several devices had to be connected in series. Both cases are inferior because thicker drift regions lead to slow switching, and having several devices in series may cause reliability problems unless the devices are identical and display the same characteristics over time. Nonetheless, the industry continues to strive to develop high power semiconductor devices which achieve high voltage blocking with low on-state voltage over a large current range with fast switching.","In view of the foregoing, an embodiment of the invention provides a semiconductor device comprising an electrode, a drift region adjacent to the electrode, a junction termination extension implant region in the drift region, and a current spreader adjacent to the junction termination extension implant region and the electrode. The current spreader is adapted to reduce current densities and electrostatic fields (preferably simultaneously) in an area connecting the electrode with the drift region. Moreover, the current spreader is adapted to spread current flowing from the electrode into the drift region. The semiconductor device further comprises an ohmic metal contact connected to the electrode and an implant pocket in the drift region, wherein the implant pocket is adapted for terminating electrostatic field lines in the semiconductor device. Preferably, the current spreader comprises an ohmic metal and the electrode comprises any of an anode and a cathode.","Additionally, an embodiment of the invention provides a semiconductor device comprising a first electrode, a drift region adjacent to the first electrode, a second electrode adjacent to the drift region, a junction termination extension implant region in the drift region, and a current spreader adjacent to the junction termination extension implant region and the first electrode, wherein the current spreader is adapted to reduce current densities and electrostatic fields (preferably simultaneously) in an area connecting the first electrode with the drift region. Additionally, the current spreader is adapted to spread current flowing from the first electrode into the drift region. The semiconductor device further comprises a plurality of ohmic metal contacts connected to each of the first electrode and the second electrode and an implant pocket in the drift region, wherein the implant pocket is adapted for terminating electrostatic field lines in the semiconductor device. Preferably, the current spreader comprises an ohmic metal and the first electrode and second electrode comprises any of an anode and a cathode.","Another aspect of the invention provides a method of spreading current flowing in a semiconductor device, wherein the method comprises forming an electrode adjacent to a drift region, implanting a junction termination extension implant region in the drift region, positioning a current spreader adjacent to the junction termination extension implant region, and applying voltage to the semiconductor device resulting in a flow of current in the semiconductor device, wherein the step of positioning reduces a concentration of the current in an area connecting the electrode with the drift region. Furthermore, the step of positioning reduces current densities and electrostatic fields (preferably simultaneously) in the area connecting the electrode with the drift region. Also, the step of positioning spreads current flowing from the electrode into the drift region. The method further comprises connecting an ohmic metal contact to the electrode and configuring an implant pocket in the drift region, wherein the implant pocket is adapted for terminating electrostatic field lines in the semiconductor device. Preferably, the current spreader comprises an ohmic metal and the electrode comprises any of an anode and a cathode.","The embodiments of the invention achieve several advantages including that the embodiments of the invention are simple to implement because the fabrication processes for depositing the ohmic contact can also be used to deposit the current spreader. As such, no additional mask plates are needed, thereby reducing manufacturing time and costs. Furthermore, the embodiments of the invention increase the voltage blocked in high power semiconductor devices compared to conventional techniques for increasing the blocked voltage.","The embodiments of the invention are particularly advantageous in wide bandgap semiconductor devices, and more particularly, the embodiments of the invention may be utilized in silicon high-voltage product lines, with a potential use for these techniques in high power semiconductor devices made from silicon carbide (SiC) and other wide bandgap semiconductors including AlGaN. SiC and other wide bandgap materials tend to offer several advantages including the ability to operate bipolar devices at temperatures above 300\u00b0 C., faster switching than silicon devices, and the ability to block higher voltages with thinner materials such that fewer devices are needed in series.","In particular, the SiC or other wide bandgap semiconductor material based devices that will benefit greatly from the field termination techniques provided by the embodiments of the invention include, but are not limited to, p-i-n diodes, IGBTs, thyristors, transistors and, in particular, any semiconductor device that would use a JTE to increase the voltage blocked in reverse bias. The above-mentioned devices are high power switches and are optimized for low leakage current when biased with a high reverse voltage (off state) and high current conduction with low applied forward voltage. Also, high frequency modulators requiring high reverse blocking can advantageously make use of the embodiments of the invention.","Additionally, several applications of the embodiments of the invention are possible in such areas as high voltage differential circuits (HVDC), traction circuits, motor control, factory automation, lamp ballasts, telecom circuits, display drives, automotive electronics and power supplies, among others.","These and other aspects of the embodiments of the invention will be better appreciated and understood when considered in conjunction with the following description and the accompanying drawings. It should be understood, however, that the following descriptions, while indicating preferred embodiments of the invention and numerous specific details thereof, are given by way of illustration and not of limitation. Many changes and modifications may be made within the scope of the embodiments of the invention without departing from the spirit thereof, and the embodiments of the invention include all such modifications.","The embodiments of the invention and the various features and advantageous details thereof are explained more fully with reference to the non-limiting embodiments that are illustrated in the accompanying drawings and detailed in the following description. It should be noted that the features illustrated in the drawings are not necessarily drawn to scale. Descriptions of well-known components and processing techniques are omitted so as to not unnecessarily obscure the embodiments of the invention. The examples used herein are intended merely to facilitate an understanding of ways in which the embodiments of the invention may be practiced and to further enable those of skill in the art to practice the embodiments of the invention. Accordingly, the examples should not be construed as limiting the scope of the embodiments of the invention.","As previously mentioned, there remains a need for a novel high power semiconductor device that achieves high voltage blocking with low on-state voltage over a large current range with fast switching. Referring now to the drawings, and more particularly to , (), (), and () through (), there are shown preferred embodiments of the invention.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":["FIG. 1","FIG. 1"],"b":["1","2","3","3","4","4","5","6","8","12","2","3","4"]},"What constitutes \u201cvery high current densities\u201d and \u201chigh electrostatic fields\u201d is determined by the calculation for the carrier generation rate by impact ionization. At each location (point) in the semiconductor device  the carrier generation rate is calculated based on the electrostatic field and the current density at the point. Then, using this carrier generation rate, a new current density is calculated at this point to determine if the current density is sufficiently high enough such that as the field increases, the current increases. This determines the limiting voltage that the semiconductor device  can block. The impact ionization, in its simple form, is proportional to current density and the exponent of the field. Therefore, impact ionization, the mechanism that limits the voltage blocked, is largest when both the current density and electrostatic field are high at the same location.","The CS region  preferably has a low contact resistance (approximately less than 1.0\u00d710ohm-cm) at both the first electrode region  and JTE implant region . By having a low contact resistance at both the first electrode region  and the JTE implant region , the current can flow from the first electrode region  into the current spreader region  and then enter the JTE implant region  away from the mesa isolation junction corner . The current density is high where the current enters the JTE implant region . Thus, it is desirable to have a high current density to be away from the high field region, which is at the mesa isolation junction corner .","Additionally, the semiconductor device  comprises an implant pocket  in the drift region  for terminating electrostatic field lines. The semiconductor device  further comprises a second electrode region  adjacent to the drift region  and a pair of ohmic contacts , , preferably comprising metal, attached to the first electrode region  and second electrode region , respectively. The first electrode region  may be embodied as either a positively charged electrode (anode) or a negatively charged electrode (cathode). Similarly, the second electrode region  may be embodied as either a positively charged electrode (anode) or a negatively charged electrode (cathode), whereby if the first electrode region  is configured as an anode, then the second electrode region  is configured as a cathode, and vice versa. During operation, voltage is applied to the semiconductor device , thereby causing current to flow through the semiconductor device  by entering or leaving the ohmic contacts , . Furthermore, all of the regions in the semiconductor device  except for the current spreader  and ohmic contacts , , are preferably semiconductor regions and may comprise silicon carbide, silicon, gallium arsenide, gallium nitride, indium phosphide, aluminum gallium nitride, or other similar semiconductor materials.","Without the inventive CS region , \u201cvery high current densities\u201d and \u201chigh electrostatic fields\u201d, as previously defined, would simultaneously exist. Accordingly, the embodiments of the invention help a high power device, such as the semiconductor device  of , block higher off-state voltages by reducing the leakage current generated by impact ionization at a given applied bias. This generated current at the junction  in the semiconductor device  is proportional to the product of the current density and the exponent of the electrostatic field at that location. By adding the current spreader , which is preferably embodied as an ohmic metal layer, the high current density is spread laterally away from the junction  where the high fields occur. In one embodiment, the current spreader  is in direct contact with both a lower portion  of the first electrode region  and the JTE implant region .","Preferably, the current spreader  is formed by e-beam evaporation or sputtering of a metal that would form an ohmic contact with the semiconductor it is in contact with.  illustrates an example of a semiconductor device , such as a pin diode, which implements the invention. While specific dimensions are provided in , the invention is not limited to the dimensions provided, but are rather provided as an example and are used in manufacturing the semiconductor device  used for experimentation, the results (of implementation) of which are further described in ), and (). As shown in , the four implant regions A, A, A, and A include the following dopant concentrations provided in Table 1, where Nis the dopant concentration of acceptors and Nis the dopant concentration of donors.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00001","num":"00001"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"center"}},"thead":{"row":{"entry":"TABLE 1"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":"Dopant Concentrations"}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"91pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"126pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Region","Dopant Concentration (cm)"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["A1","N= 5.0 \u00d7 10"]},{"entry":["A2","N= 8.0 \u00d7 10"]},{"entry":["A3","N= 5.0 \u00d7 10"]},{"entry":["A4","N= 5.0 \u00d7 10"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0037","num":"0036"},"figref":"FIG. 3","sup":["16 ","17 ","\u22123"],"b":["2","2"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0037"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 3"],"b":["3","2","2"],"sup":["17 ","\u22123 ","17 ","\u22123 "]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0039","num":"0038"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 4"],"b":["2","12","1","1"],"sup":["17 ","\u22123"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0040","num":"0039"},"figref":["FIG. 5(","FIG. 5(","FIG. 5(","FIGS. 5(","FIG. 4"],"i":["a","b","a","b","a","b"],"b":["5","3","3","3","12","5"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0041","num":"0040"},"figref":["FIGS. 6(","FIGS. 5(","FIG. 6(","FIG. 5(","FIG. 6(","FIG. 5("],"i":["a","b","a","b","a","a","b","b"],"b":["6","5"]},"The results provided in ) indicate that increasing the depth of the JTE implant region  has the added benefit of increasing the reverse voltage blocking gain of the embodiments of the invention over the conventional structures, and at the same time a lower concentration of the implant species is required, thus issues of activating implanted dopants are not as important. The percent increase in the voltage blocked is greater as the implant depth increases. In fact, the results indicate that the JTE implant region  provided by the embodiments of the invention performs ideally.","The flow diagram of ) and (), which include descriptions which refer to components provided in , illustrate a method of spreading current flowing in a semiconductor device  according to an embodiment of the invention, wherein as illustrated in ) the method comprises forming () an electrode  adjacent to a drift region , implanting () a junction termination extension implant region  in the drift region , positioning () a current spreader  adjacent to the junction termination extension implant region , and applying () voltage to the semiconductor device  resulting in a flow of current in the semiconductor device .","The step of positioning () reduces a concentration of the current in an area (junction corner ) connecting the electrode  with the drift region . Furthermore, the step of positioning () reduces current densities and electrostatic fields (preferably simultaneously) in the area (junction corner)  connecting the electrode  with the drift region . Also, the step of positioning () spreads current flowing from the electrode  into the drift region .","As shown in ), the method further comprises connecting () an ohmic contact  to the electrode  and configuring () an implant pocket  in the drift region , wherein the implant pocket  is adapted for terminating electrostatic field lines in the semiconductor device . Preferably, the current spreader  comprises an ohmic metal and the electrode  comprises any of an anode and a cathode.","The embodiments of the invention achieve several advantages including that the embodiments of the invention are simple to implement because the fabrication processes for depositing the ohmic contact  can also be used to deposit the current spreader . As such, no additional mask plates are needed, thereby reducing manufacturing time and costs. Furthermore, the embodiments of the invention increase the voltage blocked in high power semiconductor devices compared to conventional techniques for increasing the blocked voltage. As previously mentioned, and as further demonstrated in ), the conventional designs tend to reshape the electrostatic field but do nothing about the current flow in the device. Conversely, the embodiments of the invention solve this two-pronged problem from both the perspective of reshaping the electrostatic field and redistributing the current in the semiconductor device  to obtain a better result of the amount of voltage blocked in the semiconductor device .","The embodiments of the invention are particularly advantageous in wide bandgap semiconductor devices, and more particularly, the embodiments of the invention may be utilized in silicon high-voltage product lines, with a potential use for these techniques in high power semiconductor devices made from silicon carbide (SiC) and other wide bandgap semiconductors including AlGaN. SiC and other wide bandgap materials tend to offer several advantages including the ability to operate bipolar devices at temperatures above 300\u00b0 C., faster switching than silicon devices, and the ability to block higher voltages with thinner materials such that fewer devices are needed in series.","In particular, the SiC or other wide bandgap semiconductor material based devices that will benefit greatly from the field termination techniques provided by the embodiments of the invention include, but are not limited to, p-i-n diodes, IGBTs, thyristors, transistors and in particular any semiconductor device that would use a JTE to increase the voltage blocked in reverse bias. The above-mentioned devices are high power switches and are optimized for low leakage current when biased with a high reverse voltage (off state) and high current conduction with low applied forward voltage. Also, high frequency modulators requiring high reverse blocking can advantageously make use of the embodiments of the invention.","Additionally, several applications of the embodiments of the invention are possible in such areas as high voltage differential circuits (HVDC), traction circuits, motor control, factory automation, lamp ballasts, telecom circuits, display drives, automotive electronics and power supplies, among others.","Generally, the embodiments of the invention provide a combination of a junction termination extender  and a current spreader (preferably a metal ohmic contact)  to spread the current out of a semiconductor device . The other regions of the semiconductor device , except for the current spreader  and ohmic contacts , , are semiconductor regions and could include such materials as silicon carbide, silicon, gallium arsenide, gallium nitride, indium phosphide, aluminum gallium nitride, or a host of other semiconductor materials. The inventive combination of a junction termination extender  and the current spreader  reduces the impact generation current at a given voltage bias because the current is not concentrated at the location (junction corner ) of the high electrostatic field.","The foregoing description of the specific embodiments will so fully reveal the general nature of the invention that others can, by applying current knowledge, readily modify and\/or adapt for various applications such specific embodiments without departing from the generic concept, and, therefore, such adaptations and modifications should and are intended to be comprehended within the meaning and range of equivalents of the disclosed embodiments. It is to be understood that the phraseology or terminology employed herein is for the purpose of description and not of limitation. Therefore, while the invention has been described in terms of preferred embodiments, those skilled in the art will recognize that the embodiments of the invention can be practiced with modification within the spirit and scope of the appended claims."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The embodiments of the invention will be better understood from the following detailed description with reference to the drawings, in which:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 5(","i":"a"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 5(","i":"b"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 6(","i":"a"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 6(","i":"b"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":"FIG. 7(","i":"a"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":"FIG. 7(","i":"b"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
