---
title: Isostatic piezoresistive pressure transducer with temperature output
abstract: A pressure sensor includes a substrate having a top metallized pad formed on the top surface and a bottom metallized pad formed on the bottom surface. These pads are divided into segments for connection with piezoresistors. A sensing piezoresistor is formed on the substrate's top surface in order to respond to a pressure of interest. A reference piezoresistor is formed on the substrate's bottom surface to respond to a reference pressure. A conductive strip is joined between the two piezoresistors for conducting heat and electricity therebetween. A temperature measuring resistor can also be positioned on the substrate. The substrate and sensors can be positioned in a housing having electrical contacts in communication with the sensors for providing voltages in response to changing pressure differentials and temperatures.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07032456&OS=07032456&RS=07032456
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 07032456
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20041230
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENT INTEREST","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS"],"p":["The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by and for the Government of the United States of America for Governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or thereto.","1. Field of the Invention","The present invention relates to a pressure transducer, and more particularly a compact robust pressure transducer that can be included with a temperature output. The invention further relates to a compactly packaged pressure transducer that is well suited to measuring underwater pressures.","2. Description of the Prior Art","Real time acquisition of pressure and temperature data is essential for dynamic engine control and performance optimization of automotive, hydraulic, off-road vehicles, and marine systems. Underwater applications of the present invention include: passive depth finders (stand alone or complementary to sonar) for autonomous vehicles and their navigation, submarines, diving equipment, and off-shore drilling and exploration.","A brief discussion of material and device physics that leads to the present invention will be given. Piezoresistivity is the linear coupling between mechanical stress (pressure) and electrical resistivity. It has been observed in many solids. The specific change in resistivity \u03c1with stress \u03c3is given by\n\n\u0394\u03c1\/\u03c1(0)=\u03a3\u03a3\u03c0\u03c3, (i, j, k, l=1, 2, 3)\u2003\u2003(1)\n\nwhere \u03c1(0) is the zero-stress resistivity. The piezoresistivity tensor \u03c0in Eq. (1) has the dimension of reciprocal stress (m\/N). Using the condensed subscript notation, Equation 1 could be written in terms of the conjugate strain \u03b5as follows\n\n\u0394\u03c1\/\u03c1(0)=\u03a3\u03c0\u03c3=\u03a3\u03a3\u03c0\u03b5=\u03a3\u03b5, (i, j, . . . =1, 2, 3, . . . 6)\u2003\u2003(2)\n\nwhere, m=\u03a3\u03c0c. The dimensionless mis the elastoresistance tensor known as the gauge factor. The three independent \u03c0coefficients for silicon (cubic symmetry group m3m) are \u03c0, \u03c0, and \u03c0. The hydrostatic coefficient is given by \u03c0=\u2212(\u03c0+2\u03c0). For isotropic (spherical symmetry group \u221e\/\u221e mm) solids, there are only two independent components \u03c0and \u03c0with \u03c0=2(\u03c0\u2212\u03c0) and \u03c0=\u2212(\u03c0+2\u03c0). The longitudinal, transverse, and shear modes in silicon have been used in many commercial pressure, vibration, acceleration, strain, and tactile sensors. Elastic effects, i.e., resistance change due to changes in dimension of the piezoresistor with mechanical stress must be factored out, in order to obtain the true piezoresistive effect. In other words, the experimentally derived piezoresistance coefficients \u03a0=(1\/R) (\u2202R\/\u2202\u03c3), where Rand Rare the unstressed and stressed resistances respectively, must be corrected for elasticity to obtain the true piezoresistivity \u03c0coefficients. The corrections for the longitudinal \u03a0, transverse \u03a0, and hydrostatic \u03a0components are given by,\n\n\u03c0=\u03a0\u2212(\u22122)\u2003\u2003(4)\n\n\u03c0=\u03a0.\u2003\u2003(5)=\n\n\u03c0=\u03a0\u2212(+2)\u2003\u2003(6)\n\nwhere \u03a0=(1\/R) (\u2202R\/\u2202\u03c3) is the experimentally derived hydrostatic piezoresistance coefficient and sare the elastic compliances that appear in the linear theory of elasticity. For screen printed metal-insulator-metal (MIM) structures, the elastic compliances sare those of the substrate.\n","Numerical values for silicon and commercial Electro-Science Laboratories (ESL) ruthenium based MIM piezoresistors are listed in Table I. Note the large hydrostatic piezoresistivity coefficient \u03c0of MIM structures relative to those of silicon, in addition to a much lower temperature coefficient of \u03c0\u02dc430 ppm\/\u00b0 C. for MIM piezoresistors as opposed to 2000 ppm\/\u00b0 C. for silicon. The two engineering parameters for a transducer design, namely, the magnitude and temperature dependence of \u03c0(span) and the direct current resistance at zero stress (offset) for a ruthenium-based MIM structure are known in the art.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00001","num":"00001"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"7"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"35pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"28pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"28pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"28pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"6","colwidth":"28pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"7","colwidth":"28pt","align":"center"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"7","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":[{},"Resistivity",{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":["Material","(\u03a9-cm)","\u03c0","\u03c0","\u03c0","\u03c0","\u03c0"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"7","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":{}}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"7"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"35pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"28pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"28pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"28pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"6","colwidth":"28pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"7","colwidth":"28pt","align":"char","char":"."}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["n-Si","11.7","\u22121022","530","116","\u22121022","38"]},{"entry":["p-Si","\u20027.8","66","\u221211","1383","935","\u221244"]},{"entry":["ESL D3414","\u20024 (k\u03a9)","45","30",{},{},"\u2212310"]},{"entry":["ESL 3414A","\u20028 (k\u03a9)",{},{},{},{},"\u22124.90"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"7","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"7","align":"left","id":"FOO-00001"},"sup":"a","sub":"ij "}}]}}]}}},"Table I. Piezoresistivity Coefficients \u03c0(10m\/N)","As seen from Table I, the hydrostatic coefficient for silicon, is rather small compared to the longitudinal, transverse and shear components. However, the converse is true for ruthenium based MIM structures. The hydrostatic coefficient \u03c0is approximately ten times that of the other two coefficients. Besides, it is much higher than what would be expected from the relationship \u03c0=\u2212(\u03c0+2\u03c0) assuming a spherical symmetry. Theoretical interpretation of this phenomenon is given in A. Amin, Piezoresistivity of Ruthenium-Based-Metal-Insulator-Metal Structures, J. Mat. Res. 16 (8), 2239\u20132243 (2001) which is incorporated herein by reference.","The longitudinal piezoresistivity coefficient \u03c0and maximum sensitivity directions for silicon can be determined from the symmetry allowed \u03c0, \u03c0, and \u03c0coefficients. For a thin long bar cut parallel to an arbitrary direction in the crystal, \u03c0is given by,\n\n\u03c0=\u03c0+2(\u03c0+\u03c0\u2212\u03c0)(\u03b8,\u03c6),\u2003\u2003(7)\n\nwhere F(\u03b8,\u03c6)=sin\u03b8 cos\u03b8+cos\u03b8 cos\u03c6 sin\u03c6. According to Eq. (7), sensitivity extrema are along the 4-fold symmetry directions for n-type silicon and the 3-fold symmetry directions for p-type. This representation illustrates the need for precise alignment of the maximum sensitivity directions of silicon piezoresistors along the stress maxima on the diaphragm. This requirement becomes inconsequential under hydrostatic pressure, the representation surface degenerates to a sphere with radius vector equal to \u03c0. The magnitude of \u03c0is rather small for silicon, in comparison to the recently discovered ruthenium-based MIM structures. (See Table I).\n","The most common geometry of piezoresistive pressure sensors is the edge clamped diaphragm. Four resistors are usually deposited on the diaphragm and connected to form a Wheatstone bridge. The resistors are oriented in a manner to take advantage of the maximum sensitivity directions of the piezoresistive element as described by Eq. (7) and the elastic boundaries in the diaphragm to double the bridge response to pressure signals. To design an accurate and sensitive sensor, it is necessary to analyze the diaphragm stress-strain response using plate theory and finite element techniques. Elastic anisotropy, nonlinearity, and maximum piezoresistivity directions must all be considered in the analysis. The deposition technique and complexity are application specific. They depend on the piezoresistor and diaphragm materials. Standard integrated circuit (IC) technology and micromachining are used for fabricating silicon pressure sensors. For hybrid devices, sputtering is used for thin metallic films and screen-printing for thick films, respectively. The diaphragm material ranges from Si and Ge to alumina, sapphire, and dielectric coated stainless steel.","The problems associated with micro-machined piezoresistive silicon and other diaphragm-type architecture are thermal drift errors, response nonlinearity, and hysteresis. Besides, media compatibility has been problematic for the silicon diaphragm pressure sensor. A temperature change can cause the sensor's offset and span (sensitivity) to vary independently, giving rise to an undesired output. Minor process variations, e.g., resistor misalignment, variations in the diaphragm thickness and anisotropy of the elastic properties, will contribute to response nonlinearity and hysteresis. Two orthogonal calibrations are required to eliminate thermal errors in offset and span. Application specific temperature compensation techniques using laser trimming and external resistors have been employed for limited pressure and temperature ranges. Simulation techniques to analyze the effect of error sources on the sensor output and to provide digital compensation algorithms using integrated circuit technology are available.","The present invention is directed to a pressure sensor includes a substrate having a top metallized pad formed on the top surface and a bottom metallized pad formed on the bottom surface. These pads are divided into segments for connection with piezoresistors. A sensing piezoresistor is formed on the substrate's top surface in order to respond to a pressure of interest. A reference piezoresistor is formed on the substrate's bottom surface to respond to a reference pressure. A conductive strip is joined between the two piezoresistors for conducting heat and electricity therebetween. A temperature measuring resistor can also be positioned on the substrate. The substrate and sensors can be positioned in a housing having electrical contacts in communication with the sensors for providing voltages in response to changing pressure differentials and temperatures.","Recent studies on the effect of hydrostatic pressure on the resistance change of commercial MIM thick film resistors over a wide temperature range (\u221225\u00b0 C. to +135\u00b0 C.) have demonstrated: excellent linearity, no hysteresis, large hydrostatic piezoresistivity coefficient \u03c0, and small and linear temperature dependence sensitivity (i.e., the piezoresistivity coefficient \u03c0) over the temperature range \u221225\u00b0 C. to +135\u00b0 C. compared to silicon. The present invention incorporates the above transduction features into a transducer design capable of measuring pressure (absolute, gauge, or differential) along with temperature output capabilities. Additionally, under isostatic pressure, precise alignment of the piezoresistive elements for maximum sensitivity becomes inconsequential and high pressures can be applied without destroying the sensing element or its symmetry. Therefore, the operable piezoresistive coefficients remain invariant, leading to a stable transducer operation. The transducer architecture and package design are described below.","In , there is shown an isostatic pressure transducer  of the current invention as positioned in a housing . The transducer  includes a sensing piezoresistor  formed on a first substrate . Sensing piezoresistor  is a Metal-Insulator-Metal (MIM) thick film resistor. In one embodiment, sensing piezoresistor  can be a 1 mm square fabricated from ESL D3414 or the like. Either the A or B series of this material can be used. Screen printing is the preferred deposition method. An overcoat  is printed over the sensing piezoresistor  to protect against environmental exposure. Substrate  is preferably an alumina substrate. Sensing piezoresistor  is formed on the first substrate  in contact with a top metallized pad . The top metallized pad is separated into two segments. The first segment is identified as A, and the second is identified as B. The metallized pads are preferably made from silver-palladium (ESL 9635-A or the like) or gold (ESL 8836 or the like).  provides a top view of the transducer , sensing piezoresistor , and top metallized pad  formed on first substrate .","A second substrate  is also positioned in housing . First substrate  and second substrate  could be a single substrate; however, they are separated to allow the use of conventional manufacturing techniques. Second substrate  has a reference piezoresistor  formed thereon. Reference piezoresistor  is preferably of the same construction and size as the sensing piezoresistor  in order to provide matched performance. As shown in , a thick film temperature sensitive resistor  is also deposited on second substrate . Temperature sensitive resistor  is preferably made from ESL PTC-2650 or the like. Reference piezoresistor  and temperature sensitive resistor  are formed in contact with a bottom metallized pad . Bottom metallized pad  has three segments identified as A, B and C. Reference piezoresistor  is positioned in contact with first segment A and second segment B. Temperature sensitive resistor  is positioned in contact with the first segment A and the third segment C.  provides a top view of reference piezoresistor , temperature sensitive resistor  and bottom metallized pad  positioned on second substrate . A conductive strip  thermally and electrically couples sensing piezoresistor  to reference piezoresistor . Conductive strip  is preferably made from copper. Conductive strip  is positioned in contact with the first segment A of top metallized pad . Conductive strip  extends through substrates  and  where it is positioned in contact with the second segment B of bottom metallized pad .","In other embodiments, temperature sensitive resistor  can be omitted or positioned on the top surface of substrate . Omission of resistor is possible because of the low sensitivity of pressure piezoresistors  and  in the operating temperature range as previously discussed. While positioning on the top surface of substrate  is possible, it complicates the electrical connections with the temperature sensitive resistor .","Housing  is preferably fabricated in a top half A and a bottom half B from a corrosion resistant conductive material such as stainless steel. Top half A is formed with a cavity accommodating first substrate  and second substrate . Top half A has a pressure port  formed therein in communication with sensing piezoresistor . Housing  seals against substrates  and  to prevent leakage of environmental fluid around substrates. An insulating material  such as Kapton\u2122 or polyurethane is positioned between housing top half A and first segment A of metallized pad . Conductive strip  is also insulated from housing . Housing top half A is in electrical contact with second segment B.","Housing top half A is joined to housing bottom half B in such a manner as to provide an electrically conductive pathway between top half A and bottom half B. In one embodiment bolts are utilized to join these halves. Mechanical devices such as alignment pins can be utilized to ensure that pressure port  aligns with sensing piezoresistor .","Housing bottom half B is positioned under second substrate  and sealing the cavity formed by top half A. A reference pressure port  in communication with reference piezoresistor  is formed in bottom half B. Reference pressure port  can be subjected to a vacuum or an environmental reference pressure to give an absolute or gauge pressure reading. Bottom half B is electrically insulated from contact with bottom metallized pad  and conductive strip  by insulating material . A plurality of contact pins , ,  and  are positioned in bottom half B. Contact pins are preferably spring pins. A first contact pin  extends through housing  bottom half B and makes contact with bottom metallized pad  first segment A. First contact pin  is insulated from housing  by insulating material . Second contact pin  extends through housing bottom half B and is in electrical contact with second segment B. Pin  is also insulated from housing  by insulating material . Third contact pin  is joined electrically to housing . Fourth contact pin  passes through housing  and is electrically insulated from housing  by insulating material . Inside housing  pin  makes electrical contact with third segment C.","Pins , ,  and  are joined to signal processing electronics  to analyze the resistance across sensor piezoresistor , reference piezoresistor  and temperature sensing resistor . The voltage, V(P,T), between first contact pin  and second contact pin  is proportional to reference pressure Pand temperature T. The voltage V(P,T) between second contact pin  and third contact pin  is proportional to the pressure of interest Pand temperature T. The voltage V(T) between first contact pin  and fourth contact pin  is proportional to the temperature T.","It will be understood that many additional changes in the details, materials, steps and arrangement of parts, which have been herein described and illustrated in order to explain the nature of the invention, may be made by those skilled in the art within the principle and scope of the invention as expressed in the appended claims. For example, the sensors do not have to be arranged as shown in , and the contacts do not need to be positioned as shown in ."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["It should be understood that the drawings are provided for the purpose of illustration only and are not intended to define the limits of the invention. The foregoing and other objects and advantages of the embodiments described herein will become apparent with reference to the following detailed description when taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings in which:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 2A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 2B"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
