---
title: Method for increasing daylight display brightness for helmet mounted displays
abstract: The present invention provides an optical system and method that substantially eliminates or reduces disadvantages and problems associated with previously developed optical visual display systems and methods used for displaying critical visual symbology or rastered imagery in high ambient brightness environments.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07430349&OS=07430349&RS=07430349
owner: Lockheed Martin Corporation
number: 07430349
owner_city: Bethesda
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20040730
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATION","GOVERNMENT INTEREST","TECHNICAL FIELD OF THE INVENTION","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION"],"p":["This application claims the benefit of priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60\/544,595 filed on Feb. 13, 2004 entitled \u201cMETHOD FOR INCREASING DAYLIGHT DISPLAY BRIGHTNESS FOR HELMET MOUNTED DISPLAYS\u201d, and is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.","This invention was made with Government support under Contract Number N00019-02-C-3002 awarded by the Department of the Navy. The Government has certain rights in this invention.","The present invention relates generally to optical systems and methods that increase display brightness, and more particularly, a system and method for pilot visual optical displays to increase the display brightness of a heads up or helmet-mounted display using ambient light.","A helmet mounted or heads up visual display is often susceptible to illumination conditions where a viewer is incapable of seeing the display because the display brightness cannot produce sufficient intensity and contrast in order to display an image to the viewer. When a helmet mounted or heads up visual display is operating in very bright daylight, it is often possible for illumination conditions to exist wherein a pilot is incapable of seeing the display. Existing helmet mounted virtual displays cannot produce brightness of sufficient intensity to present rastered video imagery to a pilot above approximately 1.2:1 contrast ratio against through visor-seen brightness at or about 10,000 foot-lamberts. Video contrast requirements are in the 3:1 to 4:1 contrast ratio range. Higher brightness displays are possible but require active thermal cooling and add significant weight, volume and cost to the system. In the case of a pilot, the weight of added active thermal cooling causes the center of gravity to shift and introduce an undesirable top heavy center of gravity when the pilot is wearing the helmet. These reasons combine to make a helmet display utilizing a higher brightness unsuitable for use in high-g performance fighter aircraft. Therefore, a need is present to boost the display brightness in daylight that introduces no significant weight, volume, or power penalties to the helmet and display system.","In conditions with high levels of ambient light, it may become impossible for a viewer, (the pilot) to see the symbology contained within the display. This condition results when the backlit light emitting diode (LED) array fails to provide sufficient illumination required to provide contrast in high brightness environments. LEDs that are typically used to back light a liquid crystal display (LCD) display are approximately about three watts per display. In the bright environments these LEDs fail to provide a sufficient optical energy to create a usefully visible contrast within the display. Typically these conditions require a 2:1 or 3:1 contrast to properly see the display. One solution increases the power and brightness of the LED to maintain the required contrast in higher ambient illumination levels. However, heat dissipation problems arise as the output of the LED is increased as the LEDs are not 100 percent efficient. Typically, the currently available heat sinks are only capable of dissipating the heat associated with three watt LEDs. An increase above three watts requires additional cooling, which is typically supplied by liquid cooling.","Thus, the current technology fails to provide a display that can overcome high illumination environments and provide sufficient contrast in the display for the viewers. This failure results form inefficiencies within the LEDs and heat is created by available LEDs. Thus, the imagery will basically disappear above a certain light level.","The present invention provides a system and method for increasing the display brightness associated with a backlit display that substantially addresses the above-identified needs, as well as others. More specifically, the present invention provides a system operable to increase the brightness of a backlit display using ambient light. This system utilizes collection optics operable together with ambient optical energy, such as sunlight. An optical channel operably couples to the collection optics and is further operable to transmit the gathered ambient optical energy to illumination optics. The illumination optics serve to illuminate or backlight a display to be imaged.","A second embodiment of the present invention provides a system operable to increase the brightness of a helmet mounted display (HMD) using ambient light. Collection optics gather ambient optical energy from the exterior of a helmet. The fact is collection optics themselves may be mounted on the exterior of the helmet. Optical channels coupled to the collection optics and transmit or provide an optical pathway for the gathered ambient optical energy to be carried from the collection optics to illumination optics. An illuminator array is used to backlight a display to be imaged. This illuminator array typically utilizes LEDs or other like devices to backlight the display. However, in high ambient light environments, illumination optics operably coupled to the optical channel and terminate at interstices of the illuminator array to provide additional backlight for the display to be imaged. These collection optics may compromise lenslet arrays, Fresnel arrays, or other like optical devices as known to those skilled in the art. The optical channel may be made from a fused image conduit, a flexible optical fiber bundle, or other like device known to those skilled in the art. Additionally, the illumination optics may compromise a leaky wave guide, optical prisms, or other like devices.","Another embodiment of the present invention provides a method to increase the contrast associated with a backlit image presented in a high ambient light environment. This involves gathering ambient optical energy with collection optics. The gathered optical energy is then transmitted to the illumination optics with an optical channel operably coupled to the collection optics. A backlit image is illuminated in a high ambient light environment with illumination optics operably coupled to the optical channel as well as an illuminator array of devices such as LEDs.","Yet another embodiment of the present invention provides a method to reduce a visual signature associated with an object. This reduction of visual signature involves gathering optical energy with collection optics located on a first side of the object. This gathered optical energy is transmitted to illumination optics located on a second side of the object with an optical channel. By transmitting the gathered ambient light energy from the illumination objects on the second side of the object, a contrast between the object and the ambient environment may be reduced.","Yet another embodiment of the present invention provides a system and method to illuminate an interior space with exterior ambient lighting. This involves gathering ambient optical energy with collection optics located on an exterior surface of a structure. This gathered ambient optical energy is transmitted to illumination optics located on at least one interior surface within the structure via an optical channel coupled to the collection optics. The interior space is then illuminated by transmitting the gathered ambient energy from the illumination optics located at the interior surface. An optical switch located along the optical channel may serve to direct the gathered ambient energy to a user selected interior surface.","Preferred embodiments of the present invention are illustrated in the figures, like numerals being used to refer to like and corresponding parts of the various drawings.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":["FIG. 1","FIGS. 2A and 2B"],"b":["10","12","14","20","22","24","20"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":["FIG. 2A","FIG. 2A"],"b":["26","27","28","28","28","20"]},"As shown, the fibers  transmit sunlight or other illumination within them to the leaky wave guides, which allow optical energy to leave the wave guide or optical pipe in a direction perpendicular to the placement of the leaky wave guide. As shown in , optical leaky coupling slots  allow optical energy to be directed perpendicular to the plane of the array and toward the LCD array.","It should be noted that the optical coupling slots depicted in  although shown as being identical, are not physically identical in their actual embodiment. They are designed to radiate identical amounts of optical energy from each slot, and this may require that the first optical coupling slot be smaller than the next optical coupling slot, however, these calculations are easily made by those skilled in the art.","This creates a uniform pattern of emitters within this array.  depicts terminating prisms spaced throughout the LED array in order to provide supplemental diffuse illumination of incoherent light for additional backlighting of the LCD array to further brighten the displayed image.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":["FIG. 3A","FIG. 3B"],"b":["40","42","42","44","46","48","42","42","44","48","42","46","50","50","52","54","56","54","58"]},"The white light used to augment the LED light source array illumination in high ambient light levels does not require additional spectral filtering because the additional ambient light, like the broad spectrum light provided by the LEDs within array , is passed through a band pass filter  within LCD array . This provides a significant advantage over prior solutions in that the ambient optical energy collected by lenslet arrays  and  and delivered to LED illuminator array  does not create an additional heat load to by the system. Further, no energy source is required within the helmet or from the host aircraft, as this light is passively collected from the ambient and automatically collected in high illumination environments. In low illumination environments, little or no ambient outside illumination exists, and this invention does not provide additional illumination that would reduce the image contrast seen by the pilot's eye. Thus, this extra illumination provided at the LED  is essentially free and must only take into account the optical losses within the collection arrays, fiber conduits or bundles, and leaky wave guides or other method of projecting the optical energy to the LCD arrays.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":["60","62","64","64","66","68","70"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 3"],"b":["80","62","84","86","88"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":"FIG. 7","b":["27","62","62","62","64","62","62"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"figref":"FIG. 8","b":["27","72","72","74","74","76","74","78","72","74","78"]},"In addition to the above described applications, the present invention may be applied in any circumstance where it is useful to increase the illumination behind an image to be displayed in a high ambient light environment. For example, such applications may include virtual reality (VR) devices, handicapped visual aids, or any device where there is a need to augment existing illumination to provide lighting without increasing the power consumption of the device.","As one of average skill in the art will appreciate, the term \u201csubstantially\u201d or \u201capproximately\u201d, as may be used herein, provides an industry-accepted tolerance to its corresponding term. Such an industry-accepted tolerance ranges from less than one percent to twenty percent and corresponds to, but is not limited to, component values, integrated circuit process variations, temperature variations, rise and fall times, and\/or thermal noise. As one of average skill in the art will further appreciate, the term \u201coperably coupled\u201d, as may be used herein, includes direct coupling and indirect coupling via another component, element, circuit, or module where, for indirect coupling, the intervening component, element, circuit, or module does not modify the information of a signal but may adjust its current level, voltage level, and\/or power level. As one of average skill in the art will also appreciate, inferred coupling (i.e., where one element is coupled to another element by inference) includes direct and indirect coupling between two elements in the same manner as \u201coperably coupled\u201d. As one of average skill in the art will further appreciate, the term \u201ccompares favorably\u201d, as may be used herein, indicates that a comparison between two or more elements, items, signals, etc., provides a desired relationship. For example, when the desired relationship is that signal  has a greater magnitude than signal , a favorable comparison may be achieved when the magnitude of signal  is greater than that of signal  or when the magnitude of signal  is less than that of signal .","Although the present invention may be specifically applied to helmet mounted displays used by pilots and tactical aircraft, many other similar applications are available for this technology. Generally, the present invention may be applied wherever a backlit LCD is used to project a display image in a high illumination environment. Additionally, this system need not be limited to only backlit LCD systems, but other similar systems known to those skilled in the art, which require backlighting to image a display."],"GOVINT":[{},{}],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["For a more complete understanding of the present invention and the advantages thereof, reference is now made to the following description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings in which like reference numerals indicate like features and wherein:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIGS. 2A and 2B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIGS. 3A and 3B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 8"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
