---
title: Remotely delivered, self-deployed multi-function sensor
abstract: The present invention is an encapsulated sensor suite that deploys remotely. After deployment, an imager in the sensor suite is raised by a variety of means and is capable of being turned by a motor that locks on to sounds coming from a potential target. The motor is actuated by three microphones that when used in concert, point the imager to the direction of the sound's origination. The imager is also activated by a seismic detector which is deployed at the base of the encapsulation. The encapsulation may be righted by soft to hard metal contacts that release the hard metal with sufficient force to flip the sensor to the correct side for deployment.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07400357&OS=07400357&RS=07400357
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Department of the Army
number: 07400357
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20041210
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"GOVINT":[{},{}],"heading":["GOVERNMENT INTEREST","FIELD OF INTEREST","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION"],"p":["The invention described herein may be manufactured, used, sold, imported, and\/or licensed by or for the Government of the United States of America.","This invention relates to deploying sensors for monitoring purposes.","Forward deployed sensors and\/or parameter sensors are necessary for military and law enforcement applications. The current and projected size of imaging and other media sensors allow the development of very small multi-function sensors able to detect, characterize and identify targets in their immediate area. These sensors lend themselves to being deployed by hand, or from air or ground platforms.","However, actually deploying these sensors in a stable, effective manner has not been fully achieved. The present invention is a manner in which to deploy such sensors in a stable and cost-effective manner.","Accordingly, one object of the present invention is to deploy such sensors in a stable and cost-effective manner. The present invention achieves this objective by providing for an encapsulated sensor suite that deploys remotely. After deployment, an imager in the sensor suite is raised by a variety of means and is capable of being turned by a motor that locks on to sounds coming from a potential target. The motor is actuated by three microphones that when used in concert, point the imager to the direction of the sound's origination. To conserve power and limit detection from unintentional electronic emission, The imager and acoustic detector suite is also activated by a seismic detector which is deployed at the base of the encapsulation. The encapsulation may be righted by soft to hard metal contacts that release the hard metal with sufficient force to flip the sensor to the correct side for deployment.","The current and projected size of imaging and other media sensors allow the development of very small multi-function sensors able to detect, characterize and identify targets in their sector of protection. These sensor devices lend themselves to being deployed by hand, or from air or ground platform.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":["FIGS. 1","FIG. 1","FIG. 1","FIG. 1","FIG. 1"],"i":["a ","c ","a ","b ","a","c "],"b":["1","2","1"]},"This arm (mast)  serves multiple functions. It is the sensor's antenna and holds imaging sensor . When released from its locking mechanism , it is forced into an extended position by (1) a spring at its rotating point, or (2) a pair of spring steel tapes shaped as mast components that extend vertically by spring power.","When extended, the arm  (rotating mast or steel tape versions) extends the imaging sensor (camera)  above the ground as necessary to see over\/past foliage, low constructions. This action takes place in two phases.","The rotation of the arm  raises the top of the arm  out of the casing  and an extender spring pushes the arm  apart to further extend the distance. The length of the arm  is constrained by the diameter of the case  and the number of rotating points on the arm , or length of spring steel or partially curved tape. The steel tape embodiment () extends the same distance, but the two lengths of steel tape are unwound from their storage spool  via gear  in a manner, which causes them to link as they unwind, forming one entity. The joined mast halves form a single mast  and are extended vertically with imager  and antennae on top. The mast deploying mechanism is insulated from the sensor and the imaging sensor  in such a manner that it can be used as the sensors' antenna.","The imaging sensor  (such as an infrared imager or other imaging sensor) is affixed to the end of the arm  in a manner that it will view parallel to the ground the outer compartment  is resting on.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":["FIGS. 2","FIG. 2","FIG. 2","FIG. 2","FIG. 2","FIG. 2","FIG. 2a","FIG. 2","FIG. 2","FIG. 2","FIG. 2"],"i":["a ","a ","b ","c ","a","d ","e ","f ","a ","f"],"b":["2","6","1","6","6"]},"The bottom plate of the present invention serves as a seismic sensor's detection plate  (and ). It rests on or near the ground for detection of seismic events. As the plate detects seismic events they are transferred through the plate's rotating bearings  to the sensor's data processor.","The activation of the acoustic or seismic sensors causes two events. First a cueing (trip wire) signal is transmitted warning of a possible threat. Second, the case is rotated to face the camera  towards the cueing events. The energy derived from the electrical current produced by the microphones  is compared in such a manner that one microphone  serves as the base data receiver and is positioned zero or 180 degrees to the imager . The energy from the other two microphones is rapidly compared in such a manner that the electrical current flow direction is reversed so that it changes the direction of rotation of motor's rotation. These events allow the motor to continually rotate the imager  to maintain a view of the target emitting the sound. A seismic sensor  in the base of the sensor is a discriminator able to counter the \u201cturn on\u201d functions of the sensor logic, and can be programmed to act on, or not act on a specific seismic input. The imaging sensor transmits an image of the terrain and any possible threat events in the field of view every time it changes direction of rotation.","The imaging sensor  can also be programmed to stay \u201cawake\u201d and transmit images of one particular target, or the sensor container can rotate continually while the images are collected and transmitted. Obtaining real time images or radio frequency signals will require the antennae to be deployed in a vertical position. In this regard, the antennae will be attached to the camera-deploying arm . This design concept should be capable of optimizing signal transmission to line of sight distance. To prevent the individual sensor transmission range from being too short to be of benefit each sensor will be equipped with hard\/soft-ware to form a chain of sensor transmitters capable of forwarding signals back to the sensor operator\/monitor. In cases where the distance is extreme, the sensor transmissions will occur using signal repeaters built in specific sensors.","To aid in deployment in which the sensor container is dropped from moving platforms, a collar assembly  is affixed to the outside of the container. This collar has a length of helix spring (self righting spring)  still attached with the purpose of preventing the container from resting on its top surface. The spring has sufficient force to cause the container to fall over onto its side, e.g., a self righting spring  disposed on the top of the outer compartment, wherein the self righting spring deploys through a soft\/hard metal contact that self releases. Also on the collar are pins, which insert into the container to lock the imager deployment components in place until they are supposed to deploy. The delay is initiated by a safety pin being removed as the container is deployed. This allows a soft metal link to come into contact with a harder metal link. After a set delay time, the hard metal overcomes the soft metal and the collar is free to drop off the container. As shown in , another soft\/hard metal contact event occurs when the collar is removed and the spring loaded \u201crighting\u201d legs (arms)  deploy via spring  () to position the container upright, e.g., a plurality of self righting arms  jointed at the bottom of the outer compartment and each fixed with a spring and soft\/hard metal contact such that when the soft\/hard metal contact is broken the spring pushes on the self righting arm to force the outer compartment onto its bottom, and another hard\/soft metal event occurs to cause the mast erecting assembly to activate."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["These and other objects of the invention will become readily apparent in light of the Detailed Description Of The Invention and the attached drawings wherein:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0008","num":"0007"},"figref":["FIGS. 1","FIG. 1","FIG. 1","FIG. 1"],"i":["a ","c ","a ","b ","c "]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":["FIGS. 2","FIG. 2","FIG. 2","FIG. 2","FIG. 2","FIG. 2","FIG. 2","FIG. 2","FIG. 2"],"i":["a ","f ","a ","b ","c ","a","d ","a","e ","f "],"b":"2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 4"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
