---
title: Step current inductive antenna for pulse inductive metal detector
abstract: A device and method to improve pulse inductive metal detector (MD) sensitivity uses multiple, current steps to reduce the voltage rating of electronic components. Current reduction in one implementation is done with multiple switched resistors coupled to a voltage source and connected to the transmitter coil. The current reduction in another implementation is done with multiple switched current sources that are connected to the transmitter coil and are switched inactive one by one to reduce the total current to the transmitter coil. The current is stepped down in rapid secession with a time delay between current transitions less than the time constant of the metal target under investigation.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07148691&OS=07148691&RS=07148691
owner: The Johns Hopkins University
number: 07148691
owner_city: Baltimore
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20040916
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS","STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENTAL INTEREST","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["This application claims the benefit of U.S. provisional application No. 60\/505,186, filed on Sep. 23, 2003, which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.","This invention was made with U.S. Government support under Army contract no. DAAB-15-00-C-1008 and under Navy contract no. N00024-98-D-8124. The U.S. Government has certain rights in this invention.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0004","num":"0003"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["10","12","10"]},"According to Faraday's Law, the collapsing magnetic field induces an electromotive force (EMF) in nearby conductors, such as the metal target . This EMF induces eddy currents to flow in the conductor. Because there is no energy to sustain the eddy currents, they begin to decrease with a characteristic decay time that depends on the size, shape, and electrical and magnetic properties of the conductor. The decay currents generate a secondary magnetic field that is detected by a magnetic field receiver  located above the ground and coupled to the transmitter  via a data acquisition and control system .","Pulse induction metal detector (PIMD) antennas (transmitter and receiver coil) come in two basic types as shown in and . The first type of PIMD uses a single transmit and receiver coil  with multiple loops of wire forming the coil (). A current pulse is sent through the multiple turn coil  and the received metal detection signal is sensed by the same coil . The small voltage generated by the metal target is typically amplified by a high gain electronic amplifier  (typical gain factor of 100 to 1000). A protection circuit is provided to protect the sensitive amplifier from the high kick-back voltage pulse generated by switching the inductive coil off abruptly (V=L di\/dt, where L is the inductance of the transmitter coil and di\/dt is the slope of the current decay in the coil).","The second type of PIMD uses a separate transmitter coil  and receiver coil , again, with multiple loops of wire forming the coils (). This configuration provides isolation between the transmitter circuit and the receiver circuit and allows for more flexibility in the receiver coil  (e.g., different number of turns, size or differential coil configuration) and amplifier circuit design (e.g., single ended operation of electronics). The high gain amplifier  also sees the high kick-back voltage pulse generated by switching the transmitter coil  off abruptly and protection circuitry is needed to protect it from damage.","The induced eddy currents in a metal target are proportional to the change in magnetic field with time (\u0394B\/\u0394t) at the metal target location. For high sensitivity, one would like to have \u0394B (the change in magnetic field) as large as possible and \u0394t (the change in time) matched to the metal object's time response. For a small metal object with a fast time response the optimal detector sensitivity would be achieved with a small \u0394t matched to the small metal objects response. For a large metal object with a slower time response the optimal detector sensitivity would be achieved with a larger \u0394t matched to the metal object's time response. The magnetic field (B) is proportional to the current (I) in the transmitter coil and the number of coil turns (N), thus B\u02dcIN. More coil turns (N) increases the magnetic field at the target depth for a fixed current. However, increasing the number of coil turns also increases the kick-back voltage across the transmitter coil and switch due to the increased inductance. The voltage across the transmitter coil and the electronic switch turning off the coil current is V=L \u0394I\/\u0394t and L\u02dcN.","The desired sensitivity of the metal detector for a small metal object, which needs a small \u0394t, needs to be balanced with the kick-back voltage at the coil, the available electronic switch voltage rating and wire insulation rating. This is typically done by limiting the coil inductance which lowers the metal detector's sensitivity due to fewer coil turns or smaller coil size and\/or increasing the turn-off time.","Several issues arise when attempting to increase a pulse inductive metal detector's sensitivity to small and large metal objects via increasing the \u0394B\/\u0394t of the metal detector (i.e., kick-back voltage across the coil). The high voltage electronic components required for the task are expensive, prone to failure and difficult to package. Moreover, the supporting mechanical structure for the coil and components must withstand the high voltage and thus may be expensive or dangerous in some situations (e.g., underwater or explosive gas environments). In addition, high voltage spikes may violate electromagnetic interference emission standards. Lastly, the protection circuit for the receiver electronics must be designed to handle the increased kick-back voltage.","Prior art metal detectors do not address these issues. Instead, prior art pulse inductive metal detectors avoid using high \u0394B\/\u0394t dB\/dt configurations in their electronics to improve metal detection sensitivity.","The present invention is a pulsed inductive metal detector transmitter coil system that is capable of increased sensitivity to metal targets without having to increase the magnitude of the transmitter charging current. The transmitter coil is charged with a current of a pre-determined magnitude. This current is gradually stepped down to zero over a pre-determined time interval as opposed to being abruptly turned-off. The time interval used is based on eddy current decay characteristics of a metal target, specifically, the time constant that defines how long it takes the eddy currents in the metal target to decay when excited by a pulse of current resulting from a reduction of current in the transmitter coil. The time interval is chosen to be less than the metal target time constant to ensure that the eddy currents from the previous step down have not decayed significantly. Each time the current to the transmitter coil is stepped down the eddy currents in the metal target increase. The increase in eddy currents in the metal target make it easier for the metal detector's receiver coil to detect and classify the metal target.","In one embodiment a voltage source coupled in series with one or more electronically switched resistors are used to excite the transmitter coil with a current. Each time a resistor is switched activated, the amount of current that excites the transmitter coil is stepped down. This causes the eddy currents in the metal target to increase. The number of step downs and the time interval can be varied to achieve a desired sensitivity for a given metal target.","In another embodiment a voltage source coupled with one or more electronically switched parallel resistors are used to excite the transmitter coil with a current. Again, each time a resistor is switched activated, the amount of current that excites the transmitter coil is stepped down. This causes the eddy currents in the metal target to increase. The number of step downs and the time interval can be varied to achieve a desired sensitivity for a given metal target.","In still another embodiment the transmitter coil is initially excited by a plurality of switched current sources. The amount of current exciting the transmitter coil is initially equal to the sum of each current source. One by one, the current sources are switched inactivated reducing the total current to the transmitter coil causing the eddy currents in the metal target to increase.","If there is some a priori knowledge of the metal target then the metal detector can be configured for maximum sensitivity by varying the length of the time interval between current step downs.","The present invention takes advantage of the physics of the metal target eddy current time decay characteristics to improve pulsed metal detection sensitivity.  illustrates the eddy current time decay of a small metal object characteristic of a low-metal content mine. The metal target has a decay time constant of about 15 \u03bcs. The eddy currents in the metal target were caused by a transmitter coil excited by a single 5 A current pulse with a turn-off time of 0.5 \u03bcs. The high voltage requirements on the transmitter switch are minimal at these transmitter parameters (a few hundred volts). The output shown in  has been normalized to 1 at 10 \u03bcs to more clearly show the log-linear decay character of the metal target signature. The region before about 5 \u03bcs is where the amplifier is in saturation and the protection circuitry () is functioning.","If the metal target is excited with a second 5 A current pulse, with the same turn-off time a few microseconds after the first pulse, the eddy currents in the target will not have had time to decay very much and an approximate doubling of the eddy currents would occur in the metal target. The doubling of eddy currents in the metal target would manifest themselves in a doubling of the output of the receiver coil. The increased receiver signal would improve the detection and classification potential (via signal processing of time decay signal) of the metal target. The original eddy currents would only have decayed a small amount since the pulse time interval (5 \u03bcs) is less than the time decay constant of the metal target (15 \u03bcs).","An approximate equation for the eddy currents, Igenerated in the metal target is expressed as:\n\nexp(\u2212\/\u03c4)+exp(\u2212()\/\u03c4)\n\nwhere t is time, Kand Kare the excitation parameters related to the transmitter area, coil current, turn off time and number of coil turns, tis the delay time of the second excitation pulse, and \u03c4 is the decay time constant of the metal target. For a symmetric excitation pulse sequence of two pulses and tsmall compared to \u03c4, the eddy currents in the metal target are about twice the eddy currents from a single excitation pulse without the need for a higher current nor faster turn-off time in the transmitter coil. The output from a receiver designed to sense the decaying target eddy currents would be about twice that of a single pulse transmitter.\n",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":["FIGS. 4","FIG. 4","FIG. 4"],"i":["a\u2013b ","a ","a","b ","a","b ","b ","a","b ","a","b "],"b":["410","420","440","440","450","450","410","460","460","470","470","410","440","460"]},"To better understand the operation of the present invention, consider and the simplified timing diagram of . With both switches , closed, a maximum or peak current flows through the transmitter coil  and the short-circuited switches for a fixed length of time (see, coil charge time in  top trace). The first switch is then opened, deceasing the current (see D in ) in the transmitter coil  due to the addition of the series resistance into the current path. The sharp change in current induces eddy currents in the metal target. After a small length of time, the second switch is opened, further reducing the current (see D in ) in the coil with the addition of a second current limiting resistor in the current path. A second metal target excitation pulse is created. works in a similar fashion but the switches , connect the current limiting resistors , in parallel instead of series. In , both switches , are initially closed, and then sequentially opened to sequentially reduce the peak current in steps.  shows a \u201cpositive\u201d voltage spike when the current is turned off. In reality, the voltage spike, by Faraday's Law, is negative. The resistors in  are referred to as electronically switched resistors that are considered activated when added in series with their respective excitation voltage sources. That is, each time a resistor is switched active (by opening the corresponding parallel switch), it is added in series with the excitation voltage source and thus becomes part of the current path feeding the transmit coil. Otherwise, when the resister is switched inactive (by closing the corresponding bypass switch), it is no longer part of the current path.","When the transmitter coil is charging with current there is a \u201cnegative\u201d excitation voltage induced in the second trace of . This voltage would excite \u201cnegative\u201d eddy currents in the target compared to the turn-off induced voltages. The arrangement of a single charge cycle that has multiple turn-off times removes the \u201cnegative\u201d eddy currents that would happen if we just used many closely spaced triangular excitation pulses to \u201cspin up\u201d the target eddy currents.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":["FIGS. 4","FIGS. 6"],"i":["a\u2013b ","a\u2013b "]},"Referring to , a switch controller  provides switch control signals ()\u2013() to respective switches U\u2013U. Switches U\u2013U are opened and closed responsive to respective control signals ()\u2013() in the sequence to be described below. Initially, switches U\u2013U are closed and switches U\u2013U are open. In this configuration, current sources I\u2013I collectively provide, through closed switches U\u2013U, a maximum or peak current to transmitter coil  (including inductor L and parallel resistor R) to thereby charge the transmitter coil. The four current sources I\u2013I feed a total of 40 amps current (10 amps each) for instance to the transmitter coil . Resistor R is a damping resistor that dampens oscillations in the inductor L when any of switches U\u2013U opened or closed, as described below.","After the transmitter coil  has reached the desired maximum current, switches U through U are sequentially opened over time to sequentially reduce in steps from maximum to zero the current flowing into transmitter coil . For example, switches U through U are sequentially opened approximately one microsecond apart over approximately 4 microseconds, which is much less than the 15 \u03bcs time decay constant of the metal test target described in , for example. Each sequential step down in current caused by opening a switch induces an excitation pulse with a 100 ns turn-off time that excites eddy currents in a metal target. This 100 ns turn-off time is more than an order of magnitude shorter than a typical commercial or military metal detector turn-off time.","In an alternative embodiment, switches U through U are sequentially closed to sequentially step down the current to transmitter coil . When closed, switches U\u2013U short their respective connected current sources I\u2013I to ground.","In yet another embodiment, switches U and U are concurrently opened and closed, respectively, to produce a first current step down, then switches U and U are concurrently opened and closed to produce a second current step down, and so on until all of switches U\u2013U are opened and all of switches U are closed.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 4"],"i":"a "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0037","num":"0036"},"figref":"FIG. 6","i":"b "},"The stepped current concept of the present invention allows increased flexibility in designing pulse induction metal detectors. Consider the case of an existing antenna that has been optimized for very high frequency operation (MHz range). Antennas of this configuration typically have a few coil turns and very low inductance. Conventional metal detectors use many turns for increased sensitivity operating at much lower frequencies (KHz range). Using the multiple pulse technique described in this invention, we are able to compensate for the lack of coil turns by using multiple impulses to excite the target. In other words, we can trade-off coil turns for impulses.","Consider also the potential health issues associated with high voltage impulses from a single transmitter turn-off transient. The multiple impulses in this invention use much smaller magnitude voltage impulses in the transmitter and therefore, are likely to have a lower potential health risk.","Another consideration is the potential electromagnetic interference problem. The high voltage from a single transmitter turn-off transient creates a large electric field that may exceed some FCC regulated emissions limit. The multiple impulses in this invention use much smaller voltage impulses in the transmitter and therefore, will likely have lower electric field emissions that are easier to mitigate or fall below regulation standards.","It is to be understood that the foregoing is illustrative of the present invention and is not to be construed as limited to the specific embodiments disclosed, and that modifications to the disclosed embodiments, as well as other embodiments, are intended to be included within the scope of the appended claims. The invention is defined by the following claims, with equivalents of the claims to be included therein."],"GOVINT":[{},{}],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 2","i":"a "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 2","i":"b "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIGS. 4","i":"a\u2013b "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIGS. 6","i":"a\u2013b "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 4"],"i":"b "}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
