---
title: Telecommunication switch using generic API to support multiple protocol-specific signal control functions
abstract: A switch for use in a telecommunication network is provided that includes a plurality of call control agent functions and a call control function. At least two of the call control agent functions are associated with different signaling protocols. The signaling protocols define a plurality of signaling control primitives. The call control function is operable to control routing of telephone calls through the switch. The call control function is accessed using an application programming interface (API). The API includes a plurality of classes defining objects representing the signaling control primitives.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07454007&OS=07454007&RS=07454007
owner: Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.
number: 07454007
owner_city: Suwon-si
owner_country: KR
publication_date: 20040326
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["TECHNICAL FIELD OF THE INVENTION","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION"],"p":["The present invention relates generally to telecommunication switches and, more specifically, to a telecommunication switch that uses a generic application programming interface (API) to support multiple protocol-specific signal control functions.","Conventional telecommunication networks often include various pieces of equipment that communicate using different signaling protocols. For example, a telecommunication network could include switches that support Plain Old Telephony System (POTS) protocols, Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) protocols, and the ISDN (Integrated Services Digital Network) User Part (ISUP) protocols. Conventional telecommunication switches are often required to support multiple signaling protocols.","A problem with conventional telecommunication switches is that they often use interfaces that are specifically designed for particular signaling protocols. This typically means that the interfaces cannot be easily extended or reused. As a result, when a new signaling protocol is to be added to a network, programmers often need to create a completely new interface to support the new signaling protocol. The need to create a new interface typically increases the expense of using the new signaling protocol, delays the use of the new signaling protocol, and increases the cost of maintaining the telecommunication switches.","Therefore, there is a need in the art for a telecommunication switch that is not limited by signaling protocol-specific interfaces. In particular, there is a need for a telecommunication switch that implements an interface that is compatible with multiple signaling protocols and that is easy to modify and extend.","In accordance with the present invention, a telecommunication switch that uses a generic application programming interface (API) to support multiple protocol-specific signal control functions is provided that substantially eliminates or reduces disadvantages and problems associated with conventional systems.","According to one embodiment of the present invention, a switch is provided that includes a plurality of call control agent functions and a call control function. At least two of the call control agent functions are associated with different signaling protocols. The signaling protocols define a plurality of signaling control primitives. The call control function is operable to control routing of telephone calls through the switch. The call control function is accessed using an application programming interface (API). The API includes a plurality of classes defining objects representing the signaling control primitives.","According to another embodiment of the present invention, a method is provided that includes identifying a plurality of signaling control primitives associated with a signaling protocol. The method also includes identifying one or more first classes associated with an API to a call control function in a switch. The method further includes extending one or more second classes associated with the API. The one or more first classes and the one or more second classes define objects represent the signaling control primitives. In addition, the method includes allowing access to the call control function using the signaling protocol.","Technical advantages of one or more embodiments of the present invention include providing an improved telecommunication switch that uses a generic API to support multiple protocol-specific signal control functions. In a particular embodiment, the telecommunication switch supports a generic API, which uses object-oriented concepts to take into account the various differences between the different signaling protocols. As a result, a single API can support the use of multiple signaling protocols. Moreover, when a new signaling protocol is added to a network, programmers can simply reuse and extend existing classes in the generic API to support the specific requirements of the new signaling protocol. As a result, the programmers may not need to create an entirely new interface for the new signaling protocol. Accordingly, the present invention may help to reduce the expense of using the new signaling protocol, reduce delays in using the new signaling protocol, and decrease the cost of maintaining a telecommunication network.","Before undertaking the DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION below, it may be advantageous to set forth definitions of certain words and phrases used throughout this patent document: the terms \u201cinclude\u201d and \u201ccomprise,\u201d as well as derivatives thereof, mean inclusion without limitation; the term \u201cor,\u201d is inclusive, meaning and\/or; the phrases \u201cassociated with\u201d and \u201cassociated therewith,\u201d as well as derivatives thereof, may mean to include, be included within, interconnect with, contain, be contained within, connect to or with, couple to or with, be communicable with, cooperate with, interleave, juxtapose, be proximate to, be bound to or with, have, have a property of, or the like; and the term \u201ccontroller\u201d means any device, system or part thereof that controls at least one operation, such a device may be implemented in hardware, firmware or software, or some combination of at least two of the same. It should be noted that the functionality associated with any particular controller may be centralized or distributed, whether locally or remotely. Definitions for certain words and phrases are provided throughout this patent document, those of ordinary skill in the art should understand that in many, if not most instances, such definitions apply to prior, as well as future uses of such defined words and phrases.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIGS. 1 through 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["100","100","102","102","104","104","106","106","108","108","110","112"],"i":["a","d","a","b","a","d","a","b"]},"The telephones -are each coupled to one of the central offices -. As used herein, \u201ceach\u201d means every one of at least a subset of the identified items. The telephones -support the transmission and reception of voice traffic in the system . The telephones -may comprise any suitable telephonic device. Also, the use of other devices in the system  may be supported, such as the use of wireless telephones, fax machines, or computing devices.","The central offices -are each coupled to various ones of the telephones -. The central offices -comprise switches that support and provide telephony services, often for a particular locality. For example, each of the central offices -could provide telephony services for a particular neighborhood or city. Local telephone calls are typically handled by a single one of the central offices -or by two central offices. Long distance telephone calls are typically routed between two central offices -by a long distance carrier's network. In addition, each of the central offices -may support supplemental calling features, such as call waiting, call forwarding, caller identification, and voicemail.","The service switching points -are each coupled to various ones of the central offices -, the service control points -and\/or the intelligent peripheral . The service switching points -comprise switches that route telephone calls within the system . For example, each of the service switching points -may communicate with other service switching points -to set up, manage, and release circuits required to complete a long distance telephone call. Although in this embodiment the central offices -are illustrated separately from the service switching points -, it will be understood that the central offices -may be implemented as service switching points -without departing from the scope of the present invention.","The service control points -are each coupled to various ones of the service switching points -, the service data point  and\/or the intelligent peripheral . The service control points -store data used by the service switching points -to route calls in the system . For example, when one of the telephones -initiates a telephone call, one or more of the service switching points -may send a query message to one of the service control points -to determine how to route the call. The service control point may respond by identifying the routing number associated with the dialed number. As a particular example, when a person dials a toll-free telephone number (such as a 1-800 number), a query is sent to one of the service control points -. The service control point then identifies the actual telephone number that corresponds to the toll-free number.","The service data point  is coupled to the service control point . The service data point  comprises a specialized database server that contains additional data used in the system . For example, the service data point  may comprise a database that stores large volumes of subscriber data that can be accessed and used by the service control points -","The intelligent peripheral  is coupled to various ones of the service switching points -and\/or the service control points -. The intelligent peripheral  supports any of a wide variety of additional functions in the system . For example, the intelligent peripheral  could comprise a specialized network resource.","In general, various components in the system  may transmit and\/or receive signaling messages associated with different signaling protocols. For example, the service switching points -may receive signaling messages indicating that a person using one of the telephones -is attempting to place a telephone call. As a particular example, the service switching points -may receive signaling messages using the Plain Old Telephony System (POTS) signaling protocol, the Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) signaling protocol, the ISDN (Integrated Services Digital Network) User Part (ISUP) signaling protocol and\/or any other suitable protocol.","At least one of the components in the system  includes a generic application programming interface (API). The generic API uses object-oriented concepts to take into account the various differences between the different signaling protocols, which allows a single API to support the use of multiple signaling protocols. Also, when a new signaling protocol is added to the system , the existing classes in the generic API can be reused and extended to support the specific requirements of the new signaling protocol. This may help to reduce the expense of using the new signaling protocol, reduce delays in using the new signaling protocol, and decrease the cost of maintaining the system .","While  illustrates one configuration of the communication system , the system  may have many other configurations. For example, the system  may have any number of telephones, central offices, service switching points, service control points, service data points and\/or intelligent peripherals. Also, various ones of these components may be omitted from the system , and the various components may be coupled together in any manner.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 2","FIG. 1"],"b":["106","100","106"],"i":["a ","a "]},"For ease of explanation, the service switching point is described as including an originating side and a terminating side . The originating side represents the side of the service switching point that faces the component originating a call, and the terminating side represents the other side of the service switching point . In general, the originating side receives and processes a signaling message. Once processing is complete, a function in the terminating side is selected, and call processing is performed to terminate the call such as to a trunk line. Depending on which component originates a call, the originating side and the terminating side of the service switching point may be reversed.","According to this embodiment, the service switching point comprises two call control functions (CCFs) -. The call control functions -are responsible for establishing, maintaining, modifying, and releasing telephone calls routed through the service switching point . For example, the call control function may receive a signaling message indicating that a telephone call is being placed, and the call control function facilitates the establishment of a circuit with another component in the system . The call control functions -also monitor the overall state of telephone calls routed through the service switching point . In addition, the call control functions -detect particular triggers associated with a telephone call, such as a trigger representing the invocation of a particular feature or a busy signal.","The service switching point also includes multiple call control agent functions (CCAFs) -. The call control agent functions -comprise an interface between customers' telephones -or other components in the system  and the call control functions -in the service switching point . The call control agent functions -interact with the customers or other components so that telephone calls may be established, maintained, modified, and released. For example, the call control agent functions -may receive signaling messages indicating that customers are attempting to place telephone calls, and the call control agent functions -forward the messages to the call control functions -for processing.","In addition, the service switching point comprises service switching functions (SSFs) -. The service switching functions -allow the service switching point to interact and communicate with one or more service control points -. For example, when the call control functions -detect triggers associated with telephone calls, the call control functions -pass the triggers to the service switching functions -. The service switching functions -then allow the service switching point to pass the triggers to one of the service control points -and access the functionality of that service control point -.","The service switching functions -interact with a service control function (SCF) . The service control function  executes logic for various intelligent network services and may influence the call processing performed by the service switching point . For one embodiment, the service control function  comprises the functionality of a service control point -.","The service control function  may interact with a service data function (SDF)  and a specialized resource function (SRF) . The service data function  provides data to the service control function , such as data related to customers or the system . For one embodiment, the service data function  comprises the functionality of a service data point . The specialized resource function  provides additional functionality in the system , such as speech analysis or conference calling functions. For one embodiment, the specialized resource function  comprises the functionality of an intelligent peripheral .","As shown in , the service switching point includes multiple call control agent functions -. The call control agent functions -may support different signaling protocols. For example, call control agent functions and may support the POTS signaling protocol, call control agent functions and may support the SIP signaling protocol, and call control agent functions and may support the ISUP signaling protocol.","According to the present invention, the call control functions -may be accessed using a generic API , as opposed to a custom interface for each protocol. The call control functions -may be accessed by the call control agent functions -, the service switching functions -, each other and\/or any other suitable component. In general, the call control functions -transmit and receive signaling control primitives, which may vary from one signaling protocol to another. For example, many signaling protocols define signaling control primitives that correspond to one of the telephones -going off-hook, a number being dialed, and one of the telephones -going on-hook. In a particular embodiment, the generic API  uses object-oriented concepts to define these signaling control primitives.","Through the use of object-oriented concepts, classes in the generic API  may be mapped to different signaling protocols. Various classes in the generic API  may be reused to support multiple signaling protocols. Also, various classes may be extended to take into account unique or different aspects of the signaling protocols. By reusing classes in the generic API , programmers need not develop and redevelop the same functionality. By extending classes in the generic API , programmers can take the differences between the signaling protocols into account. To add support for a new signaling protocol to the service switching point , the programmers may be able to simply reuse some existing classes and extend other existing classes. In this way, the generic API  can be easily adjusted to account for unique signaling control primitives in the new protocol.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0037","num":"0036"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 3","FIG. 2"],"b":["300","300","216","106"],"i":"a "},"In general, the call control functions -and the call control agent functions -communicate and exchange signaling control primitives. In the generic object-oriented interface , a generic message  forms the basis of the messages communicated between the call control functions -and the call control agent functions -. Additional messages - are all derived from the base class defining the generic message . Each of the additional messages - contains data that represents a signaling control primitive defined in one or more of the signaling protocols.","According to this embodiment, the generic object-oriented interface  includes a generic call setup request message , a generic call setup indicator message , a generic call confirmation message , and a generic call response message . As an example, these messages , ,  and  are used when a customer using one of the telephones -initiates a telephone call.","The generic object-oriented interface  also includes a generic call progress request message  and a generic call progress indicator message . As an example, these messages  and  are used to request and indicate the current status of a call in progress. A generic release request message  is used to request that a circuit for a particular call in progress should be released, thereby ending the call. A generic release indicator message  is used to indicate the status of that request.","A generic reconnect request message  is used to initiate the reconnection of a call, such as a call that had been placed on hold. A generic failure indicator message  is used to indicate that a failure has occurred, such as a failure to form a circuit during a call request. A generic data request message  is used to request data needed to satisfy a particular signaling message.","A generic network suspend request message  is used to request that the service switching point be suspended, and a generic network suspend indicator message  is used to indicate the status of the request. This may be useful when, among other things, a link coupled to the service switching point goes down or becomes inoperative. A generic network resume request message  is used to request that the service switching point be reactivated, and a generic network resume indicator message  is used to indicate the status of the request. This may be useful when, among other things, a link coupled to the service switching point comes back up or becomes operative again. Finally, a generic service feature request message  is used to request a particular service, such as a service provided by the service control points -. A generic service feature indicator message  is used to indicate the status of this request.","The messages - shown in  are each associated with a class defined in the generic object-oriented interface . Each class may be used to create an object used to represent a signaling control primitive that is provided to one of the call control functions -. The particular information contained in these objects may vary depending on the particular signaling protocol being used. For example, one version of the generic setup request message  may contain particular information for one signaling protocol. If another signaling protocol defines a primitive containing other or additional information, another version of the generic setup request message  may contain information for that signaling protocol. In this way, a programmer may need to only reuse and\/or extend various messages - in the generic object-oriented interface  in order to use a new signaling protocol.","While  shows some examples of the various messages that could be used in the generic object-oriented interface , it will be understood that other or additional messages may also be used.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0045","num":"0044"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":["400","100","402","216"]},"At step , the programmer or other user, computing system, or other entity identifies reusable classes in the generic API . A reusable class in the generic API  comprises a class that may be used to represent a signaling control primitive without modification. At step , the programmer or other user, computing system, or other entity identifies classes in the generic API  that can be extended and extends those classes. An extended class in the generic API  comprises a class that may be used to represent a signaling control primitive with some modification.","At step , communication using the new signaling protocol is allowed. By reusing and extending various classes in the generic API , a telecommunication switch may now support the new signaling protocol.","Although the present invention has been described with an exemplary embodiment, various changes and modifications may be suggested to one skilled in the art. It is intended that the present invention encompass such changes and modifications as fall within the scope of the appended claims."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["For a more complete understanding of the present invention and its advantages, reference is now made to the following description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings, in which like reference numerals represent like parts:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 4"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
