---
title: System to manage display power consumption
abstract: Some embodiments involve determination of a first characteristic associated with a first interface displayed by a display, and determination of a second characteristic associated with a second interface displayed by the display. Embodiments may further involve determination of a first power consumption mode for the first interface based at least on the first characteristic, and determination of a second power consumption mode for the second interface based at least on the second characteristic, wherein the first power consumption mode is different from the second power consumption mode.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07570259&OS=07570259&RS=07570259
owner: Intel Corporation
number: 07570259
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20040601
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["BACKGROUND","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["During operation, a computing system consumes power from a power source. A mobile computing system may be designed to consume power from a portable and exhaustible power source, such as a battery. In order to prolong periods of mobile use, such a computing system may include elements designed to limit the amount of power consumed thereby.","These elements may include hardware and\/or software for providing a low-power state during a period of relative inactivity. For example, a computing system might automatically enter a sleep state when not being used in order to reduce power consumption. Entering the sleep state may include reducing the brightness of a display, turning off a hard disk, and\/or placing a processor in an idle state. As a result, energy can be conserved and\/or battery life may be extended.","Some displays, such as Organic Light-Emitting Diode (OLED) displays, may be controlled such that one portion of a display consumes less power than other portions of the display. Conventional power-conserving techniques exploit this feature by displaying a user-selected window (or, alternatively, a window having \u201cfocus\u201d) using a display method that is more power-consuming than the display method used to display other simultaneously-displayed windows.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["100","100","110","120","130","140","150","160","100"]},"Applications  may include any applications which provide one or more displayed interfaces. Examples of applications  include, but are not limited to, a word processing application, a spreadsheet application, an e-mail client, a calendaring application, gaming applications, presentation applications, and drawing applications. One or more of applications  may provide \u201cwindow\u201d-type interfaces.","Applications  may communicate with operating system . Operating system  may control hardware components of a system in which system  resides based on instructions from applications . Operating system  may instruct a display (not shown) to display one or more interfaces that are associated with one or more of applications . In some embodiments, operating system  may comprise a \u201cwindowing\u201d operating system such as Windows XP\u2122 and\/or OS X\u2122.","Interface monitor  may determine characteristics associated with the displayed interfaces. The characteristics may be used to determine an activity measure for each of the displayed interfaces. The above determinations will be described in detail below. Interface monitor  may comprise a filter object that monitors messages received and\/or transmitted by operating system . Interface monitor  may be embodied as a service, layer, and\/or core component of operating system . Interface monitor  may also be embodied as any other executable software component, including a dynamic link library or a stand-alone application.","The determined activity measures are stored in interface activity table . According to some embodiments, interface activity table  associates each displayed interface with an activity measure. Interface activity table  may be stored in one or more storage media, including but not limited to registers, random access memory, cache memory, and hard disk memory.","Power manager  may determine an activity measure associated with an interface from interface activity table  and may determine a power consumption mode based on the activity measure. Such determinations will also be described in detail below. Power manager  may be embodied as a service, layer, and\/or core component of operating system , and\/or as any other executable software component, including a dynamic link library or a stand-alone application.","Power manager  may instruct display driver  to control a display to display a first interface according to a first power consumption mode and to display a second interface according to a second power consumption mode. In this regard, display driver  may comprise a device driver suitable to control a display that is coupled to a system in which system  resides. Display driver  may also receive instructions directly from operating system .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1"],"b":["200","200","200"]},"Initially, display  may comprise a display capable of displaying a first interface according to a first power consumption mode and a second interface according to a second power consumption mode. In some examples, display  may display a first interface at a first brightness, a first resolution, a first color, and a first refresh rate, and may display a second interface that differs from the first interface with respect to one or more of brightness, resolution, color, and refresh rate. Display  may comprise an organic light-emitting diode-based display.","Processor  may comprise a Pentium, RISC-based, or other type of processor and is used to execute processor-executable process steps so as to control the elements of system  to provide desired functionality. The processor-executable process steps may comprise steps of applications , operating system , interface monitor , power manager , and display driver .","The processor-executable process steps may be stored in data storage device , which may comprise one or more hard disks. The process steps may be read from a computer-readable medium, such as a floppy disk, a CD-ROM, a DVD-ROM, a Zip\u2122 disk, a magnetic tape, or a signal encoding the process steps, and thereafter stored in data storage device  in a compressed, uncompiled and\/or encrypted format. In alternative embodiments, hard-wired circuitry may be used in place of, or in combination with, processor-executable process steps for implementation of the processes described herein. Thus, embodiments are not limited to any specific combination of hardware and software.","Data storage device  may also store interface activity table . In addition, data storage device  may store other unshown elements that may be necessary for operation of system , such as data files and other device drivers.","Input device  may comprise any known device for capturing user input, including a keyboard, mouse, touch pad, voice-recognition system, or any combination of these devices. In some embodiments, process steps of interface monitor  are executed by processor  to determine an activity measure for an interface based on user input to the interface.","Memory  may provide processor  with fast data storage and retrieval. Memory  may comprise any type of memory for storing data, such as a Single Data Rate Random Access Memory, a Double Data Rate Random Access Memory, or a Programmable Read Only Memory. Processor-executable process steps being executed by processor  are typically stored temporarily in memory  and executed therefrom by processor . Interface activity table  may also be stored in memory  according to some embodiments.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 3","FIGS. 1"],"b":"2"},"At , a first characteristic associated with a first interface displayed by a display is determined, and a second characteristic associated with a second interface displayed by the display is determined. According to some embodiments of , the characteristics determined by interface monitor  include operating system messages to draw an interface, a Z-order of an interface, a movement of a pointer within an interface, an elapsed time from when the interface was manipulated by a user via input device , and\/or an elapsed time from when the interface possessed \u201cfocus\u201d. Any other characteristics associated with a displayed interface may be determined at  in some embodiments. Non-exhaustive examples of such characteristics include screen size, screen position of an interface, application that owns the screen, history of screen usage, current system location, user ID, ambient light reading, remaining battery life, battery discharge rate, and user power profile.","In some embodiments, interface monitor  exposes an application programming interface. One or more of applications  may use the application programming interface to provide interface monitor  with characteristics of displayed interfaces that are associated with the one or more of applications . For example, an application may indicate that it expects to be active at a given time and\/or for a given period of time. An application may also or alternatively use the application programming interface to indicate to interface monitor  that a displayed interface associated with the application should be displayed according to a least power-consumptive mode.","According to some embodiments, interface monitor  stores an indication of the determined characteristics in interface activity table .","At , a first power consumption mode is determined for the first interface based at least on the first characteristic determined at . A second power consumption mode for the second interface is also determined at  based at least on the second characteristic determined at . Power manager  may determine the first and second power consumption modes based on the characteristics stored in interface activity table .","In one example of , power manager  determines each power consumption mode to be equal to a Z-order determined at . More specifically, the determined first power consumption mode is equal to \u201cone\u201d if the determined first characteristic is a Z-order of one. Accordingly, the determined second power consumption mode is equal to \u201cthree\u201d if the determined second characteristic is a Z-order of three. A power consumption mode of \u201cone\u201d may be more or less power-consumptive than a power consumption mode of \u201cthree\u201d, depending on the specific embodiment.","The  method may thereby provide efficient determination of power consumption modes to be applied to various displayed interfaces.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 4","FIGS. 1","FIG. 4"],"b":"2"},"At , a first characteristic associated with a first interface displayed by a display is determined, and a second characteristic associated with a second interface displayed by the display is determined. The characteristics may be determined by interface monitor , and may comprise any characteristics, including those examples provided with respect to .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"figref":"FIG. 5","b":["210","210","211","216","211","216","211","215","212","216","213","214","211","214"]},"At , a first activity measure is determined for the first interface based at least on the first characteristic, and a second activity measure is determined for the second interface based at least on the second characteristic. Interface monitor  may determine the first and second activity measures at  according to some embodiments.","The activity measures may be determined based on some or all of the determined characteristics and\/or may be determined according to a generic algorithm that is applicable to all displayed interfaces. For example, an activity measure associated with an interface may simply be equal to the Z-order of the interface. In another example, a particular activity measure may be determined for an interface that has been recently active, while a lower activity measure may be determined for an interface that has been inactive during the recent period. Other embodiments for determining activity measures may include the use of exponential average or Markov decision processes to predict user behavior and anticipate an inactivity duration for a displayed interface.","According to some embodiments of , an activity measure associated with an interface is determined by determining an application associated with the interface, determining an activity measure algorithm associated with the application, and applying the activity measure algorithm to the characteristics determined with respect to the interface.  illustrates a portion of activity measure algorithm table  according to some of the foregoing embodiments. Activity measure algorithm table  may be stored in one or more storage media, including but not limited to memory  and data storage device .","Activity measure algorithm table  associates application types with activity measure algorithms. The activity measure algorithms may be based on one or more of any factor, including but not limited to interface characteristics of the type determined at . The activity measure algorithms may, for instance, be based on specific actions executed by a subject interface (e.g., user selection of a File\/Open command within an interface). Activity measure algorithm table  may be used to determine an activity measure algorithm as previously described.","For example, interface monitor , in some embodiments of , determines an application associated with the first interface and an application associated with the second interface. An activity measure algorithm associated with each application is then determined using table . In the present example, interface monitor  determines that the first interface (window ) is associated with an e-mail application and determines that the second interface (window ) is associated with a presentation application. Next, interface monitor  determines that the algorithm \u201cAM=Z-Order\u201d is associated with window  and determines that the algorithm \u201cUSED<10s=1; 10s\u2266USED<20s=5; USED\u226720s=10\u201d is associated with window .","Interface monitor  may then determine activity measures for the first and second interfaces by applying the activity measure algorithm associated with an interface to characteristics determined for the interface. Continuing with the above example, the activity measure determined for window  is \u201c1\u201d, which is equal to its associated Z-order. It will be assumed that, at , it is determined that window  was last used between 10 and 20 seconds from the present moment. Accordingly, the activity measure determined for window  at  is \u201c5\u201d.","Interface monitor  may store the determined activity measures in interface activity table .  is a tabular representation of a portion of interface activity table  according to some embodiments. As mentioned above, interface activity table  may be stored in one or more storage media, including but not limited to memory  and data storage device .","The tabular representation associates each of windows  through  with an activity measure. In this regard, an activity measure associated with each of windows  through  may be determined at . The  method is therefore not limited to a first and a second interface. In some embodiments, the display of three or more interfaces may be controlled according to the  method.","Returning to , a first power consumption mode is determined at  for the first interface based at least on the first activity measure, and a second power consumption mode is determined for the second interface based at least on the second activity measure. Power manager  may determine the first and second power consumption modes based on the activity measures stored in interface activity table .","Power manager  may use any method for determining a power consumption mode for an interface based on an activity measure associated with the interface. In some embodiments of , power manager  determines an application associated with an interface, determines a power consumption mode algorithm associated with the application, and applies the power consumption mode algorithm to an activity measure associated with the interface.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0047","num":"0046"},"figref":"FIG. 8","b":["800","800","200"]},"Power consumption mode algorithm table  associates application types with power consumption mode algorithms. The power consumption mode algorithms may be based on one or more of any factor, including but not limited to activity measures. The power consumption mode algorithms may, like the activity measure algorithms mentioned above, be based on specific actions executed by a subject interface (e.g., user selection of a \u201cNew Message\u201d command within an interface of an E-mail client).","According to some embodiments of , power manager  initially determines an application associated with the first interface and an application associated with the second interface. A power consumption mode algorithm associated with each application is then determined using power consumption mode algorithm table . Returning to the present example, power manager  determines that the first interface (window ) is associated with an e-mail application and determines that the second interface (window ) is associated with a presentation application. Power manager  then determines that the algorithm \u201cAM<10, PCM=1; AM\u226710, PCM=2\u201d is associated with window  and determines that the algorithm \u201cAM<5, PCM=1; AM\u22675, PCM=3\u201d is associated with window .","Power manager  may then determine power consumption modes for the first and second interfaces by applying the power consumption mode algorithm associated with an interface to an activity measure determined for the interface. For example, power manager  determines, from interface activity table , that an activity measure associated with window  is \u201c1\u201d. Applying the above-mentioned algorithm results in a power consumption mode (PCM) of 1 for window . An activity measure associated with window  is \u201c5\u201d, therefore the PCM for window  is determined to be 3.","At , a display is controlled to display the first interface according to the first power consumption mode and to display the second interface according to the second power consumption mode. The first and second power consumption modes may comprise any modes that consume different amounts of power. According to some embodiments of , power manager  instructs display driver  to display window  according to power consumption mode  and to display window  according to power consumption mode . As a result, display driver  controls display  to display the first interface according to the first power consumption mode and to display the second interface according to the second power consumption mode. The interfaces may be immediately displayed according to their associated power consumption mode or may gradually change from their current mode.","Power consumption mode  may, for example, be associated with a first brightness, a first color, a first resolution and\/or a first refresh rate. On the other hand, power consumption mode  may be associated with a second brightness, a second color, a second resolution and\/or a second refresh rate. One or more of the first brightness, the first color, the first resolution and\/or the first refresh rate may be identical to respective ones of the second brightness, the second color, the second resolution and\/or the second refresh rate. A power consumption mode according to some embodiments may be associated with power-related display features other than those described above.","According to some embodiments of the  method, flow passes directly from  to . The power consumption modes are determined at  based on the characteristics determined at  in some of these embodiments. Accordingly, power consumption mode algorithms that may be used in these embodiments may be based on interface characteristics rather than on activity measures.","The  method may provide acceptable display power consumption and display quality.","The several embodiments described herein are solely for the purpose of illustration. Persons skilled in the art will recognize from this description other embodiments may be practiced with modifications and alterations limited only by the claims."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0005","num":"0004"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0006","num":"0005"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0007","num":"0006"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0008","num":"0007"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 8"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
