---
title: PZT MEMS resonant Lorentz force magnetometer
abstract: A MEMS magnetometer comprises a deflectable resonator comprising a base layer; a Lorentz force (LF) drive conductor attached to the base layer; and a piezoelectric sensor attached to the base layer and electrically isolated from the LF drive conductor. The LF drive conductor comprises conductive material configured for receiving a current at a mechanical resonant frequency of the device capable of causing mechanical deformation of the deflectable resonator, wherein the current causes formation of Lorentz forces in a presence of a magnetic field, and wherein the deflectable resonator is mechanically deformed as a result of the formation of the Lorentz forces. The mechanical deformation of the deflectable resonator generates a detectable piezoelectric electrical signal that is proportional to the magnitude of the magnetic field.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07642692&OS=07642692&RS=07642692
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 07642692
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20050915
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"GOVINT":[{},{}],"heading":["GOVERNMENT INTEREST","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS OF THE INVENTION"],"p":["The embodiments of the invention described herein may be manufactured, used, and\/or licensed by or for the United States Government.","1. Field of the Invention","The embodiments of the invention generally relate to microelectromechanical systems (MEMS) devices and microelectronic devices, and, more particularly, to Lorentz force magnetometer devices.","2. Description of the Related Art","Conventional MEMS Lorentz force magnetometer designs, such as those described in U.S. Pat. No. 5,959,452, issued to Givens et al. on Sep. 28, 1999, the complete disclosure of which is herein incorporated by reference, describe both optical and capacitive transduction schemes. This capacitive design has achieved a sensor resolution of approximately 1 \u03bcT using a drive current of 1 mA and a Q-factor of 20,000, such as suggested by Wickenden et. al, \u201cAn Extremely Sensitive MEMS Magnetometer for use as an Orientation Sensor on Projectiles,\u201d Royal Aeronautical Society Conference, Nanotechnology and Microengineering for Future Guided Weapons, Nov. 11, 1999, the complete disclosure of which is herein incorporated by reference.","However, producing miniaturized optical MEMS devices, such as magnetometers, generally appears to present substantial technical challenges including overcoming size, weight, and power consumption parameters as well as attaining acceptable sensor resolution standards. In addition, the proposed piezoelectric devices appear to suffer from inappropriate design choices. Using the same electrode for driving the Lorentz force current and piezoelectrically sensing those Lorentz forces directly couples the drive and sense functions of the sensor; which generally prevents the measurement of external magnetic fields. This may also severely limit the maximum drive currents of the device due to the limited cross-sectional area and thermal\/electrical material properties of the chosen conductor, platinum. Generally, the limited drive current directly limits the sensitivity and resolution of such a device.","Accordingly, there remains a need for a novel MEMS magnetometer device capable of mapping magnetic fields in various applications, and which is further capable of achieving size, weight, power consumption, and resolution parameters previously unattainable by the conventional designs.","In view of the foregoing, an embodiment of the invention provides a microelectromechanical system (MEMS) magnetometer comprising a deflectable resonator comprising a base layer; a Lorentz force (LF) drive conductor attached to the base layer; and a piezoelectric sensor attached to the base layer and electrically isolated from the LF drive conductor. In one embodiment, the deflectable resonator comprises a torsional loop configuration. The LF drive conductor comprises conductive material configured for receiving a current at a resonant frequency capable of causing mechanical deformation of the deflectable resonator, wherein the current causes formation of Lorentz forces in the presence of a magnetic field, and wherein the deflectable resonator is mechanically deformed as a result of the formation of the Lorentz forces. The piezoelectric sensor comprises a bottom electrode; a piezoelectric layer over and adjacent to the bottom electrode; a top electrode over and adjacent to the piezoelectric layer; and an isolator electrically isolating the bottom electrode from the top electrode. The MEMS magnetometer further comprises a first interconnect structure connected to the LF drive conductor; and a second interconnect structure connected to the piezoelectric sensor, wherein the second interconnect structure is electrically isolated from the first interconnect structure.","Another aspect of the invention provides a magnetometer comprising a base layer; a LF drive conductor attached to the base layer; and a piezoelectric sensor attached to the base layer and electrically isolated from the LF drive conductor, wherein the LF drive conductor comprises conductive material configured for receiving a current at a resonant frequency capable of causing mechanical deformation of the base layer, the LF drive conductor, and the piezoelectric sensor, wherein the current causes formation of Lorentz forces in the presence of a magnetic field, and wherein the base layer, the LF drive conductor, and the piezoelectric sensor are mechanically deformed as a result of the formation of the Lorentz forces. The piezoelectric sensor comprises a bottom electrode; a piezoelectric layer over and adjacent to the bottom electrode; a top electrode over and adjacent to the piezoelectric layer; and an isolator electrically isolating the bottom electrode from the top electrode. The magnetometer further comprises a first interconnect structure connected to the LF drive conductor; and a second interconnect structure connected to the piezoelectric sensor, wherein the second interconnect structure is electrically isolated from the first interconnect structure.","Another embodiment of the invention provides a method for detecting a magnetic field using a magnetometer comprising a deflectable resonator comprising a base layer; a LF drive conductor attached to the base layer; and a piezoelectric sensor attached to the base layer and electrically isolated from the LF drive conductor, wherein the method comprises placing the magnetometer in a magnetic field; applying a current to the LF drive conductor; and detecting a mechanical deformation of the deflectable resonator with a piezoelectrically generated electrical signal, wherein the amount of deformation of the deflectable resonator is proportional to the piezoelectric signal generated by the piezoelectric sensor, which is then proportional to the magnitude of the magnetic field. The deflectable resonator comprises a torsional loop configuration according to one embodiment of the invention.","Additionally, the LF drive conductor comprises conductive material configured for receiving the current at a resonant frequency capable of causing the mechanical deformation of the deflectable resonator. Moreover, application of the current causes formation of Lorentz forces. Furthermore, the deflectable resonator is mechanically deformed as a result of the formation of the Lorentz forces. The piezoelectric sensor, coupled mechanically to the LF drive conductor via the base layer, then detects this deformation. The piezoelectric sensor comprises a bottom electrode; a piezoelectric layer over and adjacent to the bottom electrode; a top electrode over and adjacent to the piezoelectric layer; and an isolator electrically isolating the bottom electrode from the top electrode. Also, the magnetometer further comprises a first interconnect structure connected to the LF drive conductor; and a second interconnect structure connected to the piezoelectric sensor, wherein the second interconnect structure is electrically isolated from the first interconnect structure.","Another aspect of the invention provides a method of forming a magnetometer, wherein the method comprises attaching a LF drive conductor to a base layer; attaching a piezoelectric sensor to the base layer; and electrically isolating the piezoelectric sensor from the LF drive conductor, wherein the LF drive conductor comprises conductive material. The piezoelectric sensor is formed by positioning a piezoelectric layer over and adjacent to a bottom electrode; positioning a top electrode over and adjacent to the piezoelectric layer; and positioning an electrical isolator between the bottom electrode and the top electrode. The method further comprises connecting a first interconnect structure to the LF drive conductor; and connecting a second interconnect structure to the piezoelectric sensor, wherein the second interconnect structure is electrically isolated from the first interconnect structure.","The embodiments of the invention provide a lead zirconate titanate (PZT) MEMS resonant Lorentz force magnetometer that avoids conventional design flaws and functions properly as a quasi-static or dynamic magnetic field sensor that is small in size, weight, power consumption, provides excellent sensor resolution, possesses a large dynamic range, and has a low cost of manufacturing.","These and other aspects of the embodiments of the invention will be better appreciated and understood when considered in conjunction with the following description and the accompanying drawings. It should be understood, however, that the following descriptions, while indicating preferred embodiments of the invention and numerous specific details thereof, are given by way of illustration and not of limitation. Many changes and modifications may be made within the scope of the embodiments of the invention without departing from the spirit thereof, and the embodiments of the invention include all such modifications.","The embodiments of the invention and the various features and advantageous details thereof are explained more fully with reference to the non-limiting embodiments that are illustrated in the accompanying drawings and detailed in the following description. It should be noted that the features illustrated in the drawings are not necessarily drawn to scale. Descriptions of well-known components and processing techniques are omitted so as to not unnecessarily obscure the embodiments of the invention. The examples used herein are intended merely to facilitate an understanding of ways in which the embodiments of the invention may be practiced and to further enable those of skill in the art to practice the embodiments of the invention. Accordingly, the examples should not be construed as limiting the scope of the embodiments of the invention.","As mentioned, there remains a need for a novel MEMS magnetometer device capable of mapping magnetic fields in various applications, and which is further capable of achieving size, weight, power consumption, and resolution parameters previously unattainable by the conventional designs. The embodiments of the invention achieve this by providing a PZT MEMS resonant Lorentz force magnetometer that avoids conventional design flaws and functions properly as a quasi-static or dynamic magnetic field sensor that is small in size, weight, power consumption, provides excellent sensor resolution, possesses a large dynamic range, and has a low cost of manufacturing. Referring now to the drawings and more particularly to  where similar reference characters denote corresponding features consistently throughout the figures, there are shown preferred embodiments of the invention.","The process for fabricating the PZT MEMS resonant Lorentz force magnetometer  is generally depicted in , with the completed magnetometer device  shown in . Moreover, multiple options exist for process specifics of most of the processing steps, and the embodiments of the invention are not limited to one particular processing technique. As shown in , the starting processing material is a silicon (Si) substrate wafer  having an approximate thickness of 450 \u03bcm. Next, a plasma enhanced chemical vapor deposition (PECVD) of silicon dioxide (SiO) is performed over the silicon wafer , thereby forming a SiObase layer . The thickness of the silicon dioxide base layer  may vary between 0.5 \u03bcm and 2 \u03bcm in thickness, depending on the choice for the overall dimensions of the resonator, the thickness of the LF conductor, and the thickness of the PZT. Then, a titanium\/platinum (Ti\/Pt) bottom electrode  is sputter deposited over the SiObase layer . The titanium layer is approximately 0.02 \u03bcm and the platinum layer is approximately 0.08 \u03bcm in thickness. Next, sol-gel lead zirconate titanate (PZT)  is spin coated over the Ti\/Pt bottom electrode . The thickness of the PZT  may vary from 0.5 \u03bcm to 1 \u03bcm in thickness, again depending on the choice for the overall dimensions of the resonator, the thickness of the LF conductor, and the thickness of the base layer. While PZT is a preferred material, other piezoelectric materials could also be used in accordance with the embodiments of the invention.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0041","num":"0040"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 4","FIG. 4"],"b":["16","14","12","10","14","16","1"],"sub":"2 "},"Next, as depicted in , a reactive ion etching (RIE) process of the SiObase layer  occurs down to the silicon substrate wafer , which helps define the subsequent resonator component of the magnetometer device  and enable its ultimate release from the silicon substrate wafer . In , a PECVD of a second SiOlayer  occurs over the exposed portions of the PZT layer , top electrode , Si substrate wafer , and the first SiOlayer . Next, as shown in , a RIE process occurs to remove the second SiOlayer  except for a small portion forming a pair of thin isolation posts (i.e., isolators) . The isolation posts , which comprise the second SiOlayer , are shown in the encircled dotted portion \u201cAA\u201d in , which is further illustrated with greater magnification in .","As shown in , the isolation posts  surround a narrow anchored portion of the PZT layer  as well as an upper and side surface of a small portion of the top electrode  near the piezoelectric bond pad portion  of the magnetometer . The isolation posts  form a passivated path for subsequent top electrode traces to be deposited thereon. Without the isolation posts , the top and bottom electrodes , , respectively, would cause an undesirable short circuit in the magnetometer . Accordingly, this process allows the top electrode bond pads  (shown in ) to be deposited onto the second SiOlayer  as opposed to the PZT  itself, which significantly reduces the parasitic capacitance of the top electrode bond pads , thereby reducing sensor noise. Thereafter, the PZT  is removed from the bottom electrode bond pad portion  via wet etching, as depicted in . As shown in , a highly electrical and thermally conductive material  such as titanium copper (TiCu) or titanium gold (TiAu) is deposited and patterned to form the Lorentz force (LF) drive conductor component  (shown in isolation in ) of the magnetometer . The thickness of the conductive material  depends on the exact dimensions of the resonator, the thickness of the PZT layer , and the thickness of the SiObase layer ; but is typically between 1 \u03bcm and 2.5 \u03bcm. The LF drive conductor component  provides the path for the drive current loops around the perimeter of the magnetometer device . The completed magnetometer device  is shown in  upon formation (through well-known deposition and patterning techniques) of 0.5 \u03bcm of the TiAu top electrode bond pads  (formed over the bond pad portion ), traces , and LF conductor bond pads . Finally, a xenon difluoride (XeF) isotropic etching process occurs to remove exposed portions of the silicon substrate wafer .","If the conductive material  is formed of TiCu, then the process occurs as generally described above. However, if the conductive material  is formed of TiAu, then the last two processing steps involving the formation of the LF drive conductor component  and the top electrode bond pads  may be combined because the same material (TiAu) is used for each respective formation. Generally, TiCu has superior thermal and electrical properties. Typically, TiCu generates approximately half of the heat that TiAu does. This enables a larger drive current to be supplied to the device, thereby resulting in greater sensor performance.","The various interconnect components such as the top electrode bond pads , traces , and LF conductor bond pads  are further illustrated in , which are a magnified perspective view of the bond pad portion  (encircled dotted area \u201cBB\u201d shown in ) of the magnetometer device  and an isolated perspective view of the interconnect components, respectively. The MEMS resonator component  of the magnetometer device  is shown in the isolated view shown in , which generally comprises the encircled dotted area \u201cCC\u201d of the magnetometer device  shown in . The MEMS resonator component  is released from the silicon substrate wafer  (not shown in ) by the performance of the above-mentioned XeFisotropic etching process. Thus, the MEMS resonator component  can be thought of as a free torsional current loop. However, other geometric configurations could also be used. For example, a clamped cantilever array design could be used (not shown) as well as other configurations depending on the particular application of the magnetometer .","The piezoelectric sensor component  of the magnetometer device  of  is shown in the isolated view of . The piezoelectric sensor component , which comprises the TiPt bottom electrode , PZT layer , and Pt top electrode , senses the deformation of the MEMS resonator component  due to Lorentz forces. In , the top electrode bonds pads  are for the LF drive conductor component  (of ) and the LF conductor bonds pads  are for the piezoelectric sensor component  (of ). A cross-sectional view of the encircled dotted area \u201cDD\u201d of the magnetometer device of  is shown in , where an air gap  exists between the conductive material  of the LF drive conductor component  and the TiPt\/PZT\/Pt piezoelectric sensor component  thereby creating electrical isolation between the LF drive conductor component  and the TiPt\/PZT\/Pt piezoelectric sensor component . Each of the LF drive conductor component  and the TiPt\/PZT\/Pt piezoelectric sensor component  is mechanically coupled to the first SiOlayer . However, because the first SiOlayer  is insulative, there remains electrical isolation between the LF drive conductor component  and the TiPt\/PZT\/Pt piezoelectric sensor component . Without the electrical isolation, the drive function of the sensor (generation of the Lorentz forces) would be directly coupled to the sense function of the sensor (piezoelectric detection of the Lorentz forces). Piezoelectric materials can act as sensors (generation of electrical charge due to mechanical stress) and conversely as actuators (generation of mechanical strain due to electrical field). Therefore, without electrical isolation the drive signal would otherwise cause the TiPt\/PZT\/Pt piezoelectric sensor component  to actuate, and not sense.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0047","num":"0046"},"figref":["FIGS. 18 through 20","FIG. 18","FIG. 18","FIG. 16","FIG. 19","FIG. 20"],"b":["1","1","1","23","3","2","2"],"sub":["Lorentz","Lorentz"]},"An experimental analytical model was developed to facilitate the choice of design variables used in accordance with the embodiments of the invention. The analytical model can accommodate simple geometries such as cantilevers, free-free, and clamped-clamped beams. The model approximates many of the designs; the torsional current loop designs in particular have resonant bending dominated modes that behave much like cantilevers. The following are the relevant variables employed in the following equations:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0049","num":"0048"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00001","num":"00001"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"center"}},"thead":{"row":[{"entry":"TABLE 1"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":"Relevant Variables"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":{}}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"35pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"182pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["n","number of electrodes"]},{"entry":["b","electrode width"]},{"entry":["h","distance from the neutral axis to the midplane of the piezo"]},{"entry":["e","piezoelectric stress constant"]},{"entry":["Q","resonator quality factor"]},{"entry":["\u03bb","Ith resonant mode number"]},{"entry":["\u0394T","maximum allowable temperature of LF conductor"]},{"entry":["\u03c3","electrical conductivity of LF conductor"]},{"entry":["\u03c1","mass density of LF conductor"]},{"entry":["c","specific heat of LF conductor"]},{"entry":["A","cross-sectional area of LF conductor"]},{"entry":["L","beam length"]},{"entry":["\u03c6","constant depends on mechanical boundary conditions"]},{"entry":["EI","flexural rigidity of composite structure"]},{"entry":["\u03bc","mass per unit length of composite structure"]},{"entry":["N","mechanical time constant multiplier"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}},"The goal is to derive an expression for the current sensitivity of the device with respect to a static magnetic field (Eq. 1) due to the Lorentz force (Eq. 2). The piezoelectrically generated current generated can be expressed in terms of the angular deflection of the cantilevers free end due to the Lorentz force acting upon it (Eq. 3).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0051","num":"0050"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00001","num":"00001"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["S","mag"]},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mfrac":[{"mi":["PiezoCurrent","MagneticFieldIntensity"]},{"msub":{"mover":{"mi":"q","mo":"."},"mi":"piezo"},"mover":{"mi":"B","mo":"\u2190"}}],"mo":"="}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":"Eq","mo":[".","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},"mn":"1"}}}]}}}},"br":[{},{}],"in-line-formulae":[{},{},{},{}],"img":[{"@attributes":{"id":"CUSTOM-CHARACTER-00001","he":"3.13mm","wi":"2.46mm","file":"US07642692-20100105-P00001.TIF","alt":"custom character","img-content":"character","img-format":"tif"}},{"@attributes":{"id":"CUSTOM-CHARACTER-00002","he":"3.13mm","wi":"1.78mm","file":"US07642692-20100105-P00002.TIF","alt":"custom character","img-content":"character","img-format":"tif"}},{"@attributes":{"id":"CUSTOM-CHARACTER-00003","he":"3.13mm","wi":"2.12mm","file":"US07642692-20100105-P00003.TIF","alt":"custom character","img-content":"character","img-format":"tif"}}],"sub":["Lorentz max","max","piezo","res","31"]},"For a cantilever geometry, the angular deflection of the free end of the beam at resonance is expressed in terms of the distributed load acting upon it and the mechanical quality factor (Eq. 4). Substituting (Eq. 2) and (Eq. 4) into (Eq. 3), the piezoelectrically generated current due to a Lorentz force induced by a static magnetic field and an AC current at a mechanical resonance frequency of the cantilever beam is obtained (Eq. 5). Substituting the resonance frequency (Eq. 6) into (Eq. 5), dividing out the magnitude of the magnetic field, and simplifying, the continuous drive current sensitivity of the device (Eq. 7) is obtained.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0053","num":"0052"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00002","num":"00002"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["\u03b8","res"]},"mo":"=","mfrac":{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":["F","tot"]},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"msup":{"mi":"L","mn":"2"},"mi":"Q"},{"mn":"6","mo":"\u2062","msub":{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"EI"},"mi":"comp"}}]}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":"Eq","mo":[".","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},"mn":"4"}}}]},{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"msub":{"mover":{"mi":"q","mo":"."},"mi":"piezo"},"mo":"=","mfrac":{"mrow":[{"mi":["nbh","\u03c9"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":[{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}],"msub":[{"mi":"e","mn":"31"},{"mi":["QI","max"]}],"msup":{"mi":"BL","mn":"3"}},{"mn":"6","mo":"\u2062","msub":{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"EI"},"mi":"comp"}}]}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":"Eq","mo":[".","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},"mn":"5"}}}]},{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["\u03c9","res"]},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mfrac":{"mi":"\u03bb","mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":"\u2062","mi":"\u03c0"}},"mo":"\u2062","msqrt":{"mfrac":{"msub":{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"EI"},"mi":"comp"},"mrow":{"mi":"\u03bc","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"msup":{"mi":"L","mn":"4"}}}}}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":"Eq","mo":[".","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},"mn":"6"}}}]},{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"S","msub":{"mi":"mag","mrow":{"mi":["Im","ax"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}}}},"mo":"=","mfrac":{"mrow":[{"mi":"n","mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"msub":[{"mi":["\u03bb","i"]},{"mi":"bhe","mn":"31"},{"mi":["LQI","max"]}]},{"mn":"12","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mi":"\u03c0","msqrt":{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["EI","comp"]},"mo":"\u2062","mi":"\u03bc"}}}]}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":"Eq","mo":[".","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},"mn":"7"}}}]}]}}}},"Ignoring heat transfer factors, the maximum drive current can be expressed in terms of the maximum temperature, the thermal material properties of the conductor, the cross-sectional area, and the duration of the application of the current (Eq. 8). The minimum pulse duration can be represented by a safety factor divided by the resonant quality factor and the resonant frequency (Eq. 9). Substituting (Eq. 8) and (Eq. 9) into (Eq. 7) and simplifying yields the expression for the pulsed drive current sensitivity of the device (Eq. 10).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0055","num":"0054"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00003","num":"00003"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["I","max"]},"mo":"=","msqrt":{"mfrac":{"mrow":{"mi":["\u0394","\u03c3","\u03c1"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":[{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}],"msub":{"mi":["T","max"]},"msubsup":{"mi":["cA","con"],"mn":"2"}},"msub":{"mi":["t","pulse"]}}}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":"Eq","mo":[".","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},"mn":"8"}}}]},{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["t","pulse"]},"mo":"\u2248","mrow":{"mi":"N","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"msub":{"mi":["\u03c4","mech"]}}},"mo":"=","mfrac":{"mi":"N","mrow":{"mi":"Q","mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"msub":{"mi":["\u03bb","i"]},"msqrt":{"mfrac":{"msub":{"mi":["EI","comp"]},"mrow":{"mi":"\u03bc","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"msup":{"mi":"L","mn":"4"}}}}}}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":"Eq","mo":[".","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},"mn":"9"}}}]},{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"S","msub":{"mi":["mag","Pulse"]}},"mo":"=","mfrac":{"mrow":[{"msup":{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"nbhe","mn":"31"},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["\u03bb","i"]},"mo":"\u2062","mi":"Q"}}},"mfrac":{"mn":["3","2"]}},"mo":"\u2062","msqrt":{"mrow":{"mi":"\u0394","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"msub":{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["T","max"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":["\u03c3","\u03c1"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":[{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}],"msup":{"mi":"cA","mn":"2"}}}},"mi":"con"}}}},{"mi":"\u03d5","mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"msup":[{"mrow":{"mi":"\u03c0","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"msub":{"mi":["EI","comp"]}}},"mfrac":{"mn":["1","4"]}},{"mi":"\u03bc","mfrac":{"mn":["3","4"]}}],"msqrt":{"mi":"N"}}]}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":"Eq","mo":[".","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},"mn":"10"}}}]}]}}}},"The EIterm in the previous equations is the bending stiffness or flexural rigidity of the composite cantilever structure. The area moment of inertia (I) of a cross-section of the beam with respect to the y-axis of the composite beam is the summation of the sums of the moments of inertia of each layer and the product of each layer's cross-sectional area and the square of the distance from the neutral axis to the centroidal axis of each layer, as given by the parallel axis theorem. The composite modulus of elasticity (E) is the summation of the products of volume fractions of each layer and the modulus of the corresponding layer. For a constant width beam, the composite bending stiffness is (Eq. 11). The h term in the previous equations is the distance between the center of the piezoelectric layer and the overall structure's neutral plane. The location of the neutral axis is found by dividing the summation of the products of the layer cross sectional areas and the distances from the centroids of the layers to some arbitrary reference axis by the cross-sectional area of the entire beam and the expression for h is given by (Eq. 12). The term his measured relative to the same arbitrary reference axis used to define the location of the neutral axis.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0057","num":"0056"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00004","num":"00004"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["EI","comp"]},"mo":"=","mfrac":{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mi":"\u03a3","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":["t","layer"]},{"mi":["E","layer"]}],"mo":"\u2062"}}},{"mi":"\u03a3","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["I","layer"]},"mo":"+","mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["A","layer"]},"mo":"\u2062","msubsup":{"mi":["d","layer"],"mn":"2"}}}}}],"mo":"\u2062"},"msub":{"mi":["t","beam"]}}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":"Eq","mo":[".","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},"mn":"11"}}}]},{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mi":"h","mo":"=","mrow":{"mo":["\uf603","\uf604"],"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mo":["(",")"],"msub":{"mi":["h","piezo"]}},{"mo":["(",")"],"mfrac":{"mrow":{"mi":"\u03a3","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":["A","layer"]},{"mi":["y","layer"]}],"mo":"\u2062"}}},"msub":{"mi":["A","total"]}}}],"mo":"-"}}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":"Eq","mo":[".","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},"mn":"12"}}}]}]}}}},"The design provided by the embodiments of the invention mechanically couples the LF drive conductor component  (drive function) and the piezoelectric sensor component  (sense function) by means of attaching both components (LF drive conductor component  and piezoelectric sensor component ) to a separate structure (i.e., the silicon dioxide base layer ). Furthermore, the design provided by the embodiments of the invention electrically decouples LF drive conductor component  (drive function) and the piezoelectric sensor component  (sense function) by means of physically separating the LF drive conductor from the piezoelectric sensor component  using isolators .","In an alternative embodiment, a DC current may be applied to the LF drive conductor component . However, if an AC current is used, as described above, then the resonator quality factor, Q, amplifies the device sensitivity by as much as 10,000. The magnetic fields that can be sensed at a high Q resonant mode is approximately \u201cQ\u201d times smaller than at static conditions (i.e., DC drive). This means that the sensor is far superior at operating with a high Q as opposed to a low Q.","The embodiments of the invention provides a PZT MEMS resonant Lorentz force magnetometer  that avoids conventional design flaws and functions properly as a quasi-static or dynamic magnetic field sensor. Moreover, the magnetometer  is small in size (much less than a square centimeter), weight (milli-microgram mass), power consumption (in the milliwatt range), provides excellent sensor resolution (approximately 1 nanoTesla, possesses a large dynamic range (approximately 80 dB), and has a low cost of manufacturing. The magnetometer device  can measure 1 Tesla through 1 nanoTesla field strengths. The large dynamic range is attainable due to the ability to scale the LF drive current to prevent overdriving of the magnetometer device  in strong fields that would otherwise destroy the magnetometer device .","Another aspect of the invention is illustrated in the flowchart of , which includes descriptions which refer to components provided in .  illustrates a method for detecting a magnetic field, B, using a magnetometer  comprising a deflectable resonator  comprising a base layer ; a LF drive conductor  attached to the base layer ; and a piezoelectric sensor  attached to the base layer  and electrically isolated from the LF drive conductor , wherein the method comprises placing () the magnetometer  in a magnetic field, B; applying () a current, I, to the LF drive conductor ; and detecting () a mechanical deformation of the deflectable resonator , through the piezoelectrically generated signal of the piezoelectric sensor , wherein the amount of deformation of the deflectable resonator  is proportional to the piezoelectric signal which is then proportional to the magnitude of the magnetic field, B.","The deflectable resonator  comprises a torsional loop configuration according to one embodiment of the invention. Additionally, the LF drive conductor  comprises conductive material  configured for receiving the current, I, at a resonant frequency capable of causing the mechanical deformation of the deflectable resonator . Moreover, application of the current, I, in the presence of a magnetic field, B, causes formation of Lorentz forces, F, wherein the Lorentz forces, F, are in a plane normal to the current vector, I, and the magnetic field vector, B. Furthermore, the deflectable resonator  is mechanically deformed as a result of the formation of the Lorentz forces, F.","Moreover, the piezoelectric sensor  comprises a bottom electrode ; a piezoelectric layer  over and adjacent to the bottom electrode ; a top electrode  over and adjacent to the piezoelectric layer ; and an isolator  electrically isolating the bottom electrode  from the top electrode . Also, the magnetometer  further comprises a first interconnect structure  connected to the LF drive conductor ; and a second interconnect structure  connected to the piezoelectric sensor , wherein the second interconnect structure  is electrically isolated from the first interconnect structure .","The magnetometer  is capable of being utilized in several applications including quasi-static and dynamic magnetic field sensing for detection of ferrous objects by means of sensing the disturbances in the Earth's local magnetic field generated by the ferrous objects. Furthermore, the magnetometer  may be used for orientation sensing of projectiles used in military and non-military environments.","The foregoing description of the specific embodiments will so fully reveal the general nature of the invention that others can, by applying current knowledge, readily modify and\/or adapt for various applications such specific embodiments without departing from the generic concept, and, therefore, such adaptations and modifications should and are intended to be comprehended within the meaning and range of equivalents of the disclosed embodiments. It is to be understood that the phraseology or terminology employed herein is for the purpose of description and not of limitation. Therefore, while the embodiments of the invention have been described in terms of preferred embodiments, those skilled in the art will recognize that the embodiments of the invention can be practiced with modification within the spirit and scope of the appended claims."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The embodiments of the invention will be better understood from the following detailed description with reference to the drawings, in which:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":["FIG. 8","FIG. 7"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":"FIG. 10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":"FIG. 11"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":["FIG. 12","FIG. 11"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":["FIG. 13","FIG. 11"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":["FIG. 14","FIG. 11"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":["FIG. 15","FIG. 11"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":["FIG. 16","FIG. 11"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":["FIG. 17","FIG. 13"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"figref":["FIG. 18","FIG. 11"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0034"},"figref":["FIG. 19","FIG. 11","FIG. 14"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"figref":["FIG. 20","FIG. 11","FIGS. 18 and 19"],"sub":"Lorentz"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0037","num":"0036"},"figref":"FIG. 21"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
