---
title: Two-stage implementation for phonetic recognition using a bi-directional target-filtering model of speech coarticulation and reduction
abstract: A structured generative model of a speech coarticulation and reduction is described with a novel two-stage implementation. At the first stage, the dynamics of formants or vocal tract resonance (VTR) are generated using prior information of resonance targets in the phone sequence. Bi-directional temporal filtering with finite impulse response (FIR) is applied to the segmental target sequence as the FIR filter's input. At the second stage the dynamics of speech cepstra are predicted analytically based on the FIR filtered VTR targets. The combined system of these two stages thus generates correlated and causally related VTR and cepstral dynamics where phonetic reduction is represented explicitly in the hidden resonance space and implicitly in the observed cepstral space. The combined system also gives the acoustic observation probability given a phone sequence. Using this probability, different phone sequences can be compared and ranked in terms of their respective probability values. This then permits the use of the model for phonetic recognition.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07409346&OS=07409346&RS=07409346
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 07409346
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20050301
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"p":["The present application is based on and claims the benefit of U.S. provisional patent application Ser. No. 60\/625,222, filed Nov. 5, 2004, the content of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.","Reference is made to co-pending and commonly assigned U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11\/071,904, filed Mar. 1, 2005, entitled \u201cACOUSTIC MODELS WITH STRUCTURED HIDDEN DYNAMICS WITH INTEGRATION OVER MANY POSSIBLE HIDDEN TRAJECTORIES\u201d, the content of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.","The present invention relates to models of speech. In particular, the present invention relates to vocal tract resonance (VTR) models of structured speech and integrating the VTR models into cepstra prediction.","Human speech contains spectral prominences or VTRs. These VTRs carry a significant amount of the information contained in human speech.","In the past, attempts have been made to model the VTRs associated with particular phonetic units, such as phonemes, using discrete state models such as a Hidden Markov Model. Such models have been less than ideal, however, because they do not perform well when the speaking rate increases or the articulation effort of the speaker decreases.","Research into the behavior of VTRs during speech indicates that one possible reason for the difficulty of conventional Hidden Markov Model based systems in handling fluent speech is that during fluent speech the static VTR values and hence the static acoustic information for different classes of phonetic units become very similar as the speaking rate increases or the articulation effort decreases.","Although this phenomenon, known as reduction, has been observed in human speech, an adequate and quantitative model for predicting such behavior in VTR tracts has not been developed. As such, a model is needed that predicts the observed dynamic patterns of the VTRs based on the interaction between phonetic context, speaking rate, and speaking style.","A structured generative model of a speech coarticulation and reduction is described with a novel two-stage implementation. At the first stage, the dynamics of formants or vocal tract resonance (VTR) are generated using prior information of resonance targets in the phone sequence. Bi-directional temporal filtering with finite impulse response (FIR) is applied to the segmental target sequence as the FIR filter's input. At the second stage the dynamics of speech cepstra are predicted analytically based on the FIR filtered VTR targets. The combined system of these two stages thus generates correlated and causally related VTR and cepstral dynamics where phonetic reduction is represented explicitly in the hidden resonance space and implicitly in the observed cepstral space. The combined system also gives the acoustic observation probability given a phone sequence. Using this probability, different phone sequences can be compared and ranked in terms of their respective probability values. This then permits the use of the model for phonetic recognition.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["100","100","100","100"]},"The invention is operational with numerous other general purpose or special purpose computing system environments or configurations. Examples of well-known computing systems, environments, and\/or configurations that may be suitable for use with the invention include, but are not limited to, personal computers, server computers, hand-held or laptop devices, multiprocessor systems, microprocessor-based systems, set top boxes, programmable consumer electronics, network PCs, minicomputers, mainframe computers, telephony systems, distributed computing environments that include any of the above systems or devices, and the like.","The invention may be described in the general context of computer-executable instructions, such as program modules, being executed by a computer. Generally, program modules include routines, programs, objects, components, data structures, etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. The invention is designed to be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment, program modules are located in both local and remote computer storage media including memory storage devices.","With reference to , an exemplary system for implementing the invention includes a general-purpose computing device in the form of a computer . Components of computer  may include, but are not limited to, a processing unit , a system memory , and a system bus  that couples various system components including the system memory to the processing unit . The system bus  may be any of several types of bus structures including a memory bus or memory controller, a peripheral bus, and a local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. By way of example, and not limitation, such architectures include Industry Standard Architecture (ISA) bus, Micro Channel Architecture (MCA) bus, Enhanced ISA (EISA) bus, Video Electronics Standards Association (VESA) local bus, and Peripheral Component Interconnect (PCI) bus also known as Mezzanine bus.","Computer  typically includes a variety of computer readable media. Computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by computer  and includes both volatile and nonvolatile media, removable and non-removable media. By way of example, and not limitation, computer readable media may comprise computer storage media and communication media. Computer storage media includes both volatile and nonvolatile, removable and non-removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions, data structures, program modules or other data. Computer storage media includes, but is not limited to, RAM, ROM, EEPROM, flash memory or other memory technology, CD-ROM, digital versatile disks (DVD) or other optical disk storage, magnetic cassettes, magnetic tape, magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices, or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by computer . Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions, data structures, program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term \u201cmodulated data signal\u201d means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example, and not limitation, communication media includes wired media such as a wired network or direct-wired connection, and wireless media such as acoustic, RF, infrared and other wireless media. Combinations of any of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.","The system memory  includes computer storage media in the form of volatile and\/or nonvolatile memory such as read only memory (ROM)  and random access memory (RAM) . A basic input\/output system  (BIOS), containing the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within computer , such as during start-up, is typically stored in ROM . RAM  typically contains data and\/or program modules that are immediately accessible to and\/or presently being operated on by processing unit . By way of example, and not limitation,  illustrates operating system , application programs , other program modules , and program data .","The computer  may also include other removable\/non-removable volatile\/nonvolatile computer storage media. By way of example only,  illustrates a hard disk drive  that reads from or writes to non-removable, nonvolatile magnetic media, a magnetic disk drive  that reads from or writes to a removable, nonvolatile magnetic disk , and an optical disk drive  that reads from or writes to a removable, nonvolatile optical disk  such as a CD ROM or other optical media. Other removable\/non-removable, volatile\/nonvolatile computer storage media that can be used in the exemplary operating environment include, but are not limited to, magnetic tape cassettes, flash memory cards, digital versatile disks, digital video tape, solid state RAM, solid state ROM, and the like. The hard disk drive  is typically connected to the system bus  through a non-removable memory interface such as interface , and magnetic disk drive  and optical disk drive  are typically connected to the system bus  by a removable memory interface, such as interface .","The drives and their associated computer storage media discussed above and illustrated in , provide storage of computer readable instructions, data structures, program modules and other data for the computer . In , for example, hard disk drive  is illustrated as storing operating system , application programs , other program modules , and program data . Note that these components can either be the same as or different from operating system , application programs , other program modules , and program data . Operating system , application programs , other program modules , and program data  are given different numbers here to illustrate that, at a minimum, they are different copies.","A user may enter commands and information into the computer  through input devices such as a keyboard , a microphone , and a pointing device , such as a mouse, trackball or touch pad. Other input devices (not shown) may include a joystick, game pad, satellite dish, scanner, or the like. These and other input devices are often connected to the processing unit  through a user input interface  that is coupled to the system bus, but may be connected by other interface and bus structures, such as a parallel port, game port or a universal serial bus (USB). A monitor  or other type of display device is also connected to the system bus  via an interface, such as a video interface . In addition to the monitor, computers may also include other peripheral output devices such as speakers  and printer , which may be connected through an output peripheral interface .","The computer  is operated in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers, such as a remote computer . The remote computer  may be a personal computer, a hand-held device, a server, a router, a network PC, a peer device or other common network node, and typically includes many or all of the elements described above relative to the computer . The logical connections depicted in  include a local area network (LAN)  and a wide area network (WAN) , but may also include other networks. Such networking environments are commonplace in offices, enterprise-wide computer networks, intranets and the Internet.","When used in a LAN networking environment, the computer  is connected to the LAN  through a network interface or adapter . When used in a WAN networking environment, the computer  typically includes a modem  or other means for establishing communications over the WAN , such as the Internet. The modem , which may be internal or external, may be connected to the system bus  via the user input interface , or other appropriate mechanism. In a networked environment, program modules depicted relative to the computer , or portions thereof, may be stored in the remote memory storage device. By way of example, and not limitation,  illustrates remote application programs  as residing on remote computer . It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are exemplary and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers may be used.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0037","num":"0036"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":["200","200","202","204","206","208","210"]},"Memory  is implemented as non-volatile electronic memory such as random access memory (RAM) with a battery back-up module (not shown) such that information stored in memory  is not lost when the general power to mobile device  is shut down. A portion of memory  is preferably allocated as addressable memory for program execution, while another portion of memory  is preferably used for storage, such as to simulate storage on a disk drive.","Memory  includes an operating system , application programs  as well as an object store . During operation, operating system  is preferably executed by processor  from memory . Operating system , in one preferred embodiment, is a WINDOWS\u00ae CE brand operating system commercially available from Microsoft Corporation. Operating system  is preferably designed for mobile devices, and implements database features that can be utilized by applications  through a set of exposed application programming interfaces and methods. The objects in object store  are maintained by applications  and operating system , at least partially in response to calls to the exposed application programming interfaces and methods.","Communication interface  represents numerous devices and technologies that allow mobile device  to send and receive information. The devices include wired and wireless modems, satellite receivers and broadcast tuners to name a few. Mobile device  can also be directly connected to a computer to exchange data therewith. In such cases, communication interface  can be an infrared transceiver or a serial or parallel communication connection, all of which are capable of transmitting streaming information.","Input\/output components  include a variety of input devices such as a touch-sensitive screen, buttons, rollers, and a microphone as well as a variety of output devices including an audio generator, a vibrating device, and a display. The devices listed above are by way of example and need not all be present on mobile device . In addition, other input\/output devices may be attached to or found with mobile device  within the scope of the present invention.","In the past, the failure of Hidden Markov Models to perform well on speech signals with high speaking rates or with low speaking effort has often been attributed to a lack of training data for these types of speech. The present inventors, however, have discovered that it is likely that even with more training data for these types of speech, Hidden Markov Models will still not be able to recognize speech with the desired amount of accuracy. The reason for this is that at high speaking rates the static VTR patterns and hence the static acoustic information (e.g. cepstra) for different vowel sounds begin to converge if only isolated or \u201cstatic\u201d portions of the speech signal are examined when making a recognition decision.","This convergence of the VTR values for different vowel sounds is referred to as static confusion.  provides a diagram showing that as the speaking rate increases, VTRs for two different vowel sounds begin to converge. In particular, in , the speaking rate is shown on horizontal axis  and the frequency of the first and second VTRs is shown on vertical axis . In , speaking rate increases from left to right and frequency increases from the bottom to the top. The value of the first VTR and the second VTR for the vowel sound \/a\/ are shown by lines  and , respectively. The values of the first and second VTR for the vowel sound \/e\/ are shown by lines  and , respectively.","As can be seen in , the first and second VTRs for the vowel sounds \/a\/ and \/e\/ are much more separated at lower speaking rates than at higher speaking rates. Because of this, at higher speaking rates, it is more difficult for the speech recognition system to distinguish between the \/a\/ sound and the \/e\/ sound.","The present invention provides a model for VTRs, which accurately predicts the static confusion represented by the data of . This model is a result of an interaction between phonetic context, speaking rate\/duration, and spectral rate of changes related to the speaking style.","Under the model, a sequence of VTR targets, modeled as step functions, are passed through a finite impulse response (FIR) filter to produce a smooth continuous VTR pattern.","The FIR filter is characterized by the following non-causal impulse response function:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0048","num":"0047"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00001","num":"00001"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":["h","s"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"k"}},{"mo":"{","mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mi":"C","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"msubsup":{"mi":"\u03b3","mrow":[{"mi":"s","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"k"}},{"mo":"-","mi":"k"}]}}},{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mo":"-","mi":"D"},"mo":["<","<"],"mi":"k","mn":"0"}}]},{"mtd":[{"mi":"C"},{"mrow":{"mi":"k","mo":"=","mn":"0"}}]},{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mi":"C","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"msubsup":{"mi":["\u03b3","k"],"mrow":{"mi":"s","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"k"}}}}},{"mrow":{"mn":"0","mo":["<","<"],"mi":["k","D"]}}]}]}}],"mo":"\u2062"}},{"mrow":{"mi":"Equation","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},"mn":"1"}}]}}}},"br":{},"sub":["s(k) ","s(k) "]},"In equation 1, k=0 represents a current time point, k less than zero represents past time points, and k greater than zero represents future time points.","Thus, in the impulse response of Equation 1, it is assumed for simplicity that the impulse response is symmetric such that the extent of coarticulation in the forward direction is equal to the extent of coarticulation in the backward direction. In other words, the impulse response is symmetric with respect to past time points and future time points. In other embodiments, the impulse response is not symmetrical. In particular, for languages other than English, it is sometimes beneficial to have a nonsymmetrical impulse response for the FIR filter.","In Equation 1, C is a normalization constraint that is used to ensure that the sum of the filter weights adds up to one. This is essential for the model to produce target \u201cundershoot,\u201d instead of \u201covershoot.\u201d To compute C, it is first assumed that the stiffness parameter stays approximately constant across the temporal span of the finite impulse response such that:\n\n\u03b3\u2248\u03b3\u2003\u2003Equation 2\n","Under this assumption, the value of C can be determined for a particular \u03b3 as:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0053","num":"0052"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00002","num":"00002"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mi":"C","mo":"\u2248","mfrac":{"mrow":[{"mn":"1","mo":"-","mi":"\u03b3"},{"mn":"1","mo":["+","-"],"mi":"\u03b3","mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":"\u2062","msup":{"mi":"\u03b3","mrow":{"mi":"D","mo":"+","mn":"1"}}}}]}}},{"mrow":{"mi":"Equation","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},"mn":"3"}}]}}}}},"Under the model of the present invention, the target for the VTRs is modeled as a sequence of step-wise functions with variable durations and heights, which can be defined as:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0055","num":"0054"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00003","num":"00003"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mi":"T","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"k"}},{"munderover":{"mo":"\u2211","mrow":{"mi":"i","mo":"=","mn":"1"},"mi":"P"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mi":"u","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":"k","mo":"-","msubsup":{"mi":["k","l"],"msub":{"mi":["s","i"]}}}}},{"mi":"u","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":"k","mo":"-","msubsup":{"mi":["k","r"],"msub":{"mi":["s","l"]}}}}}],"mo":"-"}},"mo":"\u2062","msub":{"mi":"xT","msub":{"mi":["s","i"]}}}}],"mo":"="},"mo":","}},{"mrow":{"mi":"Equation","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},"mn":"4"}}]}}}},"br":{},"sub":["s","s","s "],"sup":["r ","l "]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0056","num":"0055"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 4","FIG. 4"],"b":["404","400","402","406","408","410","412"]},"The boundaries for the segments must be known in order to generate the target sequence. This information can be determined using a recognizer's forced alignment results or can be learned automatically using algorithms such as those described in J. Ma and L. Deng, \u201cEfficient Decoding Strategies for Conversational Speech Recognition Using a Constrained Non-Linear State Space Model for Vocal-Tract-Resonance Dynamics,\u201d IEEE Transactions on Speech and Audio Processing, Volume 11, 203, pages 590-602.","Given the FIR filter and the target sequence, the VTR trajectories can be determined by convolving the filter response with the target sequence. This produces a VTR trajectory of:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0059","num":"0058"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00004","num":"00004"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":["z","s"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"k"}},{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":"h","mrow":{"mi":"s","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"k"}}},"mo":"*","mrow":{"mi":"T","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"k"}}},{"munderover":{"mo":"\u2211","mrow":[{"mi":"\u03c4","mo":"=","mrow":{"mi":["k","D"],"mo":"-"}},{"mi":["k","D"],"mo":"+"}]},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mrow":{"mi":"C","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"msub":{"mi":"\u03b3","mrow":{"mi":"s","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"\u03c4"}}}}},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"msub":{"mi":"T","mrow":{"mi":"s","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"\u03c4"}}},"msubsup":{"mi":"\u03b3","mrow":[{"mi":"s","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"\u03c4"}},{"mo":["\uf603","\uf604"],"mrow":{"mi":["k","\u03c4"],"mo":"-"}}]}}}],"mo":"="}],"mo":"="},"mo":","}},{"mrow":{"mi":"Equation","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},"mn":"5"}}]}}}},"br":{},"sub":"s(\u03c4)"},"The individual values for the trajectory of the VTR can be sequentially concatenated together using:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0061","num":"0060"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00005","num":"00005"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mi":"z","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"k"}},{"munderover":{"mo":"\u2211","mrow":{"mi":"i","mo":"=","mn":"1"},"mi":"P"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mrow":[{"mo":["[","]"],"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mi":"u","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":"k","mo":"-","msubsup":{"mi":["k","\u2032"],"msub":{"mi":["s","i"]}}}}},{"mi":"u","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":"k","mo":"-","msubsup":{"mi":["k","r"],"msub":{"mi":["s","i"]}}}}}],"mo":"-"}},{"msub":{"mi":"z","msub":{"mi":["s","i"]}},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"k"}}],"mo":"\u00b7"}}],"mo":"="}},{"mrow":{"mi":"Equation","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},"mn":"6"}}]}}}}},"Note that a separate computation of Equation 6 is performed for each VTR frequency resulting in separate VTR trajectories.","The parameters of the filter, as well as the duration of the targets for each phone, can be modified to produce many kinds of target undershooting effects in a contextually assimilated manner.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0064","num":"0063"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 4","FIG. 4"],"b":["414","404"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0065","num":"0064"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 4","FIG. 4","FIG. 5"],"b":["504","404","500","502"]},"Because of the shorter duration of each segment, the predicted VTR trajectories do not come as close to the target values in  as they did in . Thus, as the duration of a speech segment shortens, there is an increase in the reduction of the VTR trajectories predicted by the present model. This agrees well with the observed reductions in VTR trajectories as speech segments shorten.","The predicted VTR trajectories under the present invention also predict the static confusion between phonemes that is found in the observation data of . In particular, as shown in , the FIR filter model of the present invention predicts that as speaking rates increase the values of the first and second VTRs for two different phonetic units will begin to approach each other. As in , in , speaking rate is shown along horizontal axis  and VTR frequency values are shown along vertical axis .","In , lines  and  show the values predicted by the model of the present invention for the first and second VTRs, respectively, of the phonetic unit \/e\/ as a function of speaking rate. Lines  and  show the values predicted by the model for the first and second VTRs, respectively, of the phonetic unit \/a\/.","As shown by , the predicted values for the first and second VTRs of phonetic units \/e\/ and \/a\/ converge towards each other as the speaking rate increases. Thus, the FIR filter model of the present invention generates VTR trajectories that agree well with the observed data and that suggest that static confusion between phonetic units is caused by convergence of the VTR values as speaking rates increase.","The VTR trajectory model of the present invention may be used in a speech synthesis system such as speech synthesizer  of . In , a text  is provided to a parser  and a semantic analysis component . Parser  parses the text into phonetic units that are provided to a VTR target selection unit  and an excitation control . Semantic analysis component  identifies semantic features of text  and provides these features to a prosody calculator . Prosody calculator  identifies the duration, pitch, and loudness of different portions of text  based on the semantic identifiers provided by semantic analysis . Typically, the result of prosody calculator  is a set of prosody marks that are provided to excitation control  and VTR target selection .","Using the prosody marks, which indicate the duration of different sounds, and the identities of the phonetic units provided by parser , VTR target selection  generates a target sequence using a set of predefined targets . Typically, there is a separate set of targets  for each phonetic unit that can be produced by parser , where each set targets includes a separate target for each of four VTRs.","The output of VTR target selection  is a sequence of targets similar to target sequence  of , which is provided to a finite impulse response filter . The impulse response of finite impulse response filter  is defined according to Equation 1 above. Under some embodiments, the response is dependent on the particular phonetic units identified by parser . In such cases, the response of the filter is set by an FIR parameter selection unit , which selects the parameters from a set of stored finite impulse response parameters based on the phonetic units identified by parser .","The output of FIR filter  is a set of VTR trajectories, which in one embodiment includes trajectories for four separate VTRs. These VTR trajectories are provided to a second order filter .","Excitation control  uses the phonetic units from parser  and the prosody marks from prosody calculator  to generate an excitation signal, which, in one embodiment, is formed by concatenating excitation samples from a set of excitation samples . The excitation signal produced by excitation control  is passed through second order filter , which filters the excitation signal based on the VTR trajectories identified by FIR filter . This results in synthesized speech .","As noted earlier, the model for VTRs, described by Equations 4 through 6, relatively accurately predicts the static confusion represented by the data of , for example, and therefore is useful in speech synthesis systems, such as the system shown in . However, the above model for VTRs (hereinafter referred to as the first model) does not take into account randomness (or variability) in the VTR targets. Thus, when used in speech recognition systems, for example, it is best suited to help recognize speech from a fixed speaker.","A second model for VTR dynamics, described below by Equations 7 through 10, removes the above-noted assumption and instead treats VTR targets as random variables. The development of the second model begins with the characterization of the VTR randomness in terms of its statistical distribution. For simplification, equations included below utilize Gaussian distributions to characterize VTR randomness. However, any suitable distribution may be utilized to characterize randomness in the VTR, without departing from the scope and spirit of the present invention. In the second model, for each gender (not denoted here for simplicity) and for each segment s, a separate Gaussian distribution for the target is assumed, and defined as:\n\n()=(, \u03c3)\u2003\u2003Equation 7\n\nwhere \u03bcis a mean of the target T and \u03c3is a variance of the target T.\n",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0077","num":"0076"},"figref":["FIG. 8","FIG. 4","FIG. 4","FIG. 8","FIG. 4","FIG. 8"],"b":["804","804","800","802","806","808","810","812","806","808","810","812"]},"Given a sampled target sequence T, in a form defined by Equation 7, and the FIR filter, the corresponding random VTR trajectory z(k) can be determined, in a form similar to that described by Equation 5, by convolving the FIR filter response with the target sequence. Hence, a Gaussian distribution (gender-specific) for VTR trajectory z(k) is:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0079","num":"0078"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00006","num":"00006"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mi":"p","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mrow":{"mi":"z","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"k"}},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mtext":"\u2758"},"mi":"s"}}},{"mi":"N","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mrow":[{"mi":"z","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"k"}},{"msub":{"mi":["\u03bc","z"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"k"}}],"mo":";"},{"msubsup":{"mi":["\u03c3","z"],"mn":"2"},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"k"}}],"mo":","}}}],"mo":"="}},{"mrow":{"mi":"Equation","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},"mn":"8"}}]},{"mtd":[{"mi":"where"},{"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}}]},{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":["\u03bc","z"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"k"}},{"munderover":{"mo":"\u2211","mrow":[{"mi":"r","mo":"=","mrow":{"mi":["k","D"],"mo":"-"}},{"mi":["k","D"],"mo":"+"}]},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mrow":{"mi":"c","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"msub":{"mi":"\u03b3","mrow":{"mi":"s","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"\u03c4"}}}}},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"msub":{"mi":"\u03bc","msub":{"mi":"T","mrow":{"mi":"s","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"\u03c4"}}}},"msubsup":{"mi":"\u03b3","mrow":[{"mi":"s","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"\u03c4"}},{"mo":["\uf603","\uf604"],"mrow":{"mi":["k","\u03c4"],"mo":"-"}}]}}}],"mo":"="}},{"mrow":{"mi":"Equation","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},"mn":"9"}}]},{"mtd":[{"mi":"and"},{"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}}]},{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"msubsup":{"mi":["\u03c3","z"],"mn":"2"},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"k"}},{"munderover":{"mo":"\u2211","mrow":[{"mi":"\u03c4","mo":"=","mrow":{"mi":["k","D"],"mo":"-"}},{"mi":["k","D"],"mo":"+"}]},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mrow":{"msup":{"mi":"c","mn":"2"},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"msub":{"mi":"\u03b3","mrow":{"mi":"s","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"\u03c4"}}}}},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"msubsup":[{"mi":"\u03c3","mrow":{"mi":"Ts","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"\u03c4"}},"mn":"2"},{"mi":"\u03b3","mrow":[{"mi":"s","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"\u03c4"}},{"mn":"2","mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mo":["\uf603","\uf604"],"mrow":{"mi":["k","\u03c4"],"mo":"-"}}}]}]}}],"mo":"="},"mo":","}},{"mrow":{"mi":"Equation","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},"mn":"10"}}]}]}}},"br":{},"sub":["z","z","T",{"sub2":"s(\u03c4) "},"T",{"sub2":"s(\u03c4)"}],"sup":["2","2 "]},"In the second model, individual distributions of the VTR trajectory are sequentially concatenated together in a manner similar to that described above in connection with Equation 6 of the first model.","As mentioned above, the parameters of the filter, as well as the duration of the targets for each phone, can be modified to produce many kinds of target undershooting effects in a contextually assimilated manner.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0082","num":"0081"},"figref":["FIG. 8","FIG. 8","FIG. 8","FIG. 8"],"b":["814","804","806","808","810","812"]},"Trajectory distribution  has a time-varying variance such that the variance (shown as the vertical spread of trajectory distribution  in ) is different at different points in time. As shown by Equation 10, the value of the variance of the trajectory at any point in time is a function of the variance of past targets and the variance of future targets in the sequence of targets as well as the stiffness parameters associated with the segments.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0084","num":"0083"},"figref":["FIG. 9","FIG. 8","FIG. 8","FIG. 9"],"b":["904","804","900","902"]},"As mentioned above, because of the shorter duration of each segment, the predicted VTR trajectories do not come as close to the target values in  as they did in . Thus, as the duration of a speech segment shortens, there is an increase in the reduction of the VTR trajectories predicted by the second model. This agrees well with the observed reductions in VTR trajectories as speech segments shorten. Also, the variance of the trajectory does not change as much for the shorter speech segments, but instead stays within a smaller range of variances.","In the second model, VTR target means \u03bcand variances \u03c3are estimated using sample statistics for empirically estimated VTR targets for each of multiple speakers in a training set.","The second VTR model can be utilized in a speech synthesis system in a manner similar to the first model. However, when the second model is utilized, speech excitation system  will employ targets defined by Equation 7 instead of by Equation 4.","Further, the embodiments described above for both VTR models are useful in developing speech recognition systems. It should be noted the first VTR model (defined by Equations 4 through 6) and the second VTR model (defined by Equations 7 through 10) constitute two different embodiments of a first stage (Stage I) of a two-stage hidden trajectory model (HTM) for structured speech. Two alternative approaches for implementing a second stage (Stage II) of the two-stage HTM (one using the output provided by the first VTR model (a cascaded approach) and the other an extension of the second VTR model (an integrated approach)).","In the first implementation of the second stage of the HTM, the VTR vector z(k) at each time frame k is converted into a corresponding vector of linear predictive coding (LPC) cepstra o(k). Thus, the smooth dynamic pattern of z(k), output from the first VTR model, is mapped to a dynamic pattern of o(k), which is typically less smooth, reflecting quantal properties in speech production. The mapping, as has been implemented, is in a memory-less fashion (i.e., no temporal smoothing), and is statistical rather than deterministic.","To describe this mapping function, the VTR vector has been decomposed into a set of K resonant frequencies f=(f,f, . . . ,f)\u2032 and bandwidths b=(b,b, . . . ,b)\u2032, and z=(f b)\u2032. Then the statistical mapping from VTR to cepstrum, which constitutes one approach for implementing the second stage of the HTM, is represented by\n\n()=(())+\u03bc()\u2003\u2003Equation 11\n\nwhere v(k) is a sub-segment-dependent, (for notational simplicity, the label s is used to denote a segment as well as for a sub-segment) zero-mean Gaussian random vector: v\u02dcN(v;0,\u03c3), and \u03bcis a subsegment-dependent bias vector for the nonlinear predictive function F(z). A subsegment of a phone is defined to be a consecutive temporal portion of the phone segment. Linear concatenation of several subsegments constitutes a phone segment. In Equation 11, the output of the mapping function F(z) has the following parameter-free, analytical form for its n-th vector component (i.e., n-th order cepstrum):\n",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0091","num":"0090"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00007","num":"00007"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":["F","n"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"k"}},{"mfrac":{"mn":"2","mi":"n"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"munderover":{"mo":"\u2211","mrow":{"mi":"p","mo":"=","mn":"1"},"mi":"P"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"msup":{"mi":"\u2147","mrow":{"mrow":{"mo":"-","mi":"\u03c0"},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mi":"n","mfrac":{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["b","p"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"k"}},"msub":{"mi":["f","s"]}}}},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mi":"cos","mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mi":["\u03c0","n"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mfrac":{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["f","p"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"k"}},"msub":{"mi":["f","s"]}}}}}}}],"mo":"="}},{"mrow":{"mi":"Equation","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},"mn":"12"}}]}}}},"br":{},"sub":"s "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0092","num":"0091"},"figref":["FIG. 10","FIG. 10"],"b":["1004","1000","1002","1004","1006","1008"]},"As described above in connection with Equations 11 and 12, the first approach for implementing the second stage of the HTM involves converting the VTR trajectory output by the first VTR model (defined by Equations 4 through 6) into cepstra. However, the second approach (defined by Equations 7 through 10) utilizes outputs from the second VTR model and therefore needs to account for uncertainty in VTR dynamics. Thus, in the second approach, there is a need to characterize cepstrum uncertainty in terms of its conditional distribution on the VTR, and to simplify the distribution to a computationally tractable form. That is, there is a need to specify and approximate p(o|z,s). The first approach is described below in connection with , which are discussed together.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0094","num":"0093"},"figref":"FIG. 11","b":["1100","1100","1140","1142","1105","1144","1148","1110","1120","1130"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0095","num":"0094"},"figref":"FIG. 12"},"First a waveform representative of speech is received by the recognizer. This is illustrated at step . The waveform may be generated from human speech, or may be provided from a data file such as a TIMIT (Texas Instruments\u2014Massachusetts Institute of Technology) database or other databases can be used.","This speech signal  is sampled by analog-to-digital converter  and converted into digital values. For example the received waveform can be representative of the utterance \u201cHe has never, himself, done anything for which to be hated\u2014which of us has?\u201d The digital values are provided to a frame constructor , which groups the digital values into overlapping windows. The frames of digital values are provided to LPC Cepstral Generator , which generates a LPC cepstral feature vector for each frame of the speech waveform using any known technique, typically involving identifying peaks in the spectrum of the frame of speech. This is illustrated at step .","The LPC cepstral feature vectors are provided to HMM recognition unit , which applies an acoustic Hidden Markov Model to the sequence of feature vectors to identify N-Best hypotheses  for phonetic sequences that can be represented by the speech signal. Each hypothesis includes an alignment between the frames and the phonetic units of the hypothesis.","For each hypothesized sequence of phonetic units, VTR trajectory generator  generates a VTR trajectory using the sequence of VTR targets associated with the hypothesized sequence of phonetic units. To begin this process, any compound phones in the sequence are broken into their constituents. Initial target values for the individual phones are then retrieved based on limited context dependency by table lookup. Next automatic and iterative target adaptation is performed for each phone-like unit based on the difference between the results of a VTR tracker and the VTR prediction from the FIR filter model. This is illustrated at step .","In this embodiment a single target value for each segment is used, and the VTR trajectory is calculated using equations 1-6 above. The VTR trajectory or distribution of VTR trajectories produced by VTR trajectory generator  is provided to LPC cepstral prediction generator , which generates predictions of the LPC cepstral feature vectors based upon the trajectories or distributions of trajectories generated by the trajectory generator . This is illustrated at step . A single VTR trajectory is provided to LPC cepstral prediction generator , a single LPC cepstral feature vector is produced using Equations 11 and 12 above.  illustrates the predicted LPC cepstra for the example input. For purposes of clarity only LPC cepstra with orders one, two and three are illustrated. These orders are represented by reference numbers ,  and  respectively. Dashed lines ,  and  represent the cepstral data computed directly from the waveform at step .","Following the generation of the LPC cepstra for the VTR trajectory the recognizer identifies the relative closeness (or probability) of the predicted LPC cepstra with the LPC cepstra generated from the waveform. This is illustrated at step . The recognizer according to one embodiment of the present invention is based on the N-best re-scoring paradigm. At this step the recognizer subtracts the nonlinear prediction of LPC cepstra, according Equation 12 from the LPC cepstral data generated from the original waveform.","Scoring module  receives the predicted LPC cepstral feature vectors or the distribution parameters for the LPC cepstral feature vectors from the generator  and the LPC cepstral feature vectors for the speech waveform from the generator  and generates a score based on the amount of similarity between the speech signal's feature vector and the predictions for the LPC feature vector produced by generator . In particular, for embodiments where a single predicted LPC cepstral feature vector is provided, a cascade scoring technique is used.","In the cascaded implementation, it is assumed that given segment s, there is no variability in the VTR targets for a fixed speaker and consequently there is no variability in the VTR variable z in each frame within the segment. (Such variability is absorbed into the random component in the first implementation of the second stage of the HTM (Equations 10 and 11). That is, both z and T are treated as deterministic instead of random variables. Hence, it follows that p(z|s)=1 for z=zas generated from the FIR filter, and p(z|s)=0 otherwise. Segment-dependent and speaker specific targets Tin the training data are obtained by an iterative adaptative algorithm that adjusts Tso that the FIR output from Equation 5 matches, with minimal errors, the automatically tracked VTR produced from the algorithm described in L. Deng, I. Bazzi, and A. Acero. \u201cTracking Vocal Tract Resonances Using an Analytical Nonlinear Predictor and a Target Guided Temporal Constraint,\u201d Proc. Eurospeech, 2003, pp. 73-76. For the test data, targets are estimated using an algorithm similar to vocal tract length normalization techniques.","To compute the acoustic likelihood required for scoring in recognition, the above stage-I output z=zas the deterministic signal, is passed to LPC generator  to produce the cepstral prediction F(z(k)) on a frame-by-frame basis, where each component of F(z(k)) is calculated using equation 12 above. For each frame of the observed cepstral vector o(k) within each segment s (or subsegment), the approximate likelihood score is defined as:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0105","num":"0104"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00008","num":"00008"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mrow":[{"mi":"p","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mrow":{"mi":"o","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"k"}},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mtext":"\u2758"},"mi":"s"}}},{"mi":"max","mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mrow":[{"mi":"p","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mi":"o","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"k"}},{"mi":"z","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"k"}}],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mtext":"\u2758"}},"mo":",","mi":"s"}}},{"mi":"p","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mrow":{"mi":"z","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"k"}},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mtext":"\u2758"},"mi":"s"}}}]},{"mi":"p","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mi":"o","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"k"}},{"mo":["\uf603",")"],"mrow":{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["z","max"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"k"}},"mo":",","mi":"s"}},{"mi":"p","mo":["(","\uf604"],"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["z","max"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"k"}}}],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mi":"s"}}}],"mo":["\u2248","\u2248"]},{"mrow":[{"mi":"p","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mi":"o","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"k"}},{"msub":{"mi":["z","max"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"k"}}],"mo":"\u2758"},"mo":",","mi":"s"}}},{"mi":"N","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"mrow":{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mi":"o","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"k"}},{"mrow":{"mi":"F","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["z","max"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"k"}}}},"mo":"+","msub":{"mi":"\u03bc","msub":{"mi":["r","s"]}}}],"mo":";"},"mo":",","msubsup":{"mi":"\u03c3","msub":{"mi":["r","s"]},"mn":"2"}}}}],"mo":"="}],"mo":"="}},{"mrow":{"mi":"Equation","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},"mn":"13"}}]}}}},"br":{}},"In the embodiment that calculates the difference this difference is calculated separately for each of the N-best hypotheses computed from a state-of-the-art triphone Hidden Markov Model, and forms the residual sequence that follows a monophone Hidden Markov Model. In one embodiment the recognizer uses an HTK tool (Hvite) to directly compute the likelihood for the residual sequence. However other tools can be used. The results of this set of computations are re-ranked as the recognizer's final output.","One aspect of the recognizer design of the present invention is to naturally incorporate the delta and acceleration features into the recognizer. One feature of the present invention is to decompose LPC cepstral feature differentials (delta and acceleration) into a component that can be predicted from the VTR, according to Equation 12, and a component that cannot be predicted i.e., the residuals \u03bc+\u03bd(k) of Equation 11. For the predictable component, the present invention directly computes the frame differentials of the predicted LPC cepstral values. For the unpredictable component, the present invention trains the delta and acceleration parameters of means and variances for the residuals using the corresponding frame-differential LPC cepstral training data. One advantage of this technique for treating delta and acceleration features is that in the degenerative case where the predictive model component of equation 12 is removed by setting it to zero, the recognizer automatically becomes a conventional (monophone) Hidden Markov Model system.","To compute the residual likelihood at step  the present invention requires that residual means and variances of each substate of each phone in the N-best hypotheses are known. The training of recognizer  follows a similar process as that used for recognition and disclosed above with respect to , except that the step of rescoring the results is omitted. In one embodiment the parameters are trained from the TIMIT training set. However, other training sets can be used. In this embodiment a two-stage acoustic model using a standard 61 label set, which are folded into 48 classes, is used in training the residual means and variances for each subsegment of each class. VTR targets are trained and then adapted for each phone segment instead of sub segment. For diphthongs and affricates, two separate targets are trained, assuming one target following another. Again, as in , given the training script, including both phone sequences and phone boundaries, trajectory generator  generates deterministic VTR trajectories, and LPC cepstral predictor  generates predicted cepstral trajectories from the VTR trajectories. The scoring module  subtracts the predicted cepstral trajectories from the cepstral training data on a frame-by-frame basis giving residuals for the training set. Treating these residuals as the \u201ctraining data\u201d, an HTK tool is applied to train a set of residual monophones Hidden Markov Models. The mean and variance parameters of these models are then used for N-best rescoring.","As described above, the cascaded implementation assumes that, for a given segment s, there is no variability\/uncertainty in the VTR targets for a fixed speaker and consequently there is no variability\/uncertainty in the VTR variable z in each frame within the segment. However, the integrated implementation, described below, takes into consideration variability\/uncertainty in the VTR targets and the VTR variable z. This variability makes it impossible to know the trajectory with any certainty given the segment. As such, the trajectories must be integrated (marginalized) out of the likelihood calculation.","For embodiments where a distribution of VTR trajectories is provided, parameters representing a distribution of LPC Cepstral feature vectors are produced using the following equation:\n\n(()|(),)=N[(); ()]+\u03bc,\u03c3]\u2003\u2003Equation 14\n","For computational tractability in marginalization, there is a need to linearize the nonlinear mean function of F[z(k)] in Equation 14. This can be carried out by using the following first-order Taylor series approximation to the nonlinear mean function:\n\n()]\u2248()]+()]()\u2212()),\u2003\u2003Equation 15\n\nwhere the components of the Jacobian above (n-th order cepstrum's derivative with respect to the pth component of VTR z) are:\n",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0112","num":"0111"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00009","num":"00009"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"msubsup":{"mi":["F","n","\u2032"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["f","p"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"k"}}}},{"mrow":[{"mo":"-","mfrac":{"mrow":{"mn":"4","mo":"\u2062","mi":"\u03c0"},"msub":{"mi":["f","s"]}}},{"mi":"sin","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mi":["\u03c0","n"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mfrac":{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["f","p"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"k"}},"msub":{"mi":["f","s"]}}}}}],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"msup":{"mi":"\u2147","mrow":{"mrow":{"mo":"-","mi":"\u03c0"},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mi":"n","mfrac":{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["b","p"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"k"}},"msub":{"mi":["f","s"]}}}}}],"mo":"="}},{"mrow":{"mi":"Equation","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},"mn":"16"}}]}}}},"br":{}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0113","num":"0112"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00010","num":"00010"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"msubsup":{"mi":["F","n","\u2032"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["b","p"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"k"}}}},{"mrow":[{"mo":"-","mfrac":{"mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mi":"\u03c0"},"msub":{"mi":["f","s"]}}},{"mi":"cos","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mi":["\u03c0","n"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mfrac":{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["f","p"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"k"}},"msub":{"mi":["f","s"]}}}}}],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"msup":{"mi":"\u2147","mrow":{"mrow":{"mo":"-","mi":"\u03c0"},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mi":"n","mfrac":{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["b","p"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"k"}},"msub":{"mi":["f","s"]}}}}}],"mo":"="}},{"mrow":{"mi":"Equation","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},"mn":"17"}}]}}}},"br":{},"sub":"0"},"Substituting Equation 15 into Equation 14, the approximate conditional acoustic observation probability is obtained where the mean \u03bcis expressed as a linear function of the VTR variable z:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0115","num":"0114"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00011","num":"00011"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mi":"p","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mi":"o","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"k"}},{"mi":"z","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"k"}}],"mo":"\u2758"},"mo":",","mi":"s"}}},{"mi":"N","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"mrow":{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mi":"o","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"k"}},{"msub":{"mi":"\u03bc","msub":{"mi":["o","s"]}},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"k"}}],"mo":";"},"mo":",","msubsup":{"mi":"\u03c3","msub":{"mi":["r","s"]},"mn":"2"}}}}],"mo":"\u2248"}},{"mrow":{"mi":"Equation","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"1.1em","height":"1.1ex"}}},"mn":"18"}}]},{"mtd":[{"mi":"where"},{"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}}]},{"mtd":[{"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":"\u03bc","msub":{"mi":["o","s"]}},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"k"}},{"mrow":{"mi":"F","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"mrow":{"mi":"z","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"k"}}}},"mo":"+","msub":{"mi":"\u03bc","msub":{"mi":["r","s"]}}}],"mo":"="}}},{"mtd":{"mrow":{"mo":"=","mrow":{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"msup":{"mi":["F","\u2032"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["z","o"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"k"}}}},{"mi":"z","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"k"}}],"mo":"\u2062"},"mo":"+","msub":{"mi":["B","s"]}}}}}]}},{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mi":"Equation","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"1.1em","height":"1.1ex"}}},"mn":"19"},"mo":"\u2062","mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}}}]},{"mtd":[{"mi":"where"},{"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}}]},{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["B","s"]},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mrow":[{"mi":"F","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"z","mn":"0"},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"k"}}}},{"mrow":[{"msup":{"mi":["F","\u2032"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"z","mn":"0"},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"k"}}}},{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"z","mn":"0"},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"k"}},"mo":"."}],"mo":"\u2062"}],"mo":["+","-"],"msub":{"mi":"\u03bc","msub":{"mi":["r","s"]}}}}},{"mrow":{"mi":"Equation","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"1.1em","height":"1.1ex"}}},"mn":"20"}}]}]}}},"br":{}},"Give the above results, the integration\/marginalization over the random VTR variable z in computing the acoustic likelihood can be proceeded analytically as follows:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0117","num":"0116"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00012","num":"00012"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mi":"p","mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mrow":{"mi":"o","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"k"}},"mo":"\u2758","mi":"s"}}},{"mrow":[{"mrow":[{"mo":"\u222b","mrow":{"mrow":[{"mi":"p","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mi":"o","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"k"}},{"mi":"z","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"k"}}],"mo":"\u2758"},"mo":",","mi":"s"}}},{"mi":"p","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mrow":{"mi":"z","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"k"}},"mo":"\u2758","mi":"s"}}},{"mo":"\u2146","mi":"z"}],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"]}},{"mo":"\u222b","mrow":{"mrow":[{"mi":"N","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"mrow":{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mi":"o","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"k"}},{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"msup":{"mi":["F","\u2032"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["z","o"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"k"}}}},{"mi":"z","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"k"}}],"mo":"\u2062"},"mo":"+","msub":{"mi":["B","s"]}}],"mo":";"},"mo":",","msubsup":{"mi":"\u03c3","msub":{"mi":["r","s"]},"mn":"2"}}}},{"mi":"N","mo":["[","]"],"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mrow":[{"mi":"z","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"k"}},{"msub":{"mi":["\u03bc","z"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"k"}}],"mo":";"},{"msubsup":{"mi":["\u03c3","z"],"mn":"2"},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"k"}}],"mo":","}},{"mo":"\u2146","mi":"z"}],"mo":["\u00d7","\u2062"]}}],"mo":"\u2248"},{"mrow":[{"mo":"\u222b","mrow":{"mrow":[{"mi":"N","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"mrow":{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mrow":[{"msup":{"mi":["F","\u2032"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["z","o"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"k"}}}},{"mi":"z","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"k"}}],"mo":"\u2062"},{"mrow":{"mi":"o","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"k"}},"mo":"-","msub":{"mi":["B","s"]}}],"mo":";"},"mo":",","msubsup":{"mi":"\u03c3","msub":{"mi":["r","s"]},"mn":"2"}}}},{"mi":"N","mo":["[","]"],"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mrow":[{"mi":"z","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"k"}},{"msub":{"mi":["\u03bc","z"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"k"}}],"mo":";"},{"msubsup":{"mi":["\u03c3","z"],"mn":"2"},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"k"}}],"mo":","}},{"mo":"\u2146","mi":"z"}],"mo":["\u00d7","\u2062"]}},{"mo":"\u222b","mrow":{"mi":"N","mo":"[","mrow":{"mrow":[{"mrow":[{"msup":{"mi":["F","\u2032"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"mrow":{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":["z","o"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"k"}},{"mrow":{"mi":"o","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"k"}},"mo":"-","msub":{"mi":["B","s"]}}],"mo":";"},"mo":",","msubsup":{"mi":"\u03c3","msub":{"mi":["r","s"]},"mn":"2"}}}},{"mi":"N","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mi":"z","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"k"}},{"msubsup":{"mi":["\u03c3","z"],"mn":"2"},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"k"}}],"mo":","}}},{"mo":"\u2146","mi":"z"}],"mo":["\u00d7","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.2em","height":"0.2ex"}}}},{"mi":"N","mo":"[","mrow":{"mrow":[{"mrow":{"mi":["o","k"],"mo":["(","\u2062",")"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.em","height":"0.ex"}}}},"mo":["-","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.em","height":"0.ex"}}},"msub":{"mi":["B","s"]}},{"mrow":[{"msup":{"mi":["F","\u2032"]},"mo":["[","\u2062","]"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.em","height":"0.ex"}}},"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":"z","mn":"0"},"mo":["(","\u2062","]"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.em","height":"0.ex"}}},"mrow":{"mo":["\u2003",")"],"mi":"k"}},{"msub":{"mi":["\u03bc","z"]},"mo":["(","\u2062",")"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.em","height":"0.ex"}}},"mi":"k"}],"mo":["\u00d7","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.em","height":"0.ex"}}}},{"msubsup":{"mi":"\u03c3","msub":{"mi":["r","s"]},"mn":"2"},"mo":["+","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.em","height":"0.ex"}}},"mrow":{"msup":{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msup":{"mi":["F","\u2032"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"z","mn":"0"},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"k"}}}}},"mn":"2"},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.em","height":"0.ex"}}},"mrow":{"msubsup":{"mi":["\u03c3","z"],"mn":"2"},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"k"}}}}],"mo":[",","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.em","height":"0.ex"}}}}},{"mrow":[{"mfrac":{"msup":{"mrow":[{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":"\u2062","mi":"\u03c0"}},{"mo":"-","mn":"0.5"}]},"msqrt":{"mrow":{"msubsup":{"mi":"\u03c3","msub":{"mi":["r","s"]},"mn":"2"},"mo":"+","mrow":{"msup":{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msup":{"mi":["F","\u2032"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"z","mn":"0"},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"k"}}}}},"mn":"2"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"msubsup":{"mi":["\u03c3","z"],"mn":"2"},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"k"}}}}}},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":[{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.em","height":"0.ex"}}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.em","height":"0.ex"}}}],"mi":"exp","mrow":{"mo":["{","\u2062","}"],"mrow":{"mo":["-","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.em","height":"0.ex"}}},"mfrac":{"msup":{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mi":"o","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"k"}},{"mrow":[{"msup":{"mi":["F","\u2032"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"z","mn":"0"},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"k"}}}},{"msub":{"mi":["\u03bc","z"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"k"}}],"mo":"\u2062"}],"mo":["-","-"],"msub":{"mi":["B","s"]}}},"mn":"2"},"mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":["[","]"],"mrow":{"msubsup":{"mi":"\u03c3","msub":{"mi":["r","s"]},"mn":"2"},"mo":"+","mrow":{"msup":{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msup":{"mi":["F","\u2032"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"z","mn":"0"},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"k"}}}}},"mn":"2"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"msubsup":{"mi":["\u03c3","z"],"mn":"2"},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"k"}}}}}}},"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.em","height":"0.ex"}}}}},{"mfrac":{"msup":{"mrow":[{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":"\u2062","mi":"\u03c0"}},{"mo":"-","mn":"0.5"}]},"msqrt":{"mrow":{"msubsup":{"mi":"\u03c3","msub":{"mi":["r","s"]},"mn":"2"},"mo":"+","mrow":{"msup":{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msup":{"mi":["F","\u2032"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"z","mn":"0"},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"k"}}}}},"mn":"2"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"msubsup":{"mi":["\u03c3","z"],"mn":"2"},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"k"}}}}}},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":[{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.em","height":"0.ex"}}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.em","height":"0.ex"}}}],"mi":"exp","mrow":{"mo":["{","\u2062","}"],"mrow":{"mo":["-","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.em","height":"0.ex"}}},"mfrac":{"msup":{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mi":"o","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"k"}},{"msub":{"mover":{"mi":["\u03bc","_"]},"msub":{"mi":["o","s"]}},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"k"}}],"mo":"-"}},"mn":"2"},"mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":["[","]"],"mrow":{"msubsup":{"mi":"\u03c3","msub":{"mi":["r","s"]},"mn":"2"},"mo":"+","mrow":{"msup":{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msup":{"mi":["F","\u2032"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"z","mn":"0"},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"k"}}}}},"mn":"2"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"msubsup":{"mi":["\u03c3","z"],"mn":"2"},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"k"}}}}}}},"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.em","height":"0.ex"}}}}}],"mo":["\u2062","="],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.em","height":"0.ex"}}}}],"mo":["=","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mtext":{}}}],"mo":[";","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.em","height":"0.ex"}}}}}],"mo":["=","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":[{"mtext":{}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"1.4em","height":"1.4ex"}}}]}}}],"mo":"="}],"mo":"="}],"mo":"="}},{"mrow":{"mi":"Equation","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},"mn":"21"}}]}}}},"br":[{},{},{}],"in-line-formulae":[{},{}],"o":["\u03bc","\u03bc"],"sub":["0",{"sub2":"s"},"o",{"sub2":"s"},"z","0","z","s","o",{"sub2":"s"},"z","0","z","o",{"sub2":"s"},"z","r",{"sub2":"s"},"o","z","r",{"sub2":"s"},"z","o"],"i":["k","|z","k","k","F\u2032[z","k","k","B"],"sup":["2","2","2 ","2","2 "]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0118","num":"0117"},"figref":["FIG. 14","FIG. 11"],"b":["1400","1400","1440","1442","1405","1444","1410","1420","1430","1400","1100"]},"A speech signal  is sampled by analog-to-digital converter  and converted into digital values. The digital values are provided to a frame constructor , which groups the digital values into overlapping windows. The frames of digital values are provided to LPC Cepstral Generator , which generates a LPC cepstral feature vector for each frame of the speech waveform using any known technique, typically involving identifying peaks in the spectrum of the frame of speech. It should be noted that embodiments of the integrated approach use a distribution of target values for each segment, a distribution of VTR trajectories is calculated using equations 8-10 above. Computations are carried out by the components of  in a manner similar to those carried out by the components of . However, the components of  carry out these computations based on Equations 14-22.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0120","num":"0119"},"figref":["FIG. 15","FIG. 15"],"b":["1500","1510","1520","1530","1540"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0121","num":"0120"},"figref":"FIG. 16","b":["1604","1606","1608","1006"]},"As mentioned above, in the cascaded implementation, the parameters of the cepstral prediction residuals, \u03bcand \u03c3, are trained using the standard Baum-Welch algorithm (HTK tool for monophones) on the prediction residual signals. It can be easily shown that this gives maximum likelihood (ML) parameter estimates for the likelihood function of Equation 11. However, in the integrated implementation, where the likelihood function is in the form of Equation 21, a new training technique is required, which has been developed by the inventors and is described below.","For maximum-likelihood training of residual means, the following is set",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0124","num":"0123"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00013","num":"00013"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mfrac":{"mrow":[{"mrow":[{"mo":"\u2202","mi":"log"},{"munderover":{"mo":"\u220f","mrow":{"mi":"k","mo":"=","mn":"1"},"mi":"K"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mi":"p","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mrow":{"mi":"o","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"k"}},"mo":"\u2758","mi":"s"}}}}],"mo":"\u2062"},{"mo":"\u2202","msub":{"mi":"\u03bc","msub":{"mi":["r","s"]}}}]},"mo":"=","mn":"0"},"mo":","}},{"mrow":{"mi":"Equation","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"1.1em","height":"1.1ex"}}},"mn":"23"}}]}}}},"br":{}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0125","num":"0124"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00014","num":"00014"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mn":"0","mo":"=","mrow":{"mrow":[{"mrow":[{"munderover":{"mo":"\u2211","mrow":{"mi":"k","mo":"=","mn":"1"},"mi":"K"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"mrow":{"mrow":{"mi":"o","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"k"}},"mo":"-","msub":{"mover":{"mi":["\u03bc","_"]},"msub":{"mi":["O","s"]}}}}},{"munderover":{"mo":"\u2211","mrow":{"mi":"k","mo":"=","mn":"1"},"mi":"K"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mi":"o","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"k"}},{"mrow":[{"msup":{"mi":["F","\u2032"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"z","mn":"0"},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"k"}}}},{"msub":{"mi":["\u03bc","z"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"k"}}],"mo":"\u2062"}],"mo":["-","-"],"msub":{"mi":["B","s"]}}}}],"mo":"\u2248"},{"munderover":{"mo":"\u2211","mrow":{"mi":"k","mo":"=","mn":"1"},"mi":"K"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mi":"o","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"k"}},{"mrow":[{"msup":{"mi":["F","\u2032"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"z","mn":"0"},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"k"}}}},{"msub":{"mi":["\u03bc","z"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"k"}}],"mo":"\u2062"}],"mo":["-","-"],"munder":{"mrow":{"mo":["{","}"],"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mi":"F","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"z","mn":"0"},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"k"}}}},{"mrow":[{"msup":{"mi":["F","\u2032"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"z","mn":"0"},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"k"}}}},{"msub":{"mi":"z","mn":"0"},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"k"}}],"mo":"\u2062"}],"mo":["+","-"],"msub":{"mi":"\u03bc","msub":{"mi":["r","s"]}}}},"munder":{"mi":"\ufe38","msub":{"mi":["B","s"]}}}}}}],"mo":"="}}},{"mrow":{"mi":"Equation","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"1.1em","height":"1.1ex"}}},"mn":"24"}}]}}}},"br":{}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0126","num":"0125"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00015","num":"00015"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"msub":{"mover":{"mi":"\u03bc","mo":"^"},"msub":{"mi":["r","s"]}},"mo":"=","mfrac":{"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":{"mrow":{"munderover":{"mo":"\u2211","mrow":{"mi":"k","mo":"=","mn":"1"},"mi":"K"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mo":"[","mrow":{"mrow":[{"mi":"o","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"k"}},{"mi":"F","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"z","mn":"0"},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"k"}}}}],"mo":["-","-"]}}}}},{"mtd":{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mrow":[{"msup":{"mi":["F","\u2032"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"z","mn":"0"},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"k"}}}},{"msub":{"mi":["\u03bc","z"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"k"}}],"mo":"\u2062"},{"mrow":[{"msup":{"mi":["F","\u2032"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"z","mn":"0"},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"k"}}}},{"msub":{"mi":"z","mn":"0"},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"k"}}],"mo":"\u2062"}],"mo":"+"},"mo":"]"}}}]},"mi":"K"}}},{"mrow":{"mi":"Equation","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"1.1em","height":"1.1ex"}}},"mn":"25"}}]}}}},"br":{},"sub":["0","z"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0127","num":"0126"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00016","num":"00016"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"msub":{"mover":{"mi":"\u03bc","mo":"^"},"msub":{"mi":["r","s"]}},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mfrac":{"mrow":{"munderover":{"mo":"\u2211","mrow":{"mi":"k","mo":"=","mn":"1"},"mi":"K"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mi":"o","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"k"}},{"mi":"F","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"z","mn":"0"},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"k"}}}}],"mo":"-"}}},"mi":"K"},"mo":"."}}},{"mrow":{"mi":"Equation","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"1.1em","height":"1.1ex"}}},"mn":"26"}}]}}}},"br":{}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0128","num":"0127"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00017","num":"00017"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"1.1em","height":"1.1ex"}}},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mrow":[{"mfrac":{"mrow":[{"mrow":[{"mo":"\u2202","mi":"log"},{"munderover":{"mo":"\u220f","mrow":{"mi":"k","mo":"=","mn":"1"},"mi":"K"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mi":"p","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mrow":{"mi":"o","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"k"}},"mo":"\u2758","mi":"s"}}}}],"mo":"\u2062"},{"mo":"\u2202","msubsup":{"mi":"\u03c3","msub":{"mi":["r","s"]},"mn":"2"}}]},"mo":"=","mn":"0"},{"mi":["This","gives"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}}}],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":[{"mtext":{}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"1.1em","height":"1.1ex"}}}]}}},{"mrow":{"mi":"Equation","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"1.1em","height":"1.1ex"}}},"mn":"27"}}]},{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"munder":{"mo":"\u2211","mi":"k"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"mfrac":{"mrow":[{"mo":"-","mn":"1"},{"mo":["[","]"],"mrow":{"msup":{"mrow":{"msubsup":{"mi":"\u03c3","msub":{"mi":["r","s"]},"mn":"2"},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msup":{"mi":["F","\u2032"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"msup":{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"z","mn":"0"},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"k"}},"mn":"2"}}}}},"mn":"2"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"msubsup":{"mi":["\u03c3","z"],"mn":"2"},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"k"}}}}]}}},{"munder":{"mo":"\u2211","mi":"k"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"mfrac":{"msup":[{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mrow":{"mi":"o","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"k"}},"mo":"-","msub":{"mover":{"mi":["\u03bc","_"]},"msub":{"mi":["o","s"]}}}},"mn":"2"},{"mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"mrow":{"msubsup":{"mi":"\u03c3","msub":{"mi":["r","s"]},"mn":"2"},"mo":"+","mrow":{"msup":{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msup":{"mi":["F","\u2032"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"msup":{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"z","mn":"0"},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"k"}},"mn":"2"}}}},"mn":"2"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"msubsup":{"mi":["\u03c3","z"],"mn":"2"},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"k"}}}}},"mn":"2"}]}}}],"mo":"+"},"mo":"=","mn":"0"},"mo":[",","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":[{"mtext":{}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"1.1em","height":"1.1ex"}}}],"mi":"or"}},{"mrow":{"mi":"Equation","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"1.1em","height":"1.1ex"}}},"mn":"28"}}]},{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"1.1em","height":"1.1ex"}}},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mrow":{"mrow":{"munder":{"mo":"\u2211","mi":"k"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"mfrac":{"mrow":{"msubsup":{"mi":"\u03c3","msub":{"mi":["r","s"]},"mn":"2"},"mo":["+","-"],"mrow":{"msup":{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msup":{"mi":["F","\u2032"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"z","mn":"0"},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"k"}}}}},"mn":"2"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"msubsup":{"mi":["\u03c3","z"],"mn":"2"},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"k"}}},"msup":{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mrow":{"mi":"o","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"k"}},"mo":"-","msub":{"mover":{"mi":["\u03bc","_"]},"msub":{"mi":["o","s"]}}}},"mn":"2"}},"msup":{"mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"mrow":{"msubsup":{"mi":"\u03c3","msub":{"mi":["r","s"]},"mn":"2"},"mo":"+","mrow":{"msup":{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msup":{"mi":["F","\u2032"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"msup":{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"z","mn":"0"},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"k"}},"mn":"2"}}}},"mn":"2"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"msubsup":{"mi":["\u03c3","z"],"mn":"2"},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"k"}}}}},"mn":"2"}}}},"mo":"=","mn":"0"},"mo":","}}},{"mrow":{"mi":"Equation","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"1.1em","height":"1.1ex"}}},"mn":"29"}}]}]}}},"br":{},"sub":["0","z"],"sup":["2","2"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0129","num":"0128"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00018","num":"00018"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"msubsup":{"mover":{"mi":"\u03c3","mo":"^"},"msub":{"mi":["r","s"]},"mn":"2"},"mo":"\u2248","mfrac":{"mrow":{"munder":{"mo":"\u2211","mi":"k"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mo":["{","}"],"mrow":{"msup":{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mrow":{"mi":"o","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"k"}},"mo":"-","msub":{"mover":{"mi":["\u03bc","_"]},"msub":{"mi":["o","s"]}}}},"mn":"2"},"mo":"-","mrow":{"msup":{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msup":{"mi":["F","\u2032"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["\u03bc","z"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"k"}}}}},"mn":"2"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"msubsup":{"mi":["\u03c3","z"],"mn":"2"},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"k"}}}}}},"mi":"K"}}},{"mrow":{"mi":"Equation","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"1.1em","height":"1.1ex"}}},"mn":"30"}}]}}}},"br":{}},"The following is an example of phonetic recognition results which can be used to evaluate the bi-directional, target-filtering HTM for both the cascaded and integrated approaches. This example is based on the widely used TIMIT database, and no language model is used in this example. The acoustic models are based on HTMs using the standard TIMIT label set, with slight expansion for diphthongs and affricates, in training the residual means and variances.","Phonetic recognition errors are tabulated using the 39 labels adopted by many researchers to report recognition results. The results are reported on the standard core test set with a total of 192 utterances by 24 speakers. An N-best rescoring paradigm is used to evaluate the HTM. For each of the core test utterances, A standard triphone Hidden Markov Model with a decision tree is used to generate a very large N-best list (list of plausible hypotheses) where N=1000. The average number (over the 192 utterances) of distinct phone sequences in this N=1000 list is 788, the remaining being due to variations in the phone segmentation in the same phone sequence. With the use of a flat phone language model and of the LPC cepstra as features (the same conditions as the HTM), the phone recognition accuracy for the HTK-implemented standard triphone Hidden Markov Model in N-best list rescoring, with (N=1001) and without (N=1000) adding reference hypotheses, is 64.04%. The sentence recognition accuracy is 0.0% for Hidden Markov Model, even with references included. That is, the Hidden Markov Model system does not score the reference phone sequence higher than the N-best candidates for any of the 192 test sentences. The HTM systems dramatically increase both phone and sentence recognition accuracies, as shown in Table 1 further below. The HTM performances for two types of cascaded (Cascaded Stage I and Cascaded Stage II) and integrated (Integrated Stage I and Integrated Stage II) implementations are evaluated. First, the HTM with Cascaded Stage I implementation uses Equation 11 for likelihood scoring, with the residual parameters ({circumflex over (\u03bc)}, {circumflex over (\u03c3)}) trained by HTK based on the residual features computed as the difference between cepstral data and cepstral prediction. Second, a Cascaded Stage II implementation uses Equation 11 for scoring also, but with the parameters {circumflex over (\u03bc)}and {circumflex over (\u03c3)}trained using Equations 26 and 30. A noticeable performance improvement is obtained after the new training. Third, an Integrated Stage I implementation uses Equation 21 for scoring, with the parameters {circumflex over (\u03bc)}and {circumflex over (\u03c3)}trained by HTK in the same way as for the Cascaded Stage I implementation. Rather poor performance is observed. Finally, an Integrated Stage II implementation uses Equation 16 for scoring, with the parameters {circumflex over (\u03bc)}and {circumflex over (\u03c3)}trained using Equations 26 and 30. The best performance, both in sentence and phone recognition accuracies, is achieved the Integrated Stage II implementation. The improvement is the greatest when references are added into the N-best list. Table 1 below includes a comparison of test results for the above-described four types of HTM implementations and for a triphone Hidden Markov Model (HMM) baseline (with context dependent parameters).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0132","num":"0131"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00001","num":"00001"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"4"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"49pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"56pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"56pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"56pt","align":"center"}}],"thead":{"row":{"entry":"TABLE 1"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":[{},"101-Best","1001-Best","1000-Best"]},{"entry":["Types of the","(with ref.)","(with ref.)","(no ref.)"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"7"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"49pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"28pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"28pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"28pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"28pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"6","colwidth":"28pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"7","colwidth":"28pt","align":"center"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["HTM","sent","phn","sent","phn","sent","phn"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"7","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"7"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"49pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"28pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"28pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"28pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"28pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"6","colwidth":"28pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"7","colwidth":"28pt","align":"char","char":"."}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Cascaded","26.6","78.8","16.2","76.4","0.0","71.8"]},{"entry":"Stage I"},{"entry":["Cascaded Stage","52.6","86.8","33.1","81.0","0.0","71.7"]},{"entry":"II"},{"entry":["Integrated","22.4","79.0","16.2","76.6","0.0","72.4"]},{"entry":"Stage I"},{"entry":["Integrated","83.3","95.6","78.1","94.3","0.5","73.0"]},{"entry":"Stage II"},{"entry":["CD-HMM","0.0","64.0","0.0","64.0","0.0","64.0"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"7","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}},"In the above experiments, performance is measured by percent sentence (sent) and phone (phn) recognition accuracies (%) in the core test set defined in the TIMIT database.","Although the present invention has been described with reference to particular embodiments, workers skilled in the art will recognize that changes may be made in form and detail without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention."],"heading":["CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATION","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF ILLUSTRATIVE EMBODIMENTS"],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 4"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":["FIG. 9","FIG. 8"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 11"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 12"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 13"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 14"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 15"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 16"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
