---
title: System and method for automatically synchronizing security-relevant information between a relational database and a multidimensional database
abstract: A security management system and method for managing access security in an IT-environment comprises a relational database of the ROLAP type and a data warehouse of the MOLAP type. The system shares a subset of common data, wherein database access security for accessing particular database tables is managed by user-related access limitations in a table form. The present system transforms the access-limiting conditions existing at the ROLAP system automatically to a respective filter criterion for the MOLAP system. The access-limiting conditions exiting at the ROLAP system are defined in a table form. The present system and method automatically activates filter criterion whenever an access to the MOLAP system is requested by a user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07617211&OS=07617211&RS=07617211
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 07617211
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20050512
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["PRIORITY CLAIM","FIELD OF THE INVENTION","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS"],"p":["The present application claims the priority of European patent application, Serial No. 04103713.6, titled \u201cSecurity Transfer Tool Between DB2 and DB2 OLAP,\u201d which was filed on Aug. 2, 2004, and which is incorporated herein by reference.","The present invention relates to the field of security management in \u201cbusiness intelligence\u201d systems, and in particular to managing access security in an information technology (IT) environment having both a ROLAP and a MOLAP type systems.","A multidimensional database (MDB) is a type of database that is optimized for data warehouse and online analytical processing (OLAP) applications. Multidimensional databases are frequently created using input from existing relational databases. Whereas a relational database is typically accessed using a Structured Query Language (SQL) query, a multidimensional database allows a user to ask questions, such as \u201cHow many Aptivas have been sold in Nebraska so far this year?\u201d and similar questions related to summarizing business operations and trends. An OLAP application that accesses data from a multidimensional database is known as a MOLAP (multidimensional OLAP) application.","A multidimensional database management system (MDDBMS), that is also referred to herein as a multidimensional database, implies the ability to rapidly process the data in the database so that answers can be generated quickly. A number of vendors provide products that use multidimensional databases. Data storage and user interface methods vary from vendor to vendor.","Conceptually, a multidimensional database uses an idea of a \u201cdata cube\u201d (further referred to herein as a \u201ccube\u201d) to represent dimensions of data available to a user. For example, \u201csales\u201d could be viewed in the dimensions of product model, geography, time, or some additional dimension. In this example, \u201csales\u201d implies a measure attribute of the data cube. Other dimensions are seen as feature attributes, which allow setup of focus criteria of the measure attribute. Additionally, a database creator can define hierarchies and levels within a dimension, for example, state and city levels within a regional hierarchy.","As used herein, a data cube comprises an n-dimensional matrix of measure attribute values stored as multidimensional database in a multidimensional database management system.","A conventional MDDBMS is illustrated in . With reference to , an end user PC  (networked user computer ) is connected to a relational ROLAP type database system, i.e., a relational database (ROLAP)  and to a multidimensional database system, implementing a data warehouse (MOLAP) . Both relational database  and data warehouse  store data about the same business, but the systems work differently, as will be described below.","Data processing may take place within the database system, a mid-tier server, or the client. In a two-tiered architecture, the user submits a Structure Query Language (SQL) query to the database and receives back the requested data. In a three-tiered architecture, the user submits a request for multidimensional analysis and the ROLAP engine converts the request to SQL for submission to the database.","The operation is performed in reverse: the engine converts the resulting data from SQL to a multidimensional format before it is returned to the client for viewing. As is typical of relational databases, some queries are created and stored in advance. If the desired information is available, then that query will be used, which saves time. Otherwise, the query is created on the fly from the user request.","Since ROLAP uses a relational database, it requires more processing time and\/or disk space to perform some of the tasks for which multidimensional databases are designed. However, ROLAP supports larger user groups and greater amounts of data and is often used when these capacities are crucial, such as in a large and complex department of an enterprise.","In the technical field of business intelligence, relational databases such as relational database  are often used for selective management of information. Businesses typically operate along multiple lines (customers, products, sales representatives, time etc.). Out of this context, applied mathematics shape a multidimensional array of figures describing the business to be measured in terms of a respective business model.","A conventional relational database  provides only two dimensions within a single table or a plurality of tables, which is insufficient for the mathematics associated to the business model. The conventional solution to this problem is to introduce a structure of tables called a \u201cstar model\u201d. The star model comprises a centre table that in turn comprises the business. Around the center table, additional related tables are arranged to provide a reference for the dimensions of the array (i.e., customer table, product map etc.).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIGS. 2A","FIG. 2B"],"b":["2","20","22","23","24","22","56","24","23","1","25","2","26","3","27"]},"Although this technology has proven to be useful, it would be desirable to present additional improvements. The data volumes to be analyzed in such a business model are quite huge. Consequently, the on-the-fly calculation from rollup (totals) for larger organization units has not yet been possible due to a lack of available computing power. The common workaround usually stores the result of a rollup in aggregation tables, but the total amount of these aggregation tables grows to the same extent as the demand on new rollups (so-called frozen calculations).","This limitation of the conventional MDDBMS system was a motivation for the development of another conventional database technology, referred to as online analytic processing (OLAP) systems. The OLAP systems pre-calculate a multi-dimensional array in a night batch and store the results in a proprietary way, wherein all predefined aggregations on different levels and even formulas across different aggregation levels are performed. This processing is impossible with a relational system-based OLAP (ROLAP) type system.","Although OLAP and ROLAP technology have proven to be useful, it would be desirable to present additional improvements. A multidimensional system-based OLAP, herein referred to as MOLAP, has its limitations because it cannot store single records or textual information as, for example, descriptive texts, etc.","A multidimensional database  () according to the MOLAP type stores n-dimensional matrices, i.e., one value for each combination of members of each dimension. With a suitably defined data cube, it is not possible to differentiate whether a data cube represents the total value of one record or that of many records. Designing the cube in a way that each cell represents a single record would enlarge the structure to an impractical size, i.e., dimensions with millions of members, wherein an unsatisfying large proportion of cells would not contain a value.","Although both the ROLAP system  and the MOLAP system  handle business intelligence data, the security handling is different. The internal security concept of relational databases, which is based on SQL-Data Definition Language (DDL), is only able to limit access to tables, but not to parts thereof, for example to particular ranges of rows within the table. In a ROLAP system, access rights are implemented by definition of user groups. ROLAP works satisfactorily only with access to all tables in one business model. In MOLAP type systems, the security management is analogous and treated completely independent from the ROLAP side management. Additionally, often a plurality of MOLAP databases exist in a given business environment, resulting in a respective multiple administration effort.","In the conventional MDDBMS of , there exists no method for providing a consistent handling of security in ROLAP and system  and MOLAP system . From a security management point of view, however, it is strongly desired to ensure that one and the same user of various business intelligence systems (of the ROLAP and the MOLAP type) does not obtain different levels of information out of different systems. This includes the meanings of the respective content.","In other approaches, the missing integration of security between ROLAP and MOLAP leads to significantly difficult administration. In large companies with specialized user communities that all have access to the underlying relational database (ROLAP), the direct link between authorization and database in a multidimensional database management system leads to an unmanageable situation, apart from the manpower involved.","Conventional \u201cautomated security operator systems\u201d that are also referred to herein as ASO systems, exist for mainframe-based systems, i.e., host systems and relational databases. These ASO systems are able to support processes to add and remove users on host-based database systems or add and remove rows in tables, a process, which may manage access limits for the access to the data stored in the database.","ASO systems require the involvement of non-technical staff (usually managers) for automatically managing huge amounts of systems including a respective dedicated data access. However, ASO systems cannot manage the administration of multidimensional databases. Further, ASO systems are not designed to keep a consistent security approach in various systems.","Therefore, conventional systems provide for security in a way that involves management interaction and manual work  on the MOLAP side, and inconsistencies between ROLAP and MOLAP security. Often, conventional MOLAP security management must simplify the handling of security to a decision of \u201cfree access or no access\u201d to keep the MOLAP system manageable. What is therefore needed is a system, a computer program product, and an associated method for a security transfer tool between a ROLAP type database and a MOLAP type database sharing a subset of common data. The need for such a solution has heretofore remained unsatisfied.","The present invention satisfies this need, and presents a system, a computer program product, and an associated method (collectively referred to herein as \u201cthe system\u201d or \u201cthe present system\u201d) for automated synchronisation of security-relevant information about users between a relational database-based online analytic processing (ROLAP) system and a multidimensional database-based data processing system (MOLAP) (referred to herein as a data warehouse).","The security relevant information is required, for example, in relation to conventional operations such as create, grant, revoke, or delete. The limiting conditions that exist at the ROLAP system are defined in a table form and are transformed automatically to a respective filter criterion. The created filters are assigned to predetermined user groups. After a user is successfully identified as a valid MOLAP and ROLAP user, the user is assigned to one of the user groups. The user then receives access according to the specific user group. The user group has access rights to the MOLAP system that coincide consistently with the access rights to the requested data in ROLAP.","The present system uses views comprising the requested data, wherein the views combine one or multiple dimension tables with a table (further referred to herein as a security table) containing the access limitations for these dimensions.","For example, if a user is allowed to see only German data in a worldwide data warehouse, then the value \u201cGermany\u201d will be stored for the user in this security table and will be joined directly or via a geography dimension table. Consequently, the present system offers direct authorization to a user for access to only specific cells in the multidimensional array. These authorized cells fulfill a certain member combination, for example, any combination where the geography member is \u201cGermany\u201d. In this example, the authorized access is for read or for write","Thus, according to one aspect of the present invention, a method for managing access security in an IT-environment is disclosed, that comprises a ROLAP type database system and a MOLAP type database system sharing a subset of common data. Furthermore, user access to the common data is defined by way of pre-defined data groups defining predetermined access security properties with respective access qualifications in a respective security table.","Access qualifications may be, for example a relation to a particular Country managed with a \u201cCountry\u201d attribute and indicating a respective membership of the user thereto. Access qualifications may also be specified with a \u201cBranch office\u201d attribute for defining an access attribute such as \u201creading allowed\u201d, or \u201cwriting allowed\u201d, or \u201ccalculating allowed\u201d, or negations and combinations thereof, selective within a particular country, or other data representing respective business sections.","In a preferred embodiment, the system of the present invention manages user group related access limitations of the ROLAP type database system for cubes stored within the MOLAP type data base system, wherein the access limitations comprise a join of one or more of the data groups with a user group attribute, preferable in a security table as a part of the ROLAP type database system. The system further assigns a user to a particular one of the user groups, and grants access to a user requesting access to the MOLAP type system according to the access qualification associated with the user-group, to which the access-requesting user is assigned.","The term \u201cjoin\u201d is intended to include, for example, any conjunction between the joined items, which conjunction is satisfied when the semantic meaning thereof is that both items are \u201ctrue\u201d for a given requesting user.","In this basic form of the present system, all cubes have the same access conditions and the MOLAP access is strictly organized according to the rules as defined within the ROLAP type system. Consequently, on a simple level, access consistency is achieved between ROLAP and MOLAP systems.","Data groups defining access security properties may be managed other than in form of a relational table. Data groups defining access security properties may be stored for example in a text file in form of a table-like array having a respective number of columns and rows, or in single data objects implementing such data groups in a respective separate way, etc.","Further, the access limitations comprise a join of one or more of the data groups with a user group attribute. For a particular cube managed within the MOLAP type database system, respective user group attributes specify respective access limitations for the cube and the user group, and a respective maximum allows user access definition. The present system creates a filter for accessing a particular cube within the data warehouse by performing the extended join operation, then, additionally, defines for each cube a particular access type that provides for some selective distinction between the user groups defined above.","The present invention may be implemented by a method that joins tables in the relational database system. In this case, the present method comprises the steps of operating a table within the relational database and creating a filter for accessing a particular cube within the data warehouse by joining the tables. The table comprises a cube managed within the data warehouse. Further, respective user group attributes specify respective access limitations for the cube and the user group and a respective maximum allows user access definition.","The present method further comprises operating a table within the relational database. The table comprises, for example, an OLAP cube description table within the relational database. The relational database comprises cubes managed within the data warehouse. The method further operates respective business sections, for example \u201cfinance\u201d, \u201cparts\u201d, \u201cheadcount\u201d, etc. for specifying a relationship between a user and his \u201chome business section\u201d. Furthermore, the present method performs pre-filtering, which saves computational resources.","The following definitions and explanations provide background information pertaining to the technical field of the present invention, and are intended to facilitate the understanding of the present invention without limiting its scope:","Computer or Software Program: An application that includes any expression, in any language, code or notation, of a set of instructions intended to cause a system having an information processing capability to perform a particular function, such as: conversion to another language, code or notation; or reproduction in a different material form.","Fact Table: A type of table in a dimensional model. A fact table typically comprises two types of columns: fact columns and foreign keys to the dimensions.","Hierarchy: A hierarchy defines a navigating path for drilling up and drilling down. All attributes in a hierarchy belong to the same dimension.","Metadata: Data about data. For example, the number of tables in a database is a type of metadata.","Metric: A measured value. For example, total sales is a metric.","OLAP: On-Line Analytical Processing. OLAP is computer processing that enables a user to easily and selectively extract and view data from different points of view. To facilitate data analysis, OLAP data is stored in a multidimensional database. A multidimensional database considers each data attribute (such as product, geographic sales region, and time period) as a separate \u201cdimension.\u201d OLAP software locates the intersection of dimensions (i.e., all products sold in the Eastern region above a certain price during a certain time period) and displays them. Attributes such as time periods can be broken down into subattributes. OLAP can be used for data mining or the discovery of previously undiscerned relationships between data items.","MOLAP: Multidimensional OLAP. MOLAP systems store data in multidimensional cubes. MOLAP is online analytical processing (OLAP) that indexes directly into a multidimensional database. In general, an OLAP application treats data multidimensionally; the user is able to view different aspects or facets of data aggregates such as sales by time, geography, and product model. The data can be viewed multidimensionally stored in a relational database, but only by successively accessing and processing a table for each dimension or aspect of a data aggregate. MOLAP processes data that is already stored in a multidimensional array in which all possible combinations of data are reflected, each in a cell that can be accessed directly. For this reason, MOLAP is typically faster and more user-responsive than relational online analytical processing (ROLAP), the main alternative to MOLAP. A hybrid OLAP (HOLAP) combines some features from both ROLAP and MOLAP. MOLAP is often used as part of a data warehouse application.","ROLAP: Relational OLAP. ROLAP systems store data in a relational database. Relational online analytical processing (ROLAP) is a form of online analytical processing (OLAP) that performs dynamic multidimensional analysis of data stored in a relational database rather than in a multidimensional database (which is usually considered the OLAP standard).","Snowflake Schema: A common form of dimensional model. In a snowflake schema, different hierarchies in a dimension can be extended into their own dimensional tables. Therefore, a dimension can have more than a single dimension table.","Star Schema: A common form of dimensional model, or schema, in which each dimension is represented by a single dimension table.","Data Mart: A minimized version of a data warehouse with a more limited audience and\/or data content than a data warehouse.  portrays an exemplary overall environment in which a system, a computer program product, and an associated method (referred to collectively as \u201cthe system \u201d) for implementing a security transfer tool between a ROLAP type database and a MOLAP type database sharing a subset of common data according to the present invention may be used. A desktop PC  is shown connected in an enterprise network, wherein a relational database  (further referred to herein as a ROLAP system ) implementing an exemplary ROLAP system and a data warehouse  (further referred to herein as a MOLAP system ) implementing an exemplary MOLAP system are available for user access. According to a general feature of system , the security limitations defined for limiting the access of a particular user or user group as a filtered view to the contents of the ROLAP system  are determined and depicted symbolically as a DB-filtered view (also referred to herein as an access filter ). Access filter  is then converted in a block of steps represented by filter conversion  to a data warehouse (DW) filter , which acts on the data warehouse . System  operates automatically without human intervention.","A program implementing an access synchronization method of system  resides at an access server . Access server  is dedicated to managing access by a user to the data warehouse . Access server  reads a configuration file containing all necessary information for controlling the access to the relational database  and to the data warehouse  such as, for example, path definitions, user passwords, server names, etc.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0057","num":"0056"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":["20","20","305","306","307","308","308"]},"The \u201cuser verification\u201d sequence  and \u201cfilter generation\u201d sequence  may operate in parallel. The \u201cuser-to-group\u201d assignment sequence  is allowed to start only if the \u201cuser verification\u201d sequence  and \u201cfilter generation\u201d sequence  have successfully completed.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0059","num":"0058"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 5"],"b":["20","12","14","505","510","515","505","510","515"]},"Security table  adds a \u201cprofile\u201d column  to a conventional ROLAP system implementation, ROLAP system . The \u201cprofile\u201d column  stores user group related access limitations. In the example of , group attributes for three distinct and different access limitations or modalities are shown: \u201cuser\u201d , \u201ctarget setter\u201d , and \u201csandbox player\u201d . The security table  further comprises conventional columns specifying User IDs and an association to a set of security properties  associated with a particular business section.","The security table  establishes a set of qualifying attributes for a user and for a given data group, for example, as follows:","the home country relation,","the branch office where a user works,","the data group in question (e.g. parts, finance, headcount, etc.), and","the access profile (i.e., security profile).","For example, the user  may have read access only. The target setter  may have read access and write access for a predetermined number of fields. The target setter  is enabled to set business \u201ctargets\u201d. The \u201csandbox player\u201d  may have basically unlimited access rights including rights for calculation with values stored in the relational database  that enable the \u201csandbox player\u201d  to, for example, perform forecast scenarios.","System  establishes the OLAP cube description table . The OLAP cube description table  addresses the cubes existing in the MOLAP system  and enables them to be used for a relation with the security table  of the user in order to \u201cexport\u201d automatically the ROLAP security to the MOLAP system .","For each cube, a declaration has been made regarding which minimum security clearance a user needs for having a read access to the cube. Thus, in this example, the OLAP cube description table  enumerates all cubes with their individual minimum-security requirements by assigning the data group field  and the Branch office field thereto. A \u201c*\u201d symbol  indicates general access (e.g., Country Germany). The \u201c*\u201d symbol  in the branch office column indicates a general access to all branch offices in a given country. The \u201c*\u201d symbol  is analogous to the use of a wildcard and is used for exemplary purposes; any symbol may be used to accomplish the purpose of the \u201c*\u201d symbol .","System  establishes the OLAP cube profile description table . For each MOLAP cube, the access profile is defined by defining for each profile  the access limitations  to the cube . For example, the security profile \u201cuser\u201d  is provided only with read access to the actual business scenario (i.e., the actual business data) and to the planned scenario.","A target setter , however, differs in that the target setter  is enabled to \u201cwrite\u201d in the planned scenario. A sandbox player  is equipped with read, write and calculate access rights for the sandbox scenario to allow him perform some \u201cwhat-if\u201d simulations with the business data.","Thus, the security table , the OLAP cube description table , and the OLAP cube profile description table  may be joined such that the relevant MOLAP security setting is automatically produced.","With further reference to , the head of a loop is entered at step , looping once for each cube (or database). Cubes or multidimensional databases are usually used in a data mart area of a business intelligence environment. Cubes usually have an individual handling of access security due to their individual contents. The management for each database is the same. However, each database is handled separately by system  because each database has individual security settings. Since security models within the cubes are independent, the process for each cube may run in parallel.","Substep  comprises obtaining qualified users. This may be achieved with a select statement (in pseudo code) such as: \u201cSelect distinct UserID from Security (Table), <Olap Cube Description Table> Where <Security clearance is as described for the Olap Cube>.","Qualified users have user IDs that comply at least with the minimum-security requirements of the database. For instance as defined by security table , user  is not qualified for the Cube \u201crevenue\u201d  because, for the cube \u201crevenue\u201d , the branch office setting \u201c*\u201d symbol  is the minimum access requirement. The branch office \u201cBERLIN\u201d as indicated for user  is not sufficient.","User , for example, has an appropriate geographical access due to the \u201c*\u201d symbol  in the Branch office column for user . However, user  is not entitled to see finance data, as the Data group column for user  specifies only \u201cHeadcount\u201d, i.e., number of employees.","Step  comprises maintaining a user list for a cube. New users can be created, while old users may be revoked at any point in time in the ROLAP system  as well as in the MOLAP system . A frequently repeated synchronisation in this respect is therefore necessary between those systems. System  achieves this synchronization as follows: The users who exist in the security table having an appropriate clearance remain untouched. Those users who are no longer qualified for a given cube because, for example, they no longer exist, they have limited security qualification settings, or their security qualification settings have been deleted or will be deleted. A new user is provided with a temporary password that is handled and distributed according to predetermined company policies.","The \u201cfilter generation\u201d sequence  creates filters for any security feature defined or definable in the ROLAP security table . To get input for the filter creation (step ), system  joins the security table  with the OLAP cube description table  to obtain the security limits of the \u201cqualified users\u201d. System  adds the filter definition \u201cfilter add\u201d from the profile description  to the security limits of the \u201cqualified users\u201d.","For example, a select statement in pseudo code such as\n\n","For example, assume that a \u201cGermany\u201d membership in the data group  \u201cCountry\u201d is required. To enable user  the actions allowed by the \u201cuser\u201d profile  in the OLAP cube profile description table , the cubes \u201cRevenue\u201d  and \u201cCost\u201d  in the example given in the OLAP cube description table  require a filter for \u201cGermany\u201d and \u201cuser\u201d (i.e., in pseudo code: Geo\/Germany Scenario\/Actual read).","For the same allowances as described above for user , the cube \u201corder\u201d  in the OLAP cube profile description table  requires addition of a filter for Germany\/BERLIN for \u201cuser\u201d  because a profile description for user  is missing for \u201corder\u201d  in security table .","In a step , system  generates the filter via an application programming interface (API) for each unique security setting, i.e., for each unique combination of security feature and access limitation. The filter is generated out of the security table  and the read\/write\/calculate statement from the OLAP cube profile description .","Conventional APIs can be used by system . For example, to create a filter, system  can use the C-function \u201cesscreatefilter( )\u201d.","Similarly, system  creates additional filter groups. System  generates a name for the filter group as an the input of the filter, such as:\n\n","A self-explaining filter group name increases the ease of administration. System  automatically creates the filter-group name without human intervention.","For each of the filters generated above in step , system  generates in step  a respective user group. A group name can be derived from the filter criteria used.","The \u201cuser-to-group assignment\u201d sequence  assigns the users to user groups in step . The user groups are those user groups defined in step  with a (pseudo code) select statement:\n\n","A user may have access to various cubes; the user may also have various profiles on one and the same cube (e.g., user  for Germany, target setter  for BERLIN).","Thus, system  generates a list of all users with all their security settings by joining the security table , the OLAP cube description table , and the OLAP cube profile description table  as cited above. The join is accomplished with two columns, the user id and the generic name out of the security features as mentioned previously.","For example, user  is assigned to the user group \u201corder_germany_berlin_user\u201d and user  is assigned to \u201crevenue_germany_target_setter\u201d.","If a user tries to access a cube, the generated filter guarantees limitations of the data access in the underlying data warehouse  identical to the limitations of the data access defined in the relational database system . In this manner, security in the MOLAP system  is handled automatically and consistently with ROLAP system  security rules, providing both the MOLAP system  and the ROLAP system  are accessible and security of the ROLAP system  is up-to-date.","An example for implementing one embodiment of system  is given, wherein a BMT (Business Management Tool) database is of a ROLAP system  and an exemplary OAMS (Online Analysis and Measurement Tool based on Hyperion Essbase, later referred as DB OLAP data mart) represents the MOLAP system . In this example, system  uses the following information:\n\n","The following tables and views are used for loading the Essbase Data mart security system, and are detailed below:\n\n","System  uses (reads) a configuration file. This configuration file keeps a name of the host BMT database, a host username, a host password, an Essbase server name, an Essbase user name, and an Essbase password. These values are used by system  to connect to the host BMT database and to the Essbase server. The configuration file resides only on the Essbase server computer. The configuration file also keeps a separate symbol that is used in filter name to separate parts of the filter name (as an example, symbol \u2018#\u2019 below).","The configuration file contains Placeholders that are definitions such as:","Placeholder=DB-Column","For example:","!!BUC!!=buc (stands for: Business code unit)","The following is an exemplary procedure performed by system :\n\n",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0098","num":"0116"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00001","num":"00001"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"21pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"196pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"SELECT"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003ACC.BUC_FULL,"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003ACC.PROFILE ,"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003PRO.APPNAME ,"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003PRO.ENTITY ,"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003PRO.RIGHT ,"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003PRO.FILTER ,"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003ACC.!!placeholder_1!!,"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003ACC.!!placeholder_2!!,"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003. . ."]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003ACC.!!placeholder_N!!"]},{"entry":[{},"FROM \u2003\u2003owner.ESS_USER_ACCESS ACC,"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003owner.WBMTESPR PRO"]},{"entry":[{},"WHERE \u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003ACC.PROFILE = PRO.PROFILE"]},{"entry":[{},"ORDER BY"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003PRO.APPNAME ,"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003PRO.ENTITY ,"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003ACC.BUC_FULL,"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003ACC.PROFILE"]},{"entry":[{},";"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}}}},"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0008","list-style":"none"},"li":[{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0008-0001","num":"0000"},"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0009","list-style":"none"},"li":"where phrases such as !!placeholder_N!! are replaced by values of placeholders read from the configuration file."}},"F. System  processes each of the received rows.\n    \n    ","G. System  selects the all Essbase Data mart users with execution the next statement."]}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0099","num":"0125"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00002","num":"00002"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"175pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"SELECT"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003TSOUSER ,"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003BUC_FULL ,"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003APPNAME ,"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003ENTITY ,"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003PROFILE"]},{"entry":[{},"FROM owner.ESS_USER_ACC_FLAGS;"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}}}},"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0012","list-style":"none"},"li":["H. System  processes each received row by the following method.\n    \n    ","I. The list of the users is checked and each user is removed if its field ESS_DESC_T does not contain a current timestamp value.\n\nTables and Views Definitions.\n"]}},"The Datamart application\/entity profiles table:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0101","num":"0132"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00003","num":"00003"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"189pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"CREATE TABLE WBMTESPR"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003("]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"133pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"\u2002\u2003APPNAME","\u2003\u2002VARCHAR(8) \u2003NOT NULL,"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2002\u2003ENTITY","VARCHAR(8) \u2003NOT NULL,"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2002\u2003PROFILE","\u2003CHAR (1) \u2002NOT NULL,"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2002\u2003RIGHT","char (1) \u2003NOT NULL,"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2002\u2003FILTER","VARCHAR(254) NOT NULL"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"189pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"\u2003) IN WBMDESPR.WBMSESPR;"]},{"entry":[{},"---------------------------------------------------"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2009\u2003COMMENT ON TABLE WBMTESPR IS"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2009\u2003\u2018Security profiles for the Essbase Datamart\u2019;"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2009\u2003COMMIT;"]},{"entry":[{},"---------------------------------------------------"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2009\u2003COMMENT ON WBMTESPR"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003("]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"133pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"\u2002\u2003APPNAME","\u2002IS"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"189pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"\u2002\u2003\u2018Name of an application in the Datamart\u2019,"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"133pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"\u2002\u2003ENTITY","IS"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"189pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"\u2002\u2003\u2018Name of a database in the Datamart\u2019,"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"133pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"\u2002\u2003FILTER","IS"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"189pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"\u2002\u2003\u2018Template for filter row\u2019,"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"133pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"\u2002\u2003PROFile","IS"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"189pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"\u2002\u2003\u2018Type of the profile\u2019,"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"133pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"\u2002\u2003RIGHT","is"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"189pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"\u2002\u2003\u2018Type of access privilege: R\/W\/N\u2019"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003);"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}}]}},"br":{}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0102","num":"0133"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00004","num":"00004"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"21pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"196pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"CREATE TABLE WBMTESFL"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003("]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"21pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"63pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"133pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"\u2002\u2003APPNAME","\u2002VARCHAR(8) NOT NULL,"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2002\u2003ENTITY","VARCHAR(8) NOT NULL,"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2002\u2003REPORTFLAG","\u2003CHAR(1) \u2002NOT NULL,"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2002\u2003HEADFLAG","\u2002CHAR(1) \u2002NOT NULL,"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2002\u2003MGNTFLAG","\u2002CHAR(1) \u2002NOT NULL"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"21pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"196pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"\u2003) IN WBMDESFL.WBMSESFL;"]},{"entry":[{},"---------------------------------------------------"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2009\u2003COMMENT ON TABLE WBMTESFL IS"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2009\u2003\u2018Security flags for the Essbase Datamart\u2019;"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2009\u2003COMMIT;"]},{"entry":[{},"---------------------------------------------------"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2002\u2003COMMENT ON WBMTESFL"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003("]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"21pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"63pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"133pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"\u2002\u2003APPNAME","\u2003IS"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"21pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"196pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"\u2002\u2003\u2018Name of an application in the Datamart\u2019,"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"21pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"63pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"133pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"\u2002\u2003ENTITY","IS"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"21pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"196pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"\u2002\u2003\u2018Name of a database in the Datamart\u2019,"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2002\u2003REPORTFLAG \u2003\u2003\u2003is"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2002\u2003\u2018Whether access is required to the Reporting data\u2019,"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"21pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"63pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"133pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"\u2002\u2003HEADFLAG","IS"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"21pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"196pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"\u2002\u2003\u2018Whether access is required to the Headcount data\u2019,"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"21pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"63pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"133pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"\u2002\u2003MGNTFLAG","is"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"21pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"196pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"\u2002\u2003\u2018Whether access is required to the Management data\u2019"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003);"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}}]}},"br":{}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0103","num":"0134"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00005","num":"00005"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"left"}},"thead":{"row":{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":"CREATE VIEW ESS_US_ACC"}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"189pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"(TSOUSER,"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"175pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"BUC_FULL,"]},{"entry":[{},"BUC,"]},{"entry":[{},"PROFILE,"]},{"entry":[{},"REPORTFLAG,"]},{"entry":[{},"HEADFLAG,"]},{"entry":[{},"MGNTFLAG"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"189pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},")"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"left"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":"AS"},{"entry":"SELECT DISTINCT"}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"203pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"TSOUSER,"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"189pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"CASE"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"175pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"WHEN VIEWCLASS = \u201801\u2019 THEN \u20180000000000\u2019"]},{"entry":[{},"WHEN VIEWCLASS = \u201802\u2019 THEN"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"161pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"CASE"]},{"entry":[{},"WHEN BMTBUC1 = \u2018 \u2019 THEN \u20180\u2019"]},{"entry":[{},"ELSE BMTBUC1"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"175pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"END"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"161pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"\u2225 \u2018000000000\u2019"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"189pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"WHEN VIEWCLASS = \u201803\u2019 THEN"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"175pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"CASE"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"161pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"WHEN BMTBUC1 = \u2018\u2019 THEN \u20180\u2019"]},{"entry":[{},"ELSE BMTBUC1"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"175pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"END"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"161pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"\u2225 REGION \u2225 \u201800000000\u2019"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"189pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"WHEN VIEWCLASS = \u201804\u2019 THEN"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"175pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"CASE"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"161pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"WHEN BMTBUC1 = \u2018 \u2019 THEN \u20180\u2019"]},{"entry":[{},"ELSE BMTBUC1"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"175pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"END"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"161pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"\u2225 REGION \u2225 COUNTRY \u2225 \u20180000000\u2019"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"189pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"WHEN VIEWCLASS = \u201805\u2019 THEN"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"175pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"CASE"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"161pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"WHEN BMTBUC1 = \u2018 \u2019 THEN \u20180\u2019"]},{"entry":[{},"ELSE BMTBUC1"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"175pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"END"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"161pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"\u2225 REGION \u2225 COUNTRY \u2225"]},{"entry":[{},"CASE"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"70pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"147pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"WHEN BMTBUC4 = \u2018 \u2019 THEN \u20180\u2019"]},{"entry":[{},"ELSE BMTBUC4"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"175pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"END"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"161pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"\u2225 \u2018000000\u2019"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"189pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"WHEN VIEWCLASS = \u201806\u2019 THEN"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"175pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"CASE"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"161pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"WHEN BMTBUC1 = \u2018 \u2019 THEN \u20180\u2019"]},{"entry":[{},"ELSE BMTBUC1"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"175pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"END"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"161pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"\u2225 REGION \u2225 COUNTRY \u2225"]},{"entry":[{},"CASE"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"70pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"147pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"WHEN BMTBUC4 = \u2018 \u2019 THEN \u20180\u2019"]},{"entry":[{},"ELSE BMTBUC4"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"175pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"END"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"161pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"\u2225 BUSINESSEGMENT \u2225"]},{"entry":[{},"\u201800000\u2019"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"189pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"WHEN VIEWCLASS = \u201807\u2019 THEN"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"175pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"CASE"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"161pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"WHEN BMTBUC1 = \u2018 \u2019 THEN \u20180\u2019"]},{"entry":[{},"ELSE BMTBUC1"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"175pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"END"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"161pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"\u2225 REGION \u2225 COUNTRY \u2225"]},{"entry":[{},"CASE"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"70pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"147pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"WHEN BMTBUC4 = \u2018 \u2019 THEN \u20180\u2019"]},{"entry":[{},"ELSE BMTBUC4"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"161pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"END"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2225 BUSINESSEGMENT \u2225 BRANCHOFFICE \u2225"]},{"entry":[{},"\u20180000\u2019"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"189pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"WHEN VIEWCLASS = \u201808\u2019 THEN"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"175pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"CASE"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"161pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"WHEN BMTBUC1 = \u2018 \u2019 THEN \u20180\u2019"]},{"entry":[{},"ELSE BMTBUC1"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"175pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"END"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"161pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"\u2225 REGION \u2225 COUNTRY \u2225"]},{"entry":[{},"CASE"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"70pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"147pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"WHEN BMTBUC4 = \u2018 \u2019 THEN \u20180\u2019"]},{"entry":[{},"ELSE BMTBUC4"]},{"entry":[{},"ELSE BMTBUC4"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"161pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"END"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2225 BUSINESSEGMENT \u2225 BRANCHOFFICE"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2225 SUBBRANCHOFFICE \u2225"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2018000\u2019"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"189pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"WHEN VIEWCLASS = \u201809\u2019 THEN"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"175pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"CASE"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"161pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"WHEN BMTBUC1 = \u2018 \u2019 THEN \u20180\u2019"]},{"entry":[{},"ELSE BMTBUC1"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"175pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"END"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"161pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"\u2225 REGION \u2225 COUNTRY \u2225"]},{"entry":[{},"CASE"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"70pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"147pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"WHEN BMTBUC4 = \u2018 \u2019 THEN \u20180\u2019"]},{"entry":[{},"ELSE BMTBUC4"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"161pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"END"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2225 BUSINESSEGMENT \u2225 BRANCHOFFICE"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2225 SUBBRANCHOFFICE \u2225 TERRITORY\u2225"]},{"entry":[{},"\u201800\u2019"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"189pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"WHEN VIEWCLASS = \u201810\u2019 THEN"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"175pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"CASE"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"161pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"WHEN BMTBUC1 = \u2018 \u2019 THEN \u20180\u2019"]},{"entry":[{},"ELSE BMTBUC1"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"175pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"END"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"161pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"\u2225 REGION \u2225 COUNTRY \u2225"]},{"entry":[{},"CASE"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"70pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"147pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"WHEN BMTBUC4 = \u2018 \u2019 THEN \u20180\u2019"]},{"entry":[{},"ELSE BMTBUC4"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"161pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"END"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2225 BUSINESSEGMENT \u2225 BRANCHOFFICE"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2225 SUBBRANCHOFFICE \u2225 TERRITORY\u2225"]},{"entry":[{},"CASE"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"70pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"147pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"WHEN BMTBUC9 = \u2018 \u2019 THEN \u20180\u2019"]},{"entry":[{},"ELSE BMTBUC9"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"161pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"END"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2225 \u20180\u2019"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"189pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"ELSE"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"175pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"CASE"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"161pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"WHEN BMTBUC1 = \u2018 \u2019 THEN \u20180\u2019"]},{"entry":[{},"ELSE BMTBUC1"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"175pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"END"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"161pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"\u2225 REGION \u2225 COUNTRY \u2225"]},{"entry":[{},"CASE"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"70pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"147pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"WHEN BMTBUC4 = \u2018 \u2019 THEN \u20180\u2019"]},{"entry":[{},"ELSE BMTBUC4"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"161pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"END"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2225 BUSINESSEGMENT \u2225 BRANCHOFFICE"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2225 SUBBRANCHOFFICE \u2225 TERRITORY\u2225"]},{"entry":[{},"CASE"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"70pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"147pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"WHEN BMTBUC9 =  \u2018 \u2019 THEN \u20180\u2019"]},{"entry":[{},"ELSE BMTBUC9"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"161pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"END \u2225"]},{"entry":[{},"CASE"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"70pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"147pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"WHEN BMTBUC10 = \u2018 \u2019 THEN \u20180\u2019"]},{"entry":[{},"ELSE BMTBUC10"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"161pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"END"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"203pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"END"]},{"entry":[{},"CASE"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"189pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"WHEN VIEWCLASS = \u201801\u2019 THEN \u2018BUC\u2019"]},{"entry":[{},"WHEN VIEWCLASS = \u201802\u2019 THEN"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"175pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"CASE"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"161pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"WHEN BMTBUC1 = \u2018 \u2019 THEN \u20180\u2019"]},{"entry":[{},"ELSE BMTBUC1"]},{"entry":[{},"END"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"189pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"WHEN VIEWCLASS = \u201803\u2019 THEN"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"175pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"CASE"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"161pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"WHEN BMTBUC1 = \u2018 \u2019 THEN \u20180\u2019"]},{"entry":[{},"ELSE BMTBUC1"]},{"entry":[{},"END"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2225 \u2018-\u2019 \u2225 REGION"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"189pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"WHEN VIEWCLASS = \u201804\u2019 THEN"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"175pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"CASE"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"161pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"WHEN BMTBUC1 = \u2018 \u2019 THEN \u20180\u2019"]},{"entry":[{},"ELSE BMTBUC1"]},{"entry":[{},"END"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2225 \u2018-\u2019 \u2225 REGION \u2225 \u2018-\u2019 \u2225 COUNTRY"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"189pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"WHEN VIEWCLASS = \u201805\u2019 THEN"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"175pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"CASE"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"161pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"WHEN BMTBUC1 = \u2018 \u2019 THEN \u20180\u2019"]},{"entry":[{},"ELSE BMTBUC1"]},{"entry":[{},"END"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2225 \u2018-\u2019 \u2225 REGION \u2225 \u2018-\u2019 \u2225 COUNTRY \u2225 \u2018-\u2019 \u2225"]},{"entry":[{},"CASE"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"70pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"147pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"WHEN BMTBUC4 = \u2018 \u2019 THEN \u20180\u2019"]},{"entry":[{},"ELSE BMTBUC4"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"161pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"END"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"189pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"WHEN VIEWCLASS = \u201806\u2019 THEN"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"175pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"CASE"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"161pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"WHEN BMTBUC1 = \u2018 \u2019 THEN \u20180\u2019"]},{"entry":[{},"ELSE BMTBUC1"]},{"entry":[{},"END"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2225 \u2018-\u2019 \u2225 REGION \u2225 \u2018-\u2019 \u2225 COUNTRY \u2225 \u2018-\u2019 \u2225"]},{"entry":[{},"CASE"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"70pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"147pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"WHEN BMTBUC4 = \u2018 \u2019 THEN \u20180\u2019"]},{"entry":[{},"ELSE BMTBUC4"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"161pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"END"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2225 \u2018-\u2019 \u2225 BUSINESSEGMENT"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"189pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"WHEN VIEWCLASS = \u201807\u2019 THEN"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"175pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"CASE"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"161pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"WHEN BMTBUC1 = \u2018 \u2019 THEN \u20180\u2019"]},{"entry":[{},"ELSE BMTBUC1"]},{"entry":[{},"END"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2225 \u2018-\u2019 \u2225 REGION \u2225 \u2018-\u2019 \u2225 COUNTRY \u2225 \u2018-\u2019 \u2225"]},{"entry":[{},"CASE"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"70pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"147pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"WHEN BMTBUC4 = \u2018 \u2019 THEN \u20180\u2019"]},{"entry":[{},"ELSE BMTBUC4"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"161pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"END"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2225 \u2018-\u2019 \u2225 BUSINESSEGMENT \u2225 \u2018-\u2019 \u2225 BRANCHOFFICE"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"189pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"WHEN VIEWCLASS = \u201808\u2019 THEN"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"175pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"CASE"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"161pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"WHEN BMTBUC1 = \u2018 \u2019 THEN \u20180\u2019"]},{"entry":[{},"ELSE BMTBUC1"]},{"entry":[{},"END"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2225 \u2018-\u2019 \u2225 REGION \u2225 \u2018-\u2019 \u2225 COUNTRY \u2225 \u2018-\u2019 \u2225"]},{"entry":[{},"CASE"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"70pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"147pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"WHEN BMTBUC4 = \u2018 \u2019 THEN \u20180\u2019"]},{"entry":[{},"ELSE BMTBUC4"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"161pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"END"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2225 \u2018-\u2019 \u2225 BUSINESSEGMENT \u2225 \u2018-\u2019 \u2225 BRANCHOFFICE"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2225 \u2018-\u2019 \u2225 SUBBRANCHOFFICE"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"189pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"WHEN VIEWCLASS = \u201809\u2019 THEN"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"175pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"CASE"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"161pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"WHEN BMTBUC1 = \u2018 \u2019 THEN \u20180\u2019"]},{"entry":[{},"ELSE BMTBUC1"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"175pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"END"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"161pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"\u2225 \u2018-\u2019 \u2225 REGION \u2225 \u2018-\u2019 \u2225 COUNTRY \u2225 \u2018-\u2019 \u2225"]},{"entry":[{},"CASE"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"70pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"147pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"WHEN BMTBUC4 = \u2018 \u2019 THEN \u20180\u2019"]},{"entry":[{},"ELSE BMTBUC4"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"161pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"END"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2225 \u2018-\u2019 \u2225 BUSINESSEGMENT \u2225 \u2018-\u2019 \u2225 BRANCHOFFICE"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2225 \u2018-\u2019 \u2225 SUBBRANCHOFFICE \u2225 \u2018-\u2019 \u2225 TERRITORY"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"189pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"WHEN VIEWCLASS = \u201810\u2019 THEN"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"175pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"CASE"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"161pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"WHEN BMTBUC1 = \u2018 \u2019 THEN \u20180\u2019"]},{"entry":[{},"ELSE BMTBUC1"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"175pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"END"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"161pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"\u2225 \u2018-\u2019 \u2225 REGION \u2225 \u2018-\u2019 \u2225 COUNTRY \u2225 \u2018-\u2019 \u2225"]},{"entry":[{},"CASE"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"70pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"147pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"WHEN BMTBUC4 = \u2018 \u2019 THEN \u20180\u2019"]},{"entry":[{},"ELSE BMTBUC4"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"161pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"END"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2225 \u2018-\u2019 \u2225 BUSINESSEGMENT \u2225 \u2018-\u2019 \u2225 BRANCHOFFICE"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2225 \u2018-\u2019 \u2225 SUBBRANCHOFFICE \u2225 \u2018-\u2019 \u2225 TERRITORY"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"196pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"21pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"\u2225 \u2018-\u2019 \u2225"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"161pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"CASE"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"70pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"147pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"WHEN BMTBUC9 = \u2018 \u2019 THEN \u20180\u2019"]},{"entry":[{},"ELSE BMTBUC9"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"161pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"END"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"189pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"ELSE"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"175pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"CASE"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"161pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"WHEN BMTBUC1 = \u2018 \u2019 THEN \u20180\u2019"]},{"entry":[{},"ELSE BMTBUC1"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"175pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"END"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"161pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"\u2225 \u2018-\u2019 \u2225 REGION \u2225 \u2018-\u2019 \u2225 COUNTRY \u2225 \u2018-\u2019 \u2225"]},{"entry":[{},"CASE"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"70pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"147pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"WHEN BMTBUC4 = \u2018 \u2019 THEN \u20180\u2019"]},{"entry":[{},"ELSE BMTBUC4"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"161pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"END"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2225 \u2018-\u2019 \u2225 BUSINESSEGMENT \u2225 \u2018-\u2019 \u2225 BRANCHOFFICE"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2225 \u2018-\u2019 \u2225 SUBBRANCHOFFICE \u2225 \u2018-\u2019 \u2225 TERRITORY"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2225 \u2018-\u2019 \u2225"]},{"entry":[{},"CASE"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"70pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"147pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"WHEN BMTBUC9 = \u2018 \u2019 THEN \u20180\u2019"]},{"entry":[{},"ELSE BMTBUC9"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"161pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"END"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2225 \u2018-\u2019 \u2225"]},{"entry":[{},"CASE"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"70pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"147pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"WHEN BMTBUC10 = \u2018 \u2019 THEN \u20180\u2019"]},{"entry":[{},"ELSE BMTBUC10"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"161pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"END"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"189pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"END,"]},{"entry":[{},"BMTDG1,"]},{"entry":[{},"REPORTINGCALL,"]},{"entry":[{},"HEADCOUNT,"]},{"entry":[{},"MGNTFLAG"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"203pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"FROM VGIWADM.WUACBMV"]},{"entry":[{},"WHERE BMTDG1 IN (\u2018Y\u2019, \u2018T\u2019);"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}}]}},"br":{}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0104","num":"0135"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00006","num":"00006"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"203pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"CREATE VIEW ESS_USER_ACCESS"]},{"entry":[{},"("]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"189pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"TSOUSER\u2003\u2003,"]},{"entry":[{},"BUC_FULL\u2003\u2003,"]},{"entry":[{},"PROFILE\u2003\u2003,"]},{"entry":[{},"REPORTFLAG\u2003,"]},{"entry":[{},"HEADFLAG\u2003\u2003,"]},{"entry":[{},"MGNTFLAG\u2003\u2003,"]},{"entry":[{},"BUC\u2003\u2003\u2003,"]},{"entry":[{},"COUTRYOUCODE"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"203pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},")"]},{"entry":[{},"AS"]},{"entry":[{},"SELECT"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"189pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"ACC.TSOUSER\u2003,"]},{"entry":[{},"ACC.BUC_FULL\u2003,"]},{"entry":[{},"ACC.PROFILE\u2003,"]},{"entry":[{},"ACC.REPORTFLAG ,"]},{"entry":[{},"ACC.HEADFLAG\u2003,"]},{"entry":[{},"ACC.MGNTFLAG\u2003,"]},{"entry":[{},"ACC.BUC\u2003\u2003\u2003,"]},{"entry":[{},"COALESCE(ORG.CNTRY \u2225 \u2018-\u2019 \u2225 ORG.OU_CDLERU,"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"175pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"\u2018PDS_ORG\u2019)"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"203pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"FROM"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"189pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"WSDIWC.ESS_US_ACC ACC LEFT OUTER JOIN"]},{"entry":[{},"WSDIWC.BMVC_ORG_DESC ORG"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"203pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"ON ACC.BUC_FULL = ORG.BUC"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"189pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},";"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}}]}},"br":{}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0105","num":"0136"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00007","num":"00007"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"203pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"CREATE VIEW ESS_USER_ACC_FLAGS"]},{"entry":[{},"("]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"147pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003TSOUSER",","]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003BUC_FULL",","]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003APPNAME",","]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"203pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003ENTITY\u2002,"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003PROFILE"]},{"entry":[{},")"]},{"entry":[{},"AS"]},{"entry":[{},"SELECT DISTINCT"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003ACC.TSOUSER\u2002,"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003ACC.BUC_FULL\u2002,"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003PRO.APPNAME\u2002,"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003PRO.ENTITY\u2002,"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003PRO.PROFILE"]},{"entry":[{},"FROM WSDIWC.ESS_USER_ACCESS ACC,"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003WSDIWC.WBMTESPR PRO \u2002,"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003WSDIWC.WBMTESFL FLG"]},{"entry":[{},"WHERE ACC.PROFILE = PRO.PROFILE"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003AND PRO.APPNAME = FLG.APPNAME"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003AND PRO.ENTITY = FLG.ENTITY"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003AND ( FLG.REPORTFLAG = \u2018N\u2019 OR FLG.REPORTFLAG ="]},{"entry":[{},"ACC.REPORTFLAG )"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003AND ( FLG.HEADFLAG = \u2018N\u2019 OR FLG.HEADFLAG ="]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003ACC.HEADFLAG )"]},{"entry":[{},"AND ( FLG.MGNTFLAG = \u2018N\u2019 OR FLG.MGNTFLAG ="]},{"entry":[{},"ACC.MGNTFLAG );"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}}]}},"br":{}},"System  can be extended to special application needs. For example, in one embodiment, the security table , the OLAP cube description table , and the OLAP cube profile description table  can be extended to include further additional information that can be exploited for diverse situations implicated by a respective business environment. For example, a user may have rights to access a major part of tables in the ROLAP system  but not have rights to access the MOLAP system  without further limitations. One or more additional columns in the OLAP cube profile description table  can be inserted specifying YES\/NO values for a user profile for allowing or rejecting access to the MOLAP system .","It is to be understood that the specific embodiments of the invention that have been described are merely illustrative of certain applications of the principle of the present invention. Numerous modifications may be made to the security transfer tool between DB and DB OLAP described herein without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention.","The present invention can be realized in hardware, software, or a combination of hardware and software. A security-synchronizing tool according to the present invention can be realized in a centralized fashion in one computer system, for example the access server  depicted in , or in a distributed fashion where different elements are spread across several interconnected computer systems. Any computer system or another processor adapted for carrying out the present invention described herein may be used. A typical combination of hardware and software could be a general-purpose computer system with a computer program that, when being loaded and executed, controls the computer system such that it carries out the invention described herein.","The present invention can be embedded in a computer program product that comprises all the features enabling the implementation of the present invention described herein, and which, when loaded in a computer system, is able to carry out the present invention."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The various features of the present invention and the manner of attaining them will be described in greater detail with reference to the following description, claims, and drawings, wherein reference numerals are reused, where appropriate, to indicate a correspondence between the referenced items, and wherein:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0039","num":"0038"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0040","num":"0039"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIGS. 2A and 2B","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0041","num":"0040"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0042","num":"0041"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 3"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0043","num":"0042"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 3"]}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
