---
title: Mortar bomb retention apparatus
abstract: A mortar bomb retention apparatus for retaining a mortar bomb in a mortar tube includes a lever arm; a lever positioner in which the lever arm is rotatably mounted; a generally cylindrical housing having a central opening therethrough, the central opening comprising a large diameter portion and a small diameter portion, the lever positioner being fixed to the housing; a shoe disposed in the central opening in the housing; a compression spring disposed around the shoe in the large diameter portion of the central opening; and a shoe cap attached to an end of the shoe, one end of the compression spring bearing against the shoe cap, a portion of the lever arm contacting the shoe cap wherein rotation of the lever arm is operable to force the shoe downward.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07040211&OS=07040211&RS=07040211
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 07040211
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20050406
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENT INTEREST","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS"],"p":["The inventions described herein may be manufactured, used and licensed by or for the U.S. Government for U.S. Government purposes.","The invention relates in general to mortar munitions and in particular to breech loaded mortar munitions.","In the past, mortars have been muzzle loaded. With muzzle loaded mortars, the position of the mortar bomb in the mortar tube is not an issue. For a breech loaded mortar to work, particularly when the mortar tube is in an elevated position (i.e., not horizontal), a device is needed to hold the mortar bomb at a distance from the breech while the breech is being closed. Prior to the present invention, there has not been such a device.","A primary object of the invention is to enable a breech loaded mortar bomb to be held in a mortar tube at a distance from the breech while the breech is being closed, at any and all elevations of the mortar tube muzzle.","Another object of the invention is to provide an apparatus that prevents a breech loaded mortar bomb that is loaded at zero elevation (i.e., the mortar tube is horizontal) from being thrown down the mortar tube out of firing position by an auto loader or operating personnel.","The invention will be better understood, and further objects, features, and advantages thereof will become more apparent from the following description of the preferred embodiments, taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["10","10","12","14","12","15","16","24","26","14","16","17","18","16","20","18","24","28","18"]},"The central opening  includes a step  located between the large and small diameter portions , . One end of the compression spring  bears against the step  and another end of the compression spring  bears against shoe cap . A lower portion  of the lever arm  is in contact with the shoe cap .  shows lever arm  in the upright position and shoe  in the retracted position inside housing . When the lever arm  is rotated in the direction shown by arrow A in , the shoe  moves downward as shown by arrow B. When the force moving lever arm  is removed, compression spring  moves lever  back to its upright position and shoe  is retracted back into housing .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":["10","34","36","38","34","35","36","34","36","37","38","38","40"]},"Solenoid  includes a plunger  that contacts lever arm  and is operable to rotate lever arm . In , rotation of lever arm  is counter clockwise around pin . Lever arm  typically rotates, for example, twenty degrees. Mortar tube  includes an opening in its wall into which housing  is disposed. Housing  may be provided with external threads that engage internal threads in the opening in the wall of tube . Housing  is mounted so that the end of the housing is flush with the interior surface of tube . Solenoid  is electrically connected to fire control computer .","The invention operates in two primary modes, depending on the elevation of the mortar tube . One mode of operation is with the mortar tube  horizontal (zero elevation) and the other mode of operation is with the mortar tube  elevated. With the mortar tube at zero elevation, a breech loaded mortar bomb  may \u201cthrown down\u201d the tube , out of firing position, by an auto loader or operating personnel. To prevent this, the fire control computer  operates the solenoid  in a \u201cpulse\u201d mode. In the pulse mode, the fire control computer  sends a rapid series of on and off signals to solenoid  that causes the shoe  to alternately extend into and retract from the mortar tube . The alternating contact with the shoe  slows down the travel of the breech loaded mortar bomb  and prevents it from traveling out of firing position. Prior to firing the mortar bomb, the pulse mode is disabled and the shoe  is completely retracted from the tube .","When the mortar tube is used in an elevated position, it is necessary to hold the mortar bomb in the tube away from the breech while the breech is being closed. With the mortar tube  elevated, the bomb  is breech loaded (The shoe  is in the inactive, retracted position.) to a point in the tube forward of the firing position. Once the bomb  is in that position, the computer  activates the shoe , thereby holding the bomb  in place. The breech is then able to close without the bomb  falling back out of the breech. Once the breech is closed, the shoe  is retracted and gravity allows the bomb  to fall against the breech into the firing position.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 4","FIG. 4","FIG. 5","FIG. 6"],"b":["18","16","46","18","50","28","48","36","18","28","28","50","46","18","12","12","52","15","32","12","28","16","22","16","24","26","30","24","26","56","16","34"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":["FIGS. 7A through 7E","FIG. 7A","FIG. 7E","FIG. 7B","FIG. 7E","FIG. 7C","FIG. 7E","FIG. 7D","FIG. 7A","FIG. 7E"],"b":["14","14","14","14","14","14","14","58","60","58","60","63","65","16","58","60","16","62","58","64","60","58","66","15","12","12","68","58"]},"While the invention has been described with reference to certain preferred embodiments, numerous changes, alterations and modifications to the described embodiments are possible without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined in the appended claims, and equivalents thereof."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["In the drawings, which are not necessarily to scale, like or corresponding parts are denoted by like or corresponding reference numerals.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":["FIG. 7A","FIG. 7E"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":["FIG. 7B","FIG. 7E"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":["FIG. 7C","FIG. 7E"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":["FIG. 7D","FIG. 7A"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 7E"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
