---
title: Secure and anonymous storage and accessibility for sensitive data
abstract: The subject disclosure pertains to secure and anonymous data storage and access. More particularly, encryption methods and mechanisms are provided in conjunction with one or more blobs, identities, and guards to implement one or more layers of indirect encryption. Generation of these components can be accomplished without including or pointing to any personally identifiable information about a user. Accordingly, a user can store sensitive data securely and anonymously on a server or like storage system. Such data can also be roamed, recovered, and synchronized securely from a plurality of computers at least because the data is centrally located.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07593548&OS=07593548&RS=07593548
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 07593548
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20051215
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["With the growing use of the Internet and secure web sites that require user login\/password to be able to access sensitive data such as bank accounts, confidential email, credit card information, merchant accounts etc., users are required to remember a lot of sensitive data, such as the user account name and password for these sites. Given the myriad of rules that apply to login and password fields at sites, it is almost impossible for a user to remember all the details. By way of example, user login can be a social security number at some sites, an email address at others, and an oblique character string (e.g., \u201cbaskd2485)\u201d at yet other sites. Similarly, passwords follow different rules with respect to mix of letter case, symbols and numbers and length. To deal with this quagmire, many users just store this type of information in a normal document such as a text file or a word processing document. However, this is especially insecure as the data is stored in plain text and is available to anyone with access to the files to see in plain sight.","Form-fill applications such as those offered in browser toolbars have been created in recent years to fill this gap. They offer some level of security in that the data is encrypted with a master password and the user needs to remember just the master password. While this is better than plain files, all known current form-fill applications are inadequate for several reasons. First, the data could be lost if there is a hard-disk corruption\/computer failure. Second, the data is not available for access on any computer other than the one where it is stored and finally keeping the data synchronized across multiple computers is cumbersome, because it can be done only manually.","One solution to portability and synchronization issues is to allow the storage of the data on portable storage devices such as USB key chain storage devices. While this helps in some ways, there is still the risk of the storage device being lost or damaged resulting in total loss of data. It also means that the device has to be carried around and there is no access unless you have the device at hand.","Many of these problems would disappear if the data could be stored on a server side. Indeed, many systems store data including credit-card numbers on such sites. However, this is not without its demerits either including but not limited to lack of privacy, at least because the server stores such information in plain text or the key used in encryption is co-located in a data-center. Such storage techniques may allow any hacker who gains sufficient privileges to the computers at the data-center including any malicious employees of the company running the center to retrieve sensitive data, often with relative ease. Moreover, companies running these data-centers run serious risks with respect to liability & goodwill from any accidental exposure of which there have been numerous instances in the past.","The following presents a simplified summary in order to provide a basic understanding of some aspects of the claimed subject matter. This summary is not an extensive overview. It is not intended to identify key\/critical elements or to delineate the scope of the claimed subject matter. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.","Briefly described, the subject innovation pertains to systems and methods for secure and anonymous storage and accessibility for sensitive data. In accordance with an aspect of the subject innovation data can be stored and accessed utilizing one or more blobs, identities, and guards. For example, a data blob can correspond to user data encrypted by a data key stored on a server or like system. The data key itself can correspond to a blob encrypted by another key and housed on a client machine. Hence, the encrypted data and the key are stored on completely different machines making deciphering encrypted data more difficult.","In accordance with another aspect of the innovation, anonymous identities are associated with blobs and facilitate identification of blobs without including or pointing to any personally identifiable information of a user. Guards are also associated with blobs and are generated based at least in part upon a key associated with related blob. Accordingly, in addition to identifying a blob for retrieval a user must provide a matching guard before the blob is transmitted to indicate that the requesting entity knows the key. Among other things, this prevents malicious individuals from retrieving the blob and launching an extended offline attack on the blob to learn the information included therein. However, even if the blob where to be decrypted, damage would be mitigated at least because the data is not traceable to a particular individual.","The blob, anonymous identity, guard techniques for securely storing data can be applied in various contexts and combinations to provide particular desired functionality. For example, in accordance with an aspect of the subject innovation, both premeditated and random roaming can be securely implemented utilizing variations on these techniques. Further yet, recovery of data from a crashed or otherwise in accessible machine and master password reset are also provided in accordance with an aspect of the subject innovation.","In accordance with yet another aspect of the subject innovation, human interactive proofs or challenges can be employed in conjunction with other encryption mechanisms and methodologies provided herein to ensure that a human being is utilizing a client system and thereby thwart attacks by automatons.","In accordance with yet another aspect of the subject innovation, synchronization of data across multiple machines is easily and securely accomplished due at least in part to the central storage of data and several layers of indirect encryption.","To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends, certain illustrative aspects of the claimed subject matter are described herein in connection with the following description and the annexed drawings. These aspects are indicative of various ways in which the subject matter may be practiced, all of which are intended to be within the scope of the claimed subject matter. Other advantages and novel features may become apparent from the following detailed description when considered in conjunction with the drawings.","The various aspects of the subject innovation are now described with reference to the annexed drawings, wherein like numerals refer to like or corresponding elements throughout. It should be understood, however, that the drawings and detailed description relating thereto are not intended to limit the claimed subject matter to the particular form disclosed. Rather, the intention is to cover all modifications, equivalents and alternatives falling within the spirit and scope of the claimed subject matter.","As used in this application, the terms \u201ccomponent\u201d and \u201csystem\u201d and the like are intended to refer to a computer-related entity; either hardware, a combination of hardware and software, software or software in execution. For example, a component may be, but is not limited to being, a process running on a processor, a processor, an object, an instance, an executable, a thread of execution, a program, and\/or a computer. By way of illustration, both an application running on a computer and the computer can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and\/or thread of execution, and a component may be localized on one computer and\/or distributed between two or more computers.","The word \u201cexemplary\u201d is used herein to mean serving as an example, instance or illustration. Any aspect or design described herein as \u201cexemplary\u201d is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other aspects or designs.","Furthermore, all or portions of the subject innovation may be implemented as a method, apparatus, or article of manufacture using standard programming and\/or engineering techniques to produce software, firmware, hardware, or any combination thereof to control a computer to implement the disclosed innovation. The term \u201carticle of manufacture\u201d as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer-readable device, carrier, or media. For example, computer readable media can include but are not limited to magnetic storage devices (e.g., hard disk, floppy disk, magnetic strips . . . ), optical disks (e.g., compact disk (CD), digital versatile disk (DVD) . . . ), smart cards, and flash memory devices (e.g., card, stick, key drive . . . ). Additionally, it should be appreciated that a carrier wave can be employed to carry computer-readable electronic data such as those used in transmitting and receiving electronic mail or in accessing a network such as the Internet or a local area network (LAN). Of course, those skilled in the art will recognize many modifications may be made to this configuration without departing from the scope or spirit of the claimed subject matter.","Turning initially to , a data access system  is depicted in accordance with an aspect of the subject innovation. System  includes a transmission component , a server , and a receiver component . The transmission component  can receive, retrieve or otherwise acquire an identity and a guard (which can be components as defined herein). The identity anonymously identifies a blob. The guard provides information that indicates that a requesting entity knows the key required to decrypt the blob. This prevents a hacker from obtaining the blob by mere identification and subsequently launching a concerted attach over an extended period of time on an offline system, for example, to decrypt the blob and access data provided thereby.","Turning briefly to , a blob  and associated mechanisms are illustrated. Generally speaking, a blob  is an arbitrary collection of opaque data. A storing system does not know nor does it need to know anything about the content, format, or the like associated with the mass of data known as a blob. Still further yet, a blob as used herein refers to encrypted data. As illustrated, blob  includes data  encrypted with a key. Blob  is also associated with an identity component  and a guard component  that identify and control access to the blob . As will be described in further detail infra the identity  and guard information do not reveal any information that can be traced back to a particular user.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0047","num":"0046"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":["310","320","310","322","320","322","310"]},"Turning back to , the identity and guard are transmitted to a server component  or other type of centrally managed storage system. The server  can locate a requested blob based on the identity. Subsequently, the server  can compare a guard associated with the identified blob and the provided guard. If there is a match, it is verified that the requesting entity knows the key and the server provides or transmits the blob back to the requesting entity. The receiver component  receives, retrieves or otherwise obtains or acquires the blob from the server component . The blob can then be decrypted and employed, for example to automatically fill in user names and\/or passwords.","Continuing with , a data access system  is illustrated. System  includes identity and guard generation components  and , respectively. Identity generation component  can generate an identity from a variety of sources, for instance in the form of a hash (e.g., SHA). Accordingly, to one aspect of the innovation, identity can be derived from a machine and user GUID (Globally Unique Identifier). The machine GUID is generated and associated with a particular physical machine. Similarly, a user GUID is generated associated with a user and their data on a particular machine. The guard component  can generate a guard from a data key and one or more pieces of data from a variety of sources. For example, the guard can be generated utilizing a hash created from the machine GUID, user GUID and data key. Further yet, the guard as well as the identity may be associated with salt. Salt is a system wide well known number and is utilized to make any possible dictionary attacks on multiple hashes more difficult. Additionally, all hashing can involve some large number of iterations. The number of iterations would be a system wide constant for each type of hash. Iterations make it even more difficult to launch an offline attach on a database of hashes. The data key employed by guard generation component  can be generated and provided by machine key generation component . Key generation component  can generate a key, for instance by employing a cryptographically safe random number generator.","The identity and guard generation components  and  are communicatively coupled to the transmission component . Accordingly, transmission component  can receive or retrieve a generated identity and guard from respective components  and . The transmission component  is communicatively coupled to the server component  and can thus transmit the identity and guard thereto. The server component  can analyze the guard and identity and return a data blob to receiver component , if the data blob identity and guard match the provided corresponding values.","Receiver component  is communicatively coupled to both the server component  and the data blob decryption component . Upon receipt or retrieval of the data blob, receiver component can provide the data blob to the data blob decryption component . The decryption component  is communicatively coupled to the machine blob decryption component , which is coupled to machine key generation component . The machine key generation component  provides the generated machine key to the machine blob decryption component that employs the key to decrypt the machine blob and reveal a data key. This data key is then provided to data blob decryption component  and utilized to decrypt the data blob to reveal user data.","Data blob decryption component  can also be communicatively coupled to an application component  that can utilize the user data. By way of example and not limitation, the application component  can correspond to an automatic user name and password completion component that as the name suggests automatically provides such values from the user data.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0053","num":"0052"},"figref":"FIG. 5","b":["500","500","500","500","310","320","310"]},"Data key generation component  is communicatively coupled to the guard generation component  and provides a data key to component  to enable generation of a guard thereby. The data key can be generated in any number of a manners including but not limited to generation of a cryptographically safe random number. The data key generation component  is also communicatively coupled to data blob generation component  and provides a copy of the data key thereto. The data blob generation component  generates a data blob by encrypting data with the provided data key.","Data key generation component  is also communicatively coupled to the machine blob generation component , which is coupled to the machine key generation component . Machine key generation component  generates a key from one or more values including but not limited to the machine GUID, user GUID and a user password. Data key generation component  and machine key generation component  both provide keys to the machine blob generation component . The machine blob generation component  generates a machine blob by encrypting the data key with the machine key.","A portion of the generated components can be transmitted and stored to a central storage system such as a server. In particular, the data blob and associated machine identification and guard can be stored to a server. The machine blob and associated machine key can be stored on a client system. Additionally or alternatively, the machine blob could be stored to the server. In this instance, the machine blob could require generation and saving of an associated identity and guard or be linked at least in part to the identity and guard associated with the data blob forming part of an account.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0057","num":"0056"},"figref":"FIG. 6","b":["600","600","120","610","610","610","612","614","616","618"]},"Secure storage component  functionality has been previously described. In brief, data can be encrypted as a blob and stored on the central storage component  along with an identifier and a guard. Upon generation of a matching identifier and guard, the blob can be downloaded and decrypted with a machine key to produce an unencrypted version of the data.","Premeditated roaming component  enables data to be roamed to another machine when you know ahead of time that you want the data to roam. For example, a user may want to roam data from an office computer to a home computer. This type of roaming is conventionally accomplished by storing data on a removable storage medium or sending the data to one self via web enabled email.","Recovery component  provides a mechanism to recover data and\/or a reset a password. For example, recovery component  can enable recovery of a machine and user GUIDs associated with an inoperable or crashed machine. Furthermore, a user can reset a master password they forgot.","Random roaming component  provides a mechanism for roaming data without planning ahead. An example of a scenario would be trying to get to data in the conventional case where the removable storage device or email was lost or forgotten.","Prior to employing the functionality provided by any of the client sub-components -, the system can be set up to enable such functionality. Accordingly, what follows are systems for setting up and utilizing the provided functionality for the premeditated component , recovery component  and free roaming component . Similar systems for the secure storage component were previously described with respect to .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0063","num":"0062"},"figref":"FIG. 7","b":["700","700","710","710","730","740","720","720","730","750","760","720","770","770","700","780"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0064","num":"0063"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00001","num":"00001"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"4"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"35pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"49pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"119pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":[{},"TABLE 1"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]},{"entry":[{},"Field",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},"Name","Size","Comments"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"Magic","\u20024 bytes","To identify the structure"]},{"entry":[{},"Version","\u20024 bytes","The version of this structure, for"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"future extensibility."]},{"entry":[{},"Length","\u20024 bytes","Length of the machine's friendly"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"name in bytes"]},{"entry":[{},"Machine","Variable","The machine's friendly name as a"]},{"entry":[{},"Name",{},"Unicode string (not null terminated)."]},{"entry":[{},"Machine","16 bytes","The Machine GUID"]},{"entry":[{},"GUID"]},{"entry":[{},"User","16 bytes","The User GUID"]},{"entry":[{},"GUID"]},{"entry":[{},"Hash","20 bytes","The hash of everything above"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}}}},"br":{}},"Turning to , a premeditated roaming system  is illustrated for roaming data. Seed extraction component  receives or retrieves token  and extracts the seed value stored thereby. The seed extraction component  is communicatively coupled to premeditated guard calculation component , premeditated identity calculation component  and premeditated key calculation component . Premeditated key calculation component  receives or retrieves the seed and calculates a key based at least in part thereon. Password component  requests and receives or retrieves a user password that is provided to premeditated guard calculation component  and premeditated identity calculation component . Based on the seed and password a premeditated guard and identity can be calculated by respective components  and . The premeditated blob download component  receives or retrieves the calculated guard and identity and based thereon downloads or receives the premeditated blob from a server or like component. The premeditated blob and the premeditated key are provided to or retrieved by premeditated blob decryption component  that applies the key to reveal the data key. The data key can be transmitted to the machine entry download component , which can retrieve or receive the machine entry from a server based on the data key. Data blob download component  can utilize the machine entry data such as machine and user GUIDs to generate a machine identity and guard to enable the data blob to be downloaded. The downloaded data blob is then provided to the data blob decryption component  that decrypts the blob based on the data key provided by the premeditated blob decryption component  to reveal the user data.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0066","num":"0065"},"figref":"FIG. 9","b":["900","900","902","902"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0067","num":"0066"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00002","num":"00002"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"49pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"35pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"133pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":"TABLE 2"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["Field Name","Size","Comments"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Magic","\u20024 bytes","To identify this structure"]},{"entry":["Version","\u20024 bytes","The version of the structure for future"]},{"entry":[{},{},"extensibility."]},{"entry":["NumberOf","\u20024 bytes","The number of questions contained."]},{"entry":"questions"},{"entry":["Questions","Variable","An array of structures of the following"]},{"entry":[{},{},"format:"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":[{},{},{"chemistry":{"@attributes":{"id":"CHEM-US-00001","num":"00001"},"img":{"@attributes":{"id":"EMI-C00001","he":"44.11mm","wi":"44.87mm","file":"US07593548-20090922-C00001.TIF","alt":"embedded image","img-content":"table","img-format":"tif"}}}}]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["Structure Hash","20 bytes","The SHA hash of this structure with the"]},{"entry":[{},{},"exclusion of this field."]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}},"The recovery key component  can receive or retrieve answers from the Q&A component . Based on the answers and the machine GUID and user GUID a recovery key can be created by the component . The recovery key can subsequently be transmitted to recovery guard generation , which can generate a recovery guard based on the key, among other things. The recovery key is also provided to the Q&A blob generation component . The component  generates a Q&A blob by encrypting the Q&A structure with the recovery key.","Q&A component  can also provide answers to answer hash component  that generates a hash of the answers. This hash can then be provided to the answer guard generation component  to facilitate generation of an answer guard and to answer key generation component  to facilitate generation of an answer key, for instance derived from the hash and system salt. The answer key generation component  can then provide the answer key to answer blob component . Component  encrypts the data key for user data with the answer key to generate an answer blob.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0070","num":"0069"},"figref":"FIG. 10","b":["1000","1000","1002","1002","1004","1004","1006","1006","1008","1010","1010","1012","1014","1016","1018"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0071","num":"0070"},"figref":["FIG. 11","FIG. 9"],"b":["1100","1100","1102","902","1110","1104","1106","1104","1106","1104","1106","1108"]},"The Q&A component  can also provide answers to answer hash component  that generates an answer hash from the answers. The answer hash can then be provided to the answer key generation component  that generates an answer key based on at least the answer hash. The answer key can then be provided to the answer guard generation component  that generates answer guard based thereon. The answer key can also be provided to the answer blob generation component  that generates an answer blob by encrypting the data key with the answer key. Furthermore, the roaming guard  can be computed by the roaming guard generation component based on answers to questions provided by Q&A component . Finally, the identities, guards and blobs can be uploaded or saved to a server or like storage location.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0073","num":"0072"},"figref":"FIG. 12","b":["1200","1200","1202","1200","810","1208","1210","1212","1214"]},"Q&A component  is similar to that of . The Q&A component  queries a user with questions and receives answers. Furthermore, the questions can be presented in a user-friendly format to aid the user in entering the appropriate information. For example, \u201cEnter your credit card number ending in 5506.\u201d The answers to the questions are provided in some form to answer hash component  from the Q&A component . A hash can subsequently be generated from the answers. The answer key calculation component  can receive or retrieve the hash from answer hash component  and generate an answer key based at least upon the hash. The answer key can then be provided to or retrieved by answer guard calculation component . The answer guard calculation component  can then generate an answer guard based at least upon the answer key. The answer guard and answer key can be provided to or retrieved by the answer blob download component . Employing this information the answer blob can be downloaded and decrypted to produce the data key. The roaming guard calculation component  can subsequently retrieve or receive the data key from the answer blob download component  and compute the roaming guard.","At this point, all that needs to be known is known and data can be downloaded, decrypted and used on a temporary basis. The data and keys can also be re-encrypted and uploaded as necessary to create a new machine account, if desired, by utilizing a premeditated new machine set up system.","Premeditated tokens can be obtained only if a new machine is to be setup. However, a new machine may be temporarily set up and removed if the user so desires because to use roaming on a given machine one needs to answer all questions each time. A user could be warned and encouraged to setup a premeditated token for future access if they do not want to set the current machine as a new machine. Further, if a new machine is set up, recovery can be enabled on the new machine if the user desires using the systems proved above on premeditated new machine recovery set up. Note that where a given machine has crashed and is being built from scratch, random roaming can be used to recover and re-establish the machine for the account.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0077","num":"0076"},"figref":"FIG. 13","b":["1300","1310","1320","1330","1320","1320","1320","1320","1320","1322","1324","1322","1324","1322","1324","1320","1326","1326","1310","1328","1330","1310","1324","1326","1310","1328"]},"Turning to  a data distribution system  is illustrated in accordance with an aspect of the subject innovation. System  includes interface component , access component  and data store , as previously described with respect to  and system . In addition, the access system  can include a data structure monitor component  that interacts with the data store . In particular, the data structure monitor component  can maintain last-modified times on the various data structures (e.g., blobs, machine entries . . . ) housed in data store . Further yet component  can respond to if modified queries provided from access component . Such requests can be automatically generated or periodically initiated by users via interface component  to facilitate synchronization. System  also includes a stale data removal component . The component  can interact with data structure monitor component  to identify data structures that are stale or have not be access within a predetermined period of time. Upon identification of such structures, stale data removal component  can remove those structures from data store .","The aforementioned systems have been described with respect to interaction between several components. It should be appreciated that such systems and components can include those components or sub-components specified therein, some of the specified components or sub-components, and\/or additional components. Sub-components could also be implemented as components communicatively coupled to other components rather than included within parent components. Further yet, one or more components and\/or sub-components may be combined into a single component providing aggregate functionality. The components may also interact with one or more other components not specifically described herein for the sake of brevity, but known by those of skill in the art.","Furthermore, as will be appreciated, various portions of the disclosed systems above and methods below may include or consist of artificial intelligence, machine learning, or knowledge or rule based components, sub-components, processes, means, methodologies, or mechanisms (e.g., support vector machines, neural networks, expert systems, Bayesian belief networks, fuzzy logic, data fusion engines, classifiers . . . ). Such components, inter alia, can automate certain mechanisms or processes performed thereby to make portions of the systems and methods more adaptive as well as efficient and intelligent.","In view of the exemplary systems described supra, methodologies that may be implemented in accordance with the disclosed subject matter will be better appreciated with reference to the flow charts of . While for purposes of simplicity of explanation, the methodologies are shown and described as a series of blocks, it is to be understood and appreciated that the claimed subject matter is not limited by the order of the blocks, as some blocks may occur in different orders and\/or concurrently with other blocks from what is depicted and described herein. Moreover, not all illustrated blocks may be required to implement the methodologies described hereinafter.","Additionally, it should be further appreciated that the methodologies disclosed hereinafter and throughout this specification are capable of being stored on an article of manufacture to facilitate transporting and transferring such methodologies to computers. The term article of manufacture, as used herein, is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer-readable device, carrier, or media.","Turning to , a method of storing data  is provided in accordance with an aspect of the subject innovation. At reference numeral , an anonymous identity is generated. For example, this can be accomplished utilizing a hash of one or more sources of information such as machine and user GUIDs. At , a data key is generated. The data key can derived from one or more pieces of information or it can be a cryptographically safe random number. At reference , a data blob is generated. The data blob includes client or user data encrypted utilizing the data key. At numeral , a machine key is generated. The machine key can be a generated from a combination of sources including but not limited to machine GUID, user GUI, and user password. At numeral , a machine blob is generated by encrypting the data key with the machine key. At , a guard is generated for from at least the data key. At reference numeral , the identity, guard, and data blob are transmitted to a server or like system.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0084","num":"0083"},"figref":"FIG. 16","b":["1610","1620","1630","1640","1650","1660","1670"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0085","num":"0084"},"figref":"FIG. 17","b":["1710","1720","1730","1740","1750","1760","1770","1780","1790"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0086","num":"0085"},"figref":"FIG. 18","b":["1800","1810","1820","1830","1840","1850","1860","1870"]},"Turning to , a method  of premeditated roaming is illustrated. At reference numeral , a token is received and the seed extracted. A user password is then received at . At reference , a premeditated identity and guard are generated and provided to a server. A premeditated blob is received at . At numeral , the data key is recovered from the premeditated blob by decrypting the blob utilizing a premeditated key, for instance. At , the machine entry is received and decrypted with the data key. The identity and guard are generated and transmitted to a server at numeral . A data blob is received from the server at . At numeral , the data blob is decrypted utilizing the data key. At , the roaming machine can be added to the account for instance linking the machine and user GUIDs to the present account identity. The token can be destroyed if specified for one time use; otherwise, the token can be employed until it expires.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0088","num":"0087"},"figref":"FIG. 20","b":["2002","2004","2006","2008","2010","2012","2014","2016","2017","2018"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0089","num":"0088"},"figref":"FIG. 21","b":["2100","2102","2104","2106","2108","2110","2112","2114","2116","2118","2120","2122","2124"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0090","num":"0089"},"figref":"FIG. 22","b":["2200","2202","2204","2206","2208","2210","2212","2214","2216","2217","2218"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0091","num":"0090"},"figref":"FIG. 23","b":["2300","2302","2304","2306","2308","2310","2312","2314","2316","2318","2320"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0092","num":"0091"},"figref":"FIG. 24","b":["2300","2410","2420","2430","2440","2450","2460","2470"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0093","num":"0092"},"figref":"FIG. 25","b":["2500","2502","2504","2506","2508","2510","2512","2514","2516"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0094","num":"0093"},"figref":"FIG. 26","b":["2600","2600","2602","2604","2608","2610","2612","2614","2615","2616","2615"]},"In order to provide a context for the various aspects of the disclosed subject matter,  as well as the following discussion are intended to provide a brief, general description of a suitable environment in which the various aspects of the disclosed subject matter may be implemented. While the subject matter has been described above in the general context of computer-executable instructions of a computer program that runs on a computer and\/or computers, those skilled in the art will recognize that the subject innovation also may be implemented in combination with other program modules. Generally, program modules include routines, programs, components, data structures, etc. that perform particular tasks and\/or implement particular abstract data types. Moreover, those skilled in the art will appreciate that the inventive methods may be practiced with other computer system configurations, including single-processor or multiprocessor computer systems, mini-computing devices, mainframe computers, as well as personal computers, hand-held computing devices (e.g., personal digital assistant (PDA), phone, watch . . . ), microprocessor-based or programmable consumer or industrial electronics, and the like. The illustrated aspects may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. However, some, if not all aspects of the claimed innovation can be practiced on stand-alone computers. In a distributed computing environment, program modules may be located in both local and remote memory storage devices.","With reference to , an exemplary environment  for implementing various aspects disclosed herein includes a computer  (e.g., desktop, laptop, server, hand held, programmable consumer or industrial electronics . . . ). The computer  includes a processing unit , a system memory , and a system bus . The system bus  couples system components including, but not limited to, the system memory  to the processing unit . The processing unit  can be any of various available microprocessors. Dual microprocessors and other multiprocessor architectures also can be employed as the processing unit .","The system bus  can be any of several types of bus structure(s) including the memory bus or memory controller, a peripheral bus or external bus, and\/or a local bus using any variety of available bus architectures including, but not limited to, 11-bit bus, Industrial Standard Architecture (ISA), Micro-Channel Architecture (MSA), Extended ISA (EISA), Intelligent Drive Electronics (IDE), VESA Local Bus (VLB), Peripheral Component Interconnect (PCI), Universal Serial Bus (USB), Advanced Graphics Port (AGP), Personal Computer Memory Card International Association bus (PCMCIA), and Small Computer Systems Interface (SCSI).","The system memory  includes volatile memory  and nonvolatile memory . The basic input\/output system (BIOS), containing the basic routines to transfer information between elements within the computer , such as during start-up, is stored in nonvolatile memory . By way of illustration, and not limitation, nonvolatile memory  can include read only memory (ROM), programmable ROM (PROM), electrically programmable ROM (EPROM), electrically erasable ROM (EEPROM), or flash memory. Volatile memory  includes random access memory (RAM), which acts as external cache memory. By way of illustration and not limitation, RAM is available in many forms such as synchronous RAM (SRAM), dynamic RAM (DRAM), synchronous DRAM (SDRAM), double data rate SDRAM (DDR SDRAM), enhanced SDRAM (ESDRAM), Synchlink DRAM (SLDRAM), and direct Rambus RAM (DRRAM).","Computer  also includes removable\/non-removable, volatile\/non-volatile computer storage media.  illustrates, for example, disk storage . Disk storage  includes, but is not limited to, devices like a magnetic disk drive, floppy disk drive, tape drive, Jaz drive, Zip drive, LS-100 drive, flash memory card, or memory stick. In addition, disk storage  can include storage media separately or in combination with other storage media including, but not limited to, an optical disk drive such as a compact disk ROM device (CD-ROM), CD recordable drive (CD-R Drive), CD rewritable drive (CD-RW Drive) or a digital versatile disk ROM drive (DVD-ROM). To facilitate connection of the disk storage devices  to the system bus , a removable or non-removable interface is typically used such as interface .","It is to be appreciated that  describes software that acts as an intermediary between users and the basic computer resources described in suitable operating environment . Such software includes an operating system . Operating system , which can be stored on disk storage , acts to control and allocate resources of the computer system . System applications  take advantage of the management of resources by operating system  through program modules  and program data  stored either in system memory  or on disk storage . It is to be appreciated that the present invention can be implemented with various operating systems or combinations of operating systems.","A user enters commands or information into the computer  through input device(s) . Input devices  include, but are not limited to, a pointing device such as a mouse, trackball, stylus, touch pad, keyboard, microphone, joystick, game pad, satellite dish, scanner, TV tuner card, digital camera, digital video camera, web camera, and the like. These and other input devices connect to the processing unit  through the system bus  via interface port(s) . Interface port(s)  include, for example, a serial port, a parallel port, a game port, and a universal serial bus (USB). Output device(s)  use some of the same type of ports as input device(s) . Thus, for example, a USB port may be used to provide input to computer  and to output information from computer  to an output device . Output adapter  is provided to illustrate that there are some output devices  like displays (e.g., flat panel and CRT), speakers, and printers, among other output devices  that require special adapters. The output adapters  include, by way of illustration and not limitation, video and sound cards that provide a means of connection between the output device  and the system bus . It should be noted that other devices and\/or systems of devices provide both input and output capabilities such as remote computer(s) .","Computer  can operate in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers, such as remote computer(s) . The remote computer(s)  can be a personal computer, a server, a router, a network PC, a workstation, a microprocessor based appliance, a peer device or other common network node and the like, and typically includes many or all of the elements described relative to computer . For purposes of brevity, only a memory storage device  is illustrated with remote computer(s) . Remote computer(s)  is logically connected to computer  through a network interface  and then physically connected via communication connection . Network interface  encompasses communication networks such as local-area networks (LAN) and wide-area networks (WAN). LAN technologies include Fiber Distributed Data Interface (FDDI), Copper Distributed Data Interface (CDDI), Ethernet\/IEEE 802.3, Token Ring\/IEEE 802.5 and the like. WAN technologies include, but are not limited to, point-to-point links, circuit-switching networks like Integrated Services Digital Networks (ISDN) and variations thereon, packet switching networks, and Digital Subscriber Lines (DSL).","Communication connection(s)  refers to the hardware\/software employed to connect the network interface  to the bus . While communication connection  is shown for illustrative clarity inside computer , it can also be external to computer . The hardware\/software necessary for connection to the network interface  includes, for exemplary purposes only, internal and external technologies such as, modems including regular telephone grade modems, cable modems, power modems and DSL modems, ISDN adapters, and Ethernet cards or components.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0104","num":"0103"},"figref":"FIG. 28","b":["2800","2800","2810","2810","2800","2830","2800","2830","2830","2810","2830"]},"The system  includes a communication framework  that can be employed to facilitate communications between the client(s)  and the server(s) . The client(s)  are operatively connected to one or more client data store(s)  that can be employed to store information local to the client(s) . Similarly, the server(s)  are operatively connected to one or more server data store(s)  that can be employed to store information local to the servers .","What has been described above includes examples of aspects of the claimed subject matter. It is, of course, not possible to describe every conceivable combination of components or methodologies for purposes of describing the claimed subject matter, but one of ordinary skill in the art may recognize that many further combinations and permutations of the disclosed subject matter are possible. Accordingly, the disclosed subject matter is intended to embrace all such alterations, modifications and variations that fall within the spirit and scope of the appended claims. Furthermore, to the extent that the terms \u201cincludes,\u201d \u201chas\u201d or \u201chaving\u201d or variations in form thereof are used in either the detailed description or the claims, such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term \u201ccomprising\u201d as \u201ccomprising\u201d is interpreted when employed as a transitional word in a claim."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 11"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 12"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 13"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":"FIG. 14"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":"FIG. 15"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIG. 16"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":"FIG. 17"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":"FIG. 18"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":"FIG. 19"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":"FIG. 20"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":"FIG. 21"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"figref":"FIG. 22"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0034"},"figref":"FIG. 23"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"figref":"FIG. 24"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0037","num":"0036"},"figref":"FIG. 25"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0037"},"figref":"FIG. 26"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0039","num":"0038"},"figref":"FIG. 27"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0040","num":"0039"},"figref":"FIG. 28"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
