---
title: Providing direct access to distributed managed content
abstract: A method for providing direct access to distributed managed content is disclosed. The method comprises receiving a request to perform an operation with respect to content associated with a set of managed content and obtaining information required to respond to the request. The method further comprises providing in response to the request one or more content locators, each content locator being usable to perform the requested operation through direct communication with an associated one of a plurality of content systems used to store at a portion of the distributed managed content.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08396938&OS=08396938&RS=08396938
owner: EMC Corporation
number: 08396938
owner_city: Hopkinton
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20050915
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["Content management systems provide the capability of managing content including typically the ability to search a body of stored content for and retrieve particular content of interest. Additional functionality provided by a content management system may include, without, limitation, tracking revisions, versions, review, approvals, distribution, life cycle and retention policy information, file name, file type, file creator, application used to create, owner, and any other data and\/or metadata associated with stored content. In a typical content management system, a request from a user to retrieve content, such as a particular file, version, or other stored object, results in the content management system obtaining the requested content from a content storage location, e.g., a content server, and providing the requested content to the user. Because the content management system has limited throughput, this middleman role limits the performance of data delivery to and from the content server or other storage location. It would be beneficial to be able to utilize the advantages of a content management system without suffering the performance limitations the content management system can impose.","The invention can be implemented in numerous ways, including as a process, an apparatus, a system, a composition of matter, a computer readable medium such as a computer readable storage medium or a computer network wherein program instructions are sent over optical or electronic communication links. In this specification, these implementations, or any other form that the invention may take, may be referred to as techniques. A component such as a processor or a memory described as being configured to perform a task includes both a general component that is temporarily configured to perform the task at a given time or a specific component that is manufactured to perform the task. In general, the order of the steps of disclosed processes may be altered within the scope of the invention.","A detailed description of one or more embodiments of the invention is provided below along with accompanying figures that illustrate the principles of the invention. The invention is described in connection with such embodiments, but the invention is not limited to any embodiment. The scope of the invention is limited only by the claims and the invention encompasses numerous alternatives, modifications and equivalents. Numerous specific details are set forth in the following description in order to provide a thorough understanding of the invention. These details are provided for the purpose of example and the invention may be practiced according to the claims without some or all of these specific details. For the purpose of clarity, technical material that is known in the technical fields related to the invention has not been described in detail so that the invention is not unnecessarily obscured.","Providing direct access to distributed managed content is disclosed. In some embodiments, a remote system sends to a content management system a request associated with particular content, such as a request to retrieve and\/or store (write) particular content. Information required to respond to the request is obtained from a content system. A content locator, based at least in part on the information obtained from the content system, is provided to the remote system. The content locator enables the remote system to retrieve the requested content directly from a content system or directly write to a content system, as applicable, without the content first passing through the content management system. In some embodiments, the information required to respond to the request includes for one or more of a plurality of content systems associated with the content with which the request is associated\u2014e.g., a plurality of content systems at which the content associated with the request is and\/or can be stored\u2014information required to respond to the request with data associated with that content system. In some embodiments, the plurality of content systems includes the content system from which the information required to respond to the request was obtained and one or more alternate content systems. In some embodiments, a preferred content system is selected and a content locator associated with just the selected content system is provided to the remote system. The selected content system is selected as the best to interact with the remote system based on criteria such as distance from the remote system, available bandwidth for the given selected content system, speed of access between the remote system and the selected content system, or any other relevant metric. In some embodiments, a plurality of content locators is provided, each content locator usable by the remote system to perform with respect to the content, through direct communication with a content system with which the content locator is associated, an operation associated with the request. In some embodiments, a prioritized list of content locators is provided, with a content locator associated with a preferred content system being listed first and other content locators being listed in order based on their relative desirability as a content system to service the request.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["100","102","104","102","106","100","104","102","104","106","104","106","106","100","104","102","104","106","100","102","104","106","106","106","104","104","100"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 2"],"b":["200","202","204"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":["300","302","302","304","302","306","306","304","302","304","306","304","306","302","304","306","302","304","306","300","304","300","304","302","306","304","306","300","304","306","306","304","304","300","300","306"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 4","FIG. 3"],"b":["304","400","402","402","400","404","402"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 5","b":["500","502","502","504","502","506","504","506","504","506","502","504","506","502","504","506","500","504"]},"Alternate content system  is also connected to network . Content in alternate content system is managed by content management system  and contains files, objects, metadata, or other data that may or may not also be contained in content system . In some embodiments, a copy of at least a portion of the content managed by content management system  and\/or stored on content system  is stored on alternate content system , e.g., by mirroring content stored on content system  and\/or another content store associated with content management system  to alternate content system . In various embodiments, content is mirrored to alternate content system  periodically, as changes to data store on content system  occur, and\/or as particular content and\/or updates are requested from alternate content system . In some embodiments, alternate content system  is one of a plurality of alternate content systems containing content managed by content management system . In various embodiments, a content system is selected from among a plurality of content systems comprising content system , alternate content system , and\/or one or more other alternate content systems (not shown in ), to service a particular request. In various embodiments, a content system is selected to interact with remote system  (or determined to be preferred over one or more other content systems) based on criteria such as one or more of the following: distance from remote system , bandwidth available for communication between remote system  and the selected content system, speed of access between remote system  and the selected content system, and\/or any other relevant metric. In some embodiments, a locator or a prioritized list of locators (e.g., a locator for each of two or more content systems capable of servicing the request) usable to read content from or write (store) content to one or more content systems is provided to remote system  by content management system  based at least in part on information\u2014including, for example, candidate file(s) or object(s) location(s), distances from remote system  of respective content systems, bandwidth access to content system(s), and candidate file(s) or object(s) attributes (e.g. encryption and\/or compression characteristics)\u2014received from content system .","In some embodiments, remote system  is one of a plurality of hosts able to access content management system  via network . In some embodiments, content system  and\/or alternate content system  are implemented in one or more physical computer systems each of which includes one or more storage devices. In some embodiments, content management system  does not act as a middleman by obtaining requested content from content system  or alternate content system  and forwarding the content on to the remote system . Instead, for at least some requests (e.g., for objects larger than a threshold size), the content management system  is configured to obtain from the content system , and content system  is configured to provide, data required by the content management system  to form a URL or other identifier, locator, etc. to be provided by the content management system  to the remote host  to enable the remote host  to obtain the requested content directly from content system  (connection not shown in ) and\/or alternate content system , as applicable.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":["FIG. 6A","FIG. 5","FIG. 6A","FIG. 5"],"b":["600","602","604","602","602","604","502","500","602","602","604","504","602","604","600"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":"FIG. 6B","b":["606","608","610","612","608","608","612","606","610","608","610","608","610","610","608","610","610","610","606"]},"In some embodiments, remote system  spawns client  to receive the content locator (and\/or prioritized list of locators) and obtain the content from the content system (and\/or a first available one of the content systems associated with the respective locators in the prioritized list) using the content locator. Client  also handles errors, picks up data transfers from where they left off after an interruption, and retrieves content from a different (e.g., backup, secondary, etc.) content system if the original system is no longer available to transfer content. In addition, client  takes care of handshaking between the content management system and remote system  as well as the content system and the remote system . Client  manages the location that data is transferred to and from including the relevant folder locations, the file and\/or object names, how to display the folders, and any differences required due to operating system conventions (e.g. different naming protocols, etc.). In some embodiments, client  handles a digital signature or other type of security that allows verification of the interaction between remote system  and the content management system and between the between remote system  and the content system. In various embodiments, client  handles compression or decompression and\/or encryption or decryption of the transferred content as appropriate. In some embodiments, client  reverts to the transfer of content through the content management system in the event that it is not possible (for file structure, access, or any other reason) to transfer content directly to or from the content system.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":"FIG. 7","b":["700","708","702","704","706","710","702","708","708","702","702","704","710","710"]},"In some embodiments, web interface  communicates via the Internet and\/or one or more private and\/or public networks, using communication interface . In some embodiments, web interface  includes a set of web tools and\/or web development components. In some embodiments, web interface  comprises a web application built using a web development tool or kit associated with content server interface . In some embodiments, content server interface  comprises a framework for managing content for web or other applications running on content management system . In some embodiments, content server interface  comprises classes of content management objects that web interface  may be configured to invoke, as required, e.g., in a manner specified in an API (application programming interface) or other specification or definition, to accomplish content management related tasks, such as storing, tracking, finding, retrieving, associating metadata with, and otherwise managing stored content. In some embodiments, content system interface  includes an API and\/or a library that provides an API to the content server. In some embodiments, web interface  and content server interface  comprise software code executed by one or more processors associated with content management system .","Content system interface  is connected to a content server or other content system through communication interface . In some embodiments, content system interface  communicates with the content server using communication interface  and communication interface  is omitted. In various embodiments, content management system  is implemented using multiple computer systems, one computer system, or any other appropriate hardware and software systems.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"figref":"FIG. 8","b":["800","802","804","806","808","810","812","812","802","806","802","810","812","802","800"]},"Accelerated content server  is accessed directly from a network through communication interface  so that files can be directly read from and written to content store  by a content system. In some embodiments, direct access of a content system by a remote system through a network improves performance by avoiding indirect data transfers through a content management system. In some embodiments, a content management system manages content stored in a distributed (e.g., at least partly redundant) manner in content system  and one or more other content system(s), e.g., by files or other stored objects are kept in appropriate states (e.g. up-to-date copies of files are kept in the content system and alternate content system(s)), tracking and controlling versions across content systems, checking files in\/out, etc. In various embodiments, content system  is implemented using multiple computer systems, one computer system, or any other appropriate hardware and software systems including data storage devices such as magnetic hard drives, tape drives, semiconductor memory devices, optical data storage devices, or any mass or other storage device.","In some embodiments, metadata database  contains metadata information about the content in content store  and content in one or more alternate content stores. Examples of metadata include when and by whom documents were created, modified, edited, reviewed, and approved; keywords related to documents; version data; routing and collaboration data; date\/time the content was created, modified, etc.; and data associating two or more stored objects with each other, e.g., to create and manage a \u201cvirtual\u201d document or object. In various embodiments, metadata also include information about distances between remote systems and alternate content systems or any other relevant metric that may affect the selection or prioritized listing of alternate content systems that are interacted with by a remote system in response to a content request. In various embodiments, keywords in metadata database  are entered by the creator, editor, modifier, or approver of the document or by an automatic process or engine that scans the document to extract or identify relevant keywords, such as by using natural language or other linguistic technologies to identify key concepts based on the words comprising the document.","In some embodiments, content server  maintains a file system or other hierarchical organization or view of content in content store  and accelerated content server  has no file system of its own and instead uses the file system of content server  to read\/write content from\/to content store . In some embodiments, accelerated content server  comprises a web server.","In some embodiments, content server  has information regarding files, documents, or objects that have been transferred out of content store  and\/or alternate content stores, i.e., objects that have been \u201cchecked out\u201d for editing or other use by a user, enabling management of requests for content. In some embodiments, a content management system associated with the content server keeps track of which objects have been checked out. In some such embodiments, a subsequent request to the content management system to retrieve an object that has been checked out and has not yet been checked back in is denied, e.g., by sending a reply indicating the content is not currently available, is checked out to a user identified in the reply, etc.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0039","num":"0038"},"figref":"FIG. 9","b":["900","902","904","906","906","900","906","904","902","900","900"]},"Accelerated content server  is also accessed directly from a network through communication interface  so that files can be directly read from and written to alternate content store  by a content management system. In some embodiments, direct access of alternate content system  by a remote system through a network improves performance by avoiding indirect data transfers through a content management system, where alternate content system  is managed by a content management system so that content in content system and one or more alternate content systems are kept in appropriate states (e.g. up-to-date copies of files are kept in the content system and alternate content system(s)). In various embodiments, alternate content system  is implemented using multiple computer systems, one computer system, or any other appropriate hardware and software systems including data storage devices such as magnetic hard drives, tape drives, semiconductor memory devices, optical data storage devices, or any mass or other storage device.","In some embodiments, accelerated content server  maintains a file system or other hierarchical organization or view of content in alternate content store . In some embodiments, alternate content system  also includes a content server and accelerated content server  has no file system of its own and instead uses the file system of the content server to read\/write content from\/to alternate content store . In some embodiments, accelerated content server  comprises a web server.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0042","num":"0041"},"figref":["FIG. 10","FIG. 10","FIG. 5"],"b":["504","1000","1002","1002","1000","1004","1002","1004","1002","1002","1004"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0043","num":"0042"},"figref":["FIG. 11","FIG. 11","FIG. 5","FIG. 11"],"b":["500","1100","1102","1102","1104","1104"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0044","num":"0043"},"figref":["FIG. 12","FIG. 12"],"b":["1200","1202","1202","1200","1204","1202","1204","1204"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0045","num":"0044"},"figref":["FIG. 13","FIG. 13","FIG. 5"],"b":["500","1300","1302","1304","1304"]},"Although the foregoing embodiments have been described in some detail for purposes of clarity of understanding, the invention is not limited to the details provided. There are many alternative ways of implementing the invention. The disclosed embodiments are illustrative and not restrictive."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["Various embodiments of the invention are disclosed in the following detailed description and the accompanying drawings.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0004","num":"0003"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0005","num":"0004"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0006","num":"0005"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0007","num":"0006"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0008","num":"0007"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":"FIG. 6A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 6B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 11"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 12"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 13"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
