---
title: Container for ammunition
abstract: A container for an ammunition cartridge having a conical forward portion includes a generally cylindrical cap having a closed end and an open end; a generally cylindrical main body having a closed end, an open end and a wall, a thickness of the wall at the open end decreasing from a larger thickness to a smaller thickness to form a taper on an exterior surface of the wall; a latch assembly disposed in part on the cap and in part on the main body to lock the cap and the main body in position; a first gasket disposed in the cap; a second gasket disposed around the taper of the main body; a cartridge support disposed inside the main body; a pair of bosses disposed on the main body and axially separated; and a strap connecting the bosses and comprising a middle portion and two end portions, whereby when a load is applied to the middle portion the end portions are forced against the bosses.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07422102&OS=07422102&RS=07422102
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 07422102
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20050902
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENT INTEREST","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS"],"p":["The inventions described herein may be manufactured, used and licensed by or for the U.S. Government for U.S. Government purposes.","The invention relates to the field of military ordnance. In particular, it relates to large caliber ammunition fired from weapons in the arsenal of the United States Army, and more specifically to ammunition containers that protect the rounds fired from these weapons. While specifically developed for mortar ammunition, the invention is readily adapted to tank ammunition, grenades, and other ammunition families.","Ordnance used on the modern battlefield and in training exercises by the United States Army must be protected from the effects of vibration, shock and exposure to the elements. Exemplary cases are relatively lightweight, mobile weapons such as the Army's 60 mm, 81 mm and 120 mm mortars. The inherent portability, flexibility and ubiquity of these weapons dictate that they and the ammunition they fire can and will be exposed to a very wide range of non-ideal conditions.","These weapons and their ammunition are required to perform in conditions that include extreme heat and cold, as well as wet and dusty environs. Ammunition for these mortars is expected to survive high g-loadings such as those that might be experienced when being transported by tracked or wheeled vehicles, carried by soldiers or even delivered by fixed- or rotary-wing aircraft or by parachute.","Recent emphasis on rapid deployment and the requirement for heretofore unimaginable mobility and unprecedented firepower, as exemplified by the US Army's new Lightweight Brigade Combat Team (BCT), gives all new importance to minimizing the weight and volume associated with packing materials while maintaining the protection required by these highly explosive rounds. In addition, cost and environmental concerns can no longer be ignored and, therefore, must be addressed in an effective manner. These requirements place added restrictions on construction materials and techniques and require that the containers be re-usable and\/or recyclable.","U.S. Pat. No. 6,772,877 issued on Aug. 10, 2004 and is hereby expressly incorporated by reference. The '877 patent discloses a MONOPAQ\u2122 container. While the MONOPAQ\u2122 container of the '877 patent has functioned better than its predecessor, some of its features may be improved. First, because the MONOPAQ\u2122 container and ammunition cartridge stored therein are handled by one person, weight is an important factor. Any weight reduction is helpful. Second, an ammunition container must be sealed in a manner to provide full environmental protection to ammunition packaged for 20 years of indoor storage and 2 years of outdoor storage. Such a seal must withstand at least a 3 psi differential. The known MONOPAQ\u2122 container has dimensional restraints that make it difficult to obtain a satisfactory seal. Third, the carrying handle of the MONOPAQ\u2122 container needs to be lightweight, sturdy and easily manufactured and assembled.","It is an object of the invention to provide a MONOPAQ\u2122 container with reduced weight, in particular with a reduced weight cartridge support.","It is another object of the invention is to provide a MONOPAQ\u2122 container with a seal that will provide full environmental protection to ammunition packaged for 20 years of indoor storage and 2 years of outdoor storage and will retain at least a 3 psi seal.","Yet another object of the invention is to provide a MONOPAQ\u2122 container with a collapsible carrying handle that is lightweight, sturdy and easily manufactured and assembled.","A first feature of the invention is a cartridge support for an ammunition cartridge having a conical forward portion and disposed in a container, the cartridge support comprising a generally cylindrical, hollow body having a longitudinal axis; an interior surface of the hollow body defined by a first conical surface and a second conical surface, an angle between the first conical surface and the longitudinal axis being substantially equal to an angle between the conical forward portion of the ammunition cartridge and the longitudinal axis; the second conical surface increasing in diameter in a direction away from the first conical surface and extending to a forward end of the cartridge support; an exterior surface of the cartridge support including a flange at a rear end thereof, a third conical surface that increases in diameter from a base of the flange toward the forward end of the support, and a reduced diameter cylindrical surface that extends from an end of the third conical surface to the forward end of the support; and a plurality of longitudinal ribs formed on the third conical surface.","A second feature of the invention is a container for an ammunition cartridge having a conical forward portion, comprising a cap; a main body; a latch assembly disposed in part on the cap and in part on the main body to lock the cap and the main body in position; and a cartridge support disposed inside the main body, the cartridge support comprising: a generally cylindrical, hollow body having a longitudinal axis; an interior surface of the hollow body defined by a first conical surface and a second conical surface, an angle between the first conical surface and the longitudinal axis being substantially equal to an angle between the conical forward portion of the ammunition cartridge and the longitudinal axis; the second conical surface increasing in diameter in a direction away from the first conical surface and extending to a forward end of the cartridge support; an exterior surface of the cartridge support including a flange at a rear end thereof, a third conical surface that increases in diameter from a base of the flange toward the forward end of the support, and a reduced diameter cylindrical surface that extends from an end of the third conical surface to the forward end of the support; and a plurality of longitudinal ribs formed on the third conical surface.","A third feature of the invention is a container for an ammunition cartridge, comprising a generally cylindrical cap having a closed end and an open end, an interior of the cap having a small diameter surface and a large diameter surface, an intersection of the small diameter surface and the large diameter surface creating a step adjacent the open end, the step including a notch formed therein that extends circumferentially around the step; a generally cylindrical main body having a closed end, an open end and a wall, a thickness of the wall at the open end decreasing from a larger thickness to a smaller thickness to form a taper on an exterior surface of the wall; a latch assembly disposed in part on the cap and in part on the main body to lock the cap and the main body in position; a first gasket disposed in the notch; and a second gasket disposed around the taper of the main body; wherein when the cap is latched to the main body by the latch assembly the first and second gaskets contact each other to form a sealing surface.","A fourth feature of the invention is a container, comprising a main body; a pair of bosses disposed on the main body and axially separated, the bosses including a vertical channel and a horizontal channel, the vertical channel intersecting the horizontal channel; a strap comprising a middle portion and two end portions, the middle portion being thinner than the two end portions, the middle portion being disposed between the bosses and in the horizontal channel in each boss, the end portions being disposed on opposite sides of the bosses from the middle portion, a thickness of the end portions being greater than a thickness of the horizontal channel whereby when a load is applied to the middle portion the end portions are forced against the bosses.","A fifth feature of the invention is a container for an ammunition cartridge having a conical forward portion, comprising a cap; a main body; a latch assembly disposed in part on the cap and in part on the main body to lock the cap and the main body in position; a cartridge support disposed inside the main body, the cartridge support comprising: a generally cylindrical, hollow body having a longitudinal axis; an interior surface of the hollow body defined by a first conical surface and a second conical surface, an angle between the first conical surface and the longitudinal axis being substantially equal to an angle between the conical forward portion of the ammunition cartridge and the longitudinal axis; the second conical surface increasing in diameter in a direction away from the first conical surface and extending to a forward end of the cartridge support; an exterior surface of the cartridge support including a flange at a rear end thereof, a third conical surface that increases in diameter from a base of the flange toward the forward end of the support, and a reduced diameter cylindrical surface that extends from an end of the third conical surface to the forward end of the support; and a plurality of longitudinal ribs formed on the third conical surface; a pair of bosses disposed on the main body and axially separated, the bosses including a vertical channel and a horizontal channel, the vertical channel intersecting the horizontal channel; and a strap comprising a middle portion and two end portions, the middle portion being thinner than the two end portions, the middle portion being disposed between the bosses and in the horizontal channel in each boss, the end portions being disposed on opposite sides of the bosses from the middle portion, a thickness of the end portions being greater than a thickness of the horizontal channel whereby when a load is applied to the middle portion the end portions are forced against the bosses.","A sixth feature of the invention is a container for an ammunition cartridge, comprising a generally cylindrical cap having a closed end and an open end, an interior of the cap having a small diameter surface and a large diameter surface, an intersection of the small diameter surface and the large diameter surface creating a step adjacent the open end, the step including a notch formed therein that extends circumferentially around the step; a generally cylindrical main body having a closed end, an open end and a wall, a thickness of the wall at the open end decreasing from a larger thickness to a smaller thickness to form a taper on an exterior surface of the wall; a latch assembly disposed in part on the cap and in part on the main body to lock the cap and the main body in position; a first gasket disposed in the notch; a second gasket disposed around the taper of the main body; wherein when the cap is latched to the main body by the latch assembly the first and second gaskets contact each other to form a sealing surface; a pair of bosses disposed on the main body and axially separated, the bosses including a vertical channel and a horizontal channel, the vertical channel intersecting the horizontal channel; and a strap comprising a middle portion and two end portions, the middle portion being thinner than the two end portions, the middle portion being disposed between the bosses and in the horizontal channel in each boss, the end portions being disposed on opposite sides of the bosses from the middle portion, a thickness of the end portions being greater than a thickness of the horizontal channel whereby when a load is applied to the middle portion the end portions are forced against the bosses.","A seventh feature of the invention is a container for an ammunition cartridge having a conical forward portion, comprising a generally cylindrical cap having a closed end and an open end, an interior of the cap having a small diameter surface and a large diameter surface, an intersection of the small diameter surface and the large diameter surface creating a step adjacent the open end, the step including a notch formed therein that extends circumferentially around the step; a generally cylindrical main body having a closed end, an open end and a wall, a thickness of the wall at the open end decreasing from a larger thickness to a smaller thickness to form a taper on an exterior surface of the wall; a latch assembly disposed in part on the cap and in part on the main body to lock the cap and the main body in position; a first gasket disposed in the notch; a second gasket disposed around the taper of the main body; wherein when the cap is latched to the main body by the latch assembly the first and second gaskets contact each other to form a sealing surface; a cartridge support disposed inside the main body, the cartridge support comprising: a generally cylindrical, hollow body having a longitudinal axis; an interior surface of the hollow body defined by a first conical surface and a second conical surface, an angle between the first conical surface and the longitudinal axis being substantially equal to an angle between the conical forward portion of the ammunition cartridge and the longitudinal axis; the second conical surface increasing in diameter in a direction away from the first conical surface and extending to a forward end of the cartridge support; an exterior surface of the cartridge support including a flange at a rear end thereof, a third conical surface that increases in diameter from a base of the flange toward the forward end of the support, and a reduced diameter cylindrical surface that extends from an end of the third conical surface to the forward end of the support; and a plurality of longitudinal ribs formed on the third conical surface; a pair of bosses disposed on the main body and axially separated, the bosses including a vertical channel and a horizontal channel, the vertical channel intersecting the horizontal channel; and a strap comprising a middle portion and two end portions, the middle portion being thinner than the two end portions, the middle portion being disposed between the bosses and in the horizontal channel in each boss, the end portions being disposed on opposite sides of the bosses from the middle portion, a thickness of the end portions being greater than a thickness of the horizontal channel whereby when a load is applied to the middle portion the end portions are forced against the bosses.","The invention will be better understood, and further objects, features, and advantages thereof will become more apparent from the following description of the preferred embodiments, taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.","Details of the prior MONOPAQ\u2122 container are found in U.S. Pat. No. 6,772,877. The present invention includes several changes to the prior MONOPAQ\u2122 container. The known container includes a cartridge support disposed inside the container, for supporting the forward or fuze end of a cartridge. In the present invention, a novel cartridge support is lighter and stronger. The known container uses a conventional gasket to seal the cap of the container to the body. The present invention uses a novel configuration of the mating surfaces of the cap and body and two gaskets, one in the cap and one in the body, to seal the cap to the body. Further, the present invention includes an innovative, lightweight collapsible carrying handle.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0050","num":"0049"},"figref":["FIG. 1A","FIG. 1B","FIG. 1"],"b":["10","10","16","12","16","12","18","22","24","18","12","22","12","24","16","10","22","24","22","24","18","26","14","16","12","16","12"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0051","num":"0050"},"figref":["FIG. 1B","FIG. 1A","FIG. 1B"],"b":["100","10","100","102","104","106","104","100","10","102","18","106","16"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0052","num":"0051"},"figref":["FIG. 2A","FIG. 1A","FIG. 2B","FIG. 2A","FIG. 2C","FIG. 2B","FIG. 2D","FIG. 2C","FIG. 2C"],"b":["10","2","2","32","10","32","102","100","32"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0053","num":"0052"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 4","FIG. 3","FIG. 4A","FIG. 4","FIG. 4B","FIG. 4A","FIG. 4C","FIG. 4","FIG. 4D","FIG. 4A","FIGS. 3-4","FIG. 4D","FIG. 1B","FIG. 4A"],"b":["32","32","4","4","4","4","4","4","32","34","34","36","38","36","102","100","38","36","42","32"]},"The external surface of the support  includes a flange  at a rear end of the support , a third conical surface  that increases in diameter from the base of flange  toward the forward end  of the support, and a reduced diameter cylindrical surface  that extends from the end of third conical surface  to the end  of the support . The step or notch  created between third conical surface  and reduced diameter cylindrical surface  mates with a corresponding notch  () in the MONOPAQ\u2122 container body  to securely locate the support  in the container body . The tapered nature of the third conical surface  provides for the best possible compression and rebound of the container .","As shown in , flange  includes a plurality of slots  formed on its rear surface. The slots  help reduce the amount of material used and the weight of support  and, consequently, the weight of container . Preferably, the slots  are circumferentially evenly spaced. In one preferred embodiment, the number of slots is eight.","A plurality of longitudinal ribs  are formed on the conical surface . Each rib  extends from the forward face of the flange  to the end of conical surface . As seen in , the radial width of each rib  is largest where the rib abuts flange  and decreases as the diameter of conical surface  increases, until the rib completely blends with conical surface  where notch  is formed. As best seen in , the outermost radial extent of each rib  is constant along the longitudinal length of the support  and does not exceed the outside diameter of the flange . Preferably, the ribs  are circumferentially evenly spaced. In one preferred embodiment, the number of ribs is eight.","The use of ribs  decreases the overall weight of support  and spreads the dynamic load distribution over a larger amount of material. The longitudinal ribs  significantly increase the strength of the support  in the longitudinal direction. This increased strength helps avoid cracking (which is a common failure for thermoplastics) of the support  during rough handling impacts of the container . Flange  also increases the strength of the support  in both the radial and longitudinal directions. The flange  substantially increases the hoop strength of the support  in the radial direction and prevents the interior opening of support  from being forcibly enlarged upon a nose down impact. An enlarged support opening would allow the cartridge  to penetrate through the support  and hit the bottom of the container . As a result, the cartridge  would likely receive unrecoverable damages. The ribs  and flange  are important in preventing such an enlargement of the interior opening of support .","A preferred composition of the support  is high-density polyethylene (HDPE). The support  satisfies packaging performance requirements from ambient to temperature extremes (\u221260\u00b0 F. and +160\u00b0 F.). The MONOPAQ\u2122 cartridge support  provides fuze protection, and satisfies dynamic loading and drop testing requirements. The cartridge support  can be adapted to other U.S. or foreign ammunition packaging which require similar internal cartridge\/fuze support. The cartridge support  is placed in the forward end of the MONOPAQ\u2122 container  before the cartridge  is inserted. If necessary, the support  can be bonded to the bottom of the container  to eliminate the presence of loose or moving parts. The cylindrical support  allows the nose end  of the cartridge  to rest on its first conical surface , while completely surrounding and protecting the fuze.","Another aspect of the present invention is a new sealing system for the MONOPAQ\u2122 container. An ammunition container must have the ability to provide full environmental protection to ammunition packaged for 20 years of indoor storage and 2 years of outdoor storage. A container that holds a leak proof seal at both hot (+160\u00b0 F.) and cold (\u221265\u00b0 F.) temperature extremes helps meet this requirement. Such a seal must remain intact and retain a 3 psi seal following compression, vibrations and drops that frequently occur during storage and transportation.","The inventive sealing system includes novel mating surfaces on the body  and cap  of the MONOPAQ\u2122 container  and novel gaskets for the body and cap mating surfaces. The sealing system uses the interface of two gaskets to provide a leak proof seal that meets the performance requirements for ammunition containers. The inventive gaskets are made of, for example, neoprene rubber.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0061","num":"0060"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 5A","FIG. 5","FIG. 5B","FIG. 5A","FIG. 5C","FIG. 5B","FIGS. 5B and 5C"],"b":["16","16","5","5","16","62","64","14","16","60","24","64","16","66","68","66","68","70","64","70","72","70","72"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0062","num":"0061"},"figref":["FIG. 6A","FIG. 6B","FIG. 6A","FIG. 6C","FIG. 6B","FIG. 5","FIG. 7"],"b":["58","58","6","6","58","58","72","16","72","58","10","16","74","64","16","74","76","12","74","16","12","58","14","74"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0063","num":"0062"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 7A","FIG. 7","FIG. 7B","FIG. 7A","FIG. 7B","FIGS. 8A and 8B"],"b":["12","12","12","80","78","82","82","78","84","82","86","78","84","86","16","12","14","58","86"]},"Removal of the cap  from the body  is easier with the taper  as compared to a non-tapered body. A small gap between the taper  and the cap interior wall allows the U-shaped gasket  room to expand when compressed, which is essential for a tight seal. The U-shaped gasket  is neoprene molded to match the exact dimensions regarding the diameter of the body opening  and the tapered body end . High strength adhesive is applied to the taper  and then the gasket  is installed.","The contact of the two gaskets ,  allows for a larger seal area than if only one gasket was used. This is because both gaskets ,  are in compression, which forms a large seal area compared to the tight dimensional confines of the cap\/body interface area. As well as sealing in compression, the body gasket  also seals with shear force on the inside of the cap , without compromising the forces needed to apply or remove the cap. When the container  is dropped or vibrated severely, the cap  moves in and out slightly with respect to the body . The use of the two gaskets ,  allows for this slight displacement as a means of shock absorption, while retaining seal ability. The cap gasket  also acts as a cushion that provides substantial protection to avoid cuts on the body gasket .","The process of initially sealing the container  comprises three primary steps:","1. Cap gasket  is added to the cap : Cap  is designed to accept the rectangular cross-section of the neoprene gasket . The cap channel or notch  is coated with adhesive and the gasket  is then inserted. The cap notch  keeps the gasket  highly constrained even if the adhesive fails.","2. Gasket  is added to the body taper : The body taper  allows proper fit into the U-shaped gasket . As with the cap gasket , an adhesive is applied to keep the gasket  secure.","3. Assembly of cap and body: A seal is made in compression between the cap gasket  and the body gasket . The body gasket  also forms a shear seal with the polyester composite material that forms the inside of the cap . Due to the dimensional constraints on the container , the use of two gaskets ,  allows great compression, accomplished at a level that is acceptable for latch open\/close forces.","Another aspect of the invention is a carrying handle for the MONOPAQ\u2122 container . The soldier requires a sturdy handle to rapidly transport the containers  containing ammunition in an adverse battlefield environment. This requirement is more critical when operating in a remote area where motorized transportation is not viable, as was learned in the Southwest Asia theater. The innovative, lightweight collapsible carrying handle of the present invention satisfies this requirement and solves this problem.","The inventive handle for the MONOPAQ\u2122 container  is a simple and cost effective solution to handle mounting. There is no need for expensive adhesives (which usually do not maintain the required strength at both high and low temperature extremes), reinforced metal brackets, steel handle levers, mechanical fasteners, or any closure components that may require the use of secondary manufacturing operations. As shown in , the handle  comprises two main components, bosses  and a strap . The handle bosses  are preferably compression molded as a single piece with the container body . The handle strap  is preferably made of woven polypropylene. The strap  is easily installed on the bosses  through a small open slot on top of the boss. The elimination of adhesive, mechanical fasteners, closure components and special tools drastically decreases the possibility of human error during the assembly operation. The design also allows for a simple, inexpensive replacement of the handle strap  if rework is ever required for the container in the field environment.","The handle  exceeds the 175 pound minimum breaking strength for pull test at +160\u00b0 F. and \u221265\u00b0 F. temperatures. The carrying handle  breaking strength averages over 350 pounds, based on lab test results. The handle  remains fully collapsible so as not to impede on the envelope requirements of the container . The handle strap  can be easily removed and replaced if, for example, the container  is subjected to NBC (Nuclear, Biological, Chemical) contamination. The handle  uses no metal parts, which is beneficial for passing the fast and slow cook-off (FCO and SCO) testing requirements as there are no hazardous metal fragments generated during the FCO and SCO scenarios. As a result, better Insensitive Munitions (IM) response is obtained. The handle strap  also successfully passed the sequential rough handling (drop, vibration) testing of the container .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0073","num":"0072"},"figref":["FIG. 9","FIG. 7A"],"b":["88","9","9","88","12","92","88","94","90","88","12","92","94"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0074","num":"0073"},"figref":["FIG. 10A","FIG. 10B","FIG. 10A","FIG. 10C","FIG. 10B"],"b":["90","90","90","96","98","96","98","96","88","94","88","98","88","96","98","94","98","94","96","98","88","90","90","96","98","92","94"]},"As shown in , the strap assembly process is as simple as tightly pinching the handle strap in half (as shown by \u2032 in ) and inserting the strap  into the vertical channel . The strap  naturally opens up into the horizontal channel . Strap  remains completely collapsible in the horizontal channels . Pull testing has shown that the composite handle bosses  will fail at maximum weight before the strap  can be pulled out of the mounting boss .","While the invention has been described with reference to certain preferred embodiments, numerous changes, alterations and modifications to the described embodiments are possible without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined in the appended claims, and equivalents thereof."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["In the drawings, which are not necessarily to scale, like or corresponding parts are denoted by like or corresponding reference numerals.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 1A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":["FIG. 1B","FIG. 1A"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":["FIG. 2A","FIG. 1A"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":["FIG. 2B","FIG. 2A"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":["FIG. 2C","FIG. 2B"],"b":["2","2"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":["FIG. 2D","FIG. 2C"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 3"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":["FIG. 4A","FIG. 4"],"b":["4","4"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":["FIG. 4B","FIG. 4A"],"b":["4","4"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":["FIG. 4C","FIG. 4"],"b":["4","4"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":["FIG. 4D","FIG. 4A"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":["FIG. 5A","FIG. 5"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"figref":["FIG. 5B","FIG. 5A"],"b":["5","5"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0034"},"figref":["FIG. 5C","FIG. 5B"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"figref":"FIG. 6A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0037","num":"0036"},"figref":["FIG. 6B","FIG. 6A"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0037"},"figref":["FIG. 6C","FIG. 6A"],"b":["6","6"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0039","num":"0038"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0040","num":"0039"},"figref":"FIG. 7A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0041","num":"0040"},"figref":["FIG. 7B","FIG. 7A"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0042","num":"0041"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0043","num":"0042"},"figref":["FIG. 8A","FIG. 8"],"b":["8","8"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0044","num":"0043"},"figref":["FIG. 8B","FIG. 8A"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0045","num":"0044"},"figref":["FIG. 9","FIG. 7A"],"b":["9","9"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0046","num":"0045"},"figref":"FIG. 10A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0047","num":"0046"},"figref":["FIG. 10B","FIG. 10A"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0048","num":"0047"},"figref":["FIG. 10C","FIG. 10B"]}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
