---
title: Breadcrumb with alternative restriction traversal
abstract: A breadcrumb may be displayed which identifies at least two restrictions of a plurality of documents in a sequence. The breadcrumb may include a graphical user interface element associated with a selected one of the restrictions having at least one subsequent restriction in the sequence. Once this graphical user interface element is selected, at least one attribute and a numeric indication of a number of the documents responsive to each restriction prior to the selected restriction that contain the attribute and each restriction in the sequence subsequent to the selected restriction may be displayed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07707506&OS=07707506&RS=07707506
owner: SAP AG
number: 07707506
owner_city: Walldorf
owner_country: DE
publication_date: 20051228
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["TECHNICAL FIELD","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["The subject matter described herein relates to categorizing documents and other data files in a breadcrumb with alternative restriction traversal options.","Search queries are continually being generated and executed in relation to expanding numbers of documents and other data sources. However, difficulties arise when large numbers of matching documents are presented in response to a query. In particular, it is often difficult to categorize and traverse various groups of responsive documents in an efficient and user-friendly fashion.","In one aspect, a breadcrumb is displayed or otherwise provided that identifies at least two restrictions of a plurality of documents in a sequence. Thereafter, a graphical user interface element associated with a selected one of the restrictions having at least one subsequent restriction in the sequence may be activated. After the selection of the graphical user interface element, at least one attribute and a numeric indication of a number of the documents responsive to each restriction prior to the selected restriction that contain the attribute and each restriction in the sequence subsequent to the selected restriction is displayed.","Selection of the displayed attribute may cause the breadcrumb to be modified to include that attribute in the sequence. Alternatively, one or more documents responsive to each restriction in the modified breadcrumb and\/or information associated with such documents (e.g., titles, summaries, etc.) may be displayed.","When a restriction in the breadcrumb is selected, there may be a list of attributes which are displayed. Such a list may include a fixed number of attributes or it may only include attributes in which there are responsive documents (i.e., documents in which each restriction including the selected attribute may be found). In some variations, the order in which the attributes are presented may be adjusted (or ranked) according to factors such as: number of responsive documents containing the displayed attributes, most recently accessed documents containing the displayed attributes, most frequently accessed documents containing the displayed attributes, alphabetical order, and the like. Additionally, in some variations, the listing of the attributes and\/or access to documents may be based on a permission level associated with the user.","In another interrelated aspect, a first subset of categories of documents responsive to a search query and optionally a number of the documents associated with each first subset category are displayed. Each document may have one or more associated attributes to allow the categories to form hierarchical nodes of a virtual taxonomy. The documents are arranged in the nodes of the virtual taxonomy according to their respective one or more associated attributes. Additionally, a selection of a graphical user interface element associated with one of the categories in the first subset is received. Thereafter, a second subset of categories of documents responsive to the search query and optionally a number of the documents associated with one or more of the second subset categories is displayed. The second subset of documents comprises one or more categories residing on at least one of a sister node to a node associated with the selected category and a node descending therefrom. In some variations, the number of associated documents is omitted.","In some variations, at least a portion of the documents may be displayed under a corresponding category. Additionally or in the alternative, a second search query may be received such that a third subset of documents may be identified which are responsive to the search query and which are within the node associated with the selected category and its child nodes. Moreover, at least a portion of the third subset of documents or categories associated with the identified third subset of documents may be displayed. Documents may be displayed when the number of documents within a certain category are below a predetermined level.","In some arrangements, the displayed categories are pairwise disjoint\u2014which results in each document falling within only a single category. In other variations, a single document may reside within several categories. In order to aid review of the folders and documents responsive to a query (e.g., a key word search query or a query defined by navigation through the virtual taxonomy), the displayed categories may contain a substantially identical number of documents. Alternatively, there may be a fixed number of categories which are designated after determining how many responsive documents should be distributed therein.","The displayed categories may be based on integer identifications and\/or alphanumeric strings. The categories may also be separated by a pre-determined fixed interval. These intervals may contains gaps therebetween.","Access to certain categories and\/or documents may be limited based on permission status of a user. For example, access to certain displayed categories and\/or documents may only be granted to users having a predetermined permission level. Alternatively, only categories and\/or documents which a user has permission to access may be displayed.","At least a portion of the traversed categories may be displayed in a breadcrumb navigational arrangement. For example, SAP\u2192Business Solutions\u2192Advanced Technologies\u2192Data Warehousing. A user may select any of these categories and conduct a search of the documents below such category.","In other variations, only categories having less than a predetermined number of ancestor nodes intermediate a root node may be displayed. For example, in some circumstances, it may be desirable to only display the \u201cdeepest\u201d folders within a taxonomy.","In an interrelated aspect, a first subset of categories of a plurality of documents responsive to a search query and limited by at least one restriction and optionally a number of the plurality of documents associated with each first subset category in a breadcrumb navigational arrangement are displayed. These documents also include one or more associated attributes that are used to define categories of a virtual taxonomy. The documents are arranged in the virtual taxonomy according to their respective one or more associated attributes. After a selection of a graphical user interface element associated with one of the categories in the first subset is received, a second subset of categories of a plurality of documents responsive to the search query and a number of the plurality of documents associated with each second subset category are displayed. This second subset comprises one or more categories residing on at least one of a sister node to a node associated with the selected category or a node descending therefrom.","In a further interrelated aspect, a first subset of categories of documents forming part of a virtual taxonomy that are responsive to a search query and a number of the documents associated with each first subset category are displayed. In response to the selection of a graphical user interface element (e.g., a folder icon, etc.) associated with one of the categories in the first subset and one or more restrictions to the search query, a second subset of categories of documents responsive to the search query and limited by the one or more restrictions and a number of the documents associated with each second subset category are displayed.","Computer program products, which may be embodied on computer readable-material, are also described. Such computer program products may include executable instructions that cause a computer system to conduct one or more of the method acts described herein.","Similarly, computer systems are also described that may include a processor and a memory coupled to the processor. The memory may encode one or more programs that cause the processor to perform one or more of the method acts described herein.","The subject matter described herein provides many advantages. The techniques for selectively displaying documents responsive to a search query as described herein prevent overly complex combinatorial arrangements of documents. Moreover, flexible navigation alternatives are provided thereby increasing usability when traversing a large number of documents responsive to a search query. Such improvements in navigation may be used for a wide variety of applications including internal enterprise portals and auction and other websites selling a large number of goods and services. In particular, the subject matter described herein allows for taxonomies to be computed on the fly during navigation so that documents may be categorized according to time intervals such as last week, last day, last seven hours, week before, from 10 to 5 days before, and the like.","The details of one or more variations of the subject matter described herein are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other features and advantages of the subject matter described herein will be apparent from the description and drawings, and from the claims.","Like reference symbols in the various drawings indicate like elements.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0068","num":"0067"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["100","110","120","130"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0069","num":"0068"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":["200","210","220","230","200","250","200","260"]},"The input processor  may receive a restriction from one of the plurality of clients  via the communications network . This search query\/restriction may then be provided to the engine  which, via the output processor , polls the data repository  to obtain responsive documents. The engine , in some variations, may additionally poll the data repository  for one or more indexes which may be used to identify documents responsive to the restriction as well as any preceding and subsequent restrictions in the sequence. The engine  also constructs a breadcrumb and\/or a virtual taxonomy for the identified responsive documents and generates data to be provided to the requesting client  so that the client  can in turn render a graphical representation of at least a portion of the breadcrumb and\/or virtual taxonomy. Optionally, information characterizing documents associated with each restriction or category may be displayed.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0071","num":"0070"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":["300","300","310","310","320","330","340","350","360","370","320","330","340"]},"The virtual taxonomy  may be defined on the application programming interface (API) level via an XML file that specifies one or more indexes containing the documents as well as the properties used to structure the documents. For the example above only the properties \u201cCompany\u201d and \u201cPrice\u201d were defined. For \u201cCompany\u201d it was specified that it should be used as the first listed attribute whereby all values of the documents in the index should be listed. For \u201cPrice\u201d it was specified that it should be used as the second listed attribute whereby price ranges should be determined.","The structure of the taxonomy may be computed on the fly during navigating through the virtual taxonomy . Therefore, the structure of the virtual taxonomy  is always adapted to a current document set. If, for example, documents of a further company are added to one of the identified indexes, these documents are immediately visible.","In some variations, the order of the taxonomy levels is pre-defined. For example,  illustrates XML code  in which a fixed order taxonomy is defined. With this arrangement, a \u201cVIR_DEFINITION\u201d part may specify one or more of the following:\n\n","The next part of the XML code  is a list of indexes, which specifies the documents used in the virtual taxonomy. By including multiple indexes a single taxonomy containing documents from all of these indexes may be specified. Thereafter, the XML code  specifies the different levels (e.g., category levels) of the virtual taxonomies. The order of these definitions determines the order of the levels in the taxonomy. Every level may be either an attribute or query level.","An attribute level may use the tag \u201cVIR_ATTR\u201d. It may defines taxonomy level for a property using one or more of the following settings:\n\n","A query level may be defined by a set of queries. Each query may define a subnode containing only those child nodes fulfilling the query. A query level may be specified via the tag \u201cVIR_QUERY\u201d with a name. Such a query level may contain a list of \u201cVIR_QUERY_RID\u201ds each specifying a node for that level via one or more of the following:\n\n",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0078","num":"0089"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 6"],"b":["500","510","520","520","600","610","600","520","620"]},"If the demo001 folder  is selected, a further level  of the taxonomy as illustrated in  may be displayed. This taxonomy level  also includes a breadcrumb header  which additionally includes the demo001 folder node. The folders  displayed at this level of taxonomy  may be built by separating the documents with respect to an attribute such as the \u201clast modified\u201d date. For such an attribute, ranges may be determined as defined by \u201cproposeRanges\u201d. For date properties, the documents may be separated into any pre-defined granularities such as years, quarter, months, days, and the like. For other properties a start and end value may be provided. The \u201cdisplayName\u201d specified in the XML may be presented before the values. For every folder , the number of documents below that folder (i.e., fulfilling the restrictions of the folder) may be presented. In , Modified: 2001 folder  indicates that 5919 documents were modified in the year 2001.","If the Modified: 2001 folder  is selected, a query level \u201cCountries\u201d a further level  of the taxonomy is presented as illustrated in . This level  includes a breadcrumb header  that includes all of the traversed levels with Taxonomies as the senior folder and Modified: 2001 as the junior folder. In this case, the illustrated queries are content queries using the terms \u201cFrance\u201d, \u201cGermany\u201d and \u201cSpain\u201d (however, it will be appreciated that any kind of query may be specified) which are illustrated in their respective folders , , . The folder  with the label Spain shows that only 51 documents modified in  contain the term \u201cSpain\u201d.","If the Spain folder  is selected, the next subsequent (and last) level  of the taxonomy is expanded as illustrated in  (which also includes a modified breadcrumb header ). If any of the folders  within this level are selected, links to documents  in such folder  are shown (as compared to another level of folders) as illustrated in level  of  (which also contains a revised breadcrumb header ).","Returning to the level  illustrated in , if the Modified: 2000 folder  is selected, and if there are no documents fulfilling one of the queries on the next level, links  to the corresponding documents are immediately presented as illustrated in level  of  (which includes a corresponding breadcrumb header ). With this arrangement, because a \u201cdocumentSeparationNumber\u201d has been specified, the document links  are automatically subdivided into separation folders. If you select one these folders , you will get the documents in it.","If the Modified: 2004 folder  is selected at level  in  is selected, links to the associated documents are immediately presented because their number is below a number specified in the \u201cmaxNumberOfFolderDocs\u201d field.","In some variations, a full expansion virtual taxonomy may be utilized that does not define an order for the attribute and query levels in the taxonomy. With such an arrangement, each property or query may be selected to further navigate at any point in the taxonomy. The documents (e.g., links to documents) may presented when their number under a folder is below the value specified with \u201cmaxNumberOfFolderDocs\u201d.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0085","num":"0096"},"figref":["FIG. 12","FIG. 5","FIG. 13"],"b":["1200","500","1300"]},"With reference to , all of the defined queries and properties may be displayed in the folders . Navigation may advance into the \u201cTopics\u201d query level by selecting the Topics folder . Once selected, as illustrated in level  in , folders  for different query RIDs may be displayed. Selection of the Test folder  causes a new level  as illustrated in  to be displayed with includes folders  corresponding to the defined queries and properties.","In yet other variations, combinations of fixed order and full expansions taxonomies may be utilized. For example, the \u201cfixedOrderLevels\u201d attribute may specify by its number n that the first n property and query level definitions are used in fixed order. The remaining property and query definitions are used as in a full expansion taxonomy. XML code  to generate such a combination taxonomy is illustrated in .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0088","num":"0099"},"figref":["FIG. 17","FIG. 18"],"b":["1700","1710","1720","1800","1800","1810"]},"An execution plan  as illustrated in  may be utilized to define which attribute and query levels should be presented within a taxonomy. The execution plan  may include a root node  from which the various folder (category) nodes n-n may be traversed as indicated by the interconnecting arrows. Sample XML code  for implementing such a taxonomy is illustrated in .","The XML code  provides that to enable a plan execution, \u201cguidedNavStrategy\u201d is set to \u201cusePlan\u201d. A plan is defined by specifying a start node <VIR_START> with two successors. Each successor defines a node by its name. Every node is defined by its name and a level. The level x specifies the x-th defined attribute or query level starting with 0, e.g. node \u201cn\u201d specifies the level 1, which means that is specifies the \u201cCountries\u201d query level.","A first level  of a taxonomy implementing the execution plan  of  is illustrated in . At this level, folders corresponding to the two successors of the start node , n and n are respectively presented as Countries folder  and Modified folder . Selection of the Modified folder  will result in an additional level  being displayed (as illustrated in ) which includes folders  with different ranges for that attribute (namely years). Selection of one of these folders  will result in an additional level  being displayed (as illustrated in ) in which the successors of node n, nodes n and n, are respectively presented as a Countries folder  and a Size folder . Selection of Countries folder  permits the traversal to any of nodes n-n, and selection of Size folder  permits the traversal to either of nodes n and n.","Variations may also be provided in which navigation through various folders of repositories that are used as data sources of the indexes which form the basis of the construction of a virtual taxonomy (with only folders fulfilling specified restrictions being presented). In addition, only folders and\/or documents for which a user has access rights are shown. To implement this functionality, an entry \u201cfolderNameForIndexing\u201d may be used and the corresponding type may be set to \u201cuseSeparator\u201d. Furthermore, an entry \u201cseparator\u201d may be set to \u201c\/\u201d. XML code  illustrating such properties is illustrated in  with the display name \u201cFolders\u201d.","For example, after selecting \u201cFolders\u201d under the node \u201c10001-20000 Byte\u201d, as illustrated in the breadcrumb navigation  of the level  in , a first folder level of the repositories of the documents in the indexes is presented that only includes documents fulfilling the restriction defined by the query of the node \u201c10001-20000 Byte\u201d. If the cnn folder  is selected, a new level  as illustrated in  will be presented that includes a series of folders  which allows for the navigation for all alternatives as demo0031 is a full expansion taxonomy.","If the Folders folder  in  is selected, a second level  as illustrated in  is displayed which includes a breadcrumb navigations  and folders  on a second level below the cnn folder . It will be appreciated that a folder structure is only an example for dividing an attribute into a hierarchy. If would also be possible with other attributes with some separator, for example, Company\u2014Project\u2014Phase, which would be separated into three levels Company, Project and Phase, and the like.","Each node in the virtual taxonomy may be allow for a search to be executed within such node and its associated child nodes. For example, with reference to , a view  is displayed in which a folder  is activated by right clicking a mouse button which results in pop-up menu  being displayed. Pop-up menu  may include a menu item  that causes one or more windows to be opened that allow for a search to be conducted from the selected node of the documents within that folder. Thereafter, only documents responsive the search query that fall under the selected node may be displayed (whether in a taxonomy or otherwise).","In addition, the pop-up menu  may also include another menu item  which, when activated, causes, all documents under a certain folder to be displayed. If a \u201cdocSeparationNumber\u201d number is defined, the documents are subdivided into separation folders as explained above. Otherwise they are presented without separation folders.","For a specified attribute used in a virtual taxonomy, it may be specified that further navigation is only executed with respect to that attribute by setting noIntermediateFolder=\u201ctrue\u201d. Such an arrangement may be used for attributes that are not used in a fixed order part of a virtual taxonomy. With reference to the view  in , such a feature is used for the folder attribute providing a folder navigation without disturbing intermediate folders (although it will be appreciated that this feature may be used for all kinds of attributes). Selection of the cnn folder  will result in the view  in  which includes a plurality of folders  which relate to the cnn category as well as a folder labelled Achim  which was specified as forming part of the cnn category. Selection of a folder  provides a view  as illustrated in  which includes a plurality of folders  as well as a partial list of responsive documents  within those folders .","In one alternative, the folder attribute may be used for navigating in the folder structure so that only the deepest folders (i.e., those folders farthest from a root node) are presented. With such a variation, any and all intermediate folders above without any documents therein are not shown. This arrangement can be defined by setting the \u201ctype\u201d of the folder attribute on \u201cuseDeepestSeparator.\u201d It will be appreciated that the folder structure is only one example for dividing an attribute into a hierarchy and that other attributes may be utilized.","It will also be appreciated that after navigating a particular restriction, the order and maximum number of restrictions that will be offered for the next navigation may be predefined or otherwise determined based on previous traversals by a user. With such a variation, the user is not overburdened with a plethora of options for further restriction.","Query level definitions may also be utilized so that a starting folder in a query based taxonomy may be specified. If such a specified query level is selected for further navigation, the navigation proceeds as if the user started at the specified folder with all previously selected restrictions in the virtual taxonomy path.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0101","num":"0112"},"figref":"FIG. 32","b":["3200","3200"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0102","num":"0113"},"figref":["FIG. 33","FIG. 34","FIG. 35","FIG. 36"],"b":["3300","3310","3320","3400","3500","3600"]},"While folders are typically displayed in the user interface by their display name, other values may be displayed. For example, if a folder name is comprised of integers, alternative representations may be used in order to increase usability. With some virtual taxonomies, a sort property \u201cvirtualTaxSortString\u201d may be configured as sort property to ensure a reasonable sorting of folders. Other translations of integer values and other alphanumeric representations may be used in sorting and labelling the folders.","As described above, every folder in a virtual taxonomy may include a corresponding number identifying an amount of documents within such folder. In some variations, these numbers are omitted (which may be for certain levels or folders or for an entire virtual taxonomy). In addition, other information may be included under a column marked Documents, such as in , in which a number of stars correlate to a number of documents contained therein.","In some views, values or ranges associated with displayed folders may omit units. However, as illustrated in XML code  of , units of measurement may be defined by modifying the entry \u201cdisplayNameSuffix\u201d of the property \u201ccontentlength\u201d to a identifier such as \u201cbytes\u201d.","Ranges which are used to determine a number of folders within a certain view may be defined in a variety of ways. Sample techniques for determining the number of folders include:\n\n","An optimal number of ranges may be set by setting an entry \u201coptimalRangeNumber\u201d. In some variations, ten ranges are specified as an optimal number and so approximately ten ranges are provided whenever there are a sufficient number of responsive documents. In addition, for integer properties, an alternative range strategy \u201cequidistance\u201d may be implemented by setting the entry \u201cdistributionAlgm\u201d on the value \u201cequidistance\u201d.","When ranges are specified for integers, range borders may also be specified in order to avoid arbitrary ranges (e.g., 1 to 10,000 bytes vs. 35,684 to 45,683 byes, etc.). XML code  illustrated in  illustrates an arrangement in which border ranges may be specifically defined. In the XML code , for the property level with display name \u201cContent Length 10000:\u201d, the entry \u201cdistributionAlgm\u201d is set to \u201cranges\u201d indicating that ranges should be defined. This definition is accomplished with the entry \u201crangeDefinition\u201d which is set to \u201c10[interval=10000,start=0,end=100000], 11[interval=1000,start=0,end=100000]\u201d. However, such an arrangement requires advance information regarding possible integer values of responsive documents.","Sounds ranges may also be determined for strings as provided above for a property layer with display name \u201cName Round:\u201d. Therefore, an entry \u201cdistributionAlgm\u201d is set to \u201cround\u201d.  illustrates a view  in which ranges for folders  are based on both integer and alphabetical indicators including a folder  for the range L-A.  illustrates a view  that is displayed in response to the selection of the folder  for the range L-A which includes folders  that are based on alphabetical indicators within the designated range with one folder  that is a folder for documents beginning with the word S. Selection of the \u201c5\u201d folder  results in the view  as illustrated in  with folders  being displayed.","Ranges may also be defined with gaps for integer properties with a display name \u201cContent Length Separate:\u201d. With this arrangement an entry \u201cdistributionAlgm\u201d may be set to \u201cseparateRanges\u201d and the entry \u201crangeDefinition\u201d may be set to:","\u201c10[value1=0,value2=5000,operator=BT],10[value1=6000,value2=10000, operator=BT],","11[value1=1000,value2=2000,operator=BT],11[value1=3000,value2=5000, operator=BT]\u201d.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0113","num":"0127"},"figref":["FIG. 42","FIG. 43"],"b":["4200","4210","4220","4210","4210","4300","4310","4320"]},"Gaps may also be implemented for string properties as shown for a property layer with display name \u201cName Ranges:\u201d. For string properties, the following \u201crangeDefinition\u201d may be used:","\u201c10[value 1=a,value2=k,operator=BT],10[value1=m,value2=z,operator=BT]\u201d","However, one problem with string properties is that, for example, for the range \u201ca-k\u201d all document which have a property value between \u201ca\u201d and \u201ck\u201d are in that range. Unfortunately documents with value \u201cka\u201d are not in that range. To include all values starting with \u201ck\u201d, the range definition may use a special character &#xfffd, which is the last Unicode character as:","\u201c10[value1=a,value2=k&#xfffd;,operator=BT],10[value1=m,value2=z&#xfffd;,operator=BT]\u201d","In some views, intermediate folder may be bypassed so that only the \u201cdeepest\u201d folders containing documents are displayed. XML code  in  illustrates an arrangement by which intermediate levels may be skipped by defining an entry \u201cnoIntermediateFolder\u201d and as \u201ctrue\u201d. Navigation into a taxonomy generated using the XML code  may appear as in the view  in . As a further example, if a user navigates down to \u201cmodified in 2001\u201d, and all documents were modified in June 2001, then individual days in June may be displayed as restrictions. Similar arrangements may be provided for numerical or alphanumeric ranges.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0119","num":"0133"},"figref":"FIGS. 46 and 47","b":["4600","4700","4610","4620","4630","4620","4640"]},"The categories in the breadcrumb  may include a graphical user interface element , which, when activated, causes a menu  to be displayed. This menu  may list additional attributes. These attributes may be for documents containing each restriction prior to the graphical user interface element  (e.g., sap), the identified attribute (e.g., Active Global Support, Consulting, Custom Development, Customer Services Network, Education, Ramp-Up), and each restriction subsequent to the graphical user interface element  (e.g., Other, Global). In some variations, the attributes are ranked according to factors such as: number of responsive documents containing the displayed attributes, most recently accessed documents containing the displayed attributes, most frequently accessed documents containing the displayed attributes, alphabetical order, and the like. Optionally, a number of responsive documents associated with each attribute in the menu  may also be displayed. Selection of a category Education  will result in a revised breadcrumb  Education\u2192Other\u2192Global Support.","It will be appreciated that the variations for presenting documents within a virtual taxonomy also apply to a presentation of a breadcrumb. For example, if a user applies a traversal (i.e., a pivot) in the middle of a breadcrumb 2001>June>10, and the first restriction in the breadcrumb is changed to 2002, and there are no documents responsive to the restrictions 2002>June>10th, then, for example, the user may be presented with documents for just 2002>June. If there are no responsive documents in 2002>June, then the user may be presented with documents from 2002.","Various implementations of the subject matter described herein may be realized in digital electronic circuitry, integrated circuitry, specially designed ASICs (application specific integrated circuits), computer hardware, firmware, software, and\/or combinations thereof. These various implementations may include implementation in one or more computer programs that are executable and\/or interpretable on a programmable system including at least one programmable processor, which may be special or general purpose, coupled to receive data and instructions from, and to transmit data and instructions to, a storage system, at least one input device, and at least one output device.","These computer programs (also known as programs, software, software applications or code) include machine instructions for a programmable processor, and may be implemented in a high-level procedural and\/or object-oriented programming language, and\/or in assembly\/machine language. As used herein, the term \u201cmachine-readable medium\u201d refers to any computer program product, apparatus and\/or device (e.g., magnetic discs, optical disks, memory, Programmable Logic Devices (PLDs)) used to provide machine instructions and\/or data to a programmable processor, including a machine-readable medium that receives machine instructions as a machine-readable signal. The term \u201cmachine-readable signal\u201d refers to any signal used to provide machine instructions and\/or data to a programmable processor.","To provide for interaction with a user, the subject matter described herein may be implemented on a computer having a display device (e.g., a CRT (cathode ray tube) or LCD (liquid crystal display) monitor) for displaying information to the user and a keyboard and a pointing device (e.g., a mouse or a trackball) by which the user may provide input to the computer. Other kinds of devices may be used to provide for interaction with a user as well; for example, feedback provided to the user may be any form of sensory feedback (e.g., visual feedback, auditory feedback, or tactile feedback); and input from the user may be received in any form, including acoustic, speech, or tactile input.","The subject matter described herein may be implemented in a computing system that includes a back-end component (e.g., as a data server), or that includes a middleware component (e.g., an application server), or that includes a front-end component (e.g., a client computer having a graphical user interface or a Web browser through which a user may interact with an implementation of the subject matter described herein), or any combination of such back-end, middleware, or front-end components. The components of the system may be interconnected by any form or medium of digital data communication (e.g., a communication network). Examples of communication networks include a local area network (\u201cLAN\u201d), a wide area network (\u201cWAN\u201d), and the Internet.","The computing system may include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a communication network. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client-server relationship to each other.","Although a few variations have been described in detail above, other modifications are possible. For example, the logic flow depicted in the accompanying figures and described herein do not require the particular order shown, or sequential order, to achieve desirable results. Other embodiments may be within the scope of the following claims."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"DESCRIPTION OF DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 5"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 5"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":["FIG. 8","FIG. 5"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":["FIG. 9","FIG. 5"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":["FIG. 10","FIG. 5"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":["FIG. 11","FIG. 5"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":"FIG. 12"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":"FIG. 13"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":["FIG. 14","FIG. 13"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"figref":["FIG. 15","FIG. 13"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0034"},"figref":"FIG. 16"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"figref":"FIG. 17"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0037","num":"0036"},"figref":["FIG. 18","FIG. 17"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0037"},"figref":"FIG. 19"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0039","num":"0038"},"figref":["FIG. 20","FIG. 19"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0040","num":"0039"},"figref":["FIG. 21","FIG. 19"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0041","num":"0040"},"figref":["FIG. 22","FIG. 21"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0042","num":"0041"},"figref":["FIG. 23","FIG. 21"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0043","num":"0042"},"figref":"FIG. 24"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0044","num":"0043"},"figref":["FIG. 25","FIG. 24"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0045","num":"0044"},"figref":["FIG. 26","FIG. 25"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0046","num":"0045"},"figref":["FIG. 27","FIG. 25"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0047","num":"0046"},"figref":"FIG. 28"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0048","num":"0047"},"figref":"FIG. 29"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0049","num":"0048"},"figref":["FIG. 30","FIG. 29"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0050","num":"0049"},"figref":["FIG. 31","FIG. 29"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0051","num":"0050"},"figref":"FIG. 32"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0052","num":"0051"},"figref":["FIG. 33","FIG. 32"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0053","num":"0052"},"figref":["FIG. 34","FIG. 33"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0054","num":"0053"},"figref":["FIG. 35","FIG. 33"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0055","num":"0054"},"figref":["FIG. 36","FIG. 34"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0056","num":"0055"},"figref":"FIG. 37"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0057","num":"0056"},"figref":"FIG. 38"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0058","num":"0057"},"figref":["FIG. 39","FIG. 38"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0059","num":"0058"},"figref":["FIG. 40","FIG. 39"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0060","num":"0059"},"figref":["FIG. 41","FIG. 39"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0061","num":"0060"},"figref":"FIG. 42"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0062","num":"0061"},"figref":["FIG. 43","FIG. 42"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0063","num":"0062"},"figref":"FIG. 44"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0064","num":"0063"},"figref":["FIG. 45","FIG. 44"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0065","num":"0064"},"figref":"FIG. 46"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0066","num":"0065"},"figref":["FIG. 47","FIG. 46"]}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
