---
title: Systems for development and/or use of telephone user interface
abstract: Some embodiments provide a touch-sensitive device to receive a bias and to generate touch location information based on the bias, an element to secure a printed medium in contact with the touch sensitive device, the printed medium to depict a plurality of telephone interface controls, a memory to store a telephone interface layout associating one or more of the telephone interface controls with a respective touch location and a respective action, and a processor to receive touch location information from the touch-sensitive device, to determine a telephone interface control based on the touch location information and on the telephone interface layout, to determine an action based on the telephone interface control and on the telephone interface layout, and to perform the determined action.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08510666&OS=08510666&RS=08510666
owner: Siemens Enterprise Communications GmbH & Co. KG
number: 08510666
owner_city: Munich
owner_country: DE
publication_date: 20061120
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS","COPYRIGHT STATEMENT","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF SPECIFIC EMBODIMENTS"],"p":["The present application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60\/782,588, filed on Mar. 14, 2006 and entitled \u201cMethod and Apparatus for a Customizable Telephone Interface\u201d, and to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60\/850,169, filed on Oct. 5, 2006 and entitled \u201cMethod and Apparatus for Creating Customizable Telephone Interfaces\u201d, the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference for all purposes.","A portion of the disclosure of this patent document contains material which is subject to copyright protection. The copyright owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction by any one of the patent document or the patent disclosure, as it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office patent file or records, but otherwise reserves all copyright rights whatsoever.","Conventional telephones typically receive user input via the ubiquitous numeric keypad. In the most basic arrangement, a user requests a telephone connection with a remote party by dialing the remote party's telephone number using the keys of such a keypad. A conventional telephone keypad may include letters associated with each key in order to enable input of alpha characters.","Interactive voice response (IVR) systems attempt to address the limitations of the conventional keypad in order to provide a more sophisticated exchange between a telephone user and a remote system. In particular, IVR systems provide audible menus which a user may navigate by depressing keypad keys. Most users, however, find IVR systems to be frustrating and inefficient for all but the simplest of tasks.","Modern telephone systems may provide a small display screen in addition to the traditional keypad. The screen may display information typed by a user using the keypad and\/or other information such as date and time. In some instances, the screen may provide labels for soft keys having functions that vary depending on operating context.","Systems are desired for efficiently providing telephone users with a useful interface. Such a system may be customizable and\/or sufficiently inexpensive to manufacture.","According to various embodiments, the invention generally relates to systems to provide user interfaces for telephone systems. More particularly, some embodiments are concerned with systems to generate and\/or support customizable telephone interface layouts.","Some embodiments provide a system, method, telephone, program code and\/or means to receive a first user indication of a telephone interface control, receive a second user indication of a location associated with the telephone interface control, receive a third user indication of an action associated with the telephone interface control, and generate, based on the first user indication, the second user indication, and the third user indication, a telephone interface layout formatted according to a markup language and usable by a telephone to provide a user interface.","In further aspects, the telephone interface layout comprises an image depicting a plurality of telephone interface controls and data associating one or more of the plurality of telephone interface controls with a respective location and a respective action. The image may be depicted on a printed medium.","According to some embodiments, a system includes a touch-sensitive device to receive a bias and to generate touch location information based on the bias, an element to secure a printed medium in contact with the touch sensitive device, the printed medium to depict a plurality of telephone interface controls, and a memory to store a telephone interface layout associating one or more of the telephone interface controls with a respective touch location and a respective action. Also included may be a processor to receive touch location information from the touch-sensitive device, to determine a telephone interface control based on the touch location information and on the telephone interface layout, to determine an action based on the telephone interface control and on the telephone interface layout, and to perform the determined action.","Some aspects may provide reception of touch location information from a touch-sensitive device, and determination of a telephone interface control based on the touch location information and on a telephone interface layout. The telephone interface layout may be formatted according to a markup language and may associate one or more of the telephone interface controls with a respective touch location and a respective action. An action may be determined based on the telephone interface control and on the telephone interface layout, and the determined action is performed.","With these and other advantages and features that will become hereinafter apparent, further information may be obtained by reference to the following detailed description and appended claims, and to the figures attached hereto.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["100","100","100"]},"System  includes computing system , communication link  and telephone . Computing system  may include any type of computing system or systems that is or becomes known, including but not limited to a desktop computer, a laptop computer, a tablet personal computer, a personal digital assistant, and a cellular telephone. Computing system  may operate to generate a telephone interface layout according to some embodiments.","More specifically, some embodiments of computing system , which are not limited to the structure illustrated in , operate to receive a first user indication of a telephone interface control, to receive a second user indication of a location associated with the telephone interface control, to receive a third user indication of an action associated with the telephone interface control, and to generate a telephone interface layout based on the first user indication, the second user indication, and the third user indication. The telephone interface layout may be formatted according to a markup language and usable by a telephone to provide a user interface.","Computing system  of  includes processor  in communication with communication bus . Processor  may comprise any controller or processor capable of executing program code. More specifically, processor  executes program code to control the elements of computing system  to provide desired functionality such as that described above.","Also in communication with communication bus  are input device  and display . A user may manipulate input device  to transmit a user indication to system . Such an indication may indicate one or more of a telephone interface control, a location associated with the telephone interface control, and an action associated with the telephone interface control. Input device  may comprise any known input device, including a keyboard, mouse, touch pad, voice-recognition system, or any combination of these devices.","Display  may display graphics and text in response to commands issued by processor . The displayed graphics and text may comprise a user interface of an application for designing telephone interface layouts. In this regard, display  may display a telephone interface layout to be used by telephone  as will be described below. Display  may comprise an integral or separate CRT display, flat-panel display or the like.","Data storage device  is also coupled to bus  and stores, among other data, processor-executable program code of layout manager application . Processor  may execute the program code in order to control computing system  to generate a telephone interface layout according to some embodiments. Such a generated telephone interface layout may be stored among telephone interface layouts  of storage device .","Computing system  according to some embodiments may include fewer or more elements arranged differently than illustrated in . In some embodiments, system  includes a printer for outputting a printed medium depicting an image of a plurality of telephone interface controls. Computing system  may also or alternatively include a communication port for transmitting data to and receiving data from devices external to computer system . Such a communication port may transmit telephone interface layout  to telephone  over link  according to some embodiments.","The program code of layout manager application  may be read from a computer-readable medium, such as a floppy disk, a CD-ROM, a DVD-ROM, a Zip\u03c5 disk, a magnetic tape, or a signal encoding the process steps, and then stored in data storage device  in a compressed, uncompiled and\/or encrypted format. In alternative embodiments, hard-wired circuitry may be used in place of, or in combination with, processor-executable code for implementation of processes according to some embodiments. Thus, embodiments are not limited to any specific combination of hardware and software.","Communication link  may comprise any one or more suitable media for transmitting telephone interface layout  to telephone . Communication link may support any suitable communication protocol(s). In some embodiments, link  may comprise a USB cable, a serial cable, a network cable, and\/or a wireless link. In a case that telephone interface layout  comprises a printed medium, link  may comprise the physical means by which the medium is delivered to telephone .","Telephone  may operate in some embodiments to receive touch location information from a touch-sensitive device, and determine a telephone interface control based on the touch location information and on a telephone interface layout. The telephone interface layout may be formatted according to a markup language and may associate one or more of the telephone interface controls with a respective touch location and a respective action. Telephone  may determine an action based on the telephone interface control and on the telephone interface layout, and may proceed to perform the determined action.","Telephone  of  includes touch-sensitive device . Touch-sensitive device  may operate according to some embodiments to receive a bias and to generate touch location information based on the bias. Touch-sensitive device  may comprise any type of suitable device that is currently or hereafter known. Touch-sensitive device  may comprise a simple touch-sensitive panel, a touch-sensitive panel providing a controllable display on its surface, and\/or a panel capable of providing haptic feedback to a user. In this regard, haptic feedback comprises a force delivered by device  to a user of telephone . The force may simulate the \u201cclick\u201d of a keypress, a buzzing sensation, or any other suitable phenomena. As will be described in detail below, some embodiments provide customizable haptic feedback based on generated touch location information.","Touch-sensitive device  may be equipped with an integral display for displaying depictions of a plurality of telephone interface controls. The depictions may comprise elements of a telephone interface layout received from computing system . Accordingly, the telephone interface layout comprises an image file that may be displayed by the integral display of touch-sensitive device .","Alternatively, some embodiments of telephone  may include element  to secure a printed medium in contact with device . Such a printed medium, some embodiments of which will be described below, may depict the aforementioned plurality of telephone interface controls. The printed medium may therefore be considered part of a telephone interface layout that is associated with the plurality of telephone interface controls.","Accordingly, a user may touch a telephone interface control displayed by the integral display or presented on a printed medium secured by securing element . In response, touch-sensitive device  generates location information associated with a location at which the touch is sensed.","In this regard, telephone  also includes memory  to store program code of a telephone application and at least one telephone interface layout associating one or more of the telephone interface controls with a respective touch location. The telephone interface layout may also associate one or more of the telephone interface controls with a respective action.","The following description provides an example of operation of system  according to some embodiments. A user may initially exert a bias against one of the telephone interface controls displayed by the integral display or depicted by the printed medium. Device  may, in response, generate touch location information corresponding to a location of the telephone interface control against which the bias is exerted.","Processor  of telephone  may execute the program code of memory  to receive the touch location information from touch-sensitive device . Based on a telephone interface layout stored in memory , processor  may determine a telephone interface control associated with the touch location information. Processor  may then determine, also based on the telephone interface layout, an action associated with the telephone interface control. Lastly, processor  controls elements of telephone  to perform the determined action.","The elements of system  may include many unshown elements to provide necessary or optional features. These elements may be embodied by any suitable combinations of hardware, software and\/or firmware, and may share some elements therebetween. Computing system  and telephone  may be located adjacent to or remote from one another, and may be elements of a single apparatus. Either or both of computing system  and telephone  may be embodied by several devices located adjacent to or remote from one another.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0044","num":"0043"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":["200","200","200","110"]},"Process  may comprise process steps embodied in program code. Accordingly, prior to process , a user may operate computing system  to launch an application including such program code. In some embodiments, process  is initiated by launching layout manager application  of storage device .","According to some embodiments, display  displays user interface  of  upon launching layout manager application . User interface  includes design panel  for displaying graphical elements of a telephone interface layout, toolbox  for selecting widgets for inclusion in a telephone interface layout, drop-down menu  for selecting a telephone model in which the telephone interface layout is intended to be used, and options  for performing associated tasks.","Initially, at step , an indication of a telephone interface control is received. The first user indication may comprise user selection of a widget of toolbox . For example, the Button widget may represent a selectable button or a rectangle of a telephone interface layout, the Label may represent text to include in the telephone interface layout, the Handwriting Recognition widget may represent an area in which handwriting may be input, and the ImageBox widget may provide an area to include a selectable image.","Next, an indication of a location is received at step . The received indication is associated with the telephone interface control indicated at step . Any number of systems for inputting and receiving the location indication may be employed at step . For example, the user may \u201cdrag and drop\u201d a selected widget from toolbox  to a location of design panel . Step  therefore comprises determining the location to which the widget was dropped. The dropped widget may be aligned within design panel  using a \u201csnap to grid\u201d feature.","At step , it is determined whether the telephone interface control is to be associated with an action. If so, flow proceeds to step , at which an indication of an action associated with a telephone interface control is received. The indication of the action may be input and\/or received in any suitable manner. According to some embodiments of step , a user may select a displayed telephone interface control and may then select Properties button of options . In response, display  may display property sheet  of , which the user may manipulate to indicate an action associated with the selected telephone interface control.","As shown, property sheet  allows a user to specify any number of parameters associated with a telephone interface control. Specific to step , window  provides text boxes  and  for specifying an action type and an action value, respectively. The action type and action value define an action that will be performed upon user selection of the associated telephone interface control. For example, an ImageBox telephone interface control may be associated with an action name \u201cDial\u201d and an action number \u201c18004278427\u201d. Accordingly, a telephone displaying the telephone interface control may dial the number upon user selection of the control.","Property sheet  may also be used to input and receive an indication of a touch feedback parameter associated with the subject telephone interface control. Specifically, area  of window  allows a user to associate touch feedback parameters with the telephone interface control defined by property sheet . The touch feedback parameters may define a haptic feedback to be delivered to a user upon selection of the telephone interface control.","As illustrated in , some embodiments may allow a user to manipulate any number of relevant parameter values with a telephone interface control. These parameters may include, but are not limited to, a size, a color, an image file, text, and optical character recognition parameters (e.g. an IP address and port number of a handwriting recognition server). The types of parameters associated with a telephone interface control may depend on the type of the telephone interface control. For example, Text widgets might not be associated with an action and\/or touch feedback parameters.","Flow returns to step  if it is determined at step  that a user intends to define additional telephone interface controls. If not, an indication of a target telephone model is received at step . Returning to , the indication of the target telephone model may be received via drop-down box . As will be described below, dimensions of the target telephone model may be used to determine dimensions of telephone interface controls of a subsequently-generated telephone interface layout.","At step , a telephone interface layout formatted according to a markup language is generated. The layout associates all indicated telephone interface controls with their respective indications received at steps ,  and , and may be scaled based on the indicated target telephone model. A telephone interface layout according to some embodiments may include data providing the associations mentioned above, as well as displayable graphics data and\/or a printed medium depicting the telephone interface controls.","According to some embodiments, step  begins in response to user selection of one of the Print Preview, Print Layout or Save Layout buttons of options . The images within design panel  is measured in pixels and may be scaled to millimeters for both saving the layout in markup language format and for printing a depiction of the layout, if needed. For example, the selected optiPoint  telephone includes a touch pad measuring 112 mm in width\u00d7131 mm in height. Assuming a fixed height of 512 pixels, the width of the panel is calculated as 112 mm\/131 mm*512 pixels=438 pixels.","Next, a snapshot of the images within design panel  is obtained using a BitBit (Bit Block Transfer) function. The function creates a bitmap image by moving a rectangular block of bits from the display memory into Random Access Memory of system . A frame (e.g. a Graphics object in C++) is then built to hold the bitmap image. This frame is mapped in millimeters and stretches or shrinks the bitmap image to maintain the proper dimensions.","The code snippet below sets forth one strategy to convert the telephone interface layout from pixels to millimeters. According to the code, each specified telephone interface control (i.e. widget) is stored in an array \u201cwidgets\u201d) and is iterated using a for-each loop. The location and the dimensions of each widget are calculated by determining the ratio between its width in millimeters and its width in pixels, and by multiplying the ratio with the property to be transformed, e.g. the location of the widget in the x-direction.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0058","num":"0057"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00001","num":"00001"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"left"}},"thead":{"row":{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":"WidgetInfo[ ] widgetInfoList = new WidgetInfo[widgets.Count];"},{"entry":"WidgetInfo widgetInfo; \/\/contains all information about a widget"},{"entry":"\/\/get millimeter per pixel..."},{"entry":"double mmPerPixelX = (double)model.Width \/ (double)panelWidth;"},{"entry":"double mmPerPixelY = (double)model.Height \/ (double)panelHeight;"},{"entry":"\/\/browse through the list of widgets and calculate their properties"},{"entry":"foreach(Control control in widgets) {"},{"entry":"\u2003..."},{"entry":"\u2003widgetInfo.Type = control.GetType( ).Name;"},{"entry":"\u2003widgetInfo.LocationX = (int)Math.Round(mmPerPixelX *"},{"entry":"control.Location.X);"},{"entry":"\u2003widgetInfo.LocationY = (int)Math.Round(mmPerPixelY *"},{"entry":"control.Location.Y);"},{"entry":"\u2003widgetInfo.Width = (int)Math.Round(mmPerPixelX * control.Width);"},{"entry":"\u2003widgetInfo.Height = (int)Math.Round(mmPerPixelY * control.Height);"},{"entry":"\u2003..."},{"entry":"\u2003widgetInfoList[i++] = widgetInfo;"},{"entry":"}"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}},"The markup language-formatted telephone interface layout includes two main parts according to some embodiments. A first part holds general information associated with the target telephone, and a second part contains an array of a plurality of telephone interface controls. The following is an example of the above-described first part of a layout according to some embodiments.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0060","num":"0059"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00002","num":"00002"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"21pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"196pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"<HRServerAddress>192.168.0.100<\/HRServerAddress>"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003<HRPortNumber>65000<\/HRPortNumber>"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003..."]},{"entry":[{},"- <HapticInfo>"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003<MinForce>20<\/MinForce>"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003<PenDownForce>30<\/PenDownForce>"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003<PenUpForce>20<\/PenUpForce>"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003<HoverForce>10<\/HoverForce>"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003<NoiseLevel>5000<\/NoiseLevel>"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003<\/HapticInfo>"]},{"entry":[{},"- <PhoneModel>"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003<Name>Siemens<\/Name>"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003<Type>optiPoint 410<\/Type>"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003<Width>112<\/Width>"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003<Height>131<\/Height>"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003<\/PhoneModel>"]},{"entry":[{},"- <WidgetInfoList>"]},{"entry":[{},"..."]},{"entry":[{},"<\/WidgetInfoList>"]},{"entry":[{},"<\/LayoutData>"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}}}}},"The second part of markup language-formatted telephone interface layout may list each telephone interface control of the layout, and may also associate one or more of a location, dimensions, an action, and touch feedback with each control. The following example includes information relating to two telephone interface controls (i.e., widgets).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0062","num":"0061"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00003","num":"00003"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"175pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"..."]},{"entry":[{},"- <WidgetInfoList>"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2002- <WidgetInfo>"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2002<LocationX>25<\/LocationX>"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2002<LocationY>111<\/LocationY>"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2002<Width>19<\/Width>"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2002<Height>12<\/Height>"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2002<CycleCount>10<\/CycleCount>"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2002<Delay>20<\/Delay>"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2002<CycleTime>280<\/CycleTime>"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2002<Damping>0<\/Damping>"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2002<Type>PictureBox<\/Type>"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2002<Text\/>"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2002- <Action>"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2002<Name>Number 0<\/Name>"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2002<Number>0<\/Number>"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2002<\/Action>"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003<\/WidgetInfo>"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003- <WidgetInfo>"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<LocationX>4<\/LocationX>"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<LocationY>74<\/LocationY>"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<Width>19<\/Width>"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<Height>12<\/Height>"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003..."]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<Type>PictureBox<\/Type>"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<Text\/>"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003- <Action>"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<Name>Number 1<\/Name>"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<Number>1<\/Number>"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<\/Action>"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003<\/WidgetInfo>"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003..."]},{"entry":[{},"<\/WidgetInfoList>"]},{"entry":[{},"<\/LayoutData>"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}}}}},"According to some embodiments, the location information association with a telephone interface control may represent areas of a touchscreen surrounding the telephone interface control. Therefore, user depression of one of these surrounding areas may be considered a selection of the corresponding interface control. Such embodiments may be beneficial for elderly users.","As mentioned above, some embodiments of process  generate a telephone interface layout including a printed medium depicting a plurality of telephone interface controls and a markup language-formatted data file associating each of the plurality of interface controls with a location, etc. In some embodiments, the data file includes information that may be used by an electronic display to generate an image of the telephone interface controls. Such information may comprise a .jpg image, an HTML page, or the like. In some embodiments, a target telephone may include a rendering engine for reading the above-described XML file in order to display the telephone interface controls of the layout.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0065","num":"0064"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 1"],"b":["500","500","130","500","136","138","130"]},"A telephone interface layout is initially acquired at step . The acquired layout is formatted according to a markup language and associates one or more telephone interface controls with a respective touch location and a respective action. The layout may comprise an XML-formatted file such as those described above, and may be acquired via any suitable transmission means including but not limited to a wireless link, a wired link (e.g. a USB cable), and a readable medium storing the file.","According to some embodiments, a process is executed upon startup to load the acquired telephone interface layout. A user may be asked to select from two or more telephone interface layouts to load. In some embodiments, the startup process also displays an image depicting a plurality of telephone interface controls based on the loaded telephone interface layout. Other embodiments which utilize a non-imaging touch-sensitive device may comprise securing a printed medium depicting such an image to the non-imaging touch-sensitive device.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0068","num":"0067"},"figref":"FIG. 6","b":["510","610","640","610","640","610","640"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0069","num":"0068"},"figref":"FIG. 7","b":["700","500","710","700","520","700","770","750","760","710"]},"If so, touch location information is received at step . According to some embodiments, converter  may receive an analog signal from each of force sensors , ,  and , and may transmit a digital signal based on the four signals over an SPI bus to driver . Processor  may then receive a corresponding coordinate pair upon polling driver .","A telephone interface control is determined at step  based on the touch location information and the loaded telephone interface layout. In some embodiments, step  simply comprises identifying a telephone interface control that is associated with the location at which screen  was touched. An action associated with the determined interface control is similarly determined from the telephone interface layout at .","The determined action is performed at step . An action may include, but is not limited to, dialing individual digits, dialing preset telephone numbers (i.e., speed dialing), and performing handwriting recognition. The action may be performed by using an application programming interface provided by system  or by otherwise controlling elements of system  to perform the determined action.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0073","num":"0072"},"figref":"FIG. 7","b":["780","500","750"]},"A TCP socket is then opened to handwriting recognition server  based on information (e.g. IP address, port number) specified by the telephone interface layout. The stream of coordinate pairs is transmitted to server  via the socket. Handwriting recognition server  processes the received data, responds with a recognized character, and closes the socket. The recognized character may be displayed on an available simple text display of the phone, if available.","Handwriting recognition server  may be multi-threaded and may therefore serve multiple individual telephones concurrently. Handwriting recognition server  may alternatively be implemented on PCB . Handwriting received via a handwriting recognition interface control may also or alternatively be transmitted directly to a called party without recognition processing. Such an embodiment may be used to forward an authorizing signature to the called party.","According to some embodiments such as that illustrated in , process  also includes providing touch feedback to a user based on touch feedback information of the telephone interface layout. In particular, processor  may determine such feedback based on the layout and on a telephone interface control determined at . The feedback may be represented by parameters such as cycle time, delay, cycle count, and damping, and may be implemented by driving coil  to generate a haptic vibration pattern. Coil  is representative of any number of coils that may be used to generate haptic feedback through screen . The circuitry of touchscreen  used to drive coil  may be connected to GPIO pins of PCB .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0077","num":"0076"},"figref":"FIG. 8","b":["810","500","500","820","830"]},"In some embodiments, processor  comprises a low-cost processor, such as the TI\u00ae MSP , bundled into a single assembly with touchscreen . Processor  may execute any suitable operating system (e.g., the free operating system Tiny OS) and compiler. According to some embodiments, processor  executes code to poll A\/D converter  and process data received therefrom as described above. Signaling circuitry of telephone  may be leveraged to transmit the processed data (e.g., touch location information) to telephony switch .","Processor  of telephony switch  may perform steps  through  based on the received data and on a telephone interface layout associated with telephone  and stored among XML data . If the received data is associated with touch feedback information, processor  may transmit commands to generate touch feedback to telephone . As illustrated, these commands may be passed on to processor , which drives the touchscreen circuitry and coil  based thereon. Handwriting recognition may be provided by system  as described with respect to system .","System  of  illustrates operation according to further embodiments. Telephone  includes elements (e.g., a processor) for driving the circuitry and coil  of touchscreen  to provide touch feedback. However, telephone  may pass touch location information to switch  and switch  may operate as described above with respect to switch .","According to some embodiments, one or more telephone interface controls of a telephone interface layout may provide input to more than one service. Such a scenario may be particularly beneficial in an embedded environment (e.g., a conventional desktop telephone) where resources are limited, and where it may therefore be necessary for services (directory, email, etc.) to be deployed in a distributed manner.","By way of example,  is a conceptual block diagram showing the currently-active directory service  providing service to interface controls of telephone . Accordingly, user input received by any of virtual wheel , 4-way navigation button , and handwriting input box  is directed to directory process . Module  receives the input, performs a directory search by querying directory database , and formats and outputs the results to display manager  via module .","According to some embodiments, the  framework may allow a user to enter a surname via handwriting input box , and to use either virtual wheel  or navigation button  to scroll through the results. To support the framework, telephone  may to maintain the notion of an active service to facilitate the transmission of all user inputs to an appropriate remote process corresponding to the active service. Such a notion may be maintained by enumerating services in the markup language-formatted telephone interface layout as shown below.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0084","num":"0083"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00004","num":"00004"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"35pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"182pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"..."]},{"entry":[{},{"u":"-"}]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003 <ServiceInfo>"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<Name>Directory<\/Name>"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<LocationX>25<\/LocationX>"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<LocationY>25<\/LocationY>"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<Width>19<\/Width>"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<Height>12<\/Height>"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<CycleCount>10<\/CycleCount>"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<Delay>20<\/Delay>"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<CycleTime>280<\/CycleTime>"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<Damping>0<\/Damping>"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<Type>PictureBox<\/Type>"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003 <Server>"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<IP>192.168.0.100<\/IP>"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<Port>65000<\/Port>"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2002<\/Server>"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003<\/ServiceInfo>"]},{"entry":[{},"..."]},{"entry":[{},{"u":"-"}]},{"entry":[{},{"u":"-"}]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003 <WidgetInfo>"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<Name>Navigation Button<\/Name>"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<LocationX>25<\/LocationX>"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<LocationY>111<\/LocationY>"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<Width>19<\/Width>"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<Height>12<\/Height>"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<CycleCount>10<\/CycleCount>"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<Delay>20<\/Delay>"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<CycleTime>280<\/CycleTime>"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<Damping>0<\/Damping>"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<Type>PictureBox<\/Type>"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003<\/WidgetInfo>"]},{"entry":[{},"..."]},{"entry":[{},"<\/WidgetInfoList>"]},{"entry":[{},"<\/LayoutData>"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}}}}},"As shown, the enumerated services include the IP address and port number for a corresponding remote process. The specification of the telephone interface controls may remain unaffected and behave in the same way as described above.","According to some embodiments using a touchscreen having display capability, a user operates a telephone to place a call to a hotel. A hotel phone device transmits a telephone interface layout as described above to the user's telephone. The layout is read by the user's telephone to display a plurality of telephone interface controls and to provide operation based thereon as described above. For example, the layout may include controls labeled \u201creception\u201d, \u201creservations\u201d, and \u201crestaurant\u201d, each of which may be selected (i.e., \u201cpressed) by the user to place a call to an associated number.","According to some embodiments, the hotel phone device may transmit an imagemap which can be displayed by a mobile telephone browser. Selection of one of the displayed telephone interface controls may cause the telephone to invoke a corresponding URL, which may consist of a SIP event that generates a digit press.","According to some embodiments, 4-way navigation button  may operate to detect the force applied thereto by a user. An increase in the force may cause acceleration of a corresponding activity (e.g., text scrolling on the screen). The increased force may also be confirmed to the user via increased touch feedback.","Some embodiments may provide layout modification on a telephone. Such embodiments would allow an end-user to design and\/or modify a telephone interface layout using a telephone on which the layout is to be used. For example, the user may modify the shape, size, color and\/or action associated with a telephone interface control.","According to some embodiments of the foregoing, a user may input a name and telephone number of a business acquaintance in order to create a new \u201cspeed dial\u201d button corresponding to the acquaintance. Still other embodiments of the foregoing may allow a desktop telephone to receive an image captured by a camera phone and to integrate the image into a telephone interface layout to be used by the desktop telephone.","Any architecture and\/or system described herein may include any number of devices and systems for transferring data, including but not limited to local area networks, wide area networks, telephone networks, cellular networks, fiber-optic networks, satellite networks, infra-red networks, radio frequency networks, and any other type of networks which may be used to transmit information between devices. Additionally, data may be transmitted using one or more currently- or hereafter-known network protocols, including but not limited to Asynchronous Transfer Mode (ATM), Internet Protocol (IP), Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) and Wireless Application Protocol (WAP).","Embodiments described above are not intended to be limited to the specific form set forth herein, but are intended to cover such alternatives, modifications and equivalents as can reasonably be included within the spirit and scope of the appended claims."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["Some embodiments are illustrated in the accompanying figures, in which like reference numerals designate like parts, and wherein:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 10"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
