---
title: System and method for in-context authoring of alternate content for non-textual objects
abstract: A system and method for enabling in-context authoring of alternate content for one or more non-textual objects is presented. An electronic document containing content that includes at least one non-textual object is accessed. In-context editing of alternate content corresponding to the non-textual object is facilitated. The alternate content is presented contextually co-located with the content located proximate to a physical placement of the non-textual object. Editing operations are performed on the alternate content in response to editing commands. A system and method for enabling in-context authoring of alternate content for one or more non-textual objects is also presented. An electronic document containing content is accessed. In-context editing of alternate content corresponding to a non-textual object is facilitated. A segment of the content is selected. The non-textual object is obtained from a data source and substituted for the content segment, which is stored as the alternate content for the non-textual object.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07676746&OS=07676746&RS=07676746
owner: 
number: 07676746
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20060201
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATION","FIELD OF THE INVENTION","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["This non-provisional patent application claims priority under 35 USC \u00a7119(e) to U.S. provisional patent application Ser. No. 60\/742,640, filed Dec. 6, 2005, the disclosure of which is incorporated by reference.","The invention relates in general to authoring environments and, in particular, to a system and method for in-context authoring of alternate content for non-textual objects.","Graphics- and multimedia-enabled computer systems and full-featured content authoring environments facilitate the creation and publication of documents that can contain non-textual objects. Non-textual objects include graphics, icons, pictures, sounds, and other forms of visual, audible, and tactile content and can be provided in lieu of or to complement text.","Non-textual objects, however, cannot be processed by assistive technologies, such as used by individuals with physical or cognitive difficulties or impairments. Assistive technologies are generally designed to process text only. Other widely-used technologies are also unable to process non-textual objects, such as non-graphical, text-only Web browsers, graphical Web browsers configured to not render non-textual objects, popular search engines, and numerous character-based legacy applications. In situations in which a non-textual object cannot be accessed or processed, alternate content for the non-textual object can serve as a substitute for the non-textual object. For example, assistive technologies present alternate text in place of a graphical image for visually impaired persons.","In the United States, recent amendments to the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 require individuals with disabilities who are federal employees or members of the public to have access to and use of information and data in a manner comparable to access and use by individuals without disabilities. This requirement has been interpreted to embrace information presented by Web-based applications, on-line content, and similar forms of stored data, including the provisioning of alternate content for non-textual objects. Additionally, the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines, published by the Worldwide Web Consortium, recommend always providing textual alternatives for non-textual objects.","To not distort the meaning of a document, alternate content for non-textual objects should be composed in the context of the content that is proximate to the non-textual objects. For example, if a non-textual object is located in the middle of a sentence, assistive technologies or text-only applications will \u201cread,\u201d that is, substitute, the alternate content for that non-textual object as if the alternate content were part of the sentence. Alternate content should be composed in-context to ensure that such substitutions, as well as other uses of alternate content, remain consistent with the meaning of the document and surrounding proximate content. Though content authoring environments generally offer composition features that can accommodate generating alternate content for non-textual objects, these environments present alternate content in isolation and out of context. For example, the input areas for alternate content in Microsoft Word, licensed by Microsoft Corporation, Redmond, Wash., and Dreamweaver, licensed by Macromedia, San Francisco, Calif., do not present content that is proximate to the non-textual object in the document. Authoring correct and appropriate alternate content is therefore difficult when alternate content is displaced from proximate content.","Proximate content is determined relative to the physical placement of a non-textual object in a document. Nevertheless, authoring environments are oriented towards only the logical view of a document. This limitation presents challenges to correcting and authoring appropriate alternate content when formatting is applied to non-textual objects, as the physical and logical placements of a non-textual object can differ. For instance, the logical placement of a floating image, that is, where text wraps around an image, is generally not the same as the physical image placement.","Authoring tools also restrict the compositional features available for editing alternate content. Extended features, such as spell checking, grammar checking, search, replace and thesaurus access, are unavailable when composing and editing alternate content.","Therefore, there is a need for an approach to supplement content authoring environments with an intuitive interface for flexibly composing, in-context, alternate content for non-textual objects. Preferably, such an approach would present alternate content contextually co-located with the content, such as textual content, that is located proximate to the physical placement of the non-textual objects and accommodate multiple authoring environment layout schemes.","One embodiment provides a system and method for enabling in-context authoring of alternate content for one or more non-textual objects. An electronic document is accessed. The electronic document contains content that includes at least one non-textual object. In-context editing of alternate content corresponding to the at least one non-textual object is facilitated. The alternate content is presented contextually co-located with the content located proximate to a physical placement of the at least one non-textual object. Editing operations are performed on the alternate content in response to editing commands.","A further embodiment provides a system and method for enabling in-context authoring of alternate content for one or more non-textual objects. An electronic document is accessed and contains content. In-context editing of alternate content corresponding to a non-textual object is facilitated. A segment of at least part of the content is selected and the non-textual object from a data source is obtained. The non-textual object is substituted for the content segment. The content segment is stored as the alternate content for the non-textual object.","Still other embodiments of the present invention will become readily apparent to those skilled in the art from the following detailed description, wherein are described embodiments of the invention by way of illustrating the best mode contemplated for carrying out the invention. As will be realized, the invention is capable of other and different embodiments and its several details are capable of modifications in various obvious respects, all without departing from the spirit and the scope of the present invention. Accordingly, the drawings and detailed description are to be regarded as illustrative in nature and not as restrictive.","Authoring Environment",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["10","11","12"]},"The authoring environment  offers features for composing and editing alternate content in lieu of non-textual objects. The authoring environment  preferably provides a visual user interface for content composition using a conventional keyboard, display, and pointing device, such as a mouse. In addition, the authoring environment  can also provide a non-visual user interface, such as an audio interface or tactile interface or a programmatic application programming interface (API), which accommodate alternate means of user or application interaction. The operations performed on alternate content for non-textual objects generally must comply with the document language, as well as the functionality provided for authoring alternate content in the selected format, which can include limits on the use of white space characters, such as carriage returns or linefeeds; media-specific formatting, such as boldface, italics, underlining, and voice synthesis; hyperlinks; and other semantic constructs. Authoring environments  include, for example, Microsoft Word and Dreamweaver. Other authoring environments are possible, such as provided through word processing and Web page composition applications.","The content includes Web pages , as well as documents and other stored data . Content can be created for use on the authoring computer , but can also be distributed in electronic form over an internetwork , such as the Internet, or other wired or wireless infrastructure. Web pages , for instance, can be published by a Web server  and documents and other stored data  can be published by a content server . Other types of content publication or dissemination services are possible.","Content is generally viewed in electronic form, although viewing as hard copy, that is, printed, media is also possible. Typically, a viewer accesses the content through a user computer  that executes a Web browser or other application . The content is presented with the display, rendition, or presentation of text and non-textual objects formatted by the Web browser or other application  in a layout based on the viewing environment available.","Preferably, the Web server  and content server  are server-grade computing platforms and the authoring computer  and user computer  are general-purpose computing workstations, such as a personal desktop or notebook computer. The user computer  could also be a graphics- or multimedia-capable device, such as a personal data assistant, cellular telephone, or other device or personal appliance that provides access to content as a primary or supplemental feature. The authoring computer , user computer , Web server , and content server  are programmable computing devices that execute software programs and include components conventionally found in computing devices, such as, for example, a central processing unit, memory, network interface, persistent storage, and components for interconnection.","Prior Art Authoring Environment",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0037"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":["20","21","22","23","22"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0039","num":"0038"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 2","FIG. 2"],"b":["30","31","32","32","23","31","33","32","22"]},"Alternate Content Display Environment",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0040","num":"0039"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":["40","41","41","22","32","42","22","43","22","42","32","22"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0041","num":"0040"},"figref":"FIG. 5","b":["50","51","32","52","22","52","32","22"]},"In-Context Alternate Content Authoring Interface",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0042","num":"0041"},"figref":"FIG. 6","b":["60","61","63","61","62","63","62","62","63","63","62","61"]},"When presented in-context by the authoring environment , the area occupied by the alternate content  can be specifically identified or emphasized, such as by the use of plain text, background color, background pattern, foreground color, foreground pattern, font type, font size, border, outline, graphical markers, images, audio signals, tactile signals, and programmatic objects. Other forms of alternate content identifications or emphasis are possible.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0044","num":"0043"},"figref":"FIG. 7","b":["70","71","71","72","73","74","75","76"]},"The alternate content is entered via the Alternate Text control . The interface  also includes a control  to contextually display the alternate content in the physical position of the non-textual object within the document, along with at least some of the available content that precedes and that follows the physical placement of the non-textual object. The amount of content displayed proximate to the alternate content, that is, before and after, can be configured globally via application settings or individually via user interface controls, such as a pop-up menu . Additional content omitted before or after the alternate content in the control  can also be abbreviated by ellipses or other symbols. Other non-textual objects located before or after the alternate content for the current non-textual object can be represented by their alternate content.","As text is updated in the Alternate Text field , changes are reflected in the control . The control  can be a read-only label control, a document preview control, such as an embedded Web browser, or an authoring interface. The control  can have scroll bars and other navigational features. In addition, alternate content within the control  can be formatted to be visually distinct from the content that precedes and follows. The formatting can be configured globally via application settings or individually via user interface controls, such as a pop-up menu . The content that precedes and follows the alternate content can optionally display the formatting applied in the document.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0047","num":"0046"},"figref":"FIG. 8","b":["80","81","81","82","83","84","85","86","81","85","87","88","89","87","88"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0048","num":"0047"},"figref":"FIG. 9","b":["90","91","91","92","96","95","99","91","93","97","94","98"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0049","num":"0048"},"figref":"FIG. 10","b":["100","101","102","103","104","107","101","106","104","106","108","106","105","106","107","108"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0050","num":"0049"},"figref":"FIG. 11","b":["110","111","112","113","114","115","116","113","113","116"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0051","num":"0050"},"figref":["FIG. 12","FIG. 11"],"b":["120","121","122","123","113"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0052","num":"0051"},"figref":"FIG. 13","b":["130","11","131","132","133","134","135"]},"Alternate Content Authoring Tools",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0053","num":"0052"},"figref":"FIG. 14","b":["140","141","144","143","142","144","145","146","142","143","146","143","146","142","147","148","146","144","146"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0054","num":"0053"},"figref":"FIG. 15","b":["150","151","154","152","153","154","155","152","156","152","152","157","155","158","159","153","152","158","159"]},"Logical Versus Physical Placement of a Non-Textual Object",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0055","num":"0054"},"figref":"FIG. 16","b":["160","161","162","163","163","163"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0056","num":"0055"},"figref":"FIG. 17","b":["170","171"]},"The authoring environment  shows text  and a non-textual object . The non-textual object  is formatted to \u201cfloat,\u201d thereby allowing the text  to wrap around the non-textual object . In one embodiment, formatting instructions, such as Cascading Styles Sheets (CSS), are used to float the non-textual object . A CSS rule, such as \u201cimg {float: left},\u201d is applied to the non-textual object , which floats the non-textual object to the left of the displayed page and causes the text  to wrap around. Other formatting instructions are possible.","As a result of formatting instructions, such as \u201cfloat,\u201d the logical placement of a non-textual object within a document that is formatted can differ from its physical placement. However, the physical view, and not logical view, is processed by applications, such as assistive technologies that are unable to display or process non-textual objects. As a result, alternate content that is authored without consideration for the physical placement of a non-textual object might not provide contextually appropriate alternate content when used in lieu of a non-textual object.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0059","num":"0058"},"figref":"FIG. 18","b":["180","181","182","183","183","182","183","184","183","183","185","184","185","184","184","184"]},"In-Context Authoring of Alternate Content",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0060","num":"0059"},"figref":["FIG. 19","FIG. 1"],"b":["190","12"]},"Initially, the authoring environment attempts to retrieve alternate content for one or more non-textual objects from one or more documents or from metadata for one or more documents (block ). When alternate content for a non-textual object is available (block ), the retrieved alternate content is presented with at least part of the content that is located proximate to the physical placement of the non-textual object in the document (block ). When alternate content is not retrieved, a placeholder, or a blank space, marker, text message, icon, or combination of the foregoing items, is presented in lieu of alternate content with at least part of the content that is located proximate to the physical placement of the non-textual object in the document (block ). An input method for authoring alternate content is then presented (block ). Finally, the authoring environment stores the alternate content to one or more documents or to metadata for the one or more documents (block ).","While the invention has been particularly shown and described as referenced to the embodiments thereof, those skilled in the art will understand that the foregoing and other changes in form and detail may be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":"10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 2"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 11"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":["FIG. 12","FIG. 11"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":["FIG. 13","FIG. 11"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":"FIG. 14"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIG. 15"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":"FIG. 16"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":"FIG. 17"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":"FIG. 18"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":"FIG. 19"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
