---
title: Tough diamonds and method of making thereof
abstract: A single crystal diamond grown by microwave plasma chemical vapor deposition has a hardness of 50-90 GPa and a fracture toughness of 11-20 MPa m. A method for growing a single crystal diamond includes placing a seed diamond in a holder; and growing single crystal diamond at a temperature of about 1000° C. to about 1100° C. such that the single crystal diamond has a fracture toughness of 11-20 MPa m.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07713507&OS=07713507&RS=07713507
owner: Carnegie Institution of Washington
number: 07713507
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20061121
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"p":["This application is a division of U.S. application Ser. No. 10\/889,169, filed Jul. 13, 2004, and claims priority benefit of U.S. Provisional Appln. No. 60\/486,435, filed Jul. 14, 2003.","This invention was made with U.S. government support under grant number EAR-0135626 from the National Science Foundation. The U.S. government has certain rights in the invention.","1. Field of the Invention","The present invention relates to diamonds, and more particularly, to a tough diamond produced using Microwave Plasma Chemical Vapor Deposition (MPCVD) within a deposition chamber.","2. Description of Related Art","Large-scale production of synthetic diamond has long been an objective of both research and industry. Diamond, in addition to its gem properties, is the hardest known material, has the highest known thermal conductivity, and is transparent to a wide variety of electromagnetic radiation. It is valuable because of its wide range of applications in a number of industries, in addition to its value as a gemstone. However, a diamond can have low fracture toughness that will makes it unsuitable for many applications, such as a high impact machine tools.","For at least the last twenty years, a process of producing small quantities of diamond by chemical vapor deposition (CVD) has been available. As reported by B. V. Spitsyn et al. in \u201cVapor Growth of Diamond on Diamond and Other Surfaces,\u201d Journal of Crystal Growth, vol. 52, pp. 219-226, the process involves CVD of diamond on a substrate by using a combination of methane, or another simple hydrocarbon gas, and hydrogen gas at reduced pressures and temperatures of 800-1200\u00b0 C. The inclusion of hydrogen gas prevents the formation of graphite as the diamond nucleates and grows. Growth rates of up to 1 \u03bcm\/hour have been reported with this technique.","Subsequent work, for example, that of Kamo et al. as reported in \u201cDiamond Synthesis from Gas Phase in Microwave Plasma,\u201d Journal of Crystal Growth, vol. 62, pp. 642-644, demonstrated the use of Microwave Plasma Chemical Vapor Deposition (MPCVD) to produce diamond at pressures of 1-8 Kpa in temperatures of 800-1000\u00b0 C. with microwave power of 300-700 W at a frequency of 2.45 GHz. A concentration of 1-3% methane gas was used in the process of Kamo et al. Maximum growth rates of 3 \u03bcm\/hour have been reported using this MPCVD process.","In the above-described processes, and in a number of more recently reported processes, the fracture toughness of the diamonds is better in some instances than natural diamond. In particular, higher-growth rate processes that only produce or grow polycrystalline forms of diamond are known to produce diamond having a fracture toughness higher than natural diamond. Other than some high pressure high pressure (HPHT) synthetic diamonds, which have been annealed, most diamonds have a fracture toughness of less than 11 MPa m.","Accordingly, the present invention is directed to a an apparatus and a method for producing diamond that substantially obviates one or more of the problems due to limitations and disadvantages of the related art.","An object of the present invention relates to an apparatus and method for producing diamond in a microwave plasma chemical vapor deposition system having increased fracture toughness.","Additional features and advantages of the invention will be set forth in the description which follows, and in part will be apparent from the description, or may be learned by practice of the invention. The objectives and other advantages of the invention will be realized and attained by the structure particularly pointed out in the written description and claims hereof as well as the appended drawings.","To achieve these and other advantages and in accordance with the purpose of the present invention, as embodied and broadly described, a single crystal diamond grown by microwave plasma chemical vapor deposition has a hardness of 50-90 GPa and a fracture toughness of 15-20 MPa m.","In another embodiment, a single crystal diamond has a fracture toughness of 18-20 MPa m.","In accordance with another embodiment of the present invention, a method for growing a single crystal diamond includes placing a seed diamond in a holder and growing single crystal diamond at a temperature of about 1000\u00b0 C. to about 1100\u00b0 C. such that the single crystal diamond has a fracture toughness of 11-20 MPa m.","It is to be understood that both the foregoing general description and the following detailed description are exemplary and explanatory and are intended to provide further explanation of the invention as claimed.","Reference will now be made in detail to the preferred embodiments of the present invention, the results of which are illustrated in the accompanying drawings.","The microwave plasma CVD-grown single-crystal diamond referred to in this application were grown with the apparatus described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10\/288,499 filed on Nov. 6, 2002 entitled \u201cApparatus and Method for Diamond Production,\u201d which is hereby incorporated by reference. In general, a seed diamond is placed in holder that moves the seed diamond\/grown diamond as the diamond is grown. The inventors of this application are also inventors in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10\/288,499.","A microwave plasma CVD-grown single-crystal diamond having a thickness of greater than 1 millimeter was deposited on type Ib {100} synthetic diamond. In order to enhance the growth rate (50-150 \u03bcm\/h) and promote smooth {100} face growth, single-crystal diamonds were grown in an atmosphere of N\/CH=0.2-5.0%, CH\/H=12-20%, 120-220 torr total pressure, and 900-1500\u00b0 C. from a microwave induced plasma within a CVD chamber. Raman spectra show a small amount of hydrogenated amorphous carbon (a-C:H)and nitrogen-containing a-C:H (N:a-C:H)giving rise to brown diamond at <950\u00b0 C. and >1400\u00b0 C. Photoluminescence (PL) spectra indicate nitrogen-vacancy (N-V) impurities. Single crystal diamonds up to 4.5 mm in thickness have been fabricated at growth rates that are as much as two orders of magnitude higher than conventional polycrystalline CVD growth methods.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":["FIG. 1","FIG. 1","FIG. 1"],"b":["1","1","2","3","2"]},"The indenter applies a point load to the test diamond  until an indentation or crack is formed in the test diamond . To prevent elastic deformation of the indenter, the loads were varied from 1 to 3 kg on {100} faces in the <100> direction of the test diamonds.  is a picture of an indentation made on a microwave plasma CVD-grown single-crystal diamond. Dimensions of the indentation and the cracks associate with the indentation are measured via optical microscopy.","By measuring the length D and height h of the indentation, the hardness Hof the test diamond can be determined from the following equation (1):\n\n=1.854\u00d7\u2003\u2003(1)\n\nP is the maximum load used on the indenter to form an indentation into the test diamond. D is the length of the longest crack formed by the indenter in the test diamond and h is the depth of the indentation into the test diamond, as shown in .\n","The fracture toughness Kof the test diamond can be determined by using the hardness Hfrom equation (1) in the following equation (2):\n\n=(0.016\u00b10.004)()()\u2003\u2003(2)\n\nE is the Young's modulus, which is assumed to be 1000 GPa. P is the maximum load used on the indenter to form the indentation into the test diamond. The term d is the average length of the indentation cavity in the test diamond, as shown in  such that d=(d+d)\/2. The term c is the average length of the radial cracks in the test diamond, as shown in  such the c=(c+c)\/2.\n",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 3","FIG. 3","FIG. 3","FIG. 3","FIG. 3"],"sup":["1\/2 ","1\/2 "],"b":["10","20"]},"The differences in fracture toughness for the microwave plasma CVD-grown single-crystal diamonds represented in  appeared somewhat to correlate with processing temperature. Accordingly, the present inventors grew additional microwave plasma CVD-grown single-crystal diamonds within specific processing temperature ranges. In other words, a seed diamond was placed in a holder and single crystal diamond was grown within a specified processing temperature range. These additional microwave plasma CVD-grown single-crystal diamonds were then subjected to the same hardness and fracture toughness testing.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 4","FIG. 4"],"sup":"1\/2 "},"Although growth rate of the single crystal diamonds are slower, a single crystal diamonds 1000\u00b0 C.-1100\u00b0 C. can be produced having a high fracture toughness of 18-20 MPa m. No other diamonds, synthetic or natural, have been reported as having such a high fracture toughness. Further, diamonds grown at higher temperatures, such as 1150\u00b0 C.-1350\u00b0 C., may not necessarily achieve a high fracture toughness but tend to have a high hardness that makes such diamonds useful for other purposes.","As the present invention may be embodied in several forms without departing from the spirit or essential characteristics thereof, it should also be understood that the above-described embodiments are not limited by any of the details of the foregoing description, unless otherwise specified, but rather should be construed broadly within its spirit and scope as defined in the appended claims, and therefore all changes and modifications that fall within the metes and bounds of the claims, or equivalence of such metes and bounds are therefore intended to be embraced by the appended claims."],"GOVINT":[{},{}],"heading":["STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENT INTEREST","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS"],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The accompanying drawings, which are included to provide a further understanding of the invention and are incorporated in and constitute a part of this specification, illustrate embodiments of the invention and together with the description serve to explain the principles of the invention.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 4"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
