---
title: Organizational data analysis and management
abstract: Organizational data analysis and management are described, including evaluating an item comprising the organizational data, the item being created in a first application and having a first format, associating the item with the matter based on a type or a classification, and configuring the copy of the item for presentation in an interface associated with a second application using a second format, the copy of the item being configured for selection from within the second application in the first format.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07747605&OS=07747605&RS=07747605
owner: 
number: 07747605
owner_city: Menlo Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060417
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["FIELD OF THE INVENTION","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["The present invention relates generally to software architecture. More specifically, organizational data analysis and management are described.","Computer programs and applications (\u201capplications\u201d) generate a large amount of information and data. In organizations (e.g., private and public sector entities such as corporations, not-for-profit groups, government and other regulatory entities, or other groups of individuals organized to perform a set of related tasks or functions), large amounts of data are created, modified, deleted, saved, or retrieved, which becomes difficult to manage and analyze in order to perform functions related to specific types of data. Organizations in retail, commercial, office, industrial, medical, legal, and other industries generate large amounts of data. In order to manage this data, conventional enterprise and other large-scale applications such as document management systems were developed to help organize this data. However, conventional applications are problematic.","Conventional applications for organizing large amounts of data often rely upon a structured data storage schema (e.g., SQL, MySQL, Oracle, and others) that use overlying document management applications to organize and search through large amounts of data. Other conventional applications that organize unstructured data often rely upon indexing or require large amounts of storage and processing resources, which is expensive and time-consuming to implement and manage. Further, conventional applications for structured or unstructured data analysis and organization fail to provide data in any type of format that is useful or efficient. For example, if a corporate legal department is aggregating data and information related to a specific matter, conventional applications would search structured data based on a data storage schema (e.g., SQL, MySQL, Oracle, DB2, and others) and unstructured data relying on either indexing of the unstructured data or parsing of text associated with the unstructured data, which is time-consuming, processor-intensive, and inaccurate. Moreover, existing efforts to organize electronic data are based on manual or semi-manual efforts to tag or otherwise organize such data, which requires significant user intervention. Such user intervention is not only time consuming, but also susceptible to human error. Further, manual tagging (i.e., manually adding metadata) is difficult to enforce with respect to data management policies or parameters. Consequently, data found in response to search using conventional applications is difficult to use, poorly organized, and inefficiently presented (i.e., displayed on a user interface), which leads to additional time and labor being expended to sift through large amounts of data.","Thus, what is needed is a solution for organizing and managing data.","Various embodiments or examples may be implemented in numerous ways, including as a system, a process, an apparatus, or a series of program instructions on a computer readable medium such as a computer readable storage medium or a computer network where the program instructions are sent over optical, electronic, or wireless communication links. In general, operations of disclosed processes may be performed in an arbitrary order, unless otherwise provided in the claims.","A detailed description of one or more examples is provided below along with accompanying figures. The detailed description is provided in connection with such examples, but is not limited to any particular example. The scope is limited only by the claims and numerous alternatives, modifications, and equivalents are encompassed. Numerous specific details are set forth in the following description in order to provide a thorough understanding. These details are provided as examples and the described techniques may be practiced according to the claims without some or all of the accompanying details. For clarity, technical material that is known in the technical fields related to the embodiments has not been described in detail to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the description.","Organizational data analysis and management are described, including a computer program or application (\u201capplication\u201d) that may be used to implement the described techniques. Items (e.g., e-mails, tasks, notes, calendars, dates, documents (e.g., electronic documents, presentations, spreadsheets, files, and other types), reminders, and others) may be associated with a matter. A matter may be a project, group of tasks, or related functions that may involve one or more items of the same or different types, as described above. In some examples, associating items with matters or projects may be performed by embedding matter tags into items that include logic and data configured for relating the item to a task. In other examples, associations may be established by applying classification logic. Items may be classified using matter tags or classification logic, which are configured to manually, automatically, or semi-automatically classify organizational data. When items are created, assigned, completed, sent, received, modified, deleted, replied to, and others, associations may be performed in order to organize and manage data (i.e., structured and unstructured data) in their native applications using an overlying, integrated application to provide efficient and accurate organization and management if, for example, a search request is executed.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["100","102","104","106","108","110","122","138","104","106","108","110","140","146","122","138","140","146","122","138","140","146"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":["FIG. 2A","FIG. 1"],"b":["200","202","204","206","208","210","212","200","200","200","200","210","104","106","208"]},"Here, logic module  may be configured to provide instructions to and direct system  to analyze and manage organizational data. For example, logic module  may, via API , detect an item that invokes a rule, policy, or other parameter stored in local storage . The rule, policy, or other parameter may determine how the item is to be handled, including invoking matter tag module  to embed a matter tag with the item and sending the associated item to be stored in a remote location using storage interface module . Further, if a search or other type of request is made using a given project name, client name, matter name, date range, type of item, or other parameter, then report generation module  may be used to generate a report or display on a user interface that lists the item, provides a hyperlink (\u201clink\u201d) to the item, and, when the link is clicked on, the associated item may be launched in its native application format from a user interface provided for system . In some examples, a user interface may be provided or displayed (\u201cprovided\u201d) that presents organizational data and information in a useful context while enabling items to be presented or provided in their native application formats without requiring the use of separate, different applications, thus improving efficiency and reducing costs. Further, by using matter tags embedded by matter tag module , items may be quickly located and provided by system . System  and the above-described components may be varied and are not limited to the examples provided.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":["FIG. 2B","FIG. 2A"],"b":["200","222","224","226","200","222","224","226","200","200","200","200","222","224","226","222","224","226"]},"Organizational data analysis and management system  may be implemented, integrated, or included with e-mail application , office productivity application , and project application  in order to enable organizational data analysis and management techniques such as those described herein. Organizational data analysis and management system  may be implemented with one, some, none, all, more, or fewer of e-mail application , office productivity application , and project application . Structured and unstructured data may be exchanged between organization data analysis and management system  and each of e-mail application , office productivity application , and task\/project application . In other examples, organizational data analysis and management system  may be varied and is not limited to the descriptions provided.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":["300","302","304","306","308","310","312","314","316","318","304","306","308","310","312","314","316","318","304","304","302","300","302","304","306","302"]},"Within each sub-project, items (e.g., e-mail data , calendar data , note data , task data , reminder data , and document data ) may be further classified based on the above-described hierarchy. In other industries (e.g., product-based such as manufacturing, commercial, industrial, and others), different types of data may be used to classify organizational data. Classification of data types may be implemented using the techniques described herein, including the use of matter tags that are configured with logic for classifying and organizing organizational data. Other types of organizational data may be analyzed, managed, and used apart from those shown and described and are not limited to the examples shown.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 2A","FIG. 2A"],"b":["400","402","404","414","436","446","416","420","434","400","400","400","200","400","200","400"]},"As an example, interface  may be used to analyze, manage, organize, create new matters, and search organizational data. Here, interface  may be provided to analyze, manage, organize, create new matters, and search e-mails (i.e., a given type of organizational data). Buttons - may be \u201cdepressed\u201d or interacted with by using a direct input device (e.g., mouse). When depressed or interacted, a new matter may be created (i.e., pressing button ), e-mails may be searched (i.e., depressing button ), extended searches of e-mails may be performed (i.e., depressing button ), statistics may be gathered and displayed graphically or non-graphically (i.e., depressing button ), previous displays may be viewed (i.e., depressing button ), or help may be sought (i.e., depressing button ). When depressed, buttons - may launch different displays with different options, enabling a user to perform a function related to the higher-level functions presented by buttons -.","For example, when creating a new matter, a user may enter information related to the new matter in fields -. In some examples, information about a Party (i.e., client) including the client name, adverse party name, matter, and project name may be entered in fields -. Other information about other Participants (i.e., other parties that may be involved or related to the matter) may be entered in fields -, including internal users names, external users names, clients, and opposing counsel. In other examples, more, less, or different information may be provided and are not limited to the examples shown. Information entered in fields - may be used to create a matter and, when items are detected that are related to the information entered, matter tags may be generated and embedded in the items. In some examples, matter tags may be e-mail addresses that are generated when a matter is created. The matter tags and generated e-mail addresses are used to associate items (e.g., e-mails, calendars, notes, tasks, reminders, documents, and others) with a given matter. Further, when the items are retrieved, for example, during a search, logic in the matter tag enables a copy of the item to be retrieved from storage location or address and launched in its native format from interface , avoiding the use of multiple applications to view a single item. When a search is performed, interface  may be changed to display different options, data, information, items, and the like to support a given association. Interface  may be varied and is not limited to the implementation examples shown above. For example, more, fewer, or different fields may be used to replace or supplement fields -. For example, a manufacturing organization may substitute field  with another field that specifies the name of a supplier or OEM provider. As another example, a government organization may substitute field  with the name of a contractor that is supplying products or services. In still other examples, the above-described features and functionality associated with interface  may be varied, replaced, supplemented, deleted, or other modified. Examples of interface  for use in a legal organization are described in greater detail below in connection with .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0037","num":"0036"},"figref":"FIG. 5A","b":["500","502","504","514","530","536","516","520","522","524","528","538","500","522","530","524","526","532","522","524","526","520"]},"Here, listings describing items that relate to the parameters entered in sub-displays - are displayed in sub-display  as a search result. Additionally, sub-display  may be configured to include a sender's e-mail address (e.g., \u201cbill_abc@codemo.com\u201d), destination e-mail address (e.g., \u201csam_abc@codemo.com\u201d), subject, date of transmission, tag (e.g., tag icon , which may be used to indicate the type of item), and provide buttons - for other actions that may be selected (e.g., \u201cReply\u201d to or \u201cForward\u201d the e-mail). In some examples, other actions or different information may be provided in sub-display . Further, interface  may be varied in appearance, information, content, and functionality and is not limited to the examples shown and described.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0039","num":"0038"},"figref":"FIG. 5B","b":["500","502","504","514","530","532","544","546","516","518","540","522","524","526","542","548","500","522","524","526","532","540"]},"A listing of items that meet the search criteria entered in sub-displays - may be generated and displayed in sub-display . Information such as a destination e-mail address, sending e-mail address, subject, date, tag icon , and additional actions using buttons - are shown. As an example, an e-mail from \u201cbill_abc@codemo.com\u201d to \u201cxyz@hotmail.com\u201d is found and displayed as a search result in sub-display . Additional actions may be taken, including replying to the e-mail listed by clicking on button  or forwarding the e-mail by clicking on button . Further, tag icon  may be used to identify the type of item or whether the item has been tagged (i.e., \u201cT\u201d on tag icon ). In other examples, different information may be shown in sub-display . Further, interface  may be varied in appearance, information, content, and functionality and is not limited to the examples shown and described.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0041","num":"0040"},"figref":"FIG. 5C","b":["500","502","504","514","530","532","556","562","516","518","550","522","524","526","552","564","566","500","522","524","526","552","550","550","552","522"]},"Items listed in sub-display  may be displayed along with actions that may be taken (e.g., replying or forwarding the item, and others) by using buttons -. Additionally, tag icons - may be changed or displayed differently to provide additional information about the type of item, whether the item has been tagged (i.e., associated with a matter), and others. In other examples, different information may be shown in sub-display . Further, interface  may be varied in appearance, information, content, and functionality and is not limited to the examples shown and described.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0043","num":"0042"},"figref":["FIG. 5D","FIGS. 5A-5C","FIG. 4","FIGS. 5A-5D"],"b":["500","502","504","514","530","532","574","576","516","518","570","522","524","526","572","578","500","522","524","526","530","570","518","420","434","500","500"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0044","num":"0043"},"figref":["FIG. 6A","FIG. 2B","FIG. 2B","FIG. 2B"],"b":["602","220","220","220","220","604"]},"An association may result in a \u201ctagged item\u201d (i.e., an association between an item and a matter is established if the item meets a pre-determined classification, which results in an assigned matter tag being embedded with the item). In other examples, an association may result if, due to \u201cfuzzy classification\u201d rules, logic, or parameters (\u201cclassification logic\u201d), an association is found to exist between the item and an existing matter (i.e., project). Associations may be made by embedding or assigning a matter tag with the item. The matter tag may be embedded or assigned as a \u201cwrapper\u201d or additional data that is included with the item or appended to header data or metadata that indicates the type of item, whether the item should be associated with a matter and, if a search is performed in which the item is delivered as a search result, how the item should appear in an interface using processes such as those described above in connection with . Matter tags may be embedded as encrypted or unencrypted data to meet various levels of data security for an organization. Further, classifications may be used to establish a type of the item, which may be indicated using either assigned matter tags or determined as a result of applying \u201cfuzzy classification\u201d rules or logic that determine whether an item is associated with a matter and what type of classification should be assigned to items that do not fall within assigned matter tag pre-determined classification categories. Examples of \u201cfuzzy classification\u201d logic or rules are described in greater detail below in connection with .","Here, classification may be performed automatically, semi-automatically, or manually through an interface. In some examples, classification may be performed to provide an association between an item and a matter based on the type of item as determined from data analyzed contained in the document. As an example, an e-mail may include text such as a client's name, a matter or project name, or other information that, once detected, enables matter tags to determine how to handle an item.","For example, a matter tag may include data formatted as \u201cXXX-YYY-E\u201d, which may represent an account or client number (i.e., the first three characters \u201cXXX\u201d), a matter or project number (i.e., the second three characters \u201cYYY\u201d), and the type of item (e.g., \u201cE\u201d for e-mail, \u201cD\u201d for document, \u201cT\u201d for task, and the like). As another example, matter tags may also include an individual system e-mail address, to which a copy of the associated item is sent. Once sent to the individual system e-mail address, items are assembled, regardless of their native format and, when a search is performed that includes parameters or keywords that match those of the items stored in a given individual system e-mail address, all of the items are delivered in a search results listing. Once listed, items may be selected and launched in their respective native applications from within an interface (e.g., interface  () provided by system  (). In other examples, matter tags may be implemented differently and are not limited to the examples provided. Matter tags are embedded with items to provide associations between the associated items and matters that are created using system  () through an interface such as interface  (). Association of items with matters is discussed in greater detail below in connection with .","Referring back to , once an item has been associated, the item may be assigned a control number (). In some examples, a control number may be used to index, store, or retrieve an item stored in storage  (). After a control number has been assigned, the item may be stored (e.g., in storage  or another data repository) (). In other examples, the above-described process may be varied in design, implementation, execution, and is not limited to the examples provided.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0049","num":"0048"},"figref":["FIG. 6B","FIG. 6A","FIG. 6C"],"b":["604","620","622"]},"If an item was not sent between participants, then the sub-process ends. However, if the item was sent between participants, then a determination is made as to whether the item includes information such as the client or project name or the name of an adverse party (). If an item includes information such as the client or project name or the name of an adverse party, then the item is associated with the matter (). If the item does not include a client, project, or adverse party name, then the sub-process ends. If the item is associated with the matter under consideration (i.e., the matter is identified in pulldown menu  of ), then a determination is made as to whether an unlisted party is referred to by the item, as described above (). If an unlisted party is described, then the unlisted party is added as a participant and the matter tag may be used to further classify future items received from the participant (). If the item does not refer to an unlisted party, then the sub-process ends. In some examples, \u201cfuzzy classification\u201d logic, rules, or parameters may be implemented differently than as described above. Logic, rules, or parameters that are used to implement \u201cfuzzy classification\u201d logic may be established by system default, manually entered, manually customized, automatically or semi-automatically customized, modified based on user intervention, or otherwise modified beyond the descriptions provided above. In some examples, customization of \u201cfuzzy classification\u201d logic, rules, or parameters may vary the accuracy of a search, particular when a user is searching for particular items associated with a given matter. The above-described sub-process may be varied and is not limited to the examples provided.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0051","num":"0050"},"figref":["FIG. 6C","FIG. 6A"],"b":["604","640","642","644","646"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0052","num":"0051"},"figref":["FIG. 6D","FIG. 6A"],"b":["604","650","652","654","656"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0053","num":"0052"},"figref":["FIG. 6E","FIG. 6A"],"b":["604","660","662","664","666"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0054","num":"0053"},"figref":"FIG. 6F","b":["670","672","674","676"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0055","num":"0054"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 2B","FIG. 4"],"b":["702","704","220","220","220","420","434"]},"Here, the item is associated with the matter under consideration using the assigned matter tag and the process ends (). However, if an item is received that does not have an embedded matter tag, then a determination is made as to whether \u201cfuzzy\u201d classification logic indicates that an item should be associated with a matter (). As described above, \u201cfuzzy\u201d classification logic may refer to logic (e.g., logic module  ()) that performs sub-processes such as those described above in connection with  to determine whether an item should be associated with a matter. In some examples, \u201cfuzzy\u201d classification logic may be performed by analyzing \u201csource key words\u201d contained in the items. For example, source key words may be found in data included in the content of an item or in metadata describing the item. If \u201cfuzzy\u201d classification logic determines that a matter tag should be assigned, then matter tag module  () associates the item with a matter using a matter tag ().",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0057","num":"0056"},"figref":"FIG. 8","b":["800","800","802","804","806","808","810","812","814","816","818"]},"According to some examples, computer system  performs specific operations by processor  executing one or more sequences of one or more instructions stored in system memory . Such instructions may be read into system memory  from another computer readable medium, such as static storage device  or disk drive . In some examples, hard-wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions for implementation.","The term \u201ccomputer readable medium\u201d refers to any physical medium that participates in providing instructions to processor  for execution. Such a medium may take many forms, including but not limited to, non-volatile media, volatile media, and transmission media. Non-volatile media includes, for example, optical or magnetic disks, such as disk drive . Volatile media includes dynamic memory, such as system memory . Physical transmission media includes coaxial cables, copper wire, and fiber optics, including wires that comprise bus .","Common forms of computer readable media includes, for example, floppy disk, flexible disk, hard disk, magnetic tape, any other magnetic medium, CD-ROM, any other optical medium, punch cards, paper tape, any other physical medium with patterns of holes, RAM, PROM, EPROM, FLASH-EPROM, any other memory chip or cartridge, carrier wave, or any other medium from which a computer can read.","In some examples, execution of the sequences of instructions may be performed by a single computer system . According to some examples, two or more computer systems  coupled by communication link  (e.g., LAN, PSTN, or wireless network) may perform the sequence of instructions in coordination with one another. Computer system  may transmit and receive messages, data, and instructions, including program, i.e., application code, through communication link  and communication interface . Received program code may be executed by processor  as it is received, and\/or stored in disk drive , or other non-volatile storage for later execution.","The foregoing examples have been described in some detail for purposes of clarity of understanding, but are not limited to the details provided. There are many alternative ways and techniques for implementation. The disclosed examples are illustrative and not restrictive."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["Various embodiments of the invention are disclosed in the following detailed description and the accompanying drawings:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0007","num":"0006"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0008","num":"0007"},"figref":"FIG. 2A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":"FIG. 2B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 5A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 5B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 5C"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 5D"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 6A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 6B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 6C"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 6D"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 6E"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 6F"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 8"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
