---
title: Generating specialized search results in response to patterned queries
abstract: Third party content providers can specify parameters for generating specialized search results in response to queries matching specific patterns. In this way, a generic search website can be enhanced to provide specialized search results to subscribed users. In one embodiment, these specialized results appear on a given user's result pages only when the user has subscribed to the enhancements from that particular content provider, so that users can tailor their search experience and see results that are more likely to be of interest to them. In other embodiments the specialized results are available to all users.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07593939&OS=07593939&RS=07593939
owner: Google Inc.
number: 07593939
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070330
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS","FIELD OF THE INVENTION","DESCRIPTION OF THE BACKGROUND ART","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["This patent application claims priority from U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60\/790,319, filed Apr. 7, 2006, for \u201cSpecifying Output Generation in Response to Patterned Queries\u201d, which is incorporated herein by reference.","The present invention is related to display of specialized search results, and more particularly to mechanisms to allow third party content providers to create enhancements to a search result page triggered on queries matching certain patterns.","When users search for websites and other information on the Internet, they may not always obtain the desired results. In many cases, users must carefully formulate their queries in order to obtain the information they are seeking. Some users, particularly novice users, do not have the skills, expertise, knowledge, experience, or patience to formulate a query that will yield the desired information.","Website authors, on the other hand, often have such expertise and are able to formulate queries that will provide information likely to be of use to visitors of those websites. Specialized search functionality often appears on websites, allowing visitors to those websites to see search results tailored to the particular content they are likely to be interested in, based on the fact that they are searching from that website. For example, a website devoted to traffic information can interpret a query such as \u201cInterstate 280\u201d differently than a general-purpose search site would provide. The fact that a user is visiting the traffic information website means that he or she is interested in traffic information.","However, it is not always convenient for users to visit a particular website in order to perform such a specialized search. Users may wish to perform all (or most) of their searches on a general-purpose search site, such as www.google.com, without having to visit different websites to perform different searches. Accordingly, it would be useful if third-party content providers could enable specialized searches on general-purpose search sites.","Furthermore, different users have different preferences, needs, and interests. Some users might be interested in searches relating to television shows, while other users may be interested in searches relating to weather around the world. It would be beneficial, therefore, for users to have the ability to specify which types of specialized searches they are interested in, so that specialized search results could be tailored to those affirmed areas of interest.","The present invention allows third party content providers to create enhancements to a search result page triggered on queries matching certain patterns. In one embodiment, these specialized results will appear on a given user's result pages only when the user has subscribed to the enhancements from that particular content provider, so that users can tailor their search experience and see results that are more likely to be of interest to them.","In response to a query matching a given pattern, the system of the present invention generates one or more of the following:\n\n","An application programming interface (API) allows third party content providers to specify parameters for including their specialized results in search result pages. The content providers can thus particular types of information to be displayed in particular formats, in response to certain kinds of queries.","The content provider specifies parameters; i.e., what type of search query will trigger retrieval of content from that provider. The content provider also specifies how the search query will be parsed, and how the extracted query terms will be used to retrieve content. Finally, the content provider specifies how the retrieved content will be displayed in the user's browser window. In one embodiment, users can select which types of specialized search results they wish to receive, and add them to their results pages in order to enhance their search experience with the third-party content.","The Figures depict a preferred embodiment of the present invention for purposes of illustration only. One skilled in the art will readily recognize from the following discussion that alternative embodiments of the structures and methods illustrated herein may be employed without departing from the principles of the invention described herein.","In the following description, the term \u201csubscribed link\u201d is used to refer to a mechanism by which the user can indicate that he or she is interested in receiving a particular category of search results. The category of search results is usually based on some query pattern, as described in more detail below. The term \u201csubscribed\u201d refers to the fact that the user can freely opt in or out of the search results category, in effect turning on or off the subscription.","In one embodiment, however, the search results category can be provided to all users. Alternatively, the search results category can be provided to some users based on some criteria (such as browser platform, OS platform, geographical location, search history, demographics, website visitation history, or the like). In effect, then, those users for which the criteria apply can be auto-subscribed to certain links. In one embodiment, users are free to opt out after they have been auto-subscribed; in other embodiments, they may not have the freedom to do so.","In the following description, the term \u201cspecialized result\u201d refers to any result that is generated by the patterned query\/response mechanism described herein, whether or not the initiating link is a subscribed link.","Server Infrastructure","Referring now to , there is shown an example of a system  for practicing the present invention. One skilled in the art will recognize that the architecture shown in  and described herein is presented for illustrative purposes only, and that the present invention can be practiced with other architectures as well.","Referring also to , there is shown an example of a method for practicing the present invention according to one embodiment.","In one embodiment, the present invention is implemented using a data server or collection of data servers . These servers store knowledge base data and query\/result specification files submitted by various content providers. The format and function of these specification files are described in further detail below.","Using client , a logged-in user enters  a query at a search website , which may be a general purpose search site such as www.google.com. In one embodiment, the user is logged in so that he or she can be identified, and so that a determination can be made as to which (if any) links the user has subscribed to. The user's query  is sent  to a front-end server . The front-end server  passes  the request  to one or more trust servers , which perform the following steps:","First, the trust server  retrieves  a list  of the content providers which the user \u201ctrusts\u201d enough that specialized results from them should be presented to the user. This includes all explicit, direct subscription decisions the user has made. In one embodiment, it may also include indirect trust relations and\/or experimental recommendations. List  includes provider feed URLs so that the data for subscribed links can be obtained from the appropriate source.","For each provider in the list , the trust server  sends  a request  to the appropriate data server  to get specialized results for that content provider for the query . Data servers  can be sharded according to well known techniques.","Specialized results  are returned  to trust server , which renders  the results in an HTML form and sends the HTML-rendered results  to front-end server . In one embodiment, this rendering is performed by a component external to trust server . For example, the rendering may be performed by a renderer (not shown) implemented as a library linked into the trust server ; alternatively, it can be implemented as a call-out to a server, such as for example a Google Gadgets server, in order to support close integration with an API such as the Google Gadgets API. The renderer handles decisions such as, for example, what to display if the total number of specialized results  returned is too large to fit them all in the available display space. One skilled in the art will recognize that the results need not be formatted in HTML, but that any other format can be used.","Once the rendered results  are provided to the front-end server , they are relayed  to search site  for drop-in display by search site  (possibly along with other search results). Search site  generates  a results page and transmits it to a browser running at the client . The client browser then displays  the results for the user. As shown in the examples described below, the specialized rendered results  can be displayed in a visually distinct manner (such as within a shaded box) so as to distinguish them from ordinary search results; alternatively, no special visual distinction can be made.","Each individual data server , when it receives a call to provide specialized results for a given query and provider, processes the query according to the list of specialized results for that provider, extract appropriate knowledge base elements. The data server  formats the results according to the output templates specified by the provider.","The subscriber\/provider server  allows users to subscribe to and unsubscribe from specialized results offered by particular content providers, and also allows providers to upload the locations of XML files defining their specialized results.","Feed crawl server  handles loading of actual XML data files from content providers' websites, based on a list  of provider feed URLs received from subscriber\/provider server . The feed crawl server  converts XML into an internal protobuffer format used by the data servers . The feed crawl server  validates the data and sends updates  to data server  shards when the data changes. Load requests  are generated when a data server  receives a request for subscribed links from a provider it does not have in its memory. The data server  sends the load request  to the feed crawl server  so that the feed crawl server  will fetch the data for that provider.","Changes to user subscription information are handled by a trust relations server architecture. When a provider's information changes, the feed crawl server  broadcasts update requests  to the front-end servers , which then passes them onto the appropriate data server  shards.","In one embodiment, each data server  supports the following operations:\n\n","The front-end server  has the following responsibilities with respect to the data server  shards it controls:\n\n","The architecture shown in  and the method shown in  will be further described in the context of several examples. However, the particular features of the examples are intended to be illustrative rather than limiting. One skilled in the art will recognize that the invention can be practiced in different ways.","API for Generating and Displaying Specialized Search Results","In one embodiment, the present invention is implemented as an Application Programming Interface (API) that allows third parties to specify parameters for displaying specialized information in response to particular queries. The parameters may be provided, for example, in the form of an XML file.","In one embodiment, the content provider defines one or more ResultSpecs tags. A ResultSpec tag contains a Query tag and a Response tag. The Query tag provides a general trigger pattern of queries that will cause the content provider's results to be obtained and displayed. The Response tag provides a template for the display of the content provider's results when the trigger pattern is satisfied.","The ResultSpec tag can also have an id attribute to uniquely identify the ResultSpec. In one embodiment, every ResultSpec has an id attribute.","For example, the following specification would display a \u201cHello World\u201d informational message whenever the user enters the query \u201csubscribed links\u201d:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0044","num":"0052"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00001","num":"00001"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"left"}},"thead":{"row":{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":"\u2003\u2003<ResultSpec id=\u201cInfoMatch\u201d>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<Query>subscribed links<\/Query>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<Response>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<Output name=\u201ctitle\u201d>Google Subscribed Links API<\/Output>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<Output"},{"entry":"name=\u201cmore_url\u201d>www.google.com\/subscribed_links<\/Output>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<Output name=\u201ctext1\u201d>Hello, world!<\/Output>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<Output name=\u201ctext2\u201d>Google Subscribed Links allow you to"},{"entry":"put your own<\/Output>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<Output name=\u201ctext3\u201d>content on the Google search results"},{"entry":"page.<\/Output>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<\/Response>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003<\/ResultSpec>"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}},"In this example, the ResultSpec tag has an id of InfoMatch. The Query tag specifies that the result will display in response to one specific query, namely \u201csubscribed links\u201d. On any other query, the result will not display. Each Output tag has a name attribute that specifies the place where that particular part of the output will appear in the displayed result. The output named title will be the anchor text for a title link; the more_url output gives the URL which that link points to; and the text1, text2, text3 outputs define three lines of body text.","Referring now to , there is shown an example of a result screen  generated by the code of the above example in response to query . The specialized search result  is shown in a highlighted box  which distinguishes specialized result  from other results . The words \u201cSubscribed Link\u201d  in the upper right corner of the result  indicate that users must subscribe in order to see this specialized result . In one embodiment, a user must subscribe in order to indicate that he or she would like that content provider's specialized results to appear on his or her result pages; in another embodiment, there is no requirement for the user to subscribe.","Edit link  allows the user to edit his or her list of subscribed links. Remove link  allows the user to remove the subscribed link that produced specialized result .","It can be seen from  that the text shown in result  is generated based on the Output tags presented in the above example of a ResultSpec tag.","Referring now to , there is shown a flowchart depicting an example of the user's experience in interacting with the system of the present invention according to one embodiment. The user configures search results to include specialized results as follows. First, the user signs on  with a login and password, so that he or she can be identified. In one embodiment, cookies can be used to store login information (including password if desired) on the user's machine so that manual login is not needed for each session. The user then visits  a web page that includes a directory of \u201csubscribed links\u201d that users can add to their search results. The user selects  an entry in the directory (by clicking on it) to subscribe to one of the subscribed links.","As mentioned above, in some cases, users can be automatically subscribed to certain subscribed links (categories of query results) based on any desired criteria.","Once the user has subscribed to a link (or once he or she has been auto-subscribed), the user is taken  to a profile page. Here, he or she can specify  additional parameters and options, and can confirm that he or she wants to subscribe.","Subsequently, when the user enters  a search query that matches the specified parameters, the relevant information is retrieved  and a results page is shown  that includes the content provider's results, as shown in  and according to the method described above in connection with .","If the user does not want to see specialized search results of a particular kind in the future, he or she clicks on the \u201cremove\u201d link  in the lower right corner of the result box  in order to unsubscribe from a particular subscribed link.","Creating Query Patterns","As illustrated in the above example, the Query item in the XML file defines the set of queries for which the specialized results will appear. In the above example, the pattern is very restrictive: it will only trigger on a single particular query. Theoretically, the content provider could write a separate ResultSpec for each individual query that is to trigger a specialized result. Generally, however, it is more efficient to specify a pattern that, when matched, will cause specialized results to be displayed. To create more powerful query patterns, the content provider can use types in the Query item and attributes in constructing the corresponding Response. The types refer to DataObjects, which are discussed below.","For example, suppose the content provider wishes to report speed limits on various highways. The content provider would like to have essentially the same result format for any query of the form \u201cspeed limit on X\u201d where X is the name of a highway. The particular result would depend on the value of X (the name of the highway). To do this, the content provider can define a number of supporting DataObjects of type \u201cHighway\u201d, each with an attribute called \u201cmax_speed_limit\u201d giving the maximum speed limit on the highway. Then the content provider can define a Query and Response like this:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0056","num":"0064"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00002","num":"00002"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"left"}},"thead":{"row":{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":"\u2003\u2003<ResultSpec id=\u201cHighwayMatch1\u201d>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<Query>speed limit on [Highway]<\/Query>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<Response>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<Output name=\u201ctitle\u201d>Speed limit info for"},{"entry":"[0.fullname]<\/Output>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<Output"},{"entry":"name=\u201cmore_url\u201d>www.myspeedlimitssite.com\/describe?hwy=[0.abbrev]"},{"entry":"<\/Output>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<Output name=\u201ctext1\u201d>The maximum speed limit on"},{"entry":"[0.fullname]<\/Output>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<Output name=\u201ctext2\u201d>is [0.max_speed_limit].<\/Output>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<\/Response>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003<\/ResultSpec>"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}},"Here, DataObjects in the Query are denoted by type names enclosed in brackets. In one embodiment, type names are case-sensitive.","In the Output lines of the Response, the content provider can refer to attributes of the extracted DataObjects, which are numbered starting from 0. These attribute references are also enclosed in brackets and are also case-sensitive.","Defining Data Objects","To make the \u201cHighwayMatch\u201d Query and Response actually work, the content provider defines some DataObjects of type Highway. One such object might look like this:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0060","num":"0068"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00003","num":"00003"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"203pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"<DataObject id=\u201cHighway101\u201d type=\u201cHighway\u201d>"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003<QueryName value=\u201c101\u201d\/>"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003<QueryName value=\u201cUS 101\u201d\/>"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003<Attribute name=\u201cfullname\u201d value=\u201cUS Route 101\u201d\/>"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003<Attribute name=\u201cabbrev\u201d value=\u201cUS101\u201d\/>"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003<Attribute name=\u201cmax_speed_limit\u201d value=\u201c65 MPH\u201d\/>"]},{"entry":[{},"<\/DataObject>"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}}}}},"Thus, the definition of this DataObject fits into the ResultSpec example above, as follows:\n\n","Referring now to , there is shown an example of a results screen  including a specialized result . This example assumes that the content provider has generated an XML file containing both the ResultSpec and the DataObject as described above. The specialized search result  is shown in response to query . A result similar to  will be shown when the user searches on either \u201cspeed limit on 101\u201d or \u201cspeed limit on US 101\u201d, because both of \u201c101\u201d and \u201cUS 101\u201d will match the Highway object that was defined. To make results display for more speed limit queries, the content provider can define more DataObjects of type Highway, and does not have to add anything more to the ResultSpec.","The specialized result  in  is generated as follows. Query  (\u201cspeed limit on 101\u201d) matches the Query tag \u201cspeed limit on [Highway]\u201d, since a data object of type \u201cHighway\u201d has been defined as matching QueryName \u201c101\u201d. The data object specifies other attributes for \u201cHighway101\u201d, including a full name (\u201cUS Route 101\u201d), an abbreviation (\u201cUS101\u201d), and a speed limit (\u201c65 MPH\u201d). The Output tags in the ResultSpec indicate a format for including these attributes, along with accompanying text, in the displayed specialized result .","Completing the XML File","To complete the XML file that specifies Subscribed Links, the content provider adds a top-level Results tag. The content provider can also add an AuthorInfo tag giving some information about the author of the specification or of the content provider. The following is an example of a complete file:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0065","num":"0077"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00004","num":"00004"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"left"}},"thead":{"row":{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":"\u2003\u2003<Results>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003<AuthorInfo description=\u201cFind highway speed limits\u201d author=\u201cJoe"},{"entry":"Author\u201d\/>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003<ResultSpec id=\u201cHighwayMatch1\u201d>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<Query>speed limit on [Highway]<\/Query>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<Response>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<Output name=\u201ctitle\u201d>Speed limit info for"},{"entry":"[0.fullname]<\/Output>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<Output"},{"entry":"name=\u201cmore_url\u201d>www.myspeedlimitssite.com\/describe?hwy=[0.abbrev]"},{"entry":"<\/Output>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<Output name=\u201ctext1\u201d>The maximum speed limit on"},{"entry":"[0.fullname]<\/Output>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<Output name=\u201ctext2\u201d>is [0.max_speed_limit].<\/Output>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<\/Response>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003<\/ResultSpec>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003<DataObject id=\u201cHighway101\u201d type=\u201cHighway\u201d>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<QueryName value=\u201c101\u201d\/>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<QueryName value=\u201cUS 101\u201d\/>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<Attribute name=\u201cfullname\u201d value=\u201cUS Route 101\u201d\/>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<Attribute name=\u201cabbrev\u201d value=\u201cUS101\u201d\/>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<Attribute name=\u201cmax_speed_limit\u201d value=\u201c65 MPH\u201d\/>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003<\/DataObject>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003<\/Results>"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}},"br":{}},"As shown in the examples above, in one embodiment, a standard result format includes a title link and up to three lines of body text. In one embodiment, all HTML tags in the Output specification are automatically formatted accordingly. In one embodiment, output lines exceeding a character length limit are automatically clipped.","Besides the title link, the content provider can also include additional links in the body of the result, if desired. To do this, the content provider can specify a link for each line by adding more Outputs to the Response. The names of the Outputs are link1, link2, link3 (for the links' anchor text) and url1, url2, url3 (for the links' URLs). The number 1, 2, or 3 controls which line of the body text the link(s) will appear on. For example, to provide just one link in the body, but on the third line, then the Output names associated with that link should be link3, url3.","The content provider can specify links for some of the lines, leave some plaintext-only, or omit the plaintext entirely from a line leaving only the link.","By default the body links will appear to the left of the text on each line. To change this, the content provider can set the format attribute of the Response tag to answer_right. So for example:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0070","num":"0082"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00005","num":"00005"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"203pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"<ResultSpec id=\u201cFormatDemo\u201d>"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003<Query>result format<\/Query>"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003<Response format=\u201canswer_right\u201d>"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003<Output name=\u201ctitle\u201d>Simple format demonstration<\/Output>"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003<Output name=\u201cmore_url\u201d>www.google.com<\/Output>"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003<Output name=\u201ctext1\u201d>Some text before the<\/Output>"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003<Output name=\u201clink1\u201d>first link<\/Output>"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003<Output name=\u201curl1\u201d>www.foobar1.com<\/Output>"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003<Output name=\u201ctext2\u201d>You might want to get<\/Output>"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003<Output name=\u201clink2\u201d>more information<\/Output>"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003<Output name=\u201curl2\u201d>www.foobar2.com<\/Output>"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003<Output name=\u201clink3\u201d>This line is just a link.<\/Output>"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003<Output name=\u201curl3\u201d>www.foobar3.com<\/Output>"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003<\/Response>"]},{"entry":[{},"<\/ResultSpec>"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}}}}},"will produce, on the query \u201cresult format\u201d, the output shown in screen shot  of , including links  and link text . Alternatively, if the attribute format=\u201canswer_right\u201d were omitted from the Response tag, the links  on the first two lines would display to the left of the snippets of text .","Advanced Features","In some embodiments, any or all of the following features can also be provided, singly or in any combination.","Using Multiple Files","When the content provider submits a URL for the XML file defining its Subscribed Links, the form actually allows the content provider to specify more than one URL. If more than one is specified, the Subscribed Links will trigger based on the combined data from all the specified URLs. This can be useful, for example, if it desired to reuse lists of DataObjects created by others.","For example, if a content provider has an XML file containing a list of DataObjects of type Highway, and a separate XML file containing the ResultSpecs that use that list, then the first file can be made publicly available so that other content providers can use the existing list of DataObjects of type Highway.","Using Brackets and Backslashes","In the above examples, the bracket characters [ ] are used to set off types of extracted elements in Queries and attributes of extracted elements in Responses. If the content provider wishes to include these characters in the output or Query pattern, he or she can do so by prefixing the character with \\ (backslash).","Special Object Types","In one embodiment, a number of common object types are available for use in Query patterns. By using one of these object types, the content provider avoids the need to provide his or her own DataObjects. Examples of such common object types include, without limitation:","Cities. The element specification [City] will match names of cities and towns in North America, given by city name with state or (for larger cities) by city name alone. So for example:","<Query>elevation of [City]<\/Query>","will match queries like \u201celevation of San Francisco\u201d, \u201celevation of Springfield, Ill.\u201d, etc. The resultant extracted objects will have the following attributes which can be used in Responses:\n\n","Regular expression matches. In one embodiment, the system of the present invention supports Perl Compatible Regular Expressions (PCREs) according to a standard format. The content provider can specify a regular expression to match in a query by prefixing it with \u201cRE:\u201d. The attributes of the resultant object are the match groups of the regular expression; they are named \u201cgr0\u201d, \u201cgr1\u201d, and so on. So for example:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0081","num":"0096"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00006","num":"00006"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"203pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003<ResultSpec id=\u201cREDemo\u201d>"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003<Query>[RE:(\\\\d{1,3})\\\\.(\\\\d{1,3})\\\\.(\\\\d{1,3})\\\\.(\\\\d{1,3})]"]},{"entry":[{},"subnet<\/Query>"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003<Response>"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<Output name=\u201ctitle\u201d>Subnet breakdown for"]},{"entry":[{},"[0.gr0].[0.gr1].[0.gr2].[0.gr3]<\/Output>"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<Output name=\u201cmore_url\u201d>www.foo.com<\/Output>"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<Output name=\u201ctext1\u201d>Class A subnet: [0.gr0]<\/Output>"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<Output name=\u201ctext2\u201d>Class C subnet: [0.gr2]<\/Output>"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003<\/Response>"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003<\/ResultSpec>"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}}}}},"will match queries like \u201c127.0.0.1 subnet\u201d. Referring now to , there is shown an example of a results screen  including a specialized search result  generated based on a regular expression, wherein query  matched the regular expression.","Dates. The element types \u201cdate\u201d, \u201ctimeofday\u201d, and \u201ctimerange\u201d will match, respectively, dates, times of day, and time ranges in US-English format. So for example:","<Query>sunset on [date]<\/Query>","will match queries of the form \u201csunset on X\u201d where X is a date. The matcher is flexible enough to recognize different date formats, so \u201csunset on Nov. 22, 2005\u201d and \u201csunset on October 16th\u201d will both match.","The resultant objects have their own fixed sets of attributes. For \u201cdate\u201d these are:\n\n","For \u201ctimeofday\u201d they are:\n\n","For \u201ctimerange\u201d they are \u201cstart_X\u201d and \u201cfinish_X\u201d where X ranges over all the \u201ctimeofday\u201d attributes.","One skilled in the art will recognize that other built-in object types may also be provided.","Extractors","In addition to specifying objects to be found in the query itself, the content provider may specify additional elements to be obtained, given those already found. To specify an additional extracted element, the content provider adds an Extract tag to the ResultSpec that gives type name and an extraction specification. The extraction specification uses attributes of already-extracted elements in the same way that a Response does to construct a string, and then matches that string against the QueryNames of objects of the given type.","The following is an example:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0092","num":"0118"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00007","num":"00007"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"left"}},"thead":{"row":{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":"\u2003\u2003<ResultSpec id=\u201cPopulationMatch1\u201d>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<Query>population of [City] in [RE:(\\\\d{4})]<\/Query>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<Extract"},{"entry":"type=\u201cCityPopulationData\u201d>pop_[0.abbrev]_[1.gr0]<\/Extract>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<Response>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<Output name=\u201ctitle\u201d>Population: [0.fullname]"},{"entry":"[1.gr0]<\/Output>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<Output name=\u201cmore_url\u201d>www.google.com<\/Output>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<Output name=\u201ctext1\u201d>The population of [0.fullname] in"},{"entry":"[1.gr0]<\/Output>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<Output name=\u201ctext2\u201d>was [2.population].<\/Output>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<\/Response>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003<\/ResultSpec>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003<DataObject id=\u201cPopSFCA2000\u201d type=\u201cCityPopulationData\u201d>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<QueryName value=\u201cpop_SanFranciscoCA_2000\u201d\/>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<Attribute name=\u201cpopulation\u201d value=\u201c776,733\u201d\/>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003<\/DataObject>"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}},"This would trigger on the query \u201cpopulation of San Francisco in 2000\u201d, attempt to extract an additional DataObject of type \u201cCityPopulationData\u201d named \u201cpop_SanFranciscoCA2000\u201d, and display the result.","Referring now to , there is shown an example of a results screen  wherein the specialized result  contains the additional extracted elements described above.","The content provider can include as many additional extracted objects as he or she wishes, and each one can use the attributes of all previous ones in constructing its extraction specification.","Validators","The content provider can use a Validate tag to restrict the set of queries on which a Response will be displayed. A Validate tag works much like an Extract tag: it uses two strings, the source and destination, which are populated using attributes of extracted elements. These two strings are then compared and the Response will display only if they are equal.","For example:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0097","num":"0123"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00008","num":"00008"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"203pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003<ResultSpec id=\u201cRadioStationMatch1\u201d>"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003<Query>frequency of [RadioStation] in [State]<\/Query>"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003<Validate src=\u201c[0.state]\u201d dst=\u201c[1.fullname]\u201d\/>"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003<Response>"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<Output name=\u201ctitle\u201d>Population info for [0.fullname] in"]},{"entry":[{},"[1.gr0]<\/Output>"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<Output name=\u201cmore_url\u201d>www.foo.com<\/Output>"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<Output name=\u201ctext1\u201d>The broadcast frequency of"]},{"entry":[{},"[0.fullname]<\/Output>"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<Output name=\u201ctext2\u201d>is [0.frequency].<\/Output>"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003<\/Response>"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003<\/ResultSpec>"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003<DataObject id=\u201cCaliforniaState\u201d type=\u201cState\u201d>"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003<QueryName value=\u201cCalifornia\u201d\/>"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003<Attribute name=\u201cfullname\u201d value=\u201cCalifornia\u201d\/>"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003<\/DataObject>"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003<DataObject id=\u201cNewYorkState\u201d type=\u201cState\u201d>"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003<QueryName value=\u201cNew York\u201d\/>"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003<Attribute name=\u201cfullname\u201d value=\u201cNew York\u201d\/>"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003<\/DataObject>"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003<DataObject id=\u201cKQED\u201d type=\u201cRadioStation\u201d>"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003<QueryName value=\u201cKQED\u201d\/>"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003<Attribute name=\u201cfullname\u201d value=\u201cKQED-FM\u201d\/>"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003<Attribute name=\u201cfrequency\u201d value=\u201c88.5\u201d\/>"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003<Attribute name=\u201cstate\u201d value=\u201cCalifornia\u201d\/>"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003<\/DataObject>"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003<DataObject id=\u201cWMHT\u201d type=\u201cRadioStation\u201d>"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003<QueryName value=\u201cWMHT\u201d\/>"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003<Attribute name=\u201cfullname\u201d value=\u201cWMHT-FM\u201d\/>"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003<Attribute name=\u201cfrequency\u201d value=\u201c89.1\u201d\/>"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003<Attribute name=\u201cstate\u201d value=\u201cNew York\u201d\/>"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003<\/DataObject>"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}}}}},"With the definitions above, a result will trigger on the queries \u201cfrequency of KQED in California\u201d and \u201cfrequency of WMHT in New York\u201d, but not on \u201cfrequency of KQED in New York\u201d. The reason is that the values for [0.state] and [1.fullname] must match in order for the specialized result to be triggered. This helps prevent ill-advised attempts to generate specialized results based on nonsensical combinations of terms. Since the state for KQED is \u201cCalifornia\u201d and the state for WHMT is \u201cNew York\u201d, the query will only match when the full name of the state as entered in the query matches the state for the radio station entered.","Reference Attributes","There are some circumstances where it is useful to have the value of an Attribute of a DataObject be, not a string literal, but a reference to another DataObject. The content provider can specify this by setting the Attribute's value equal to the ID of the DataObject to be referred to, and using multilevel attribute references (multiple attribute names separated by periods) in the Response accordingly. For example:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0100","num":"0126"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00009","num":"00009"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"left"}},"thead":{"row":{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":"\u2003\u2003<ResultSpec id=\u201cRadioStationMatch1\u201d>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<Query>population [RadioStation]<\/Query>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<Response>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<Output name=\u201ctitle\u201d>Info on [0.fullname]<\/Output>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<Output name=\u201cmore_url\u201d>www.foo.com<\/Output>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<Output name=\u201ctext1\u201d>The station [0.fullname]<\/Output>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<Output name=\u201ctext2\u201d>is located in a state with a population"},{"entry":"of [0.state.population].<\/Output>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<\/Response>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003<\/ResultSpec>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003<DataObject id=\u201cCaliforniaState\u201d type=\u201cState\u201d>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<QueryName value=\u201cCalifornia\u201d\/>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<Attribute name=\u201cfullname\u201d value=\u201cCalifornia\u201d\/>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<Attribute name=\u201cpopulation\u201d value=\u201c36,000,000\u201d\/>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003<\/DataObject>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003<DataObject id=\u201cKQED\u201d type=\u201cRadioStation\u201d>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<QueryName value=\u201cKQED\u201d\/>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<Attribute name=\u201cfullname\u201d value=\u201cKQED-FM\u201d\/>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<Attribute name=\u201cfrequency\u201d value=\u201c88.5\u201d\/>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<Attribute name=\u201cstate\u201d value=\u201cCaliforniaState\u201d\/>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003<\/DataObject>"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}},"This will trigger on the query  \u201cpopulation KQED\u201d and produce the output, as shown in results screen  of . The output tag specifies that [0.state.population] should be displayed. This resolves to the population of the state associated with the record on which the query matched. Since the query was \u201cPopulation KQED\u201d, the term \u201cKQED\u201d maps to [RadioStation]. The state for that data object is \u201cCaliforniaState\u201d, which is an ID for another data object. Thus, to resolve [0.state.population], the CaliforniaState ID is consulted, which shows a value for \u201cpopulation\u201d of \u201c36,000,000\u201d. That value is then displayed.","Query Suggestions","In one embodiment, the present invention is also able to analyze query  and suggest alternative queries to the user. This can be implemented, for example, by comparing the entered query  with an index of results terms and selecting likely alternative query forms that (a) are similar to the entered query  and (b) would yield higher numbers of results if entered. In one embodiment, the alternative queries are presented as a clickable link that the user can activate if he or she is not satisfied with the displayed specialized links and regular links.","Auto-Subscription","In one embodiment, users can be automatically subscribed to a search results category based on some criteria (such as browser platform, OS platform, geographical location, search history, demographics, website visitation history, or the like). In effect, then, those users for which the criteria apply can be auto-subscribed to certain links. For example, a user who tends to search for information at automotive sites can be automatically subscribed to a search results category related to automobiles.","In one embodiment, users are free to opt out after they have been auto-subscribed; in other embodiments, they may not have the freedom to do so.","Testing and Troubleshooting Subscribed Links","In one embodiment, the content provider can test the operation of ResultSpecs before releasing them, to ensure that they trigger on the queries you expect them to and display the correct output. To do this for a particular ResultSpec, the content provider adds the attribute \u201ctest=true\u201d to the ResultSpec tag, as in this example:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0106","num":"0132"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00010","num":"00010"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"left"}},"thead":{"row":{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":"\u2003\u2003<ResultSpec id=\u201cHighwayMatch1\u201d test=true>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<Query>speed limit on [Highway]<\/Query>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<Response>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<Output name=\u201ctitle\u201d>Speed limit info for"},{"entry":"[0.fullname]<\/Output>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<Output"},{"entry":"name=\u201cmore_url\u201d>www.myspeedlimitssite.com\/describe?hwy=[0.abbrev]"},{"entry":"<\/Output>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<Output name=\u201ctext1\u201d>The maximum speed limit on"},{"entry":"[0.fullname]<\/Output>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<Output name=\u201ctext2\u201d>is [0.max_speed_limit].<\/Output>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<\/Response>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003<\/ResultSpec>"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}},"Then the result specified by this ResultSpec will display when a specific user (such as the content provider him or herself) logs in to his or her Google Account and does a search matching the Query, but not when any other user who has added that content provider's Subscribed Links does searches.","In one embodiment, to ensure fairness, any given ResultSpec is only allowed a certain fixed amount of calculation time per query.","Specification Language","Specifying parameters for specialized search results is in general a three-step process:\n\n","These steps are all performed by writing an XML file as described above. Also supported is the ability to extract additional elements using strings derived from the elements matched so far, and also a validation step where a string generated from matched elements is compared to an expected value before output generation is allowed to proceed.","In one embodiment, the system of the present invention also provides the capability to perform richer calculations on attributes of matched elements in a manner, or to write more complex algorithms for making query trigger decisions. Third parties can write their own code for these purposes. In one embodiment, only highly trusted third parties are given permission to submit such transforms.","Server Deployment and Sharding Policy","In one embodiment, the present invention is implemented using a number of datacenters. Each datacenter has a full complement of servers including data server  shards, supporting front-end servers  and Prose trust servers, at least one feed crawler, and at least one front end server.","Latency penalty is controlled by sending queries for specialized results at the very beginning of the query cycle, even before spell correction and query rewriting, since only the raw query is required.","In one embodiment, sharding of specialized data is performed by content provider, since each content provider has a distinct set of knowledge base data that to be accessed when matching queries for that provider's specialized results. Two sets of data server  shards are provided: one for specialized results provided by the operator of the system or by trusted third parties, and the other for general, untrusted content providers. Sharding is distinct from replication here; each shard, handling a certain set of providers, is replicated at least twofold for load-balancing and fault-tolerance purposes; and trusted shards may need a different (presumably higher) degree of replication than untrusted shards.","Assigning a content provider can be done simply by modding the provider's ID by the number of shards of its type (trusted or untrusted). This should work fine going forward for untrusted providers, as random distribution of IDs will ensure a good \u201cspread\u201d of providers across shards, and each provider's data size will be limited. Alternatively, for trusted providers, in one embodiment special sharding rules are implemented, as some providers may need to submit so much data that they will crowd other providers out of their shards. In one embodiment, multiple provider IDs are provided for some providers whose data sizes are so large as to require them to be split across multiple machines.","In one embodiment, as space fills up, old provider data from memory is deleted in order to fit in new data in response to queries; shards flush providers from memory on a least-recently-used basis. In some cases, the system may stop allowing new untrusted providers until more machines are available.","Implementing Specialized Results","A request for specialized results consists of a query  and a set of content providers. For each content provider listed, the query is matched against all trigger patterns for that content provider. For this purpose a structure is maintained called a OneboxSet for each content provider. When doing the matching for a particular content provider, the system makes reference to the knowledge base objects that content provider has defined; thus the knowledge base structure (called a KB) is divided into KBSegments, each KBSegment representing the objects defined by one content provider.","For each trigger pattern a content provider specifies, the system determines whether a given query matches that particular pattern and finds the conceptual objects corresponding to parameters specified in the pattern. To encapsulate this process, abstract base classes ObjectMatcher and MatchedObject are defined. An ObjectMatcher corresponds to a particular type of conceptual object; its Match routine decides whether a given string has a prefix matching an object of that type, and if so, outputs a MatchedObject. MatchedObjects are essentially attribute name-value maps; to use an attribute of an object in constructing the results of a triggering query, MatchedObject::GetAttribute is called.","The core work of matching queries is then done by subclasses of ObjectMatcher. LiteralKeywordMatcher checks that a string has a prefix literally equal to some given keyword or keyphrase. The one likely to be most commonly used is KBObjectMatcher, which operates by looking up tokenized prefixes of a query in a hash table of knowledge base objects. Special-purpose matchers are provided for regular expressions and for dates and times.","In order to speed up the matching process, in one embodiment a hash table is created for each provide. The keys of the hash table are the literal prefixes of the corresponding trigger patterns. For example, for the trigger pattern \u201cflights from [City] to [City]\u201d, the literal prefix is \u201cflights from\u201d. Then, when matching a query against a provider's set of trigger patterns, the system of the present invention considers those whose literal prefix matches a prefix of the query.","Accessing the Feed Crawl Server ","As discussed above, in one embodiment the feed crawl server  uses a standard web crawling mechanism to crawl the XML files that content providers specify as the locations of their data; parse these files; and if the parse is successful, place the resulting data in its in-memory LRU (least-recently-used) cache. The feed crawler gets its crawling jobs in three ways. First, when a data server  shard receives a GetProseOneboxes request demanding data from a content provider it does not have in its memory, it issues a load request. Second, when a provider submits a new XML file location for specialized data, the feed crawler reloads that provider's data into its in-memory cache. Third, the feed crawler periodically polls providers' XML files for updates, broadcasting UpdateOneboxData requests when it detects new data; the polling schedule is determined by how often the provider has gotten into the cache previously.","Thus the data server  shards function as a first-level cache, and the feed crawler's memory as a second-level cache, for the data ultimately stored on the content providers' websites in XML format.","In one embodiment, a query to a data server  shard will only return specialized results if the specialized data for the specified content provider is in the data server  shard's memory at the time of the query. When the data server  issues a load request for content provider data it does not have, it will not wait for the load to happen before trying to return specialized results for the query that provoked the load request. Thus a user may occasionally fail to get specialized results if he or she happens to be the first person to submit a query.","Security Considerations","In one embodiment, the present invention is implemented in such a manner as to counter certain security threats. Examples of such threats include:\n\n","To deal with issue (1), in one embodiment the system of the present invention escapes all output strings from untrusted providers completely. Lengths of output strings are limited, so as to prevent excessive space consumption on the page as well as overflow attacks. These limitations may be relaxed or eliminated for more trusted providers, as long as they go through a review process in which their initial specifications and data are scrutinized.","To deal with issue (2), in one embodiment the data server  shards are subject to timeouts: after a certain number of milliseconds processing a given query, a shard will just stop and return whatever results it has for that query. Likewise, after a certain number of milliseconds waiting for data server  shards to return results from a GetProseOneboxes request, the front-end server  simply aggregates whatever results it has gotten so far and passes these back to the requester.","In one embodiment, a sharding policy is put into place as described above, to ensure that specialized results which have been promoted to show all users, or which come from more highly trusted providers, are on separate shards from those carrying completely untrusted providers' data. In this manner, their processing times for trusted providers are not affected by possible bad behavior of untrusted providers. Also, in one embodiment, if queries to a provider's data time out too often, that provider is deactivated for at least some period of time so as to allow other providers' data to trigger. Also, in one embodiment, fairness policies are enforced on the feed crawler end so that no one provider can take up too much update traffic.","As to issue (3), in one embodiment content providers can track most subscriptions to their specialized search results. The content providers therefore know how often users click through to their sites via their specialized search links.","A further line of defense against all issues above is that all untrusted content provider search results can be set up as opt-in. Users take positive action to subscribe to them, i.e. trust their providers, before they can be displayed. Furthermore, users can easily unsubscribe from content providers they find give them bad results, and can report spam, deception, copyright violations, and the like.","The present invention has been described in particular detail with respect to one possible embodiment. Those of skill in the art will appreciate that the invention may be practiced in other embodiments. First, the particular naming of the components, capitalization of terms, the attributes, data structures, or any other programming or structural aspect is not mandatory or significant, and the mechanisms that implement the invention or its features may have different names, formats, or protocols. Further, the system may be implemented via a combination of hardware and software, as described, or entirely in hardware elements. Also, the particular division of functionality between the various system components described herein is merely exemplary, and not mandatory; functions performed by a single system component may instead be performed by multiple components, and functions performed by multiple components may instead be performed by a single component.","Some portions of above description present the features of the present invention in terms of algorithms and symbolic representations of operations on information. These algorithmic descriptions and representations are the means used by those skilled in the data processing arts to most effectively convey the substance of their work to others skilled in the art. These operations, while described functionally or logically, are understood to be implemented by computer programs. Furthermore, it has also proven convenient at times, to refer to these arrangements of operations as modules or by functional names, without loss of generality.","Unless specifically stated otherwise as apparent from the above discussion, it is appreciated that throughout the description, discussions utilizing terms such as \u201ccalculating\u201d or \u201cdetermining\u201d or \u201cidentifying\u201d or the like, refer to the action and processes of a computer system, or similar electronic computing device, that manipulates and transforms data represented as physical (electronic) quantities within the computer system memories or registers or other such information storage, transmission or display devices.","Certain aspects of the present invention have been described using commands, mnemonics, tokens, formats, syntax, and other programming conventions. The particular selections of the names, formats, syntax, and like are merely illustrative, and not limiting. Those of skill in the art can readily construct alternative names, formats, syntax rules, and so forth for defining context files and programming the operations a programmable search engine via context processing.","Certain aspects of the present invention include process steps and instructions described herein in the form of an algorithm. It should be noted that the process steps and instructions of the present invention could be embodied in software, firmware or hardware, and when embodied in software, could be downloaded to reside on and be operated from different platforms used by real time network operating systems.","The present invention also relates to an apparatus for performing the operations herein. This apparatus may be specially constructed for the required purposes, or it may comprise a general-purpose computer selectively activated or reconfigured by a computer program stored on a computer readable medium that can be accessed by the computer. Such a computer program may be stored in a computer readable storage medium, such as, but is not limited to, any type of disk including floppy disks, optical disks, CD-ROMs, magnetic-optical disks, read-only memories (ROMs), random access memories (RAMs), EPROMs, EEPROMs, magnetic or optical cards, or any type of media suitable for storing electronic instructions, and each coupled to a computer system bus.","The algorithms and operations presented herein are not inherently related to any particular computer or other apparatus. Various general-purpose systems may also be used with programs in accordance with the teachings herein, or it may prove convenient to construct more specialized apparatus to perform the required method steps. The required structure for a variety of these systems will be apparent to those of skill in the art, along with equivalent variations. In addition, the present invention is not described with reference to any particular programming language. It is appreciated that a variety of programming languages may be used to implement the teachings of the present invention as described herein, and any references to specific languages are provided for disclosure of enablement and best mode of the present invention.","Finally, it should be noted that the language used in the specification has been principally selected for readability and instructional purposes, and may not have been selected to delineate or circumscribe the inventive subject matter. Accordingly, the disclosure of the present invention is intended to be illustrative, but not limiting, of the scope of the invention, which is set forth in the following claims."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 9"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
