---
title: Sitemap access method, product, and apparatus
abstract: When a network request such as a resource location request, search engine request, and WHOIS request to process input having a resource identifier is received a user interface can then be provided to perform a request to access and display at least one sitemap corresponding to said resource identifier while performing the network request.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07565402&OS=07565402&RS=07565402
owner: 
number: 07565402
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20070219
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS","FIELD OF THE INVENTION","DESCRIPTION OF THE RELATED ART","SUMMARY OF INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION"],"p":["This application is a continuation application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10\/604,626 filed Aug. 5, 2003 now U.S. Pat. No. 7,188,138, by Schneider, which is a continuation application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09\/683,481 filed Jan. 5, 2002 now abandoned, by Schneider which also claims the benefit of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09\/682,351 filed Aug. 23, 2001, by Schneider, which claims the benefit of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09\/682,133 filed Jul. 25, 2001, by Schneider, which claims the benefit of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09\/525,350 filed Mar. 15, 2000, by Schneider, and claims the benefit of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09\/653,100 filed Aug. 31, 2000, by Schneider, and claims the benefit of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09\/650,827 filed Aug. 30, 2000, by Schneider, and claims the benefit of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09\/598,134 filed Jun. 21, 2000, by Schneider, and claims the benefit of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09\/532,500 filed Mar. 21, 2000, by Schneider, which claims the benefit of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09\/525,350 filed Mar. 15, 2000, by Schneider, now U.S. Pat. No. 6,338,082 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60\/175,825 filed Jan. 13, 2000, by Schneider, now abandoned, U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60\/160,125 filed Oct. 18, 1999, by Schneider, now abandoned, U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60\/157,075 filed Oct. 1, 1999, by Schneider, now abandoned, U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60\/130,136 filed Apr. 20, 1999, by Schneider, now abandoned, and U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60\/125,531 filed Mar. 22, 1999, by Schneider, now abandoned.","This invention generally relates to processing a request from a resource identifier, and more specifically relates to a method, product, and apparatus for resource identifier registration and aftermarket services.","The Internet is a vast computer network having many smaller networks that span the world. A network provides a distributed communicating system of computers that are interconnected by various electronic communication links and computer software protocols. Because of the Internet's distributed and open network architecture, it is possible to transfer data from one computer to any other computer worldwide. In 1991, the World-Wide-Web (WWW or Web) revolutionized the way information is managed and distributed.","The Web is based on the concept of hypertext and a transfer method known as Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) which is designed to run primarily over a Transmission Control Protocol\/Internet Protocol (TCP\/IP) connection that employs a standard Internet setup. A server computer may provide data and a client computer may display or process it. TCP may then convert messages into streams of packets at the source, then reassemble them back into messages at the destination. Internet Protocol (IP) handles addressing, seeing to it that packets are routed across multiple nodes and even across multiple networks with multiple standards. HTTP protocol permits client systems connected to the Internet to access independent and geographically scattered server systems also connected to the Internet.","Web browsers, such as Microsoft Internet Explorer (MSIE), Netscape Navigator, and NeoPlanet provide graphical user interface (GUI) based client applications that implement the client side portion of the HTTP protocol. One format for information transfer is to create documents using Hypertext Markup Language (HTML). HTML pages are made up of standard text as well as formatting codes that indicate how the page should be displayed. The client side web browser reads these codes in order to display the page. A web page may be static and requires no variables to display information or link to other predetermined web pages. A web page is dynamic when arguments are passed which are either hidden in the web page or entered from a client browser to supply the necessary inputs displayed on the web page. Common Gateway Interface (CGI) is a standard for running external programs from a web server. CGI specifies how to pass arguments to the executing program as part of the HTTP server request. Commonly, a CGI script may take the name and value arguments from an input form of a first web page which can be used as a query to access a database server and generate an HTML web page with customized data results as output that is passed back to the client browser for display.","There are many network access devices and program products that primarily serve as a navigation tool allowing a user to request network resources from resource identifiers. Navigating to a different network resource could happen as a result of external automation, internal automation from a script, the user clicking a hyperlink or typing in the address bar or location field of web browser, for example. All too often, such navigation tools can not always successfully access a network resource from an identifier for many reasons. Some reasons may include: domain name can not be translated into an IP address, invalid syntax, access denied, payment required, request forbidden, object not found, method is not allowed, no response acceptable to client found, proxy authentication required, server timed out waiting for request, user should resubmit with more info, resource is no longer available, server refused to accept request without a length, precondition given in request failed, network resource identifier is too long, unsupported media type, retry after doing the appropriate action, internal server error, server does not support the functionality required to fulfill the request, error response received from gateway, temporarily overloaded, timed out waiting for gateway, attempt to redirect the navigation failed, and HTTP version not supported. In any event, a status message is usually displayed indicating that the network resource request has failed.","A network resource identifier such as a Uniform Resource Identifier (URI) is a compact string of characters for identifying an abstract or physical resource such as a network resource. URIs are the generic set of all names and addresses that refer to objects on the Internet. URIs that refer to objects accessed with existing protocols are known as Uniform Resource Locators (URLs). A URL is the address of a file accessible on the Internet. The URL includes the name of the protocol required to access the resource, a domain name, or IP address that identifies a specific computer on the Internet, and a hierarchical description of a file location on the computer. For example the URL \u201chttp:\/\/www.example.com\/index.html\u201d, where \u201chttp\u201d is the scheme or protocol, \u201cwww.example.com\u201d is the Fully Qualified Domain Name (FQDN), and \u201cindex.html\u201d is the filename located on the server.","Because an Internet address is a relatively long string of numbers (e.g., 31.41.59.26) that is difficult to remember, Internet users rely on domain names, memorable and sometimes catchy words corresponding to these numbers, in order to use e-mail and to connect to Internet sites on the Web. The Domain Name System (DNS) is a set of protocols and services on a network that allows users to utilize domain names when looking for other hosts (e.g., computers) on the network. The DNS is composed of a distributed database of names. The names in the DNS database establish a logical tree structure called the domain name space. Each node or domain in the domain name space is named and can contain subdomains. Domains and subdomains are grouped into zones to allow for distributed administration of the name space.","The DNS provides a mechanism so backup databases can be identified in case the first one becomes unavailable. DNS databases are updated automatically so that information on one name server does not remain out-of-date for long. A client of the DNS is called a resolver; resolvers are typically located in the application layer of the networking software of each TCP\/IP capable machine. Users typically do not interact directly with the resolver. Resolvers query the DNS by directing queries at name servers, which contain parts of the distributed database that is accessed by using the DNS protocols to translate domain names into IP addresses needed for transmission of information across the network. The function of translating a domain name into an IP address is known as name resolution. Name resolution is performed by a distributed system of name servers having resolvers to fulfill the resource request of the client by the successive hierarchical querying of the resource records from zone files.","The Berkeley Internet Name Domain (BIND) implements an Internet name server for the UNIX operating system. The BIND includes a name server and a resolver library. BIND is fully integrated into UNIX network programs for use in storing and retrieving host names and addresses by calling a routine from the resolver library called gethostbyname( ) which returns the IP address corresponding to a given Internet host name. Error return status from gethostbyname( ) is indicated by return of a NULL pointer.","At the heart of Netscape client products lies the Netscape Network Library (NETLIB). A necessity of any network based client browser application is to send and receive data over a connection. This is accomplished in NETLIB by making a call to NET_GetURL( ). In order to resolve host names, NETLIB uses a standard DNS lookup mechanism. NET_FindAddress( ) makes the gethostbyname( ) call to lookup the IP address for the specified host from a DNS database stored on a DNS server, and is called from NET_BeginConnect( ). If a numeric IP address is passed into NET_FindAddress( ), it is passed directly into the gethostbyname( ) call which returns a success when an IP address is passed in. NET_FindAddress( ) is actually called repeatedly until it returns success or failure. Similarly, MSIE browser include objects such as WebBrowser Object and InternetExplorer Object, which contains events, methods, and properties. One event, called the Navigate Event navigates to a resource identified by a URL.","A domain name includes two parts: a host and a domain. Technically, the letters to the right of the \u201cdot\u201d (e.g., tlda.com) are referred to as Top Level Domains (TLDs), while hosts, computers with assigned IP addresses that are listed in specific TLD registries are known as second-level domains (SLDs). The domain name, \u201ctlda.com\u201d, \u201c.com\u201d is the TLD, and \u201ctlda\u201d is the SLD. Domain name space is the ordered hierarchical set of all possible domain names either in use or to be used for locating an IP address on the Internet. TLDs are known as top-level domains because they comprise the highest-order name space available on the Internet. Second-level domains, as well as third-level domains (3LDs) such as \u201cnews.tlda.com\u201d, are subsidiary to TLDs in the hierarchy of the Internet's DNS.","There are two types of top-level domains, generic and country code. Generic top-level domains (gTLDs) are used to allocate resources to the growing community of institutional networks, while country code top-level domains (ccTLDs) are used use by each individual country, as deemed necessary. More than 240 national, or country-code TLDs (e.g., United States (.us), Japan (.jp), Germany (.de), etc.) are administered by their corresponding governments. A small set of gTLDs does not carry any national identifier, but denote the intended function of that portion of the domain space. For example, \u201c.com\u201d was established for commercial networks, \u201c.org\u201d for not-for-profit organizations, and \u201c.net\u201d for network gateways. The set of gTLDs was established early in the history of the DNS and has not been changed or augmented in recent years (COM, ORG, GOV, and MIL were created by January 1985, NET in July 1985, and INT was added in November 1988).","Incorporated and headquartered in California, the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers (ICANN) is the non-profit corporation that was formed to take over responsibility for the IP address space allocation, protocol parameter assignment, domain name system management, and root server system management functions now performed under U.S. Government contract by Internet Assigned Numbers Authority (IANA) and other entities. The IANA, also headquartered in California, is the overall authority for day-to-day administration of the DNS. IANA staff carry out administrative responsibilities for the assignment of IP Addresses, Autonomous System Numbers, TLDs, and other unique parameters of the DNS and its protocols.","By Jun. 1, 1999, Network Solutions (NSI) Registry (now VeriSign) had implemented a shared registration system (SRS) to support multiple licensed, accredited registrars offering registration services. NSI and other domain name registrars function as retailers of domain name registration services through NSI's SRS. To date, more than 30,000,000 domain names, or SLDs, in \u201c.com\u201d, \u201c.net\u201d, \u201c.org\u201d, and \u201c.edu\u201d have been registered.","VeriSign Global Registry Services (GRS) is the leading provider of domain name registry services and DNS support to the Internet and is responsible for the infrastructure that propagates this information throughout the Internet and responds to over 1.5 billion DNS look-ups daily. The Registry stores information about registered domain names and associated name servers. A domain name's data includes its name, name servers, registrar, registration expiration date, and status. A name server's data includes its server name, IP addresses, and registrar.","As explained in S. Hollenbeck, et. al, \u201cInformational RFC (Request for Comment) 2832: NSI Registry Registrar Protocol (RRP) Version 1.1.0\u201d, Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF), May 2000, \u201chttp:\/\/www.faqs.org\/rfcs\/rfc2832.html\u201d and in S. Hollenbeck, \u201cInformational Draft: Extensible Provisioning Protocol (EPP)\u201d, Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF), Oct. 2, 2001, \u201chttp:\/\/www.ietf.org\/internet-drafts\/draft-ietf-provreg-epp-05.txt\u201d, VeriSign GRS has developed a registration protocol for use within the SRS. Internet domain name registration typically involves three entities: a registrant who wishes to register a domain name, a registrar who provides services to the registrant, and a registry that provides services to the registrar while serving as the authoritative repository of all functional information required to resolve names registered in the registry's TLDs. EPP is an XML protocol that can be layered over multiple transport protocols and provides four basic service elements: service discovery, commands, responses, and an extension framework that supports definition of managed objects and the relationship of protocol requests and responses to those objects.","A Registrar may access the Registry via RRP or EPP to perform registration service procedures such as determining if a domain name has been registered, registering a domain name, renewing the registration of a domain name, canceling the registration of a domain name, updating the name servers of a domain name, transferring a domain name from another registrar, examining or modifying the status of domain names that the registrar has registered, determining if a name server has been registered, registering a name server, updating the IP addresses of a name server, deleting a name server, and examining the status of name servers that the registrar has registered.","Domain name registration for a given NIC authority can be accessed by a TCP\/IP application called WHOIS, which queries a NIC database to find the name of network and system administrators, system and network points-of-contact, and other individuals who are registered in appropriate databases. Domain names are identifiers used for both accessing a resource and retrieving contact information of the registrant or domain name holder of that resource. The availability of a domain name from a NIC authority for a given TLD is determined by submitting a WHOIS request. If there are no matches in the database then the domain name may be available for registration. Regional WHOIS registries are maintained by NSI and ARIN (American Registry for Internet Numbers) located in the U.S., APNIC (Asia-Pacific Network Information Center) located in Australia, and RIPE NCC located in the Netherlands. Domain name resolution is determined by resolving a query in the DNS and domain name availability is determined by using the RRP, EPP, or WHOIS service to query an appropriate NIC database.","U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09\/440,606 filed Nov. 15, 1999, by Schneider and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09\/598,134 filed Jun. 21, 2000, by Schneider both show that domain names which are soon to be available may be distributed in advance to a user so that domain names of interest may be selected and reserved in a preordaining queue on either the client or server side. Registration information is completed and a registration form is submitted to or by a registrar when the soon to be available domain name that is selected does become available for registration. The date of the first domain name to ever become newly available to the public due to failure to pay a renewal fee was in September 1997. However, U.S. Pat. No. 5,987,464 filed Jul. 25, 1997 by Schneider (parent application to Ser. No. 09\/440,606) states that delivery and updating methods are applicable to the renewed availability of domain name related information solving a need several months before the need became evident.","There are more than 30 million domain names that have been registered under .com, .net, and .org. Only about ten percent of these are in active use. Registrations for the remaining millions of names, many of which are highly valuable, are returning to availability at the rate of more than 800,000 per month. Currently, Snapnames.com, Inc. provides a SnapBack\u2122 service that uses patent-pending, ICANN-compliant technology to enable back-ordering a domain name whenever a WHOIS record is presented. None of the above pre-registration techniques have been taught or implemented in response to the initiation of other request types such as search requests, reference requests, navigation requests, and the like.","Snapnames, Inc. provided a proposal, entitled, \u201cParallel Registries: A Solution for Deleting Names that Best Serves Customers, Registrars, and gTLD Registries Alike\u201d, Sep. 21, 2001, \u201chttp:\/\/www.byte.org\/rc-deletes\u201d, in response to the request from VeriSign Global Registry Services for solutions regarding the domain name expiration problem. The proposal describes the need for all registries to implement back-order services for deleting names as a value-add service for their registrar channels, building the service into their infrastructures so that registration of deleted names operates exactly like first-time registrations. Registrars would implement registry-provided APIs and provide their own resellers with registrar APIs.","On Jan. 4, 2002, VeriSign published a press release, entitled, \u201cSnapNames and VeriSign Global Registry Services Agree to Develop Domain Name Wait Listing Service\u201d that can be accessed from the URL, \u201chttp:\/\/corporate.verisign.com\/news\/2002\/pr20020104.html\u201d. The service would allow parties to be next in line to register a domain name once it is deleted from the registry. Current wait listing services, implemented at the registrar level, must compete for a domain name when it becomes available. Implementation at the registry level would provide equal access to all registrars and would result in a higher efficacy rate for applicants, as the registration is virtually assured, should the current domain name registration be deleted.","The Parallel Registry is the only scaleable method for all registrars to participate in the market demand not only for all now-deleting names, but, because the Parallel Registry allows back-orders on all names at any point in time, for all names ever registered. For this reason, the Parallel Registry brings the registrars far more revenue than an uncooperative free-for-all, while vastly improving the customer experience. Though the parallel back-order registry in communication with a TLD registry provides an acceptable solution to the problem of domain name expiration, the back-order system allows a maximum of only one back-order at any given time for each domain name. Further unforeseen advantage can be taken by creating value added services around such a back-ordering mechanism.","WIPO Patent Application WO9909726A1 published on Feb. 25, 1999 by Broadhurst, entitled, \u201cMethod of determining unavailability of Internet domain names\u201d discloses an improved query server that overcomes the shortcomings of existing domain name searching techniques by performing a multitude of searches simultaneously, transparent to the user. Specifically, the improved query server searches for existing domain name records in various domains and then displays the results in a formatted manner, thus eliminating the need for a user to perform individual searches. However, such improvements do not consider the integration of services other than that of domain name registration.","URLs are used in media, documents, e-mail, and data files, etc. as a means to make reference to accessible online content that can express the context of ideas may wish to communicate. URLs are generally written in an abbreviated manner as partial URLs or domain names (e.g., \u201chttp:\/\/www.example.com\u201d is the URL, \u201cwww.example.com\u201d is the FQDN, and \u201cexample.com\u201d is the domain name). During early stages of commercialization of the Internet, businesses displayed the full URL when advertising a commercial or display ad as a means to locate the resources of the business on the Internet. Improvements have been made to recognize partial URLs when entered in the location field of a web browser or network accessible device for automatically appending protocol information so a full URL request can be made. By submitting a domain name or FQDN in the location field, the browser modifies the request by adjusting the partial URL and adding \u201chttp:\/\/\u201d in front of the domain name or FQDN in order to construct a valid URL. As a result of this convenience, companies have modified their advertising and distribution of URLs through print, film, radio, television and other media as \u201cexample.com\u201d or \u201cwww.example.com\u201d instead of the URL \u201chttp:\/\/www.example.com\u201d.","The \u201cwww\u201d in \u201cwww.example.com\u201d has become the de facto standard for web server software to connect with hosts on the World Wide Web portion of the Internet. However, in an effort to shorten the URL length both in advertising and as a means of input, a DNS resource record has been used to create aliases for the actual FQDN. The CNAME Record are sometimes called \u201caliases\u201d but are technically referred to as \u201cCanonical Name\u201d (CNAME) entries. These records enable the use of pointing more than one domain name to a single host. Using canonical names makes it easy to host both an FTP server and a Web server on the same machine. The CNAME record \u201cexample.com. IN CNAME www.example.com.\u201d enables a domain name to become an alias of a FQDN. This alias allows resolvers to process input such as \u201chttp:\/\/example.com\u201d to resolve to a web server corresponding to the URI \u201chttp:\/\/www.example.com\u201d.","As explained in P. Mockapetris, \u201cInformational RFC (Request for Comment) 1034: DOMAIN NAMES\u2014CONCEPTS AND FACILITIES\u201d, Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF), November 1987, \u201chttp:\/\/www.faqs.org\/rfcs\/rfc1034.html\u201d, the principal activity of name servers is to answer standard queries. Both the query and its response are carried in a standard message format. A domain name identifies a node. Each node has a set of resource information, which may be empty. The set of resource information associated with a particular name is composed of separate resource records (RRs). The order of RRs in a set is not significant, and need not be preserved by name servers, resolvers, or other parts of the DNS.","RRs with owner names starting with the label \u201c*\u201d are called wildcard resource records. Wildcard RRs can be thought of as instructions for synthesizing RRs. When the appropriate conditions are met, the name server creates RRs with an owner name equal to the query name and contents taken from the wildcard RRs. The only example of wildcard RR usage in RFC 1034 is that of e-mail aliasing. Recently, ccTLD registries have used wildcard RRs to redirect a resolvable domain name back to the registrar component of the registry to perform registration requests. Performing this technique in a gTLD zone file would cause conflict enabling the Registry to bypass competition among multiple registrars in this very public component of the Internet's underlying technology. As a result a wildcard RR has never been used in a gTLD zone file.","The main use of a web browser location field is for resolving URLs to locate and access resources. Entering a URL into the location field of a web browser serves as a means to access a network resource corresponding to that URL. Because the location field is essential for accessing resources, the design of such location fields have rivaled much competition and innovation between existing web browser products from companies such as Netscape and Microsoft. Improvements to better track and organize sites of URLs that users have visited such as Bookmark folders, URL history, and the personal toolbar are all examples of functionality designed to help users navigate. Other improvements include spell checking and an autocomplete feature from the URL history as text is entered into the location field.","URLs can be removed or made temporarily unavailable for numerous reasons. When a file is removed from a directory, the URL that represents the file location no longer exists and therefore can not be found. It is quite common for users to modify a URL by deleting the file portion as an attempt to access the default \u201cindex.html\u201d file from the same directory path. For instance, the URL \u201chttp:\/\/example.com\/first\/second\/file.html\u201d is not found, leaving the user to remove \u201cfile.html\u201d to try to access the modified URL, \u201chttp:\/\/example.com\/first\/second\/\u201d. If the modified URL is still not found, then the user manually repeats such steps with the hope that some level of access to the computer resource is successful.","Another location field improvement includes a reverse autocomplete feature to help automate the process of systematically attempting to access a related resource similar to that of the original requested resource. U.S. Pat. No. 6,041,324 issued on Mar. 21, 2000 by Earl, et al., entitled, \u201cSystem and method for identifying valid portion of computer resource identifier\u201d discloses a method for receiving and validating user input for a computer resource entered into a computing system or network, and distinguishing valid and invalid portions of the user input. The most specific portion of the invalid resource identifier is removed from the invalid resource identifier to create a modified resource identifier, wherein the modified resource identifier is used to attempt to access a higher-level computer resource. The fields corresponding to the most specific portion of the resource identifier are removed until the modified resource identifier proves to be a valid resource identifier, which can access a computer resource.","The '324 patent processes all input determined to be invalid as an error or mistake without consideration to the benefits of intentionally receiving invalid input for the purpose of resource location. Though the '324 patent distinguishes a valid resource identifier from within an invalid resource identifier entered by the user, no consideration is given to further using the invalid portion of the resource identifier for other purposes. The '324 patent treats the invalid identifier as if it was at one time valid. Modification of the resource identifier is only path specific and does not contemplate modifying the domain level or server portion of the resource identifier. Furthermore, such modification techniques are applied in only one direction which is to successively generate a higher level computer resource through truncation, and does not contemplate successively generating lower level computer resources through prepend or append procedures.","U.S. Pat. No. 5,978,817 issued on Nov. 2, 1999 by Giannandrea, et al., entitled, \u201cBrowser having automatic URL generation\u201d discloses a method for accessing a remote server over a network using a browser from a URL that contains a protocol portion and a server portion. A front-end module of the browser allows a viewer to type in a host name and it can supply the complete URL address to locate the corresponding file from a remote server. For example, when a viewer types in \u201cwww.foo.com\u201d, the module causes NETLIB to open a connection using the following URL name: \u201chttp:\/\/www.foo.com\/\u201d. Similarly, when a viewer types in \u201cftp.foo.com\u201d, \u201cnews.foo.com\u201d, or \u201cgopher.foo.com\u201d, the module causes NETLIB to a open a connection using \u201cftp:\/\/ftp.foo.com\u201d, \u201cnews:\/\/news.foo.com\/\u201d, or \u201cgopher:\/\/gopher.foo.com\/\u201d, respectively. This feature reduces the amount of typing by a viewer, thereby making the browser easier to use. Though the protocol portion that corresponds to the typed-in server portion is determined in response to the typed-in server portion, there is no mention of how to prepend lower level domains to a domain name in response to failing to access a network resource corresponding to the domain name.","A more recent feature called Smart Browsing is integrated into Netscape Navigator that uses Internet Keywords so users can streamline the use of URLs and get fast access to web sites using the browser's location field. Any single or multiword strings typed into the browser's location field that does not include a \u201c.\u201d are sent via HTTP to a server at \u201cnetscape.com\u201d. The keyword server pulls the string and compares it to several separate lists of keyword-URL pairs. If the keyword system finds a match, it redirects the user's browser to the URL of the keyword-URL pair. Failing a match against the lists, the user's browser is redirected to a Netscape Search page with the typed string as the search query. The \u201c.\u201d versus \u201c \u201d is a key factor in determining what services are used. The detection of a \u201c.\u201d implies a domain name for name resolution services whereas the detection of a \u201c \u201d implies a search request for directory services depending on context.","The autosearch feature of MSIE is another example of an improvement to the location field of a web browser. The details of the autosearch feature is disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 6,009,459 issued on Dec. 28, 1999 by Belfiore, et al., entitled, \u201cIntelligent automatic searching for resources in a distributed environment.\u201d The '459 patent specifies a mechanism for a computer system to automatically and intelligently determine what a user intended when the user entered text within the location field of a web browser. Often users improperly enter URLs or enter search terms in a user interface element that requires URLs. If the user enters text that is not a URL, the system may first try to construct a valid URL from the user-entered text. If a valid URL cannot be constructed, the browser then automatically formats a search engine query using the user-entered text and forwards the query to an Internet search engine. In an alternative embodiment of the '459 patent, the passing of search terms to the search engine is not triggered by an improper URL being entered but rather is triggered by the failure to resolve the URL to a web site within a certain time frame due to a heavily used page that cannot be readily accessed.","In addition, the '459 patent specifies a template registry that categorizes the specific suitability of a plurality of search engines to locate web sites related to a determined meaning of the specified text. The template is an entry in the registry that includes replaceable characters that may be replaced with the processed text. An example template registry entry that causes the Yahoo! search engine to be called is \u201chttp:\/\/msie.yahoo.com\/autosearch?%s\u201d. The %s is filled in with information regarding the search terms.","RealNames Corporation provides a registry of registered keywords and phrases as an alternate means of resource location. Recently, Microsoft in alliance with RealNames has configured MSIE AutoSearch feature to redirect to a RealNames resolver\/server in an attempt to find any registered keywords or phrases that match the search input entered into the browser. Currently, RealNames resolvers\/servers do not perform the step of determining domain name availability nor the step of processing input in response to a DNS resolution error, but is used instead only as an alternative navigational tool in response to search requests.","On Sep. 5, 2001, C|NET published an article, entitled, \u201cMicrosoft gives error pages new direction\u201d can be accessed from the URL, \u201chttp:\/\/news.cnet.com\/news\/0-1005-200-7056749.html\u201d. For the first time, Microsoft now provides search results in response to a DNS resolution\/query error. Previously the Autosearch, redirected to a navigation error message. Now the Autosearch, redirects to a Microsoft Network (MSN) search page which further includes the navigation error (see ). This search page does not include advertising of any kind. Included in this new web page is a text box object , which prompts a user to correct the spelling of the location field input, a list of hyperlinks of similar web addresses  to navigate to, and a hyperlink of user input that will further provide more detailed search results  from MSN network. Though Microsoft's new search page\/error page provides more detailed information to the user, such results provide only basic assistance to further navigation and searching. There is no indication of further assistance by providing more precise navigation and search requests and other request types such as advertising requests, WHOIS requests, registration requests, subscription requests, dialing requests, messaging requests, conferencing requests, vendor requests, service requests, login requests, authorization requests, reference requests and the like to the user.","Each day hundreds of thousands of users are connecting to the Internet for the first time. First time users are already familiar with the concept of a domain name or web address such as \u201cexample.com\u201d or a URL such as \u201chttp:\/\/www.example.com\/index.html\u201d because of their contact with the myriad of advertisements in print, radio, and television. Because the navigation of network resources is left up to the user, it is quite often that a user may enter a descriptive word and concatenate a TLD such as \u201c.com\u201d to it, forming a domain name with the hope of finding information relating to the descriptive word. When a resource such as a web page can not be accessed after entering a web address or URL in the command line of a device or location field of a web browser, novice users of the Internet may assume that the resource does not exist and that the domain name of such a resource is available to the user for registration. This is a common mistake. The domain name may be registered but has no corresponding web site. Availability of the domain name remains unclear until a separate domain name availability request such as a WHOIS, RRP or EPP request is performed. To date, there is no known system for using the location field of a web browser as a registration tool in addition to a navigation tool and search tool.","To date, navigation services, search services, registration and aftermarket services have remained separate services. Additional advantages can be obtained by integrating these separate services into a unified service. Accordingly, in light of the above, there is a strong need in the art for integrating these services with a method, product, and apparatus for resource identifier registration and aftermarket services.","The present invention enables the seamless integration between resource identification, name resolution, and registration services. The invention allows for the extended utility of the command line of a device or location field of a client browser for determining domain name availability to streamline the registration process. The present invention helps novice Internet users to more readily understand the difference between resource location and domain name availability. The invention may use zone file caching and advanced domain name translation lookups to reduce extra bandwidth required by relying on client name resolution services or WHOIS lookups only. The present invention enables various methods of registration provider selection by a user or at random each time a browser redirects to registration services, assuring that business is distributed to other registrars. The invention may use a template of the MSIE autosearch feature for the purposes of registration rather than purpose of searching in lieu of making browser modifications resulting in the savings of distribution costs for software updates.","The present invention may use a wildcard resource record having an IP address corresponding to a network resource adapted to determine which domain name registration provider of a plurality of domain name registration providers can process the registration request when it is determined that a domain name is available for registration. The invention can attempt to access a network resource by generating a resolvable subdomain from the initial domain name before potentially processing a registration request. The present invention may generate many identifiers such as keywords, fictitious domain names and the like in response to initiating a registration request from a network resource that can not be accessed\/located or from an unresolvable domain name. The invention enables an autosearch to process any request other than that of a search request.","The present invention can instantiate or call a MetaURI type object such as a WHOIS object to obtain meta-information at any given time during a user's navigation experience. The invention provides a WHOIS object, aftermarket object and\/or back-order object that is adapted to extract a domain name from the current URI property either before, during or in response to an event such as a reference request, search request, navigation request, and the like. The present invention provides an expiry countdown parameter of a MetaURI type object to determine the difference between the expiration date and current date of the registration record, aftermarket record, or back-order record of an identifier such as a domain name.","The invention enables the integration of metalinks as part of search results and registration results. The present invention enables the use of identifier prefixes as a command language. The invention enables a user to edit, list, obtain the status and history, select, renew, transfer, escrow, auction, bid, valuate, purchase, sell, lease, redirect, lock, web host, incorporate, trademark, locate, dial, and back-order or \u201csnap\u201d a domain name. The present invention detects and\/or generates identifiers in response to real-time data streams from input sources such as instant messaging, chat rooms, web conferencing, interactive television, or from any broadcast. The invention provides the user with the ability to create a profile or identifier watch list while registering an available or back-ordered identifier. The present invention detects and provides resolution, registration, monitoring, and back-ordering processing of fictitious domain names such as telephone numerical domain names (NDNs).","In general, in accordance with the present invention, a network request method includes receiving a network request to process input including a resource identifier, wherein the network request is one of a resource location request, search engine request, and WHOIS request, providing a user with an interface to one of a perform a request to access at least one sitemap corresponding to the resource identifier and one of an access and display the at least one sitemap corresponding to the resource identifier in response to receiving the network request, and performing the network request at any time after receiving the network request independent of providing the user with the interface to one of a perform the request to access the at least one sitemap corresponding to the resource identifier and one of access and display the at least one sitemap corresponding to the resource identifier.","In accordance with an aspect the present invention, a method for processing a network resource request from an identifier having a first domain name includes the steps of determining that the network resource can not be accessed, and processing one of a search request, aftermarket status request, and registration request having at least a portion of the identifier.","In accordance with an aspect of the present invention, a method for requesting a network resource from an identifier having a valid domain name includes the steps of determining whether the network resource can be located, requesting the network resource from the identifier in response to determining that the network resource can be located, and processing a registration request in response to determining that the network resource can not be located.","In accordance with another aspect of the present invention, a method for locating a network resource from an identifier having a valid domain name includes the steps of determining whether the valid domain name is resolvable, resolving the identifier in response to determining that the valid domain name is resolvable, and processing a registration request in response to determining that the valid domain name is not resolvable.","In accordance with yet another aspect of the present invention, a method for processing an autosearch includes the steps of receiving a first request having an identifier, determining that at least a portion of the first request can not be processed, and processing a second request having at least a portion of the identifier from the autosearch wherein the second request is any request other than that of a search request (e.g., non-search request such as navigation request, resolution request, and registration request).","In accordance with an additional aspect of the present invention, a method for processing input having an identifier includes determining that the identifier is back-ordered, and determining whether to provide notification when the identifier is no longer back-ordered or soon to be no longer back-ordered.","In accordance with another aspect of the present invention, a method for processing input having an identifier includes obtaining a MetaURI type object having at least one property corresponding to the identifier, generating a request from the at least one property of the MetaURI type object, and processing the generated request.","In accordance with yet another aspect of the present invention, a method for processing input having an identifier includes determining that the identifier includes a numerical domain name (NDN), and determining whether the NDN is available for registration.","In accordance with an additional aspect of the present invention, a method for processing an autosearch includes receiving a first request having an identifier, determining that at least a portion of the first request can not be processed, and processing with the autosearch, a second request having at least a portion of the identifier wherein the second request is a not a search request.","In accordance with other additional aspects of the present invention, an apparatus, device, system, and computer program product may be used to perform substantially the same methods as those described above are provided.","The foregoing and other features of the invention are hereinafter fully described and particularly pointed out in the claims. The following description and the annexed drawings set forth in detail one or more illustrative aspects of the invention, such being indicative, however, of but one or a few of the various ways in which the principles of the invention may be employed.","The present invention will now be described with reference to the drawings, wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0109","num":"0108"},"figref":"FIG. 1","i":"a ","b":["100","110","120","130","100","110","120","130","130","110","120","110","130","110","130","116","130","130"]},"Client computers  may be any network access apparatus including hand held devices, palmtop computers, personal digital assistants (PDAs), notebook, laptop, portable computers, desktop PCs, workstations, and\/or larger\/smaller computer systems. It is noted that the network access apparatus  may have a variety of forms, including but not limited to, a general purpose computer, a network computer, a network television, an internet television, a set top box, a web-enabled telephone, an internet appliance, a portable wireless device, a television receiver, a game player, a video recorder, and\/or an audio component, for example.","Each client  typically includes one or more processors , memories , and input\/output devices . An input device may be any suitable device for the user to give input to client computer ; for example: a keyboard, a 10-key pad, a telephone key pad, a light pen or any pen pointing device, a touchscreen, a button, a dial, a joystick, a steering wheel, a foot pedal, a mouse, a trackball, an optical or magnetic recognition unit such as a bar code or magnetic swipe reader, a voice or speech recognition unit, a remote control attached via cable or wireless link to a game set, television, or cable box. A data glove, an eye-tracking device, or any MIDI device may also be used. A display device may be any suitable output device, such as a display screen, text-to-speech converter, printer, plotter, fax, television set, or audio player. Although the input device is typically separate from the display device, they could be combined; for example: a display with an integrated touchscreen, a display with an integrated keyboard, or a speech-recognition unit combined with a text-to-speech converter.","The servers  may be similarly configured. However, in many instances server sites  include many computers, perhaps connected by a separate private network. In fact, the network  may include hundreds of thousands of individual networks of computers. One aspect of the present invention includes a specific type of server system  called a DNS server system \u2032 which stores in memory a DNS database  having DNS records that translate domain names into IP addresses and vice versa. The DNS server system \u2032 is connected  to a network .","The DNS is a distributed database (of mappings)  implemented in a hierarchy of DNS servers (name servers) \u2032 and an application-layer protocol that allows hosts and name servers to communicate in order to provide the translation service. Name servers \u2032 are usually UNIX machines running BIND software. In order to deal with an issue of scale of the Internet, the DNS uses a large number of name servers \u2032, organized in a hierarchical fashion and distributed around the world. No single name server \u2032 has all of the mappings  for all of the hosts in the Internet. Instead, the mappings  are distributed across many name servers \u2032.","Although the client computers  are shown separate from the server computers , it should be understood that a single computer may perform the client and server roles. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the computer environment  shown in is intended to be merely illustrative. The present invention may also be practiced in other computing environments. For example, the present invention may be practiced in multiple processor environments wherein the client computer includes multiple processors. Moreover, the client computer need not include all of the input\/output devices as discussed above and may also include additional input\/output devices. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the present invention may also be practiced with Intranets and more generally in distributed environments in which a client computer requests resources from a server computer.","During operation of the distributed system , users of the clients  may desire to access information records  stored by the servers  while utilizing, for example, the Web. The records of information  can be in the form of Web pages . The pages  may be data records including as content plain textual information, or more complex digitally encoded multimedia content, such as software programs, graphics, audio signals, videos, and so forth. It should be understood that although this description focuses on locating information on the World-Wide-Web, the system may also be used for locating information via other wide or local area networks (WANs and LANs), or information stored in a single computer using other communications protocols.","The clients  may execute Web browser programs , such as Netscape Navigator or MSIE to locate the pages or records . The browser programs  enable users to enter addresses of specific Web pages  to be retrieved. Typically, the address of a Web page is specified as a Uniform Resource Identifier (URI) or more specifically as a URL. In addition, when a page has been retrieved, the browser programs  may provide access to other pages or records by \u201cclicking\u201d on hyperlinks (or links) to previously retrieved Web pages. Such links may provide an automated way to enter the URL of another page, and to retrieve that page.","A client of the DNS is called a resolver . Resolvers  are typically located in the application layer of the networking software of each TCP\/IP capable machine. Users typically do not interact directly with the resolver . Resolvers  query the DNS by directing queries at name servers, which contain parts of the distributed database that is accessed by using the DNS protocols to translate domain names into IP addresses needed for transmission of information across the network. DNS is commonly employed by other application-layer protocols\u2014including HTTP, SMTP and FTP\u2014to translate user-supplied domain names to IP addresses. When a browser program  (e.g., an HTTP client), running on a user's machine, requests a URL having a resolvable domain name, in order for the user's machine to be able to send an HTTP request message to a server , the user's machine must obtain the IP address of the domain name. The user machine then runs the resolver  (DNS client) on the client-side of the DNS application. The browser  extracts the domain name from the URL and passes the domain name to the resolver  on the client-side of the DNS application. As part of a DNS query message, the DNS client  sends the domain name to a DNS server system \u2032 connected to the Internet. The DNS client  eventually receives a reply, which includes the IP address for the domain name. The browser then opens a TCP connection  to the HTTP server process  located at the IP address.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0118","num":"0117"},"figref":"FIG. 1","i":"b ","b":["112","112","135","135","140","135","140","142","135","144","112","135","146","148"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0119","num":"0118"},"figref":"FIG. 1","i":"c ","b":["154","150","150","156","110","120","154","122","160","162","164","166","168","170","172","174","175","176","177","178","195","196","197","198","199","122"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0120","num":"0119"},"figref":"FIG. 1","i":"d ","b":["154","150","150","156","110","120","154","175","180","181","182","183","184","185","186","187","188","189","190","191","192","193","194","175"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0121","num":"0120"},"figref":"FIG. 2","i":"a ","b":["110","140","112","210","196","212","210","214","210","210","218","222","214","226","228","230"]},"When input includes a valid IP address (step ) or when input includes a valid domain name (step ), it may then be further determined in step  whether input  includes a valid URI. If there is no valid URI, then a valid URI may be generated in step  from input . For instance, if a scheme\/protocol is missing, the web browser may add the prefix \u201chttp:\/\/\u201d to the text or another scheme prefix. After performing input validity tests, the steps of domain name resolvability may be performed. When a received (step ) or generated (step ) valid URI is determined accessible in step , then results, if any, may then be provided in step . However, when a valid URI is determined not accessible (step ), an error message may be displayed in step .","One example of such a system is when a domain name (e.g., \u201cexample.com\u201d) is entered into a location field  of a web browser program such as MSIE. The MSIE browser generates a URI (e.g., \u201chttp:\/\/www.example.com\u201d) from the domain name. If the domain name is resolvable (e.g., the domain name is successfully translated into its corresponding IP address) then the web browser attempts to access content from a web server corresponding to the URI. If the domain name is not resolvable, then input  may be passed and the following URI is generated:","\u201chttp:\/\/auto.search.msn.com\/response.asp?MT=example.com&srch=3&prov=&utf8\u201d","The \u201c.\u201d is a delimiter of the DNS system whereas the \u201c \u201d is a delimiter of plain text language. When a keyword search is provided as input, (e.g., \u201csearch example\u201d) it may be determined that DNS name resolution is unnecessary and input  may be immediately redirected to the Microsoft Network (MSN) AutoSearch feature. In effect, all input that can not be successfully resolved\/located\/accessed may be redirected to the server at \u201cauto.search.msn.com\u201d and processed accordingly as either an error message or search request. The Netscape Navigator browser program does not provide additional processing when a domain name is not resolvable, and instead, displays the following error message: \u201cBrowser is unable to locate the server: example.com The server does not have a DNS entry. Check the server name in the Location (URL) and try again.\u201d",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0126","num":"0125"},"figref":"FIG. 2","i":"b ","b":["242","250","234","238","252","260"]},"When the domain name is determined resolvable (step ) or when the URI includes a valid IP address (step ) it is further determined in step  whether a network resource such as a web page or web server can be located or found from the URI. If so, then the network resource can be located (step ) and it is determined in step  whether the network resource can be accessed. When content, for example, can be accessed from the web server (network resource) then the network resource is accessible from URI (step ) and results, if any, may then be provided in step . When the domain name is determined not resolvable (step ) or when the resource can not be found (step ) or when the resource can not be accessed (step ) then an error message is displayed in step .","MSIE browser may redirect such input to the autosearch feature, but is configured to prompt the client browser to display an error message. The domain name that is not valid or not resolvable has never been further processed by the autosearch or routed to another naming service\/resolution provider or registration provider for further processing. For example, such input is not routed to a RealNames server and\/or resolver for domain name resolution or registration.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0129","num":"0128"},"figref":"FIG. 2","i":"c ","b":["260","264","112","114","124","120","264","268","230","268","254","254"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0130","num":"0129"},"figref":"FIG. 2","i":"d ","b":["148","230","274","278","280"]},"For example, when processing an input identifier such as \u201czipnames.com\u201d, the following URI is constructed from the autosearch feature:","\u201chttp:\/\/auto.search.msn.com\/response.asp?MT=zipnames.com&srch=3&prov=&utf8\u201d","The autosearch no longer prompts the client browser to present an error message, but instead is now configured to redirect to a new component of MSN search to provide a server side error message with added search results represented by the URI:","\u201chttp:\/\/auto.search.msn.com\/results.asp?cfg=DNSERROR&q=zipnames%2Ecom\u201d","As discussed, domain names are primarily processed by either name resolution or resource location services and also processed by registration services as well. When a domain name is received as input to a registration service, the availability of the domain name is determined. If the domain name is not available, registrant information is returned and the client is notified that the domain name in question is not available and provides the further option of checking the availability of other domain names. When the domain name is available, the user is presented with the choice of registering the domain name. Upon completion of registration, another domain name can be checked for availability.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0136","num":"0135"},"figref":"FIG. 3","i":"a ","b":["110","306","310","306","314","306","314","318","306","314","322","322","306","326"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0137","num":"0136"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 3"],"i":["b ","c "],"b":["314","340","306","306","344","348","318","322","326","322","360","364"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0138","num":"0137"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 2","FIG. 2","FIG. 7"],"i":["a ","a","b","a"],"b":["238","234","242","260","230","218","242","250","260","410"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0139","num":"0138"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 2","FIG. 2"],"i":["b ","a","b"],"b":["238","234","242","260","410","218","242","250","260","135","230","415"]},"For example, a user interface element can include an advertisement that pertains to any of the above request types such as an ad for registering, appraising, auctioning and\/or pre-ordering a domain name or an ad that provides a more specific search and\/or navigation function based on the processed input. The user interface can include a hyperlink which can be used to access the above listed request types such as a link that when activated that can perform a WHOIS, EPP, or RRP request (step ) on the domain name and\/or process the registration request (step ). Such links may also include the ability to provide aftermarket information on the identifier (in this case a domain name). For instance, a link for auctioning, appraising, or pre-ordering a domain name would be an example of a registration request type link. In addition, links of similar generated domain names or identifiers in other namespaces that are available for registration can be included. Furthermore, user interface elements for identifiers such as fictitious domain names (FDNs) can be used for any request type, and in particular for search requests, registration requests, and additional resolution requests.","Such a web page  or error message (step ) having at least one hyperlink may be provided when a domain name or IP address is determined not valid (step  or step ) and does not rely upon having to determine domain name resolvability (step ) as a prerequisite step. In addition, further options such as performing a search request (step ) or modifying configuration settings  may also be included as hyperlinks in such a resulting web page  or error message (step ).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0142","num":"0141"},"figref":"FIG. 4","i":"c ","b":["410","242","250","260","410","218","416","135","230"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0143","num":"0142"},"figref":"FIG. 4","i":"d ","b":["410","242","250","260","417","218","418","410","416"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0144","num":"0143"},"figref":"FIG. 4","i":"e ","b":["410","420","430","210","218","218","222"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0145","num":"0144"},"figref":"FIG. 4","i":"f ","b":["274","438","440","442","444"]},"FDN identifiers  such as \u201czip.names\u201d that may correspond to the input are presented as a means for further searching, navigation, advertising, and\/or registration as well a presenting a hyperlink or like element  to determine whether the identifier or any similar variation there of is available across other namespaces and naming systems. In addition, hyperlinks can be presented  that pertain to current status and\/or aftermarket information such as auctions, bidding, appraisals, watch list\/monitoring, and backordering the input identifier and\/or any identifier in any naming system generated from at least a portion of the input identifier. Furthermore, links  can be provided of other identifiers that have the same registrant\/owner as the input identifier. For instance, \u201czipnames.com\u201d is registered to ACME, Inc., which also has registered \u201cacmenames.com\u201d, \u201czipproducts.com\u201d, and the like.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0147","num":"0146"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIGS. 15"],"i":["g ","a ","b"],"b":["274","458","460","461","462","464","15"]},"FDN identifiers  such as \u201czip.names\u201d that may correspond to the input are presented as a means for further searching, navigation, advertising, and\/or registration as well a presenting a hyperlink or like element  to determine whether the identifier or any similar variation there of is available across other namespaces and naming systems including the ability for the user to use the NDN as a e-mail handle and create an e-mail account for forwarding and the like. In addition, hyperlinks can be presented  that pertain to current status and\/or aftermarket information such as auctions, bidding, appraisals, watch list\/monitoring, and pre-ordering\/back-ordering the ENUM\/NDN identifier and\/or any identifier in any naming system generated from at least a portion of the ENUM\/NDN identifier. Furthermore, links  can be provided of other identifiers that have the same registrant\/owner as the input identifier. For instance, \u201cacmenames.com\u201d is registered to ACME, Inc., which also has registered \u201c216.555.2345\u201d, \u201c330.555.1234\u201d, and the like.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0149","num":"0148"},"figref":"FIG. 4","i":"h ","b":["274","478","480","482"]},"Real or valid domain names  such as \u201cnamegame.com\u201d that may correspond to the input are presented as a means for further searching, navigation, advertising, and\/or registration as well a presenting a hyperlink or like element  to determine whether the identifier or any similar variation there of is available across other namespaces and naming systems. In addition, hyperlinks can be presented  that pertain to current status and\/or aftermarket information such as auctions, bidding, appraisals, watch list\/monitoring, and backordering the input identifier and\/or any identifier in any naming system generated from at least a portion of the input identifier. Furthermore, links  can be provided of other identifiers that have the same registrant\/owner as the input identifier. For instance, \u201cname.game\u201d is registered to a registrant\/entity called ACME, Inc., which also has registered \u201cacmenames.com\u201d, \u201cnamegameworld.com\u201d, and the like.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0151","num":"0150"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 5","FIG. 9","FIG. 7","FIGS. 9"],"i":["a ","b","c","a","a ","b"],"b":["174","242","250","260","174","510","9"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0152","num":"0151"},"figref":"FIG. 5","i":"b ","b":["178","524","528","174","174","178"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0153","num":"0152"},"figref":"FIG. 5","i":"c ","b":["540","540","174","242","250","260","410","415","540","172","242","250","260","410","415","410","415","420"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0154","num":"0153"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 6"],"i":["a ","b "],"b":["610","614","618","614","410","640","644","618","644","410"]},"There are many web hosting providers who have neglected to take advantage of the CNAME resource record to create an alias domain name corresponding to a FQDN. For instance, the CNAME record is used to make \u201cexample.com\u201d an alias for the FQDN, \u201cwww.example.com\u201d. When \u201cexample.com\u201d is received from an HTTP request and there is no corresponding CNAME record, a network resource may not be accessed and an error message displayed as a result. As explained in U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60\/160,125 filed Oct. 18, 1999, by Schneider, entitled \u201cMethod and system for integrating resource location, search services, and registration services\u201d, now abandoned, a subdomain such as \u201cwww\u201d may be prepended to a domain such as \u201cexample.com\u201d in response to determining that a network resource can not be accessed from the URI \u201chttp:\/\/example.com\u201d. Rather than providing an error message, further steps are taken to determine whether a network resource can be accessed from \u201chttp:\/\/www.example.com\u201d instead.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0156","num":"0155"},"figref":"FIG. 7","i":"a ","b":["242","250","260","705"]},"First, it may be determined in step  whether subdomains of the domain name can be generated. If not, then a registration request may be processed in step . However, when a can be generated, at least one subdomain of the domain name is generated in step  (discussed in more detail in conjunction with ). For each subdomain that is generated, it is then further determined in step  whether the generated subdomain of the domain name is resolvable. These steps are repeated until a generated subdomain is resolvable or another subdomain can not be generated.","Further steps are illustrated for processing a registration request (step ). First it is determined whether at least one keyword can be generated in step  from the received domain name or subdomain of a domain name. If so, then at least one keyword is generated in step  from at least a portion of identifier. For each generated keyword, it is determined in step  whether the keyword is resolvable. A generated hyperlink may then be provided in step  for each resolvable keyword. May it be noted that a keyword resolution request may be performed (not shown) by activating the generated hyperlink. In the case, where only one keyword is resolvable, the keyword resolution request may be automatically process instead of displaying a generated hyperlink. For all keywords that are not resolvable, it is determined in step  whether such keywords are available for registration. For any keywords that are determined available for registration, a keyword registration form is provided in step  by a keyword registration provider. However, for all keywords that are not available for registration, keyword registrant contact information is provided in step  including access to keyword after market information, keyword recovery, and a keyword pre-reservation system. When keyword links are provided (step ), a keyword registration form is provided and processed (step ), or keyword registrant contact information is provided (step ), then it may be further determined in step  whether to process the domain name as a registration request. If so, or when a keyword can not be generated (step ), then a domain name registration request is processed in step .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0159","num":"0158"},"figref":"FIG. 7","i":"b ","b":["760","764","770","774","778","782","410","786","260"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0160","num":"0159"},"figref":"FIG. 8","i":"a ","b":["268","250","810","815","820","416","810","820","417","418"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0161","num":"0160"},"figref":"FIG. 8","i":"b ","b":["242","830","835","840","845","840","850"]},"As explained in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09\/650,827 filed Aug. 30, 2000, by Schneider, the availability of an identifier such as a domain name may be determined across other naming systems such as a keyword registry  (or vice-versa) operated by a resolution service provider (e.g., RealNames or Netword) or operated by the search services of a portal web site or the like (e.g., Alta Vista, Lycos, Netscape, AOL, etc.) or by any other entity that registers keywords for the purpose of directory placement or advertising. For instance, the search for the availability of a RealNames Internet Keyword called \u201cexample\u201d or the like is determined in response to the determination that the domain name \u201cexample.com\u201d is available for registration and is concurrently displayed to the potential registrant. In turn, the availability of \u201cexample.com\u201d, \u201cexample.net\u201d, etc. may be determined in response to determining that the keyword \u201cexample\u201d is available for registration. Furthermore, when identifier availability across a plurality of naming systems is determined, then a registration interface having a universal identifier registration form  may be used to contemporaneously register a plurality of identifiers across a plurality of naming systems with a single registration form.","In another example, when the domain name \u201cexample.com\u201d is available for registration, the additional selection of available TLDA names (e.g., \u201cexample.news\u201d, \u201cexample.sitemap\u201d, \u201cexample.411\u201d, etc.) may be concurrently displayed for an entity to register a final selection from the list of valid and\/or fictitious domain names. Other identifiers such as keywords, phone numbers, etc. may also be concurrently displayed as part of a final selection. Examples of concurrent registration may further include the search of a domain name based on the existing username or handle of an e-mail address (e.g., \u201cmyemailaddress.com\u201d is suggested in response to the existing identifier \u201cmyemailaddress@example.com\u201d).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0164","num":"0163"},"figref":"FIG. 9","i":"a ","b":["242","250","260","910","177","920"]},"Also, as discussed the present invention is by no means limited to the registration of identifiers such as domain names (e.g., valid domain names, fictitious domain names including TLDA names, and multilingual domain names), phone numbers (e.g., cell, fax, telecopier, pager, voice, data, etc.), and keywords (e.g., search term, RealName, Netword, Internet keyword, AOL keyword, etc.), but can include the registration of any registerable identifier across any one or more naming systems and\/or namespaces.","Other registerable naming systems having one or more registerable namespaces may include identifiers such as but not limited to Publisher Item Identifier (PII), Digital Object Identifier (DOI), Inter Deposit Digital Number (IDDN), International Standard Book Number (ISBN), International Standard Technical Report Number (ISRN), International Standard Serial Number (ISSN), Serial Item and Contribution Identifier (SICI), Book Item and Component Identifier (BICI), European Article Number (EAN), Universal Product Code (UPC), Standard Address Number (SAN), International Standard Audiovisual Number (ISAN), International Standard Work Code (ISWC), International Standard Music Number (ISMN), International Standard Recording Code (ISRC), Intellectual Property Identification (IPI), Uniform File Identifier (UFI), Uniform Resource Identifier (URI), Persistent Uniform Resource Locator (PURL), Universally Unique Identifier (UUID), Globally Unique Identifier (GUID), Namespace Identifier (NID), Bank Identification Number (BIN), Personal Identification Number (PIN), Mod 10 Number, credit card number, Electronic Serial Number (ESN), Mobile Identification Number (MIN), Automatic Number Identification (ANI), Social Security Number (SSN), Employer Identification Number (EIN), Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN), Vehicle Identification Number (VIN), World manufacturer identifier (WMI), Manufacturer Identification Number (MIN), Market Identifier Code (MIC), Standard Industrial Classification (SIC), Standard Occupational Classification (SOC), Stock Keeping Unit number (SKU), International Business Entity Identifier (IBEI), Institution Identification Code (IIC), National Provider Identifier (NPI), Dunn and Bradstreet Number (DUNS), SEC file number, patent number, trademark number, serial number, charter number, policy number, certification number, document identifier, reference number, invoice number, transaction identifier, validation code, account number, merchant code, reseller code, affiliate code, authorization code, network identifier, user identifier, PGP key, digital certificate, driver license number, license plate number, trademark, servicemark, tradename, fictitious name, company name, DBA, AKA, stock symbol, station identifier, broadcast station call letters, ham radio call letters, broadcast frequency number, street name, street address, ZIP code, IP address, host, e-mail address, ICQ number, nickname, screen name, username, alias, handle, document title, book title, song title, movie title, phrase, slogan, machine readable code, glyph, image, icon, animation, sequence of musical notes, date, time, name, abbreviation, mnemonic, moniker, label, alphanumeric, string, character, symbol, emoticon, token, integer, and number, etc.","Some naming systems may include a domain name system, fictitious domain name system, multilingual naming system, keyword system, telephone naming and numbering system, user naming system, address system, date\/time system, language system, Dewey decimal system, catalog naming system, document system, resource naming system, image naming system, geographic naming system, identification naming system, and\/or any other naming system that supports any listed identifier. Other examples of naming systems may include languages. Name generating programs may further include language translation as a means for selecting similar identifiers. The mapping of delimiters across all naming systems (not shown) may also be used as a means for similar identifier selection. Each naming system may be the primary registrar with respect to registering on behalf of registrars of other naming systems for concurrent registration. An open architecture system is implemented such that existing or future-naming systems may be easily integrated into alternate embodiments of the present invention. Each integrated system remains highly configurable to the specific context of the application.","Furthermore, each naming system may readily be integrated into a registration interface having a universal identifier registration form  assuring a robust system for registrants to easily register multiple identifiers from a single form . In effect, the registration form  may include a plurality of registration user interface elements for selecting from one of a plurality of identifiers and a plurality of naming systems. In addition, naming system providers may supply metadata to authorize their namespace\/naming system to couple with the registration form  to enable users to register available identifiers through their naming system.","Identifier generation may be provided from the identifier generator , which is configured to select and generate identifiers from a number of criteria by consulting from one of a word generation method , category of interest , dictionary , thesaurus , prefix , suffix , word root , word stem , set of heuristic naming rules , namespace syntax , identifier equivalents , language translation , phonetic spelling , phonemes , identifier watch list , list of desirable descriptors , personal identifier portfolio , competitor identifier portfolio , mnemonic method , abbreviation , namespace mapping , identifier mapping , delimiter mapping , rhyming method , name-to-number conversion , number-to-name conversion , and identifier history .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0170","num":"0169"},"figref":"FIG. 9","i":"b ","b":["177","930","935","175","172","940","187","177","945","187"]},"As explained in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09\/598,134 filed Jun. 21, 2000, by Schneider, registrant contact information such as the WHOIS record of a domain name registrant can be modified to provide additional results including metalinks. For instance, when it is determined that a domain name is not available for registration, a record from the WHOIS database may be displayed including metalinks for accessing <META> tag information from the URI of a domain name to access content from corresponding web site, a hyperlink for dialing or faxing a telephone number, a hyperlink for accessing a map or guide to locate a postal address and\/or surrounding local services, and a hyperlink for accessing the after market status of the domain name which may include a sale price by the registrant or from an auction and\/or listing service.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0172","num":"0171"},"figref":"FIG. 9","i":"c ","b":["960","965","970","975","980"]},"Those skilled in the art may make and use a computer program product separate from all others. In addition, the program may be integrated as part of an operating system or may be a plug-in for a web browser . Such a program may be downloaded and installed for integration into the command line of a device or location field  of a browser program . Program installation may be activated in response to accessing a web site or any resource corresponding to a URI. Modifying the source code of the browser program  itself may be more desirable, in effect, enabling tens of millions of users to take advantage of resource identification\/location services and registration services.","In the case of MSIE, modifications can be made to the script on the server \u201cauto.search.msn.com\u201d that generates the \u201cresponse.asp\u201d web page and all identifiers of network resources than can not be accessed or located, or any unresolved domain names can be redirected to a registration provider rather than processed as a search request. An extra template  can be created and used in the registry of the MSIE autosearch feature. The template  can further include the selection of which server to access for transparently performing a WHOIS, EPP, or RRP request and\/or access the server of a desired registration service of a registration provider such as an accredited registrar to perform such a registration request.","By using an extra template , the browser program does not have to be modified, thereby eliminating distribution costs for a browser or plug-in version update. For instance, when input having only \u201c.\u201d delimiters such as a domain name (e.g., thisnameisprobablyavailable.com) is determined unresolvable, an extra name\/value pair is passed generating the following URI:","\u201chttp:\/\/auto.search.msn.com\/response.asp?MT=thisnameisprobablyavailable.com&srch=3&prov=&utf8&reg=licensedregistrar.com\u201d","A specific template is accessed when the name\/value pair \u201creg=licensedregistrar.com\u201d is parsed and passed as a variable. The accessed network resource from the URI performs a WHOIS,RRP, EPP or like request transparent to the user to determine domain name availability. When the domain name is determined available, the domain name is inserted into the accessed template to generate the URI:","\u201chttp:\/\/www.licensedregistrar.com\/cgi-bin\/purchase\/register.cgi?name=thisnameisprobablyavailable.com&refer=msie\u201d","The name\/value pair \u201crefer=msie\u201d is parsed and passed as a variable to determine the source of the URI redirection for the purposes of billing, tracking, and accounting. For instance, price discounts can be applied to those registrants who purchase domain names from a registration provider as a result of redirection, instead of purchasing directly from the same registrar at the regular price. In effect, such a price discount offers incentive for potential registrants to learn about this new method of registering domain names. Other name\/value pairs can also be passed to determine whether the output is redirected to registration services, resolution services, search services, or like services, either alone or in any combination thereof.","As explained in U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60\/157,075 filed Oct. 1, 1999, by Schneider, entitled \u201cMethod and apparatus for integrating resource location and registration services of valid and fictitious domain names\u201d, a system can be integrated to process both registration requests and resolution requests of valid and fictitious domain names. Furthermore, as explained in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09\/525,350 filed Mar. 15, 2000, by Schneider, entitled \u201cMethod, product, and apparatus for requesting a network resource\u201d and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09\/532,500 filed Mar. 21, 2000, by Schneider, entitled \u201cFictitious domain name method, product, and apparatus\u201d, an autosearch can be used to process registration requests or resolution requests of valid domain names and fictitious domain names.","Domain names offered by traditional domain name registries have been restricted to the ASCII character set: A to Z, a to z, 0 to 9, and hyphen. In addition, the maximum character length of a SLD is 63 characters. Any domain name that is not valid (e.g., SLD is greater than 63 characters, characters other than that of A to Z, a to z, 0 to 9, and hyphen, and\/or non-ASCII character sets used to represent multilingual domain names) or any domain name having a domain alias such as a TLDA is called a fictitious domain name (FDN). Valid International Domain Names (VIDNs), Fictitious International Domain Names (FIDNs), Zip Code Domain Names, Numeric Domain Names (NDNs) such as ENUM Domain Names, Social Security Domain Names, Credit Card Number Domain Names, and other numerical domain names such as UPC domain names, Hybrid Domain Names (HDNs), Keyword (or search request) Domain Names (KDNs), Trademark Domain Names (TDNs), and Domain Alias Domain Names (DADNs) may all be specific types of FDNs.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0182","num":"0181"},"figref":"FIG. 10","i":"a ","b":["228","242","250","260","1010","172","174","1015","172"]},"If it is determined in step  that another navigation request is to be performed then a resolvable URI is generated (not shown) and it may be further determined whether the newly generated URI is accessible (step ). URI generation from the domain name passed to the autosearch may be accomplished by finding subdomains (as discussed in conjunction with ) or by generating a valid domain name from a fictitious domain name as discussed in co-pending applications noted above. When it is determined in step  that another navigation request is not to be performed and a resolvable URI is not generated then the autosearch may redirect at least a portion of the identifier (step ) to be processed as a registration request.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0184","num":"0183"},"figref":"FIG. 10","i":"b ","b":["1050","1060"]},"Because of the extended functionality provided in one aspect of the present invention, a user can now determine domain name availability directly from the command line of a network access device  or location field  of a browser program . Though domain name availability can also be determined by processing a WHOIS, EPP, or RRP request before the step of determining domain name resolvability, this is not a preferred method because it requires the utilization of unnecessary bandwidth. Standard network utility packages such as PING, NSLOOKUP, DIG, HOST to name a few can also be used to determine domain name resolvability. These tools can be modified to provide other means for host\/address translation.","Because DNS lookups and WHOIS, EPP, or RRP requests are so heavily relied on, methods for minimizing network bandwidth of these services are considered preferable. For instance, the resolver library and\/or client browser  may be configured to first access a zone file or similar file cache  to increase host\/address translation lookup performance. A domain name that can not be translated into an IP address implies that a domain name is available and therefore the step of performing a WHOIS, EPP, or RRP request does not have to be relied on. However, due to DNS server time-outs or the propagation of DNS record updates, the results of retrieving if at all, a corresponding translated IP address may be affected. Therefore it is desired to rely on the step of performing a WHOIS, EPP, or RRP request for the purpose of verification in real-time that a domain name determined unresolvable is truly available.","Modifications for URI redirection to registration services such as an accredited registrar may be made to either the resolver library, client browser, or any server or nameserver that processes an identifier resolution request (e.g., Registry name server, RealNames or Netword resolver\/server). Also, the determination of domain name availability and\/or the processing of a registration request may occur either automatically or manually in response to the determination of an unresolvable domain name. There may further be included any number of other steps that may be performed between the step of determining that a domain name is unresolvable and determining that the unresolvable domain name may be available for registration. Furthermore, redirection to registration services is not limited to the redirection of only registrars, but further includes redirection to registries, resellers, affiliates, and the like.","The invention does not rely upon the browser's location field . For instance, the location field  of the web browser can be suppressed and a web page based location field  can be displayed. A CGI script is then used to process the input in step  and redirect the browser  to the appropriate registrar. In lieu of either exclusive, user selected, least cost, or random registrar redirection of services, the completed NIC registration form can be sent to such a registrar and processed in a way that is transparent to the user and does not interfere with the current user's on-line navigational session.","The same teachings can be applied to those skilled in the art by providing a text box object as input that can be located anywhere and on any web page including a text box that is embedded or part of an on-line advertisement. The text box object can be used in a stand-alone application and stored on magnetic and\/or optical media that is either non-volatile, writable, removable, or portable. The text box object can be incorporated as an applet or servlet and embedded in other applications. The text box can be integrated in the task bar or any part of the GUI's OS, or the OS bypassed and overlaid as a graphic on a display device based on modifications to a video card and\/or it's associated firmware or software drivers. The command line text box can be further overlaid as an interactive object in other embodiments such as Internet television, cable television, digital television, or interactive television through an Internet appliance or set top box.","To date, wildcard redirection in TLD zone files has only been used for the purpose of enabling a TLD registry to also become the registrar by offering domain name registration services. Because of registrar competition in the gTLDs, wildcard redirection in a gTLD zone file has never been considered. In fact, wildcard redirection has never been used in ccTLD, alternative root TLD, and any other domain name zone files, for the purpose of creating competition between registration providers.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0191","num":"0190"},"figref":"FIG. 11","i":"a ","b":["268","1110","250","540"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0192","num":"0191"},"figref":"FIG. 11","i":"b ","b":["1115","1120"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0193","num":"0192"},"figref":"FIG. 12","b":["1210","1215","1220","1225","1230","1235","1240","1242","1244","1246","1244","1244","1240","1242","1248","1242","1250","1248","120","1255","1255","1115","1120","1120","1248","1260"]},"Various terms have emerged in the art to capture various aspects of \u201cobject-oriented\u201d approaches. These terms include the words encapsulation, classes, inheritance, message-passing, and polymorphism. The term \u201cclasses\u201d relates to objects of similar types. Objects of the same class are grouped together and have certain properties, attributes, or behaviors in common. Classes may be organized into hierarchies of subclasses in which the procedures and attributes of the class are inherited by its subclasses. Thus, a \u201csubclass\u201d is a group of objects that have some properties, attributes, behaviors, or procedures with other groups of objects, but could have other properties, attributes, behaviors, or procedures that are different. The term \u201cattribute\u201d or \u201cproperty\u201d relates to data items or information or behavior that relates to a particular object. The term \u201cinheritance\u201d means the sharing of properties, and in some cases, attributes and behaviors, that characterizes a subclass by its parent class. The notion of inheritance purportedly allows for easier maintenance and extension of computer programs since creation of subclasses purportedly allows the program code used to created the parent class to be readily modified and reused for subclasses. An object's \u201cprocedures\u201d or \u201cmethods\u201d are operations upon data items, attributes, and\/or properties so as to cause a computing result and provide a response. Certain aspects of object-oriented programming techniques are utilized in the present invention so as to provide extended functionality to the user interface as applied to network systems.","There is a specific model called document object model (DOM) that defines a set of classes used for the manipulation of document objects. JavaScript is a scripting language that relies on DOM when making function calls for Internet related applications. Most of these objects are directly related to characteristics of the Web page or browser. There is a class of objects specifically applied to the manipulation of URLs, which for the purposes of discussion is called a URI object.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0196","num":"0195"},"figref":"FIG. 13","i":"a ","b":["1310","1315","1320","1325","1330","1335","1340","1345","1350","1310","1315","1310","1330"]},"There are many applications for using the WHOIS object. For instance, the WHOIS object  may be integrated into bookmarks  (including favorites folder), URL history folder , or even as part of the location field . In addition, by using any user interface element such as an icon or a menu and the like (e.g., right-click menu, action menu, etc.), an extra option can be listed to retrieve WHOIS information based on the URI properties of the selected object. A modified WHOIS function is programmed to extract a domain name from the URI property to be passed as a parameter for retrieving contact information from the proper WHOIS database. For example, a user has just navigated to content corresponding to the URI \u201chttp:\/\/example.com\/sitemap.htm\u201d. The user then right clicks on a rendered web page corresponding to the navigation request. A menu appears with the option of selecting WHOIS. Upon selection, a WHOIS Object  extracts \u201cexample.com\u201d from the URI to perform a WHOIS request to receive and present contact information such as the registrant of the domain name \u201cexample.com\u201d.","Bookmarks in Netscape are stored in an HTML file having an anchor reference tag for maintaining the properties of a given bookmark when used in conjunction with a bookmark viewer. The following is an example of one such reference:","<A HREF=\u201chttp:\/\/164.195.100.11\/netahtml\/search-adv.htm\u201d\n\n","In another aspect of the present invention modifications may be made to the bookmark viewer so that an extra WHOIS field may be added to the anchor reference when a page is bookmarked.","<A HREF=\u201c \u201d ADD_DATE=http:\/\/164.195.100.11\/netahtml\/search-adv.htm\u201c952124784\u201dLAST_VISIT=\u201c25920000\u201d LAST_MODIFIED=\u201c25920000\u201d WHOIS=\u201chttp:\/\/www.networksolutions.com\/cgi-bin\/whois\/whois?uspto.gov\u201d>USPTO<\/A>","The history folder , domain name status database , or identifier status cache  may be modified in a similar manner except that due to its size such data is saved in a compressed format. For instance, by enabling the history folder  to correspond metalinks in real-time while surfing the network, a MetaURI cache with WHOIS  may be generated as each URI is being requested. This information may be used for reviewing registrant information while offline from the network, for example.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0203","num":"0204"},"figref":"FIG. 13","i":"b ","b":["1360","1365","1370","1375"]},"For instance, aftermarket requests and back-order requests have to be initiated by a requestor or may be conditionally performed in response to providing a WHOIS record. Independence can be achieved from such conditions by instantiating an aftermarket object or back-order object. In another aspect of the present invention, an aftermarket object and\/or back-order object may be adapted to extract a domain name from the current URI property either before, during or in response to an event such as a reference request, search request, navigation request, and the like. The extracted domain name can be passed as a parameter for retrieving contact and\/or status information from a corresponding registry such as an aftermarket registry , auction registry , back-order registry , or any domain name status database , or identifier status cache .","Methods for notifying a user of soon to be available domain names are explained in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09\/598,134 filed Jun. 21, 2000, by Schneider, entitled \u201cMethod and apparatus for integrating resolution services, registration services, and search services.\u201d Domain names that are soon to be available may be distributed in advance to a user so that domain names of interest may be selected and reserved in a pre-ordering queue on either the client or server side. Registration information is completed and a registration form is submitted to or by a registrar when the soon to be available domain name that is selected does become available. In turn, an ExpiryCountdown Object  which can be a subclass of the WHOIS object , AfterMarket Object , or BackOrder Object  can be used while navigating across network resources to determine the difference between the expiration date and current date from the registration record, aftermarket record, or back-order record of an identifier such as a domain name.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0206","num":"0207"},"figref":"FIG. 13","i":"c ","b":["1380","1385","1390","1395"]},"For instance, the MetaURI type object is a WHOIS object having an ExpiryCountdown object and a WHOIS record may be retrieved by initiating a WHOIS request or retrieved in response to processing a resolution request, search request, and registration request. Whatever the case, whenever a WHOIS record is retrieved, the ExpiryCountdown object can extract the expiration date for the domain name of the WHOIS record and compared it to the current date. When the difference between the expiration date and current date is determined (step ) to be less than a configurable threshold value (e.g., 90 days), a client may be notified that the domain name may soon be available. Upon notification, the client may determine whether to add the domain name to a watch list for further notification upon domain name availability. If so, then the domain name is stored in a watch list and monitored for domain name availability. Metalinks may be included with any notification for accessing the WHOIS record of the domain name and corresponding URI. When the difference is determined to be greater than the threshold, the WHOIS record may be stored and\/or displayed. The threshold value (not shown) may be modified in the configuration settings .","Another aspect of the present invention detects and\/or generates identifiers (e.g., via the identifier generator ) in real time from input sources such as instant messaging, chat rooms, web conferencing, interactive television, any television broadcast, cable, satellite, video tape, DVD, and other sources that have a digital, analog or digital\/analog signal where text can be decoded from. U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60\/153,336 filed Sep. 10, 1999, by Schneider entitled \u201cMethod and apparatus for generating hyperlink references and\/or performing an operative function in response to detected indicia\u201d, explains how such input sources may be used generate identifiers.","There are a variety of systems available for multiplexing and transmitting character and graphic information during the vertical retrace line period of video signals, such as television signals. This type of system includes, for instance, the character information broadcasting system in Japan; the world standard teletext (WST); the extended version of the United Kingdom teletext system; the closed caption system of the U.S.A., etc.","Video data frequently includes data, such as closed caption text data, that is transmitted during the vertical-blanking interval (VBI). The closed caption text data is typically transmitted during line  of either the odd or even field of the video frame in a National Television Standards Committee (NTSC) format. Closed caption decoders strip the text data from the video signal, decode the text data, and reformat the data for display, concurrent with the video data, on a television screen. Such closed caption decoders process the text data separately from a video signal. The closed caption data is displayed substantially in real time.","The associated data encoded in the vertical blanking period of the NTSC signal comprises digital data. The digital data may include ASCII text, any alpha numeric coding, or graphical information. Because the digital data is encoded in the vertical blanking period, the audio\/video content in the NTSC signal is not disturbed. The associated data may comprise a wide variety of information pertaining to the audio\/video content, such as news headlines, programming details, captioning for the associated audio\/video, classified advertisements, and weather.","In a conventional TV set, teletext information is decoded from the broadcast video signal with the use of dedicated hardware that processes the data and displays it on the TV screen. In a teletext capable PC, this same dedicated teletext hardware is used to extract and process the teletext information from the video stream and then store it until the processed teletext information is sent to the host computer. The host computer then runs a software application that receives the processed data and formats it for display on the computer screen.","Currently, many PC-TV products allow a user to view TV on a computer monitor. Some products allow information to be viewed with the addition of appropriate hardware, typically a module that plugs into the TV card. Typically, a TV tuner receives a signal from either an antenna or cable connection. The selected channel is output from the tuner to the TV decoder chip and to the teletext decoder chip.","Advancements have been made to enable decoding to extend beyond that of a dedicated chip or processor to include software drivers to perform this task. A client application running on PC calls closed caption decoder driver in order to enable and disable the displaying of closed caption data. All application calls are made to closed caption capture layer (CCC) by client application. Capture layer extracts the Line  data from video processor hardware using hardware driver and notifies decoding layer that there is data available to process. Decoding layer then processes the data retrieved by capture layer and displays the closed caption text on the monitor in a window specified by client application.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0215","num":"0216"},"figref":["FIG. 14","FIG. 1"],"i":["a ","d"],"b":["1410","1415","1420","1425","174","172","175","1430","1435"]},"Data request results if any, may then be provided in step . For instance, as closed caption text is decoded, domain names and\/or identifiers across multiple namespaces may be generated (e.g., via an identifier generator  or templates ) in response to receiving the closed caption text. Upon identifier generation, identifier status may be performed including the determination of whether such generated identifiers may be available for registration, back-order, and auction, (e.g., keywords, FDNs, VDNs, MDNs, telephone numbers, etc). When a registration request is performed, for example, all such generated identifiers that are available for registration\/back-order may be simultaneously registered\/ordered with respect to the naming systems of all the selected identifiers. Simultaneous registration of identifiers across naming systems is explained in U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60\/175,825 filed Jan. 13, 2000, by Schneider, and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09\/650,827 filed Aug. 30, 2000, by Schneider.","By applying this method to an interactive television application, a viewer may select a list box for display. Upon display, all identifiers that have an available status, for example, may be dynamically populated within the selected list box as a hyperlink reference for each available identifier to access registration\/back-order services. In effect, available identifiers may be generated across multiple naming systems in response to real-time data streams and pushed across various media to help users find desirable identifiers on the fly available for registration and\/or back-order.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0218","num":"0219"},"figref":["FIG. 14","FIG. 14"],"i":["b ","a. "],"b":["1440","1445","1420","1425","174"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0219","num":"0220"},"figref":["FIG. 14","FIG. 14"],"i":["c ","a. "],"b":["1450","1420","1425","174"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0220","num":"0221"},"figref":"FIG. 14","i":"d ","b":["1455","1420"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0221","num":"0222"},"figref":"FIG. 15","i":"a "},"When input is received in step  it can be determined in step  whether input includes a telephone NDN. If not, then it can be determined in step  whether a telephone NDN can be generated from input. If so, then the telephone NDN is generated in step . It can be further determined in step  whether the received or generated telephone NDN is registered by consulting a FDN registry  that includes NDN information. If the telephone NDN is not registered, then a telephone NDN registration form is provided in step  otherwise the telephone NDN is translated into a corresponding domain name in step  and then determined in step  whether a network resource can be accessed from the domain name. If so, then the network resource is accessed from the domain name in step  otherwise a registration record is provided in step  with the option of determining if the domain name and\/or telephone NDN can be bid, monitored, back-ordered, transferred, and auctioned. At this point, it can be determined in step  whether to process input. If so, or when the telephone NDN can not be generated (step ), input can then be processed in step .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0223","num":"0224"},"figref":"FIG. 15","i":"b ","b":["322","360","1570","1575","364"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0224","num":"0225"},"figref":"FIG. 16","b":["1610","1615","1620","1625","1625","172"]},"As explained in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09\/598,134 filed Jun. 21, 2000, by Schneider, entitled \u201cMethod and apparatus for integrating resolution services, registration services, and search services\u201d, identifier prefixes may be used as a command language by entering such a prefix in conjunction with an identifier and\/or other parameters into a user interface element such as a microphone with speech to text translation, a web browser location field , a web page search text box , or command line of a computing device, etc. Such prefixes may also be selected from a list of prefixes as a means for processing an identifier as input. A prefix\/suffix database  may be used in conjunction with autosearch templates  to generate a URI that may be used for processing an operative function upon the identifier that corresponds to the selected prefix. The following are examples of how prefixes may be used for domain names.","\u201cEdit example.com\u201d may enable a registrant of the domain name \u201cexample.com\u201d to edit contact information stored in the registrar database. \u201cHandle example.com\u201d may enable a user to list or edit any handles that may correspond to the domain name \u201cexample.com\u201d. \u201cList example.com\u201d may enable a user to display all records that may correspond to \u201cexample.com\u201d. \u201cStatus example.com\u201d may enable a user to review the current status of \u201cexample.com\u201d. \u201cHistory example.com\u201d may enable a user to review the transaction history of \u201cexample.com\u201d. \u201cWatch example.com\u201d may enable a user to add \u201cexample.com\u201d to a watch list for notifying the user as to similar domain names registered or to notify that \u201cexample.com\u201d is available or may soon be available for registration. \u201cRenew example.com\u201d enables a registrant to extend the expiry date of \u201cexample.com\u201d and provide the option of transferring from one registrar to another. \u201cTransfer example.com RegistrarA to RegistrarB\u201d may enable a registrant to transfer \u201cexample.com\u201d from a current registrarA to a new registrars. \u201cEscrow example.com\u201d may enable a registrant to hold \u201cexample.com\u201d in escrow for the purposes of transferring the domain name. \u201cConsolidate example.com\u201d may enable a registrant to list all of the registered domain names of a registrant or given handle for the purpose of minimizing renewal payments across a portfolio of domain names.","\u201cAuction example.com\u201d may enable a registrant to list \u201cexample.com\u201d for auction\u201d. \u201cBid example.com\u201d may enable an entity to make a bid on \u201cexample.com\u201d. \u201cValue domain name\u201d may enable a user to receive an estimate of the book value or inventory value for \u201cexample.com\u201d. \u201cBuy example.com\u201d may enable an entity to make a solicitation for purchase or to purchase \u201cexample.com\u201d from the current registrant. \u201cSell example.com\u201d may enable a registrant to list \u201cexample.com\u201d for sale. \u201cLease example.com\u201d may enable an entity to make a solicitation for leasing or to lease \u201cexample.com\u201d from the current registrant.","\u201cGenerate example.com\u201d may generate a variety of related domain names that are available (e.g., \u201cfirstexample.com\u201d, \u201canotherexample.com\u201d, etc.). \u201cWHOIS example.com\u201d may enable a user to list the WHOIS record for \u201cexample.com\u201d. \u201cExpire example.com\u201d may enable a user to list the expiration date for \u201cexample.com\u201d. \u201cRegistrar example.com\u201d may enable a user to list which registrar \u201cexample.com\u201d is registered with. \u201cTools example.com\u201d may enable an entity to use online tools to find more information on \u201cexample.com\u201d such as zone files, nameservers, subdomains, and the like. An example of such online tools may be accessed from a URL such as \u201chttp:\/\/domtools.com\/domtools\/\u201d. \u201cRedirect example.com\u201d may enable a registrant to configure \u201cexample.com\u201d to redirect to another URL. \u201cLock example.com\u201d may enable a registrant to assure that \u201cexample.com\u201d may not be transferred to another registrar until the registrant unlocks the domain name.","\u201cEmail example.com\u201d may enable a registrant to sign up for email services for \u201cexample.com\u201d. \u201cWebhost example.com\u201d may enable a registrant to sign up for web hosting services for \u201cexample.com\u201d. \u201cInc example.com\u201d or \u201cLLC example.com\u201d may enable a registrant to submit articles or incorporation\/organization and form a business entity for \u201cexample.com\u201d. \u201cTrademark example.com\u201d may enable a registrant to file a trademark for \u201cexample.com\u201d. \u201cGeo example.com\u201d may enable a user to receive GPS coordinates from a GPS system or the current latitude\/longitude for \u201cexample.com\u201d. \u201cDial example.com\u201d may enable a user to make a telephone call to a phone number designated by the registrant of \u201cexample.com\u201d. For instance, the URL \u201chttp:\/\/example.com\/index.html\u201d may launch a dialer program or redirect to an Internet telephone protocol for contacting the registrant instead of or in addition to accessing a web site. Domain names are generally used as identifiers to access a web site or the like. There are no such domain names used for the explicit purpose of dialing a telephone number instead of accessing a web site. Specification of an Internet telephone protocol is provided in A. Vaha-Sipila, \u201cInformational RFC (Request for Comment) 2806: URLs for Telephone Calls\u201d, Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF), April 2000, \u201chttp:\/\/www.faqs.org\/rfcs\/rfc2806.html\u201d.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0230","num":"0231"},"figref":"FIG. 17","b":["1610","1710","170","1615","1712","1715","1720","1750","1725","1730","1750","1735","1740","1750","1625"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0231","num":"0232"},"figref":"FIG. 18","i":"a ","b":"1810"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0232","num":"0233"},"figref":"FIG. 18","i":"b ","b":["1820","1825","198","1830","199"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0233","num":"0234"},"figref":"FIG. 19","b":["1910","160","1915","1920","1925","1930","1935","177","1940","1945"]},"At least a portion of the registration request can be processed from an autosearch. Autosearch templates may be adapted to determine the availability of registration in response to generating many identifiers across many naming systems. The registration request can be processed in response to determining that the network resource can not be accessed. A network resource that can not be accessed can be determined by attempting to access the network resource from the identifier and determining that the access attempt is unsuccessful or by determining whether the network resource can be located. A network resource that can not be located can be determined by attempting to locate the network resource and determining that the location attempt is unsuccessful or by determining whether the domain name is resolvable. Network bandwidth required to determine that the network resource can not be accessed\/located can be minimized. Network bandwidth required to determine whether a domain name is resolvable can be minimized.","When it is determined that the first domain name is resolvable it can be determined whether the network resource can be located and when it is determined that the first domain name is not resolvable, a registration request can be processed. When it is determined that the network resource can be located it can be determined whether the network resource can be accessed and when it is determined that the network resource can not be located, a registration request can be processed.","A domain name can be translated into an IP address by accessing at least one resource record from at least one zone file or file cache. A resource record can be a wildcard resource record having an IP address corresponding to a network resource adapted to determine which domain name registration provider of a plurality of domain name registration providers can process the registration request when it is determined that the first domain name is available for registration.","The registration request can be a domain name registration request and\/or keyword registration request. The domain name registration request and keyword registration request can be contemporaneously processed. Domain name registration provider can be a domain name registrar, domain name reseller, or domain name affiliate. Keyword registration provider can be a keyword registrar, keyword reseller, and keyword affiliate. A keyword registration provider of a plurality of keyword providers can be selected to process the keyword registration request.","In a keyword registration request, at least one keyword can be generated from the identifier and determined whether the at least one keyword is resolvable. A keyword resolution request can be processed from the at least one keyword when the at least one keyword is determined resolvable. It can be determined whether the at least one keyword is available for keyword registration when the at least one keyword is determined not resolvable.","The keyword resolution request can be processed by accessing at least one network resource from the at least one keyword. At least one of a keyword resolver system and file cache can be queried to determine whether the at least one keyword is resolvable. A keyword registration form can be generated when the at least one keyword is determined available for registration and keyword registrant information can be provided when the at least one keyword is determined not available for registration. The keyword registration form can include a domain name registration form.","Related domain names may be generated from a first domain name and determined whether such generated domain names are available for registration by performing a WHOIS request on the first domain name and any the related domain names when processing a domain name registration request. A domain name registration form may be generates for each domain name determined available for registration and registrant information may be provided for each domain name determined not available for registration. A domain name registration form also includes a keyword registration form or may include any other identifier registration form.","The domain name registration provider is at least one of a domain name registrar, domain name reseller, and domain name affiliate. It can be determined which domain name registration provider of a plurality of domain name registration providers will process the domain name registration request by retrieving one of a default named domain name registration provider and a method of selecting a domain name registration provider from one of an autosearch template and modifiable configuration settings. The method of selecting a domain name registration provider is chosen from the least cost domain name registration provider, a preselected list of domain name registration provider, and a random choice of domain name registration provider. The method of selecting the least cost domain name registration provider can include the step of consulting a table of registration cost information updated in real time.","A second domain name can be generated from the first domain name wherein the second domain name is a subdomain of the first domain name. The identifier includes a protocol identifier, the network resource request includes a protocol request, the subdomain corresponds to the protocol identifier, and the step of determining whether the second domain name can be generated includes the step of generating the second domain name. The protocol identifier can be \u201chttp\u201d and the subdomain can be \u201cwww\u201d. The protocol identifier and the subdomain can be from a group consisting of ftp, telnet, news, and gopher.","It can be determined whether the second domain name can be generated by determining whether at least one hostname of the first domain name can be identified. The second domain name can be generated by prepending a hostname to the first domain name. The second domain name can be generated in response to determining that the second domain name can be generated. It can be determined whether the network resource can be accessed from the second domain name. The network resource can be accessed in response to determining that the network resource can be accessed from the second domain name. A registration request can be processed when it is determined that that the second domain name can not be generated. When the network resource can not be accessed from the second domain name, it can be determined whether another subdomain of the first domain name can be generated until it is determined that the another subdomain of the first domain name can not be generated.","The first domain name can be a FDN and a valid domain name can be generated from at least a portion of the identifier and determined whether the network resource can be accessed from the valid domain name. A registration request having the FDN can be processed when it is determined that said valid domain name can not be accessed. The valid domain name can be generated from an autosearch.","A NDN registration form can be provided after determining that the NDN is available for registration. A domain name and IP address corresponding to NDN can be generated after determining that NDN is not available for registration. A network resource is accessed after determining that the network resource can be accessed and a NDN registrant record can be provided after determining that the network resource can not be accessed. The NDN registration record can include the option to one of a bid, monitor, auction, transfer, and back-order the NDN. When the identifier does not include the NDN it can be determined whether the NDN can be generated from the identifier. The NDN can be a telephone NDN.","When a search request is processed, a URI can be provided in the form of a metalink with each result of the search request. The metalink can be one of a WHOIS of domain name extracted from URI, page source of network resource corresponding to URI, HEAD request of network resource corresponding to URI, sitemap of domain name extracted from URI, e-mail corresponding to domain name extracted from URI, dial request of network resource corresponding to URI, geographic map with directions to domain name extracted from URI, and status link of domain name extracted from URI. The status link can include one of a bid link, monitor link, back-order link, auction link, aftermarket link, and transfer link.","A back-order registrant record can further include the option to bid on the identifier and the identifier back-order position after determining that the identifier is back-ordered. The MetaURI object can include one of a WHOIS object, HLD object, AfterMarket Object, BackOrder Object, and ExpiryCountdown object. At least one property of the MetaURI object can include a expiry countdown parameter further including determining that the expiry countdown parameter is less than a configurable threshold value with provided options for one of a notification, registration, bidding, auctioning, listing, monitoring, and back-ordering.","Though methods for identifier registration and aftermarket services while or after processing different request types have been shown, there are a myriad of other identifier services that can be included when processing a request such as a failed navigation request or search request, for example. Some of these services include but are not limited to domain name hosting (e-mail services, web hosting), digital trust services, forwarding services (URL forwarding, e-mail forwarding), site building services (site promotion, search engine submittal), international brand protection, business services (Brand Monitoring, online incorporation), trademark services (monitoring, searching, and filing) value added domain services (transfer, renewal, auction, escrow, listing, monitoring, parking, billing, recovery), account management, identity promotion services, directory services, Internet Keywords, Global Voice Registry, ENUM, and Multilingual web addresses.","The identifier can be a uniform resource identifier (URI). The URI can be a uniform resource locator. A search request from the identifier can be constructed, processed, and presented. It can be determined whether to process a search request after processing the registration request. The identifier can be received from internal automation, external automation, activation of a hyperlink, network resource redirection, and input such as a user interface element. Inputting the identifier into a user interface element may include the step of inputting the identifier into one of a browser location field, text box, command line, speech to text interface, optical recognition interface, and magnetic recognition interface. A user interface element may include one of a web page, hyperlink, message box, and prompt and is presented to determine whether to process the registration request particularly when a network resource can not be accessed.","Although the invention has been shown and described with respect to a certain preferred aspect or aspects, it is obvious that equivalent alterations and modifications will occur to others skilled in the art upon the reading and understanding of this specification and the annexed drawings. In particular regard to the various functions performed by the above described items referred to by numerals (components, assemblies, devices, compositions, etc.), the terms (including a reference to a \u201cmeans\u201d) used to describe such items are intended to correspond, unless otherwise indicated, to any item which performs the specified function of the described item (i.e., that is functionally equivalent), even though not structurally equivalent to the disclosed structure which performs the function in the herein illustrated exemplary aspect or aspects of the invention. In addition, while a particular feature of the invention may have been described above with respect to only one of several illustrated aspects, such feature may be combined with one or more other features of the other aspects, as may be desired and advantageous for any given or particular application.","The description herein with reference to the figures will be understood to describe the present invention in sufficient detail to enable one skilled in the art to utilize the present invention in a variety of applications and devices. It will be readily apparent that various changes and modifications could be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0058","num":"0057"},"figref":"FIG. 1","i":"a "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0059","num":"0058"},"figref":"FIG. 1","i":"b "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0060","num":"0059"},"figref":"FIG. 1","i":"c "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0061","num":"0060"},"figref":"FIG. 1","i":"d "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0062","num":"0061"},"figref":"FIG. 2","i":"a "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0063","num":"0062"},"figref":"FIG. 2","i":"b "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0064","num":"0063"},"figref":"FIG. 2","i":"c "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0065","num":"0064"},"figref":"FIG. 2","i":"d "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0066","num":"0065"},"figref":"FIG. 3","i":"a "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0067","num":"0066"},"figref":"FIG. 3","i":"b "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0068","num":"0067"},"figref":"FIG. 3","i":"c "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0069","num":"0068"},"figref":"FIG. 4","i":"a "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0070","num":"0069"},"figref":"FIG. 4","i":"b "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0071","num":"0070"},"figref":"FIG. 4","i":"c "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0072","num":"0071"},"figref":"FIG. 4","i":"d "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0073","num":"0072"},"figref":"FIG. 4","i":"e "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0074","num":"0073"},"figref":"FIG. 4","i":"f "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0075","num":"0074"},"figref":"FIG. 4","i":"g "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0076","num":"0075"},"figref":"FIG. 4","i":"h "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0077","num":"0076"},"figref":"FIG. 5","i":"a "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0078","num":"0077"},"figref":"FIG. 5","i":"b "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0079","num":"0078"},"figref":"FIG. 5","i":"c "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0080","num":"0079"},"figref":"FIG. 6","i":"a "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0081","num":"0080"},"figref":"FIG. 6","i":"b "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0082","num":"0081"},"figref":"FIG. 7","i":"a "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0083","num":"0082"},"figref":"FIG. 7","i":"b "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0084","num":"0083"},"figref":"FIG. 8","i":"a "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0085","num":"0084"},"figref":"FIG. 8","i":"b "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0086","num":"0085"},"figref":"FIG. 9","i":"a "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0087","num":"0086"},"figref":"FIG. 9","i":"b "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0088","num":"0087"},"figref":"FIG. 9","i":"c "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0089","num":"0088"},"figref":"FIG. 10","i":"a "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0090","num":"0089"},"figref":"FIG. 10","i":"b "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0091","num":"0090"},"figref":"FIG. 11","i":"a "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0092","num":"0091"},"figref":"FIG. 11","i":"b "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0093","num":"0092"},"figref":"FIG. 12"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0094","num":"0093"},"figref":"FIG. 13","i":"a "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0095","num":"0094"},"figref":"FIG. 13","i":"b "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0096","num":"0095"},"figref":"FIG. 13","i":"c "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0097","num":"0096"},"figref":"FIG. 14","i":"a "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0098","num":"0097"},"figref":"FIG. 14","i":"b "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0099","num":"0098"},"figref":"FIG. 14","i":"c "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0100","num":"0099"},"figref":"FIG. 14","i":"d "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0101","num":"0100"},"figref":"FIG. 15","i":"a "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0102","num":"0101"},"figref":"FIG. 15","i":"b "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0103","num":"0102"},"figref":"FIG. 16"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0104","num":"0103"},"figref":"FIG. 17"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0105","num":"0104"},"figref":"FIG. 18","i":"a "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0106","num":"0105"},"figref":"FIG. 18","i":"b "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0107","num":"0106"},"figref":"FIG. 19"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
