---
title: Method and apparatus providing a supply chain management system useful in outsourced manufacturing
abstract: A method is disclosed for automatically identifying and resolving one or more discrepancies in an outsourced manufacturing supply chain in which a plurality of supply chain partners participate. According to this aspect, information representing one or more supply chain events is received from each of the supply chain partners in a database with which each of the supply chain partners may communicate over a public network. One or more rules are applied periodically to the supply chain event information, resulting in generating one or more alerts pertaining to one or more discrepancies that are found in the supply chain event information. The alerts are communicated to the supply chain partners who are participating in a transaction to which the discrepancies relate. Each alert remains active until second information is received that represents a second supply chain event that resolves the alert. According to one feature, the alerts are periodically escalated until they are resolved. A hub-and-spoke supply chain management system that facilitates the foregoing method, and other features, is also disclosed. In other aspects, the invention encompasses a computer apparatus, a computer readable medium, and a carrier wave configured to carry out the foregoing steps.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07426478&OS=07426478&RS=07426478
owner: Cisco Technology, Inc.
number: 07426478
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070501
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["RELATED APPLICATIONS","FIELD OF INVENTION","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENT"],"p":["This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09\/846,134, filed Apr. 30, 2001, now U.S. Pat. No. 7,216,086 the contents of which are fully incorporated herein.","The present invention generally relates to computer-assisted management of manufacturing processes such as supply chain management. The invention relates more specifically to a method and apparatus providing a supply chain management system useful in outsourced manufacturing, including a method of automatically identifying and resolving one or more discrepancies in an outsourced manufacturing supply chain in which a plurality of supply chain partners participate.","Outsourced manufacturing is a method of making products or services in which a first enterprise researches and develops products and then contracts with one or more other enterprises to actually make and deliver the products, or their components or subassemblies. Large business enterprises involved in developing many different products and services have rapidly turned to outsourced manufacturing in recent years as a way to provide flexibility in their operations. For example, if a research enterprise has developed a product and suddenly receives a large increase in orders for the product, the research enterprise can contract with multiple vendors to make and deliver the product, and then discontinue the contracts when order volume decreases. Without outsourced manufacturing, an enterprise is required to manage regular changes in manufacturing capacity, at significant direct and indirect cost to the enterprise.","However, one disadvantage of using outsourced manufacturing on a large-scale basis is that the outsourcing enterprise loses a degree of control over the manufacturing process. For example, if a contract manufacturer fails to receive timely deliveries of needed parts from one or more suppliers, the manufacturer's production schedule may slip, and the outsourcing enterprise cannot deliver products to its customers on time. Moreover, the outsourcing enterprise typically receives no information about the existence or nature of such shortages or other problems that arise far down the supply chain, because the outsourcing enterprise has no direct contractual relationship or communication with the downstream suppliers. The problems become known only when the contract manufacturer informs the outsourcing enterprise about a change in delivery schedule. When the outsourcing enterprise is a very large business organization with numerous products and an annual sales volume amounting to billions of dollars, these problems become acute and unacceptable.","Based on the foregoing, there is a need for a way to provide management of an outsourcing enterprise with visibility of events occurring in all parts of the supply chain, i.e., end-to-end supply chain visibility. In addition, management needs analysis tools to understand the impact of events occurring deep in the supply chain and to suggest relevant resolution options.","One approach to this need is to provide an enterprise resource planning (ERP) software system at the outsourcing enterprise, and require all supply chain partners of the outsourcing enterprise to deploy and use the same ERP system so that compatible data files can be interchanged. Providers of ERP software systems include Baan, Oracle, SAP AG, and others. Unfortunately, deployment of such ERP systems including licensing, installation, and training is extremely expensive. The cost is normally beyond the resources of medium-sized or smaller supply chain partners who otherwise produce quality products and form essential parts of the supply chain.","Still another need in this context relates to communicating instructions and information to supply chain partners who are located far down the supply chain from the outsourcing enterprise. In a typical enterprise, when one or more new orders are received for a particular product, the enterprise will initiate and communicate one or more new demand signals to its contract manufacturers, asking them to start making products that the enterprise can use to fulfill its orders. If the contract manufacturers need new supplies of parts, they must contact all appropriate vendors with separate signals or requests to supply the parts. If such suppliers also need component materials or other parts, they must send separate signals or requests further down the supply chain. This process results in delay in ultimately completing the products needed by the enterprise, and increases manufacturing costs. There is a need for the outsourcing enterprise to communicate new demand signals as far down the supply chain as necessary in a substantially concurrent way, and as directly as possible, so that all supply chain partners know as soon as possible that additional products are needed by the enterprise.","Similarly, there is a need to communicate other kinds of signals, requests or instructions from the outsourcing enterprise to all supply chain partners. For example, the enterprise may wish to send material move signals, supply status requests, and receive exception conditions to or from all entities involved in the supply chain.","Another deficiency of past approaches pertains to decision-making. In general, existing systems provide no automated way to request action when problems arise, and no way to guarantee that appropriate action is taken in response to problems. Thus, there is a need for a way to issue alert messages in response to problems, and to enforce an organized process of responding to and acting on the alerts.","There is also a need for a way to facilitate direct communication among the enterprise and downstream supply chain partners with which the enterprise has no direct contractual or transactional relationship.","The present invention comprises, in one aspect, a method for automatically identifying and resolving one or more discrepancies in an outsourced manufacturing supply chain in which a plurality of supply chain partners participate. According to this aspect, information representing one or more supply chain events is received from each of the supply chain partners in a database with which each of the supply chain partners may communicate over a public network. One or more rules are applied periodically to the supply chain event information, resulting in generating one or more alerts pertaining to one or more discrepancies that are found in the supply chain event information. The alerts are communicated to the supply chain partners who are participating in a transaction to which the discrepancies relate. Each alert remains active until second information is received that represents a second supply chain event that resolves the alert.","According to one feature, the alerts are periodically escalated until they are resolved.","A hub-and-spoke supply chain management system that facilitates the foregoing method, and other features, is also disclosed.","In other aspects, the invention encompasses a computer apparatus, a computer readable medium, and a carrier wave configured to carry out the foregoing steps.","A method and apparatus providing a supply chain management system useful in outsourced manufacturing is described. In the following description, for the purposes of explanation, numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention. It will be apparent, however, to one skilled in the art that the present invention may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances, well-known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the present invention.","In general, in one embodiment, the disclosed method and apparatus uses a supply chain management database to enable a complete supply chain to have visibility of exceptions and critical success factors. A configurable user interface provides access to view and analyze critical alerts, exceptions and success factors. Electronic alert notification occurs in response to any business rule violation, and alerts may be dispatched via e-mail, pager or using a software application programming interface (API). Advanced analysis, reporting, and data mining is available through integration with an online analysis database system.","The description herein is structured according to the following outline:\n\n","In this description, the following acronyms and terms have the following definitions:","BOM\u2014Bill of Materials; a list of the materials or components that make up a finished product.","BPO\u2014Blanket Purchase Order.","BSO\u2014Blanket Sales Order.","CM\u2014Contract Manufacturer.","Demand-Side Partner\u2014An entity in the supply chain that is receiving something, often a component of a product, a chassis, or an assembly, from another entity in the supply chain. A synonym is \u201cBuyer.\u201d","ERP\u2014Enterprise Resource Planning.","MPS\u2014Master Production Schedule.","MRP\u2014Manufacturing Resource Planning.","PIP\u2014Partner Integration Process.","PM\u2014Part Master; a reference database of a partner that stores basic information about the partner's parts or components.","P\/N\u2014Part Number.","PO\u2014Purchase Order.","SO\u2014Sales Order.","Supply-Side Partner\u2014An entity in the supply chain that is supplying something, often a component of a product, a chassis, or an assembly, to another entity in the supply chain. A synonym is \u201cSeller.\u201d","Time Fence\u2014A period of time for performing a task, defined by a start time, end time, and agreed-upon percentage of time by which the start time or end time may vary. Time fences are the subjects of advance agreement (\u201cTime Fence Agreement\u201d) between partners.","WO\u2014Work Order.","XML\u2014Extensible Markup Language.","1. Structural Overview",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0052","num":"0065"},"figref":"FIG. 1A","b":["2","4","4","6","14","4","6","14","2","6","14","4"]},"The contract manufacturer A and contract assembler  may receive component parts and raw materials from one or more sub-contract manufacturers A, parts suppliers A, B, and materials suppliers A, B. The contract manufacturer A and contract assembler  also may sub-contract out for services that do not involve direct supply of tangible materials, parts or assemblies, such as chassis painting, soldering, etc.","For purposes of illustrating a clear example, a small number of entities are shown in , however, in a practical business environment there may be hundreds or thousands of parties participating in the entire supply chain. Although all entities depicted in  participate in the supply chain and considered are important supply chain partners, enterprise  is the focus of this description and is considered a central point or hub of information, command and control, and the other entities are viewed as spokes or supporting organizations around the hub. Further, each of the partners have direct logical connections to supply chain management system  and can contribute information to the system, receive alerts from the system, and generate reports relating to the supply chain and its other partners.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0055","num":"0068"},"figref":["FIG. 1B","FIG. 1A"],"b":["24","24","24","24","22","20","4","22","20","24","24","24","24","22","20","28","26"]},"One or more administrative clients or users  are communicatively coupled to supply chain management system  directly or through one or more local networks . Each administrative user  communicates with supply chain management system  using a browser  that is executed by a computer . Similarly, one or more enterprise clients or users  are communicatively coupled to supply chain management system  directly or through one or more local networks . Each administrative user  communicates with supply chain management system  using a browser  that is executed by a computer . Administrative users are distinguished from enterprise users in that administrative users have greater privileges to view and modify data in system .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0057","num":"0070"},"figref":"FIG. 1C","b":["4","102","104","102","106","106","108"]},"In an embodiment, supply chain partner data  is formatted as one or more electronic documents that conform to one of the Partner Integration Processes or PIPs as defined by the RosettaNet consortium of information technology companies, which is headquartered in Santa Ana, Calif. In general, RosettaNet PIPs define business processes between supply-chain companies, providing the models and documents for the implementation of standards. In an embodiment as described herein, each PIP defines a type of supply chain electronic document based on Extensible Markup Language (XML). Different PIPs correspond to different kinds of supply chain information. For example, one PIP is used to structure data comprising purchase order information, another PIP is used to convey materials order information, etc. Each PIP has a unique identifying label. Examples of PIPs include:\n\n","ED04\u2014Used for parts master data.","In one example embodiment, staging database  is a relational database system, e.g., Oracle, Sybase, etc.; Alerts Database  is a component of the NetWORKS ExchangeWorks Material software product of Manugistics, Inc.; and online analysis database  is a component of the ONEview OLAP software system of Manugistics.","An administrative subsystem  interacts with staging database  to transform the supply chain partner data  into validated data that is suitable for use in supply chain management. Administrative subsystem  has a user interface  that can interact with one or more administrative users through visual means, such as graphical display terminals. A security mechanism  manages addition and authentication of users.","A partner configuration mechanism  enables an administrative user to define supply chain partners in the system and configure its operations to be compatible with new partners. Partner configuration mechanism  includes means for creating and storing various kinds of Partner data. For example, each partner may be designated by a Short Name, e.g., a 10-character name for a partner that may be an abbreviation of the full name of the partner. This short name is used in summary alert displays and reports as appropriate. Partner configuration mechanism  also includes means for adding partners to the supply chain management database  with a flag that indicates that they are part of the system. There may be un-flagged partners who are in the database but do not participate in system .","An alerts subsystem  interacts with Alerts Database  to generate and track alert messages when violations of pre-defined supply chain management rules occur. A user interface  enables one or more users to view alert messages, obtain more detailed information about alerts and underlying electronic documents that resulted in the alerts (\u201cdrilling down\u201d), establish and modify rules that result in alerts, etc.","Rule logic  provides a means for determining whether one or more stored rules are satisfied by information in Alerts Database . If a rule is satisfied, then an alert message is generated in response to changes in information in Alerts Database .","Rule configuration mechanism  enables creation and modification of rules that govern alerts. Rules are stored in Alerts Database  in association with information about partners or PIPs. Rule configuration is provided using rule configuration mechanism  for all appropriate rules for each partner. A partner can only have one rule configuration per rule type.","An alert initiation mechanism  is responsible for creating an alert in response to a determination that one or more rules of rule logic  are satisfied by current information in Alerts Database . When an alert is created, alert delivery mechanism  carries out delivery of the alert message through one or more means such as email, pager, or by calling programmatic functions or mechanisms. A user who receives an alert can respond by closing the alert or optionally escalating the alert to another user or responsible individual of a supply chain partner until satisfactory resolution of the alert occurs. Alert escalation mechanism  manages communication of escalated alerts to the correct party within a particular supply chain partner. Escalation configuration is part of the rule configuration mechanism .","An analysis subsystem  facilitates reporting and analysis of actions that have occurred, alerts and general information in Alerts Database . Using a user interface , users can access online analytical processing functions that are provided by OLAP mechanism , and reports that are generated by report mechanism .","Using this structure, an integrated supply chain management system is provided that effectively identifies, communicates and tracks responses to exceptional events. In general, the disclosed system provides a way to alert a user community to critical business information and business problems within the supply chain and provide a central interface to such information.","Embodiments may be implemented in one or more computer programs or other software elements that are executed by a general-purpose server or other processor, and accessed by users who use general-purpose computers as clients. Such embodiments may be based upon or conform to the RosettaNet Implementation Framework, its Dictionaries, and PIPs. In such embodiments, the computer programs or software elements cooperate to carry out the functions described herein. A collection of such software elements operating in cooperation to carry out such functions, organized in the architecture described above and with data stored in the databases described above, is collectively referred to herein as \u201cthe system.\u201d","2. Functional Overview","2.1 General Process Flow",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0072","num":"0096"},"figref":["FIG. 2A","FIG. 2A","FIG. 1C","FIG. 1C"]},"In block , supply chain partner data  is received into Staging Database  from one or more supply chain partners. In block , the supply chain partner data  is validated to ensure that it conforms to correct PIP syntax, to ensure that all values are valid, etc. Validated data is then imported into the Alerts Database  from the Staging Database , as shown by block . In block , rule and alert processing is carried out using the data in Alerts Database , as described below in connection with .","In block , in parallel with carrying out block , data is imported into the Analysis Database  from the Staging Database  and Alerts Database . Analysis database processing occurs using the data, as shown by block , and as described below in connection with .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0075","num":"0099"},"figref":["FIG. 2B","FIG. 2A"],"b":"208"},"In block , a determination is periodically made about whether any rules in Alerts Database  are satisfied with respect to any data in the Alerts Database. In one embodiment, according to a periodic schedule, rules for a particular partner or PIP are evaluated. If evaluation of a particular rule indicates that an alert is needed, then an alert is created in memory and evaluated.","In block , all alerts currently in existence are evaluated, as detailed in the succeeding steps. In block , a test is made to determine whether a particular alert is a new alert. If so, then a persistent entry is created for the alert in an alert table of Alerts Database , as indicated by block . If the alert already exists, then no action is taken. If the alert has been resolved or repaired, as indicated by information in Alerts Database , then the alert is removed from the alert table.","Processes for notification and escalation of alerts, as represented by block , are configured to run on a periodic basis. In block , the process determines whether there are any new alerts that have not been sent out to the appropriate recipient. If so, then they are sent at this time. Notifications are consolidated or ordered by rule for a particular recipient, as indicated by block . Thus, in a message sent to a particular recipient, all related alerts are grouped together. Block  represents the step of sending alerts to a recipient using an email message, pager message, other communication mechanism, or by calling a programmatic method to communicate alert data to an application program.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0079","num":"0103"},"figref":["FIG. 2C","FIG. 2A"],"b":"212"},"In block , data in Analysis Database  is re-structured as necessary to support report generation and online analysis. For example, in one embodiment, data in Analysis Database  is transformed into Data Mart format, which provides structuring necessary for subsequent analysis and processing by the One View database. In block , one or more batch reports are generated. Optionally, report generation may include display at a user display terminal. In block , one or more OLAP objects or displays, which have been previously created and saved by a user, are updated or \u201crefreshed\u201d using the re-structured data. Such refreshing ensures that the OLAP objects or displays accurately reflect newly imported data.","2.2 Information Delivery","Modes of information delivery offered by the system and processes described herein include alerts, on-demand reports, and advanced analysis data. As described further in succeeding sections, delivery of alerts includes providing a summary display of alerts, detailed access to alerts, and detailed views that provide supporting information about particular alerts (\u201cdrill downs\u201d).","Delivery of on-demand reports includes providing on-demand report data that is accessed and displayed using a standard browser program through one of the user interfaces , , . Delivery of reports may also include exporting report data to a formatted file (e.g., a file of comma-separated values), or a printable version.","Delivery of advanced analysis data includes providing batch OLAP reports, the ability to enter queries and receive responses, and other advanced analysis functions. In an embodiment, these advanced analysis functions are available to all supply chain partners; alternatively, they may be restricted to the core enterprise, e.g., enterprise  of .","2.3 User Interface","In one embodiment, access to alert information is provided through a graphical user interface that interacts with a browser client program through standard HTML code. To interact with the system, a user directs a browser or other client to a pre-defined Universal Resource Locator (URL) that identifies a startup page or script of the system . In response, the system  delivers one or more pages comprising the user interface to the client.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0087","num":"0111"},"figref":["FIG. 3A","FIG. 3A"],"b":["300","320","330","320","302","304","306","300","302","304","306","302","304"]},"Selecting Administration button  causes the system to generate a display that provides access to administrative functions. In an embodiment, the administration user interfaces provides access to functions for the configuration of rules, escalation, approved vendor list and other system settings.","Display pane  includes a rule pull-down menu , navigation links , alert title bar , field headings , and alert data . The user interface provides access to alerts by rule type, so that in one embodiment, all alerts that are triggered by a particular type of rule are grouped together. A user views alerts corresponding to a particular rule by selecting the rule of interest from rule pull-down menu . In a large enterprise that has a large number of supply chain partners, there may be numerous users, each of which is responsible for a selected sub-group of the supply chain partners. In this arrangement, each user accesses alerts based on the supply chain partner and part numbers for which that user has responsibility.","If there are a large number of alerts for a particular rule, then the system displays the first 25 alerts, and the user may view other alerts by selecting one of the navigation links . Although specific navigation links are shown in  for the purpose of illustrating a simple example, e.g., \u201cPrevious 25,\u201d \u201cNext 25,\u201d \u201cFirst 25,\u201d \u201cLast 25,\u201d no particular navigation links are required, and different such links may be provided in other embodiments.","Alert title bar  identifies the name alerts that are displayed in the screen display. The name of the alert in the title bar  is one of the rules specified in Table 1 herein. Field headings  identify the type of data that is displayed in tabular format as alert data  in successive lines within display pane . A user can sort information in alert data  one column at a time in ascending or descending order by selecting one of the field headings . In response to such selection, the system sorts the data using the selected field heading as a key, generates an updated screen display based on the sort, and provides the updated display to the browser.","When a user first connects to the system, the initial view is a summary of all alerts for rules for the user, as shown in . The system presents a summary view of alerts by rule type. Also, an email is sent to the user for each rule and contains summary information. The purpose of the summary view and the email summary is to provide enough information to enable the user to prioritize and select what the user wants to work on next. Users can then work exclusively in a separate ERP system if desired, or can access the system disclosed herein through a URL for more information.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0093","num":"0117"},"figref":["FIG. 3B","FIG. 3A","FIG. 3B","FIG. 3A"],"b":["350","316","300","350","350","312","354","356","358","360"]},"Alert title bar  presents the name of the current type of alerts that is displayed, as in . Properties pane  presents values for specific properties of the alert, and the values correspond to those displayed in alert data  under field headings  in screen display  of . Variance pane  presents information about the number of times similar alerts have occurred for the same supply chain partner. Configuration pane  presents information about variance configuration parameters (i.e. what percent variance constitutes an exception condition), and who has been configured to receive notification. Drilldown link pane  presents one or more links, selection of which causes the system to display even further detailed information relating to the alert. Typically the information accessible using links in drilldown link pane  is supporting information rather than details of an alert. Further, the specific drilldown links that are provided in pane  are selected and displayed by the system based on the current rule type. Thus, different drilldown link displays are provided in pane  according to the nature of the rule type shown in title bar , and only the drilldowns that are specifically associated with a particular rule are have links displayed in pane .","Table 1 presents a list of all available drill down views that can be potentially presented for rules. The section below entitled RULE LOGIC identifies the specific subset of drilldown views that are available for particular alerts.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0096","num":"0120"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00001","num":"00001"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","pgwide":"1"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"259pt","align":"center"}},"thead":{"row":[{"entry":"TABLE 1"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":"AVAILABLE DRILL-DOWN VIEWS"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":{}}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"259pt","align":"left"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":"Approved Vendor List - List of vendors who also supply a particular item."},{"entry":"Buy-Side Part Master - List of attributes from Buyer's Part Master."},{"entry":"Demand Pegging - List of forecast level demand items and their associated demand"},{"entry":"for the specified date, based on forecasts of the core enterprise (e.g., enterprise 4 of"},{"entry":"FIG. 1A)."},{"entry":"Excess Available - List of Partners that have excess inventory available for a"},{"entry":"particular item part number. Information includes a supply chain partner name and e-"},{"entry":"mail address; the e-mail address is linked to launch a pre-configured e-mail"},{"entry":"application so that requests to purchase excess may be made rapidly."},{"entry":"Forecast Profile - Similar to Supply\/Demand Profile; provides a grid of data that"},{"entry":"represents Top Level Demand numbers over time, MPS Load numbers, the"},{"entry":"cumulative of each and the rolling delta between the two. In an embodiment, periods"},{"entry":"that exceed the configured thresholds are highlighted."},{"entry":"Forecast Waterfall - A data display that provides the Oldest Baseline Forecast at top"},{"entry":"with current forecast on bottom. Each baseline version is indicated. Purchase Order"},{"entry":"Receipt data is incorporated as Actual Consumption. Totals are calculated for a"},{"entry":"Forecast Date, Forecast Variability, Actual Consumption, and Cumulative Delta for"},{"entry":"each Baseline. Forecast Variability is defined as Max(Demand) - Min(Demand)\/"},{"entry":"Min(Demand) for a given week."},{"entry":"Forecast Waterfall with Time Fence Profile - Data display that includes an Oldest"},{"entry":"Baseline Forecast at top with current forecast on bottom. Time Fence Profile"},{"entry":"incorporated based on lags. Each baseline version is indicated. Purchase Order"},{"entry":"Receipt data is incorporated as Actual Consumption. Totals are calculated for a MPS"},{"entry":"Date, Forecast Variability, Actual Consumption, and Cumulative Delta for each Baseline."},{"entry":"Notification History - List of who has been notified of the associated alert, a date and"},{"entry":"time value indicating when it was sent and at what escalation level (1, 2, or 3). A link"},{"entry":"is provided to allow the user to manually escalate the alert to the next level. If"},{"entry":"manual escalation is used, it is noted in the notification history."},{"entry":"Purchase Order Detail - with Line Item Detail (Line Number, Part Number, Revision,"},{"entry":"Quantity, Balance Due, Required Date, Delivery Date, Status) and Receipt Detail"},{"entry":"(Line Number, Delivery Date, Required Quantity, Received Quantity, Remaining"},{"entry":"Quantity, Received Date)"},{"entry":"Sell-Side Part Master - List of attributes from Seller's Part Master."},{"entry":"Shipment Order Detail - Provides detail information with Line Item (Line Number,"},{"entry":"Manufacturer Part Number, Rev, Quantity, Balance Due, Requested Delivery Date,"},{"entry":"Current Delivery Date, Current Ship Date, Status) and Shipment Detail (Line"},{"entry":"Number, Required Quantity, Shipped Quantity, Remaining Quantity, Shipment"},{"entry":"Identifier, Carrier, Tracking Id)"},{"entry":"Supply\/Demand Profile - Provides a grid of data similar to Aggregated Net Demand"},{"entry":"Report that represents the Demand numbers over time, Supply numbers, the"},{"entry":"cumulative of each and the rolling delta between the two. The periods that exceed the"},{"entry":"configured thresholds are highlighted."},{"entry":"Supply Detail - provides a breakdown of Supply components found in the Supply"},{"entry":"PIP, including On Hand and On Order components."},{"entry":"Where Used - List of all part numbers that are used within the referenced parts Bill of"},{"entry":"Material (BOM). If a part number is not a top-level part, then it is linked to"},{"entry":"additional parts within the BOM. This will continue until all part numbers are"},{"entry":"completely expanded."},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}},"2.4 Rules and Alerts; Rule Configuration and Processing","Rules are scheduled to run on a periodic basis by partner for a particular rule. Alerts are the result set of a given rule, and may comprise Data Alerts and Scheduled Alerts.","In one embodiment, the rules set forth in Table 1 are defined and processed.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0100","num":"0124"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00002","num":"00002"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"center"}},"thead":{"row":[{"entry":"TABLE 1"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":"EXAMPLES OF RULES"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":{}}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"49pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"168pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"Expected Delivery Disconnect"]},{"entry":[{},"Unplaced PO"]},{"entry":[{},"Late PO Receipt"]},{"entry":[{},"Late Sales Order Shipment"]},{"entry":[{},"Late Trigger Start"]},{"entry":[{},"Supply\/Demand Disconnect"]},{"entry":[{},"MRP Profile (Dashboard)"]},{"entry":[{},"Baseline Forecast Disconnect"]},{"entry":[{},"Forecast Time Fence Disconnect"]},{"entry":[{},"Lead Time Disconnect"]},{"entry":[{},"Sales Order Change"]},{"entry":[{},"Top Level Demand Disconnect"]},{"entry":[{},"Lead Time\/Delivery Date Disconnect"]},{"entry":[{},"Summary Bill of Material Disconnect"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}}]}}},"Referring again to , Rule Configuration mechanism  provides a way to create, modify and delete one or more rules that determine whether alerts are triggered. In an embodiment, separate rules are created, stored, and configured for each supply chain partner (\u201cpartner\u201d). A partner need not be configured for every rule.","In one embodiment, rule configuration is carried out by direct access to Alerts Database . In an alternative embodiment, a partner connects a Web browser to user interface  to configure rules.","A rule comprises one or more properties that specify the criteria and threshold values for the rule. A rule includes one or more escalation properties that specify, for each partner, a role that should receive alerts and after what period of time (i.e. initial, 24 hours, one week, etc.). In an embodiment, a user must have administration privileges in order to configure the escalation or notification levels for the partner with which the user is associated. When enterprise  is specified as the third party participant in a transaction, the role specified indicates the role found on the related forecasted part number(s). The original alert may be associated with a lower level part number or an assembly, etc. The role specified for the associated forecasted part number(s) is notified. For partners in general, and for enterprise  when it is the Buy-Side participant in a transaction, the role specified indicates the role found on the part number of the alert.","In operation, when rules are configured, Rule Logic mechanism  determines whether rules are satisfied. Rule Logic mechanism  communicates with Rule Configuration mechanism  to determine tolerance values for satisfying a rule. Rule Logic mechanism  checks all data in the Alerts Database  to identify any condition that should result in an alert. Any alerts that are detected are stored in the database for further processing.","In an embodiment, when each rule is run, Rule Logic mechanism  evaluates whether a new alert is to be generated or an existing alert needs to be cleared. When alerts are cleared or refreshed, as in block , they are archived and transferred to the Analysis Database . A detailed description of how rules are processed by Rule Logic mechanism  is given herein in Section 3.","2.5 Alert Escalation","Alert escalation logic  is configured to automatically escalate alerts. In this context, \u201cescalation\u201d refers to sending information about an alert to individuals having an increasingly high level of authority or responsibility over a period of time, until the alert is resolved.","In one embodiment, based on pre-defined alert escalation configuration information, alert escalation logic  moves an alert through one or more defined alert escalation states. The escalation configuration may define up to three states within each partner or perspective. A transition to a new escalation state is based on the amount of time that has elapsed since detection of the alert. Each partner involved may define its own escalation path.","In addition, a user can manually escalate an alert. In one embodiment, to manually escalate an alert, the user starts at the alert details view and selects the Notification History drill down, and the user then selects the \u201cManually Escalate\u201d button on the user interface. The alert is then escalated to the next level. Future escalations will follow the normal escalation path\/timing based on the original alert.","2.6 Alert Delivery","Once an alert enters a state at which a user is required to be notified, the Notification component is responsible for alert delivery. Any computer-based, automated delivery mechanism may be used, e.g., email, pager, voice call, etc. The alert notification process scans the alert tables and consolidates alerts to be sent to the appropriate recipients. The alerts are consolidated by user for a particular rule.","When alert delivery is carried out by email, the alert e-mail includes summary information about the alert of the same kind that is accessible in the user interface. The email alert also contains a URL that directs the user back to the summary data for the associated rule type so that detailed information may be obtained.","2.7 Sources of Data from Partners","Referring again to  and , supply chain management system  may receive source data for its databases and for generating alerts and reports from any of the partners A, B, etc. , , , and  are block diagrams illustrating electronic documents that are generated in planning, procurement, for products, and for production, showing the information that partners provide to the system.","Referring first to , it is a block diagram of a process of providing planning information to a supply chain management system. In the planning process of , participating partners include an end user , contract manufacturer , and distributor . In one embodiment, end user  is the same as enterprise ; CM  makes and delivers finished products or assemblies to end user ; and CM  receives parts and materials from distributor  for use in manufacturing or assembly. Although  shows only one distributor , CM  may interact with any number of distributors according to its needs for different parts. Supply chain management system  receives data in the form of electronic documents from CM  and distributor .","The planning process generally begins when CM  issues a commit  indicating that it is planning to produce a particular product. At commit time, CM  issues a PIP EA03  to system . At about the same time, end user  undertakes a manufacturing resource planning (MRP) process  in order to determine its requirements for products, resulting in generation of a forecast  for its needs, which is communicated to CM . Upon receipt of the forecast , CM  subjects the forecast to analysis , resulting in generation of a master schedule . The master schedule  is communicated to system  as PIP EA01, and is provided as input to an MRP system or process  of CM .","As a result, CM  determines the gross demand  for the product in units or some other quantity. The gross demand  is communicated to system  as EA06, thereby enabling enterprise  to know what number of units CM  is anticipating making. If CM  already has an inventory of such product, then the CM does not need to make new product in a quantity equal to the entire gross demand. Accordingly, inventory data  is compared to gross demand  to arrive at a net quantity value  that represents the number of units that CM  actually needs to make in order to meet anticipated demand. Based on the net value, CM  generates one or more planned PO's  that are communicated to end user  and system  as PIP EA07.","Based on the planned PO's , CM  selects one or more distributors that can supply parts or materials that the CM needs to carry out its manufacturing work. Assume that distributor  is one distributor that is selected, and supplies one kind of component to CM . To obtain needed components, CM  generates a PO  that is communicated to distributor . In response, distributor  internally generates a sales order  that confirms the PO and represents a sale of components to CM . Based on SO  and any other related SO's, distributor  generates a master schedule  that states what components the distributor plans to deliver and when, among other information. Master schedule  is communicated to end user  and system  as PIP EA01.","Thus, end user  and system  acquire information showing not only what its direct contractor (CM ) is planning to produce and deliver, but also what all downstream component distributors are planning to deliver up the supply chain. Unlike past approaches, in this approach end user  and system  acquire information needed to determine when problems far down the supply chain, e.g., at distributor , may disrupt the production or delivery schedules of CM  or end user .","Master schedule  of distributor  is provided as input to an MRP system or process  of distributor . As a result, distributor  determines the gross demand  for the ordered component. The gross demand  is communicated to system  as EA06, thereby enabling enterprise  to know what number of components distributor  is anticipating making or obtaining from a downstream supplier. If distributor  already has an inventory of such product, then the distributor does not need to make new product in a quantity equal to the entire gross demand. Accordingly, inventory data  is compared to gross demand  to arrive at a net quantity value  that represents the number of units that distributor  actually needs to make in order to meet anticipated demand. Based on the net value, distributor  generates one or more planned PO's  and issues them to one or more downstream component suppliers or other partners. The planned PO's  also are communicated to end user  and system  as PIP EA07.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0121","num":"0145"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 5"]},"A partner acting as Buyer  creates or has on hand one or more planned PO's . For example, planned PO's  may correspond to planned PO's  or planned PO's  of . From among planned PO's , Buyer  selects Seller  to supply a particular component to the Buyer. Accordingly, Buyer  generates a PO  for Seller  for a particular component. PO  is communicated to end user  and system  as PIP EC01, and is also communicated to Seller . In response, Seller  subjects PO  to analysis, as indicated by block , and then generates an acknowledgment  to Buyer  and an internal sales order . The SO  is communicated to end user  and system  as PIP EC04.","Additionally or alternatively, Buyer  may generate a blanket purchase order , which is communicated to Seller  and to system  as PIP EC02. Seller  subjects the blanket purchase order  to analysis  and then generates and sends an acknowledgment  to Buyer . Further, Seller  generates a blanket sales order  in confirmation of the blanket purchase order, which is communicated to end user  and system  as PIP EC04. When a blanket purchase order is in the system, a Buyer  may obtain components based on one or more planned PO's  by converting one of the planned PO's into a BPO release . Thus, use of a BPO release represents an alternative to proceeding from a planned PO  to a PO . When a BPO release occurs, it is communicated to end user  and system  as PIP EC02, and to Seller . In response, Seller  carries out analysis  and generates an acknowledgment . Seller  may also issue a new BSO .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0124","num":"0148"},"figref":"FIG. 6","b":["602","612","404","20","406","408","604","606","610","608","604","404","20","606","610"]},"Thus, end user  and system  acquire detailed information about all parts available from all supply chain partners, including based identification information, approved vendors, and sub-components. As a result, end user  and system  can determine when shortages or disconnects in the supply chain may affect the ability of a supply chain partner to deliver. End user  and system  also can identify alternative sources of supply for the same part, component, assembly or sub-component and issue appropriate orders or requests.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0126","num":"0150"},"figref":"FIG. 7","b":["406","702","702","406","704","710","406","404","20"]},"Alternatively, a work order  may be generated by a pull system  of the end user  that issues a trigger  to the CM . In this alternative, a software system of the end user  essentially orders the CM  to make a particular component in a particular quantity. This action is appropriate, for example, where end user  needs an immediate delivery of a particular component, or becomes aware of a disconnect at some point in the production process.","Further, inventory information  and work orders  may be generated by a pull system  of the CM  in response to a trigger . [Please elaborate on when and why this is done.] Trigger  is communicated to end user  and system  as a PIP EB03.","In another embodiment, or optionally, capacity information  is communicated from CM  to end user  and system . Capacity information  represents the total manufacturing capacity of the CM  for a particular component. Having capacity information  is useful to end user  in determining whether to issue a trigger , in determining whether to select CM  or turn to another CM for a particular component, etc.","2.8 On-Demand Reports","Report mechanism  is configured to generate one or more reports on demand in response to selection of criteria or in response to receiving user input. In one embodiment, the available on-demand reports include an Aggregate Net Demand report, Allocated Part Supply\/Demand report, Supply Commit report, Supply Split report, and Potential Excess & Obsolete report.","2.9 Security","According to an embodiment, User and Role configuration is provided in an LDAP Profile of a directory server that is associated with the system. Values that can be configured include Company, Userid\/e-mail, and Role\u2014Admin and User. The Web server  provides authentication.","A user who has the \u201cAdmin\u201d role is allowed administrative access to Rule Configuration and Partner information for the Partner this user belongs to. If the Partner is the enterprise , then the user has access to additional functionality such as running the import, etc. A user who has the \u201cUser\u201d role is allowed access to Alerts and On-Demand Reports through the user interface  for the Alerts that have been sent to this user and\/or the Report data for this Partner. If the user is a user employed by or otherwise closely associated with enterprise , then the user has access to alerts they have been sent on behalf of their partners.","3.0 Rule Logic","In the following section, a summary of logical actions taken by rule logic  is presented, for each rule that is recognized in the system, according to one example embodiment. For clarity and brevity, rule logic is presented in the form of a table. For each rule, the table has rows entitled Rule Processing, Data Dependencies, Rule Properties, Escalation Properties, Alert Summary Display, and Drill Downs, if applicable.","The Rule Processing row gives the specific logical steps that are carried out by a particular rule. The Data Dependencies row indicates what data is required to be received or stored before a rule is executed, if proper results are desired. The Rule Properties row indicates what attribute values are required to evaluate the rule. The Escalation Properties row identifies the number of escalation levels and the parties who participate in escalation of an alert related to the rule. The Alert Summary Display row indicates the data values that are presented in a summary view of alert information, and the Alert Detail Display indicates data values that are presented in a detailed view of the alert. The Drill Downs row identifies one or more additional, detailed views that are available to obtain further information about an alert. The Resolution row specifies what conditions must be satisfied for an alert to achieve resolution.","3.1 Expected Delivery Disconnect Rule","An Expected Delivery Disconnect rule is provided to identify differences between the Buy-Side Partner's PO delivery date and quantity and the Sell-Side Partner's Sales Order delivery date and quantity.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0140","num":"0164"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00003","num":"00003"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","pgwide":"1"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"77pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"210pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Rule Processing","Compare PO Current Delivery Date and Requested Quantity and Sales"]},{"entry":[{},"Order Delivery Date and Quantity between two Partners for each Line"]},{"entry":[{},"Item on a PO for each P\/N. If the difference between the two Dates"]},{"entry":[{},"exceeds the configured \u201cDays Late\u201d or \u201cDays Early\u201d, then an alert is"]},{"entry":[{},"generated. If the difference between the PO Quantity and Sales Order"]},{"entry":[{},"Quantity exceeds the configured \u201cQuantity Short Percent\u201d, then an alert"]},{"entry":[{},"is generated. If the Sell-Side Partner is enrolled as a Partner, but a Sales"]},{"entry":[{},"Order isn't found to match the PO, then an alert is generated. If more"]},{"entry":[{},"than one Sales Order is found to match the PO, then the latest Delivery"]},{"entry":[{},"Date and total quantity by that date are used to determine if an alert is"]},{"entry":[{},"generated."]},{"entry":["Data Dependency","Rule is configured for the Buy-Side Partner and is run when Sell-Side"]},{"entry":[{},"Partners have submitted their Sales Orders for this Buy-Side Partner."]},{"entry":["Rule Properties","General Properties: Buy-Side Partner; Quantity Short Percent; Number"]},{"entry":[{},"of Days Late; Number of Days Early."]},{"entry":["Escalation Properties","Three levels: Age (In Days); Role. Participants include the enterprise,"]},{"entry":[{},"the Buy-Side Partner, and the Sell-Side Partner."]},{"entry":["Alert Summary Display","Alert Generate Date"]},{"entry":[{},"Buy-Side Partner"]},{"entry":[{},"PO Number"]},{"entry":[{},"Enterprise P\/N"]},{"entry":[{},"PO Delivery Date"]},{"entry":[{},"Sell-Side Partner"]},{"entry":[{},"SO Number"]},{"entry":[{},"Mfr P\/N. In one embodiment, Mfr P\/N may be removed from the"]},{"entry":[{},"summary display depending on space constraints of the view."]},{"entry":[{},"SO Delivery Date"]},{"entry":[{},"Quantity Short"]},{"entry":["Alert Detail Display","Details:"]},{"entry":[{},"Alert Generate Date"]},{"entry":[{},"Buy-Side Partner"]},{"entry":[{},"Sell-Side Partner"]},{"entry":[{},"Properties:"]},{"entry":[{},"PO Number"]},{"entry":[{},"Enterprise P\/N"]},{"entry":[{},"P\/N Description"]},{"entry":[{},"PO Delivery Date"]},{"entry":[{},"PO Quantity"]},{"entry":[{},"PO Last Updated in system"]},{"entry":[{},"SO Number"]},{"entry":[{},"Mfr P\/N"]},{"entry":[{},"P\/N Description"]},{"entry":[{},"SO Delivery Date"]},{"entry":[{},"SO Quantity"]},{"entry":[{},"SO Last Updated in system"]},{"entry":[{},"Variance:"]},{"entry":[{},"Quantity Short"]},{"entry":[{},"Quantity Short Percent"]},{"entry":[{},"Mismatch Days"]},{"entry":[{},"Configuration:"]},{"entry":[{},"Buy-Side Partner"]},{"entry":[{},"Quantity Short Percent"]},{"entry":[{},"Max Days Late"]},{"entry":[{},"Max Days Early"]},{"entry":["Drill Down(s)","Approved Vendor List"]},{"entry":[{},"Buy-Side Part Master"]},{"entry":[{},"Demand Pegging"]},{"entry":[{},"Notification History"]},{"entry":[{},"PO Detail"]},{"entry":[{},"Sell-Side Part Master"]},{"entry":[{},"SO Detail"]},{"entry":[{},"Supply\/Demand Profile"]},{"entry":[{},"Where Used"]},{"entry":["Resolution","Alert is cleared by update to PO or SO that does not exceed specified"]},{"entry":[{},"thresholds."]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}},"2.10 Unplaced Purchase Order","An Unplaced Purchase Order rule is provided to identify planned purchase orders for which an actual purchase order has not yet been placed.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0143","num":"0167"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00004","num":"00004"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","pgwide":"1"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"77pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"252pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Rule Processing","Find all Planned Purchase Orders for a P\/N where Start Date <= (today + lookahead)."]},{"entry":[{},"Sum the quantity for all Purchase Orders for this P\/N"]},{"entry":[{},"where ORDER_PLACE_DATE > PLANNED_ORDER.PLAN_DATE."]},{"entry":[{},"If the summed quantity of the Purchase Orders equals or exceeds all the"]},{"entry":[{},"(quantities for the Planned Purchase Order - (Quantity Short Percent *"]},{"entry":[{},"quantities for the Planned PO)), no alert is created. Otherwise, the"]},{"entry":[{},"planned purchase orders will be sorted by ORDER_START_DATE in"]},{"entry":[{},"ascending order. Starting with the first Planned Purchase Order,"]},{"entry":[{},"subtract its quantity for the sum. If the sum is still positive, proceed to"]},{"entry":[{},"the next Planned Purchase Order on the list. If it is negative, this is the"]},{"entry":[{},"Planned Purchase Order for which an alert should be created."]},{"entry":["Data Dependency","Rule is configured for the Buy-Side Partner and should be run when the"]},{"entry":[{},"MRP data is received and when PO's are received."]},{"entry":["Rule Properties","General Properties:"]},{"entry":[{},"Buy-Side Partner"]},{"entry":[{},"Quantity Short Percent"]},{"entry":[{},"Look Ahead Days"]},{"entry":["Escalation Properties","Three levels: Age (In Days); Role. Participants include the enterprise,"]},{"entry":[{},"Buy-Side Partner."]},{"entry":["Alert Summary Display","Alert Generate Date"]},{"entry":[{},"Buy-Side Partner"]},{"entry":[{},"MRP Run Date"]},{"entry":[{},"Enterprise's P\/N"]},{"entry":[{},"Order Start Date"]},{"entry":[{},"MRP Required Delivery Date"]},{"entry":[{},"Days Late"]},{"entry":[{},"Planned PO Quantity"]},{"entry":["Alert Detail Display","Details:"]},{"entry":[{},"Alert Generate Date"]},{"entry":[{},"Buy-Side Partner"]},{"entry":[{},"Properties:"]},{"entry":[{},"MRP Run Date"]},{"entry":[{},"Enterprise's P\/N"]},{"entry":[{},"P\/N Description"]},{"entry":[{},"Order Start Date"]},{"entry":[{},"MRP Required Delivery Date"]},{"entry":[{},"Order Quantity"]},{"entry":[{},"Variance:"]},{"entry":[{},"Quantity Short"]},{"entry":[{},"Quantity Short Percent"]},{"entry":[{},"Days Late"]},{"entry":[{},"Configuration:"]},{"entry":[{},"Buy-Side Partner"]},{"entry":[{},"Quantity Short Percent"]},{"entry":[{},"Look Ahead Days"]},{"entry":["Drill Down(s)","Approved Vendor List"]},{"entry":[{},"Buy-Side Part Master"]},{"entry":[{},"Demand Pegging"]},{"entry":[{},"Notification History"]},{"entry":[{},"Supply\/Demand Profile"]},{"entry":[{},"Where Used"]},{"entry":["Resolution","Alert is cleared by receipt of update to Planned Purchase Orders (MRP"]},{"entry":[{},"Load) or new PO arrives."]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}},"2.11 Late Purchase Order Receipt","A Late Purchase Order Receipt rule is provided to identify purchase orders that have late receipts to the Buy-Side Partner.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0146","num":"0170"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00005","num":"00005"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"77pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"140pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Rule Processing","Compare PO Line Item's Delivery Date against"]},{"entry":[{},"today and create an alert for those conditions"]},{"entry":[{},"where the Delivery Date is earlier than today"]},{"entry":[{},"minus configured number of days late, but the"]},{"entry":[{},"P\/N has not been received."]},{"entry":["Data Dependency","Rule is configured for the Buy-Side Partner and"]},{"entry":[{},"should be run when Buy-Side Partner's have"]},{"entry":[{},"submitted their PO's."]},{"entry":["Rule Properties","General Properties:"]},{"entry":[{},"Buy-Side Partner"]},{"entry":[{},"Number of Days Late"]},{"entry":["Escalation Properties","Three levels: Age (In Days); Role. Participants:"]},{"entry":[{},"Enterprise; Buy-Side Partner."]},{"entry":["Alert Summary Display","Alert Generate Date"]},{"entry":[{},"Buy-Side Partner"]},{"entry":[{},"PO Number"]},{"entry":[{},"Enterprise P\/N"]},{"entry":[{},"Delivery Date"]},{"entry":[{},"Ship Date"]},{"entry":[{},"Shipped?"]},{"entry":["Alert Detail Display","Details:"]},{"entry":[{},"Alert Generate Date"]},{"entry":[{},"Buy-Side Partner"]},{"entry":[{},"Sell-Side Partner"]},{"entry":[{},"Properties:"]},{"entry":[{},"PO Number"]},{"entry":[{},"Enterprise P\/N"]},{"entry":[{},"P\/N Description"]},{"entry":[{},"PO Delivery Date"]},{"entry":[{},"Remaining Quantity Due"]},{"entry":[{},"PO Last Updated in system"]},{"entry":[{},"SO Number"]},{"entry":[{},"Mfr P\/N"]},{"entry":[{},"P\/N Description"]},{"entry":[{},"SO Delivery Date"]},{"entry":[{},"SO Ship Date"]},{"entry":[{},"Remaining Quantity Due (from SO detail)"]},{"entry":[{},"SO Last Updated in system"]},{"entry":[{},"Variance:"]},{"entry":[{},"Days Late"]},{"entry":[{},"Configuration:"]},{"entry":[{},"Buy-Side Partner"]},{"entry":[{},"Max Days Late"]},{"entry":["Drill Down(s)","Approved Vendor List"]},{"entry":[{},"Demand Pegging"]},{"entry":[{},"Buy-Side Part Master"]},{"entry":[{},"Notification History"]},{"entry":[{},"PO Detail"]},{"entry":[{},"SO Detail"]},{"entry":[{},"Supply\/Demand Profile"]},{"entry":[{},"Where Used"]},{"entry":["Resolution","Alert is cleared by receipt data on PO or"]},{"entry":[{},"reschedule of PO."]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}},"2.12 Late Sales Order Shipment","A Late Sales Order Shipment rule is provided to identify sales orders having late ship dates to the Buy-Side Partner.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0149","num":"0173"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00006","num":"00006"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"77pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"140pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Rule Processing","Compare SO Line Item's Ship Date against"]},{"entry":[{},"today. Create an alert for those conditions"]},{"entry":[{},"where the Ship Date is earlier than today"]},{"entry":[{},"minus configured days late but the P\/N has not"]},{"entry":[{},"been shipped based on sales order ship"]},{"entry":[{},"date and the shipped quantity from the sales"]},{"entry":[{},"order shipment history."]},{"entry":["Data Dependency","Rule is configured for the Buy-Side Partner and"]},{"entry":[{},"should be run when all Sell-Side Partners"]},{"entry":[{},"have submitted their Sales Order data."]},{"entry":["Rule Properties","General Properties: Buy-Side Partner; Number"]},{"entry":[{},"of Days Late"]},{"entry":["Escalation Properties","Three levels: Age (In Days); Role. Participants:"]},{"entry":[{},"Enterprise; Buy-Side Partner, Sell-Side Partner."]},{"entry":["Alert Summary Display","Alert Generate Date"]},{"entry":[{},"Buy-Side Partner"]},{"entry":[{},"PO Number"]},{"entry":[{},"Enterprise P\/N"]},{"entry":[{},"PO Delivery Date"]},{"entry":[{},"Sell-Side Partner"]},{"entry":[{},"SO Number"]},{"entry":[{},"Mfr P\/N"]},{"entry":[{},"SO Ship Date"]},{"entry":["Alert Detail Display","Details:"]},{"entry":[{},"Alert Generate Date"]},{"entry":[{},"Buy-Side Partner"]},{"entry":[{},"Sell-Side Partner"]},{"entry":[{},"Properties:"]},{"entry":[{},"PO Number"]},{"entry":[{},"Enterprise P\/N"]},{"entry":[{},"P\/N Description"]},{"entry":[{},"PO Delivery Date"]},{"entry":[{},"Remaining Quantity Due"]},{"entry":[{},"PO Last Updated in system"]},{"entry":[{},"SO Number"]},{"entry":[{},"Mfr P\/N"]},{"entry":[{},"P\/N Description"]},{"entry":[{},"SO Delivery Date"]},{"entry":[{},"SO Ship Date"]},{"entry":[{},"Remaining Quantity Due"]},{"entry":[{},"SO Last Updated in system"]},{"entry":[{},"Variance:"]},{"entry":[{},"Days Late"]},{"entry":[{},"Configuration:"]},{"entry":[{},"Buy-Side Partner"]},{"entry":[{},"Max Days Late"]},{"entry":["Drill Down(s)","Buy-Side Part Master"]},{"entry":[{},"Demand Pegging"]},{"entry":[{},"Notification History"]},{"entry":[{},"PO Detail"]},{"entry":[{},"Sell-Side Part Master"]},{"entry":[{},"SO Detail"]},{"entry":[{},"Supply\/Demand Profile"]},{"entry":[{},"Where Used"]},{"entry":["Resolution","Alert is cleared by receipt of SO data with new"]},{"entry":[{},"shipment or change in SO ship date."]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}},"2.13 Late Trigger Start","A Late Trigger Start rule is provided to identify Work Orders having late starts to the enterprise, based on late trigger starts.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0152","num":"0176"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00007","num":"00007"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"77pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"140pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Rule Processing","If Quantity Due to Star is greater than the"]},{"entry":[{},"configured Maximum Quantity Short Allowed"]},{"entry":[{},"and Trigger date is earlier than today minus"]},{"entry":[{},"configured number of days late, then generate"]},{"entry":[{},"an alert. The \u201cQuantity Due to Start\u201d is"]},{"entry":[{},"Required Qty \u2212 (Start Qty + Cancel Qty)."]},{"entry":["Data Dependency","Rule is configured for Sell-Side Partner and"]},{"entry":[{},"should be run when the enterprise has"]},{"entry":[{},"submitted its Trigger data. The Sell-Side"]},{"entry":[{},"Partner in this case is the Partner who is"]},{"entry":[{},"building the component."]},{"entry":["Rule Properties","General Properties: Sell-Side Partner; Number"]},{"entry":[{},"of Days Late; Maximum Quantity Short"]},{"entry":[{},"Allowed"]},{"entry":["Escalation Properties","Three levels: Age (In Days); Role. Participants:"]},{"entry":[{},"Enterprise; Sell-Side Partner"]},{"entry":["Alert Summary Display","Alert Generate Date"]},{"entry":[{},"Trigger Number"]},{"entry":[{},"Sell-Side Partner"]},{"entry":[{},"Enterprise P\/N"]},{"entry":[{},"Trigger Date"]},{"entry":[{},"Days Late"]},{"entry":[{},"Quantity Due to Start"]},{"entry":["Alert Detail Display","Details:"]},{"entry":[{},"Alert Generate Date"]},{"entry":[{},"Sell-Side Partner"]},{"entry":[{},"Properties:"]},{"entry":[{},"Trigger Number"]},{"entry":[{},"Enterprise P\/N"]},{"entry":[{},"P\/N Description"]},{"entry":[{},"Trigger Date"]},{"entry":[{},"Start Quantity"]},{"entry":[{},"Cancel Quantity"]},{"entry":[{},"Required Quantity"]},{"entry":[{},"Quantity Due to Start"]},{"entry":[{},"Variance:"]},{"entry":[{},"Days Late"]},{"entry":[{},"Configuration:"]},{"entry":[{},"Sell-Side Partner"]},{"entry":[{},"Max Days Late"]},{"entry":[{},"Maximum Quantity Short Allowed"]},{"entry":["Drill Down(s)","Enterprise Part Master"]},{"entry":[{},"Demand Pegging"]},{"entry":[{},"Notification History"]},{"entry":[{},"Supply\/Demand Profile"]},{"entry":[{},"Where Used"]},{"entry":["Resolution","Alert is cleared when start quantity plus"]},{"entry":[{},"cancelled quantity is equal to required quantity."]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}},"2.14 Supply\/Demand Disconnect","A Supply\/Demand Disconnect rule is provided to identify when a Partner's Gross Component Demand exceeds its Supply over the course of the planning period.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0155","num":"0179"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00008","num":"00008"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"77pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"140pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Rule Processing","Detect when the cumulative aggregated"]},{"entry":[{},"Demand subtracted from the cumulative"]},{"entry":[{},"aggregated Supply goes from one period to"]},{"entry":[{},"the next, from a positive value to a negative"]},{"entry":[{},"value by more than the configured percent"]},{"entry":[{},"threshold when the P\/N is within the"]},{"entry":[{},"configured percent of full lead time. When"]},{"entry":[{},"this condition is detected generate an alert"]},{"entry":[{},"for the negative period. If there is more than"]},{"entry":[{},"one period in a row that is negative, only"]},{"entry":[{},"generate an alert on the first change from"]},{"entry":[{},"positive to negative. In an embodiment, the"]},{"entry":[{},"number of days can only be configured if"]},{"entry":[{},"Percent of Full Lead Time is 100%."]},{"entry":["Data Dependency","Rule is configured for a Partner and should be"]},{"entry":[{},"run when both Supply and Demand data has"]},{"entry":[{},"been posted for this Partner."]},{"entry":["Rule Properties","General Properties: Partner; Percent Short;"]},{"entry":[{},"Percent of Full Lead Time; Number of Days"]},{"entry":[{},"Beyond Lead Time"]},{"entry":["Escalation Properties","Three levels: Age (In Days); Role. Participants:"]},{"entry":[{},"Enterprise; Partner."]},{"entry":["Alert Summary Display","Alert Generate Date"]},{"entry":[{},"Partner"]},{"entry":[{},"Enterprise P\/N"]},{"entry":[{},"Period Start Date"]},{"entry":[{},"Demand Quantity"]},{"entry":[{},"Supply Quantity"]},{"entry":[{},"Delta Quantity"]},{"entry":[{},"Percent of Lead Time"]},{"entry":["Alert Detail Display","Details:"]},{"entry":[{},"Alert Generate Date"]},{"entry":[{},"Partner"]},{"entry":[{},"Properties:"]},{"entry":[{},"Demand Date\/Time"]},{"entry":[{},"Supply Date\/Time"]},{"entry":[{},"Enterprise P\/N"]},{"entry":[{},"Period Start Date"]},{"entry":[{},"Demand Quantity"]},{"entry":[{},"Supply Quantity"]},{"entry":[{},"Lead Time Days"]},{"entry":[{},"Excess Available at another Partner"]},{"entry":[{},"Variance:"]},{"entry":[{},"Quantity Percent Short"]},{"entry":[{},"Percent of Lead Time"]},{"entry":[{},"Configuration:"]},{"entry":[{},"Buy-Side Partner"]},{"entry":[{},"Percent of Full Lead Time"]},{"entry":[{},"Number of Days beyond Full Lead Time"]},{"entry":["Drill Down(s)","Approved Vendor List"]},{"entry":[{},"Demand Pegging"]},{"entry":[{},"Excess Available"]},{"entry":[{},"Notification History"]},{"entry":[{},"Enterprise Part Master"]},{"entry":[{},"Partner Part Master"]},{"entry":[{},"Supply Detail"]},{"entry":[{},"Supply\/Demand Profile"]},{"entry":[{},"Where Used"]},{"entry":["Resolution","Alert is cleared by receipt of new Demand or"]},{"entry":[{},"Supply data that does not exceed specified"]},{"entry":[{},"thresholds."]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}},"The \u201cexcess available at another partner\u201d property of the Alert Detail Display provides a display of the quantity of a particular component that is available at another partner. To support the excess visibility feature, the partner is configured to participate in showing excess visibility. If the setting in the partner configuration file of Partner Configuration mechanism  is \u201cYes\u201d, then the Partner can see other Partner's excess as well as show their available excess. If the setting in the partner file is \u201cNo\u201d, then they can neither see the excess of other partners, nor show their excess. Excess exists when all time cumulative supply is greater than cumulative demand for all time periods through the lead-time.","2.15 MRP Profile","An MRP Profile rule provides a dashboard summary by Partner that illustrates the impact to the supply chain due to MRP changes for all of their part numbers.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0159","num":"0183"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00009","num":"00009"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","pgwide":"1"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"77pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"210pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Rule Processing","Calculate once MRP data is loaded, totals for all P\/N for this Partner:"]},{"entry":[{},"Planned Orders that are in Lead Time"]},{"entry":[{},"Planned Orders that are between Lead Time and Lead Time + 4"]},{"entry":[{},"weeks"]},{"entry":[{},"Supply\/Demand Disconnects in Lead Time"]},{"entry":[{},"Supply\/Demand Disconnects between Lead Time and Lead Time + 4"]},{"entry":[{},"weeks"]},{"entry":[{},"PO's that need to be Pulled In (MRP Required Date is less than PO"]},{"entry":[{},"Required Delivery Date)"]},{"entry":[{},"PO's that need to be Pushed Out (MRP Required Date is greater"]},{"entry":[{},"than PO Required Delivery Date)"]},{"entry":[{},"Details displays totals for:"]},{"entry":[{},"Baseline Forecast Disconnects broken out by Relative Baseline,"]},{"entry":[{},"Lead Time Baseline, and Fixed Baseline"]},{"entry":[{},"Forecast Time Fence Disconnects"]},{"entry":["Data Dependencies","Rule is configured for a Partner and should be run once MRP for this"]},{"entry":[{},"Partner is loaded into the system or when Supply\/Demand data is"]},{"entry":[{},"received for this Partner."]},{"entry":["Rule Properties","General Properties: Partner"]},{"entry":["Escalation Properties","Three levels: Age (In Days); Role. Participants: Enterprise; Enterprise;"]},{"entry":[{},"Partner. Notification for this alert is done by sending to all users for the"]},{"entry":[{},"specified Partner for the role configured on the escalation profile (i.e.,"]},{"entry":[{},"Master Schedulers and Planners for the entire Part Master for the CM)."]},{"entry":["Alert Summary Display","Alert Generate Date"]},{"entry":[{},"Partner"]},{"entry":[{},"MRP Plan Date"]},{"entry":[{},"Planned Orders in Lead Time"]},{"entry":[{},"Number of Supply\/Demand Disconnects in Lead Time"]},{"entry":[{},"PO's that need to be Pulled In"]},{"entry":[{},"PO's that need to be Pushed Out"]},{"entry":[{},"Total Relative Baseline Forecast Disconnects"]},{"entry":[{},"Total Forecast Time Fence Disconnects"]},{"entry":["Alert Detail Display","Details"]},{"entry":[{},"Alert Generate Date"]},{"entry":[{},"Partner"]},{"entry":[{},"Properties:"]},{"entry":[{},"MRP Plan Date"]},{"entry":[{},"Planned Orders in Lead Time"]},{"entry":[{},"Planned Orders between Lead Time and Lead Time + 4 weeks"]},{"entry":[{},"Number of Supply\/Demand Disconnects in Lead Time"]},{"entry":[{},"Number of Supply\/Demand Disconnects between Lead Time"]},{"entry":[{},"and Lead Time + 4 weeks"]},{"entry":[{},"PO's that need to be Pulled In"]},{"entry":[{},"PO's that need to be Pushed Out"]},{"entry":[{},"Relative Baseline Forecast Disconnect Totals"]},{"entry":[{},"Lead Time Baseline Forecast Disconnect Totals"]},{"entry":[{},"Fixed Baseline Forecast Disconnect Totals"]},{"entry":[{},"Forecast Time Fence Disconnect Summary"]},{"entry":[{},"Variance:"]},{"entry":[{},"N\/A"]},{"entry":[{},"Configuration:"]},{"entry":[{},"Partner"]},{"entry":["Drill Down(s)","No Links"]},{"entry":["Resolution","No resolution."]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}},"2.16 Baseline Forecast Disconnect","A Baseline Forecast Disconnect rule is provided to identify the difference between the Buy-Side Partner's baseline forecast and the forecast of the partner for the current week.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0162","num":"0186"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00010","num":"00010"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","pgwide":"1"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"77pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"210pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Rule Processing","Baseline is defined as:"]},{"entry":[{},"Relative version number"]},{"entry":[{},"Version number based on P\/N's Lead Time"]},{"entry":[{},"Fixed version number based on specified version indicated via a"]},{"entry":[{},"system property."]},{"entry":[{},"Compare current weeks forecast against the Baseline for the"]},{"entry":[{},"configured horizon. Calculate cumulative totals for the time"]},{"entry":[{},"period and identify the first period that exceeds the configured"]},{"entry":[{},"thresholds."]},{"entry":["Data Dependency","Rule is configured for the Partner receiving the Forecast and should be"]},{"entry":[{},"run once a week after the Forecast is loaded into the system."]},{"entry":["Rule Properties","General Properties: Partner (Receiver of the Forecast); Horizon;"]},{"entry":[{},"Relative Baseline Version Number; Cumulative Percent Change -"]},{"entry":[{},"Upper Bound; Cumulative Percent Change - Lower Bound"]},{"entry":["Escalation Properties","Three levels: Age (In Days); Role. Participants: Enterprise;"]},{"entry":[{},"Partner (Receiver of the Forecast)."]},{"entry":["Alert Summary Display","Alert Generate Date"]},{"entry":[{},"Partner"]},{"entry":[{},"Enterprise P\/N"]},{"entry":[{},"Plan Date"]},{"entry":[{},"Relative Baseline - First Week Violated"]},{"entry":[{},"Lead Time Baseline - First Week Violated"]},{"entry":[{},"Fixed Baseline - First Week Violated"]},{"entry":["Alert Detail Display","Details:"]},{"entry":[{},"Alert Generate Date"]},{"entry":[{},"Partner"]},{"entry":[{},"Properties:"]},{"entry":[{},"Plan Date"]},{"entry":[{},"Enterprise P\/N"]},{"entry":[{},"Period of First Disconnect"]},{"entry":[{},"Cumulative Forecast Quantity"]},{"entry":[{},"Cumulative Relative Baseline Quantity"]},{"entry":[{},"Cumulative Lead Time Baseline Quantity"]},{"entry":[{},"Cumulative Fixed Baseline Quantity"]},{"entry":[{},"Variance:"]},{"entry":[{},"Relative Baseline Cumulative Percent Change"]},{"entry":[{},"Lead Time Baseline Cumulative Percent Change"]},{"entry":[{},"Fixed Baseline Cumulative Percent Change"]},{"entry":[{},"Allowed Percent Change"]},{"entry":[{},"Configuration:"]},{"entry":[{},"Partner Horizon"]},{"entry":[{},"Relative Baseline Version Date"]},{"entry":[{},"Lead Time Version Date"]},{"entry":[{},"Fixed Forecast Version Date"]},{"entry":[{},"Upper Bound Cumulative Percent Change"]},{"entry":[{},"Lower Bound Cumulative Percent Change"]},{"entry":["Drill Down(s)","Buy-Side Part Master"]},{"entry":[{},"Forecast Waterfall"]},{"entry":[{},"Notification History"]},{"entry":[{},"Where Used"]},{"entry":["Resolution","No resolution."]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}},"To support this rule, a table is stored in the database that will have a row for each Fiscal Quarter Forecast Period start date for the enterprise. This table will consist of two columns, PERIOD_NAME and START_DATE. The period name will be a string naming the period, \u2018FY 2000 Q4\u2019 for example. The start date will be the date of the first day in the period. To determine the fixed baseline forecast date to be used, the closest Fiscal Quarter Period Start that is less than or equal to the current date will be used.","2.17 Forecast Time Fence Disconnect","A Forecast Time Fence Disconnect rule is provided to identify the difference between Enterprise's Current Forecast and the previous week's forecast against the Partner's Time Fence Agreement.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0166","num":"0190"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00011","num":"00011"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"49pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"168pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Rule","The Time Fence is defined for a Partner and specifies"]},{"entry":["Processing","the start period, end period and allowed percent change"]},{"entry":[{},"for that time bracket. Compare current's weeks forecast"]},{"entry":[{},"against previous weeks forecast. Generate an"]},{"entry":[{},"alert when the difference between the cumulative"]},{"entry":[{},"totals for the defined Partner's time fences exceeds"]},{"entry":[{},"the defined time fence percents by the configured"]},{"entry":[{},"thresholds."]},{"entry":["Data","Rule is configured for the Partner and should be run"]},{"entry":["Dependency","once a week after the enterprise's Forecast"]},{"entry":[{},"is loaded into the system."]},{"entry":["Rule Properties","General Properties: CM; Percent Change-Upper Bound;"]},{"entry":[{},"Percent Change-Lower Bound."]},{"entry":["Escalation","Three levels: Age (In Days); Role. Participants:"]},{"entry":["Properties","Enterprise; Partner."]},{"entry":["Alert Summary","Alert Generate Date"]},{"entry":["Display","Partner"]},{"entry":[{},"Enterprise P\/N"]},{"entry":[{},"Plan Date"]},{"entry":[{},"Time Fence Start Period"]},{"entry":[{},"Time Fence End Period"]},{"entry":[{},"Total Percent Change"]},{"entry":["Alert Detail","Details:"]},{"entry":["Display","Alert Generate Date"]},{"entry":[{},"Partner"]},{"entry":[{},"Properties:"]},{"entry":[{},"Plan Date"]},{"entry":[{},"Enterprise P\/N"]},{"entry":[{},"Time Fence Start Period"]},{"entry":[{},"Time Fence End Period"]},{"entry":[{},"Duration"]},{"entry":[{},"Variance:"]},{"entry":[{},"Periods"]},{"entry":[{},"Previous Value"]},{"entry":[{},"Current Value"]},{"entry":[{},"Change"]},{"entry":[{},"Percent Change"]},{"entry":[{},"Allowed Percent Change"]},{"entry":[{},"Configuration:"]},{"entry":[{},"Partner"]},{"entry":[{},"Partner Time Fence Profile-start period, end period,"]},{"entry":[{},"percent change allowed, . . ."]},{"entry":[{},"Upper Bound Percent Change"]},{"entry":[{},"Lower Bound Percent Change"]},{"entry":["Drill Down(s)","Forecast Waterfall"]},{"entry":[{},"Enterprise Part Master"]},{"entry":[{},"Notification History"]},{"entry":[{},"Where Used"]},{"entry":["Resolution","No resolution."]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}},"2.18 Lead Time Disconnect","A Lead Time Disconnect rule is provided to identify differences in Lead Times between a Buy-Side Partner and a Sell-Side Partner.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0169","num":"0193"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00012","num":"00012"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"161pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Rule Processing","Compare Buy-Side Partner's Lead Time against a"]},{"entry":[{},"Partner's Lead Time for a given P\/N. Generate an alert"]},{"entry":[{},"if the Lead Time is different between the two partners."]},{"entry":[{},"If a primary supplier is indicated, then their Lead"]},{"entry":[{},"Time is used for the comparison. If there is a split"]},{"entry":[{},"between Suppliers, use the longest Lead Time for the"]},{"entry":[{},"comparison. The e-mail only goes to the Supplier with"]},{"entry":[{},"the greatest Lead Time."]},{"entry":["Data Dependency","Rule is configured for the Buy-Side Partner and"]},{"entry":[{},"should be run periodically when new Part Master's"]},{"entry":[{},"are loaded into the system."]},{"entry":["Rule Properties","General Properties: Buy-Side Partner; Number of Days"]},{"entry":["Escalation","Three levels: Age (In Days); Role. Participants:"]},{"entry":["Properties","Enterprise; Buy-Side Partner; Sell-Side Partner"]},{"entry":["Alert Summary","Alert Generate Date"]},{"entry":["Display","Buy-Side Partner"]},{"entry":[{},"Enterprise P\/N"]},{"entry":[{},"Sell-Side Partner"]},{"entry":[{},"Mfr P\/N"]},{"entry":[{},"Delta Number of Days"]},{"entry":["Alert Detail","Details:"]},{"entry":["Display","Alert Generate Date"]},{"entry":[{},"Buy-Side Partner"]},{"entry":[{},"Properties:"]},{"entry":[{},"Enterprise P\/N"]},{"entry":[{},"P\/N Description"]},{"entry":[{},"Lead Time"]},{"entry":[{},"Mfr P\/N"]},{"entry":[{},"P\/N Description"]},{"entry":[{},"Lead Time"]},{"entry":[{},"Variance:"]},{"entry":[{},"Delta Number of Days"]},{"entry":[{},"Configuration:"]},{"entry":[{},"Partner"]},{"entry":[{},"Number of Days"]},{"entry":["Drill Down(s)","Buy-Side Part Master"]},{"entry":[{},"Notification History"]},{"entry":[{},"Sell-Side Part Master"]},{"entry":[{},"Where Used"]},{"entry":["Resolution","No resolution."]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}},"2.19 Sales Order Change","A Sales Order Change rule is provided to identify PO's that are changing and will affect current Sales Orders.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0172","num":"0196"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00013","num":"00013"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"161pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Rule Processing","Compare changes to PO need date (current"]},{"entry":[{},"MRP Required Delivery Date) within the configured"]},{"entry":[{},"Horizon. If the Required Date is earlier than the"]},{"entry":[{},"Delivery Date and (Delivery Date-Required"]},{"entry":[{},"Date) > Number of Days Late, then generate an"]},{"entry":[{},"alert. Or if the Required Date is later than the Delivery"]},{"entry":[{},"Date and (Required Date-Delivery Date) is greater"]},{"entry":[{},"than Number of Days Early, then generate an alert."]},{"entry":["Data Dependency","Rule is configured for the Sell-Side Partner and"]},{"entry":[{},"should be run when new MRP and PO data is"]},{"entry":[{},"available."]},{"entry":["Rule Properties","General Properties: Sell-Side Partner; Horizon Days;"]},{"entry":[{},"Number of Days Late; Number of Days Early."]},{"entry":["Escalation","Three levels: Age (In Days); Role. Participants:"]},{"entry":["Properties","Enterprise; Buy-Side Partner; Sell-Side Partner."]},{"entry":["Alert Summary","Alert Generate Date"]},{"entry":["Display","Buy-Side Partner"]},{"entry":[{},"PO Number"]},{"entry":[{},"Enterprise P\/N"]},{"entry":[{},"PO Delivery Date"]},{"entry":[{},"Sell-Side Partner"]},{"entry":[{},"SO Number"]},{"entry":[{},"Mfr P\/N"]},{"entry":[{},"Delta Number of Days"]},{"entry":["Alert Detail","Details:"]},{"entry":["Display","Alert Generate Date"]},{"entry":[{},"Buy-Side Partner"]},{"entry":[{},"Properties:"]},{"entry":[{},"PO Number"]},{"entry":[{},"Enterprise P\/N"]},{"entry":[{},"P\/N Description"]},{"entry":[{},"MRP Required Date"]},{"entry":[{},"PO Delivery Date"]},{"entry":[{},"Remaining Quantity Due"]},{"entry":[{},"Lead Time"]},{"entry":[{},"PO Last Updated in system"]},{"entry":[{},"SO Number"]},{"entry":[{},"Mfr P\/N"]},{"entry":[{},"P\/N Description"]},{"entry":[{},"SO Delivery Date"]},{"entry":[{},"SO Ship Date"]},{"entry":[{},"Remaining Quantity Due"]},{"entry":[{},"Lead Time"]},{"entry":[{},"SO Last Updated in system"]},{"entry":[{},"Variance:"]},{"entry":[{},"Delta Number of Days"]},{"entry":[{},"Configuration:"]},{"entry":[{},"Partner"]},{"entry":[{},"Start Period"]},{"entry":[{},"Horizon"]},{"entry":[{},"Number of Days Late"]},{"entry":[{},"Number of Days Early"]},{"entry":["Drill Down(s)","Notification History"]},{"entry":[{},"PO Detail"]},{"entry":[{},"Sell-Side Part Master"]},{"entry":[{},"SO Detail"]},{"entry":["Resolution","No resolution. Produce each week after MRP data"]},{"entry":[{},"received."]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}},"2.20 Top Level Demand Disconnect","A Top Level Demand Disconnect rule is provided to identify the difference between the forecast of the enterprise and the contract manufacturer's MPS load.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0175","num":"0199"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00014","num":"00014"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"161pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Rule Processing","Compare the enterprise Partner's forecast"]},{"entry":[{},"against the contract manufacturer's MPS load and"]},{"entry":[{},"generate an alert if the difference between each"]},{"entry":[{},"cumulative forecast exceeds the configured thresholds."]},{"entry":[{},"Only the first period in violation is flagged in the alert."]},{"entry":["Data Dependency","Rule is configured for the CM and should be"]},{"entry":[{},"run weekly when the enterprise's Forecast is"]},{"entry":[{},"generated and the MPS data is loaded."]},{"entry":["Rule Properties","General Properties: CM; Start Period; Horizon;"]},{"entry":[{},"Cumulative Percent Change-Upper Bound;"]},{"entry":[{},"Cumulative Percent Change-Lower Bound"]},{"entry":["Escalation","Three levels: Age (In Days); Role. Participants:"]},{"entry":["Properties","Enterprise; CM"]},{"entry":["Alert Summary","Alert Generate Date"]},{"entry":["Display","CM"]},{"entry":[{},"Enterprise P\/N"]},{"entry":[{},"Enterprise Plan Date"]},{"entry":[{},"CM Plan Date"]},{"entry":[{},"Period"]},{"entry":[{},"Delta Quantity Percent"]},{"entry":["Alert Detail","Details:"]},{"entry":["Display","Alert Generate Date"]},{"entry":[{},"CM"]},{"entry":[{},"Properties:"]},{"entry":[{},"Plan Date"]},{"entry":[{},"Enterprise P\/N"]},{"entry":[{},"CM Plan Date"]},{"entry":[{},"Period"]},{"entry":[{},"Demand Quantity"]},{"entry":[{},"MPS Quantity"]},{"entry":[{},"Variance:"]},{"entry":[{},"Delta Cumulative Quantity Percent"]},{"entry":[{},"Configuration:"]},{"entry":[{},"Partner"]},{"entry":[{},"Start Period"]},{"entry":[{},"Horizon"]},{"entry":[{},"Upper Bound Percent Change"]},{"entry":[{},"Lower Bound Percent Change"]},{"entry":["Drill Down(s)","Forecast Profile"]},{"entry":[{},"Notification History"]},{"entry":["Resolution","No resolution."]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}},"2.21 Lead Time\/Delivery Date Disconnect","A Lead Time\/Delivery Date Disconnect rule is provided to identify purchase orders that have been placed with Lead Times different than quoted Lead Times.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0178","num":"0202"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00015","num":"00015"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"161pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Rule Processing","Compare buy-side Partner's PO delivery date, MRP"]},{"entry":[{},"Required date, and current date + lead-time. An alert"]},{"entry":[{},"should be generated if either of the following"]},{"entry":[{},"conditions is TRUE:"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"147pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"(1)","The MRP Required Date is later than or equal to"]},{"entry":[{},{},"the current date plus lead-time and the delivery"]},{"entry":[{},{},"date is later than the MRP Required date."]},{"entry":[{},"(2)","The MRP Required Date is earlier than the"]},{"entry":[{},{},"current date plus lead-time and the delivery date"]},{"entry":[{},{},"is later than current date plus lead-time."]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"161pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"In a formula:"]},{"entry":[{},"Let M = MRP Required Date, LT = today + lead time,"]},{"entry":[{},"and D = delivery date."]},{"entry":[{},"If (M >= LT & D > M) || (M < LT & D > LT)"]},{"entry":[{},"then Alert."]},{"entry":["Data Dependency","Rule is configured for the Buy-Side Partner and should"]},{"entry":[{},"be run weekly when MRP and purchase order data is"]},{"entry":[{},"loaded."]},{"entry":["Rule Properties","General Properties: Buy-Side Partner; Number"]},{"entry":[{},"of Days Late; Number of Days Early"]},{"entry":["Escalation","Three levels; Age (In Days); Role. Participants:"]},{"entry":["Properties","Enterprise; Buy-Side Partner; Sell-Side Partner."]},{"entry":["Alert Summary","Alert Generate Date"]},{"entry":["Display","Buy-Side Partner"]},{"entry":[{},"PO Number"]},{"entry":[{},"Enterprise P\/N"]},{"entry":[{},"PO Delivery Date"]},{"entry":[{},"Sell-Side Partner"]},{"entry":[{},"SO Number"]},{"entry":[{},"Mfr P\/N"]},{"entry":[{},"Delta Number of Days"]},{"entry":["Alert Detail","Details:"]},{"entry":["Display","Alert Generate Date"]},{"entry":[{},"Buy-Side Partner"]},{"entry":[{},"Properties:"]},{"entry":[{},"PO Number"]},{"entry":[{},"Enterprise P\/N"]},{"entry":[{},"P\/N Description"]},{"entry":[{},"PO Delivery Date"]},{"entry":[{},"Remaining Quantity Due"]},{"entry":[{},"Lead Time"]},{"entry":[{},"PO Last Updated in system"]},{"entry":[{},"SO Number"]},{"entry":[{},"Mfr P\/N"]},{"entry":[{},"P\/N Description"]},{"entry":[{},"SO Delivery Date"]},{"entry":[{},"SO Ship Date"]},{"entry":[{},"Remaining Quantity Due"]},{"entry":[{},"Lead Time"]},{"entry":[{},"SO Last Updated in system"]},{"entry":[{},"Variance:"]},{"entry":[{},"Delta Number of Days"]},{"entry":[{},"Configuration:"]},{"entry":[{},"Partner"]},{"entry":[{},"Number of Days Late"]},{"entry":[{},"Number of Days Early"]},{"entry":["Drill Down(s)","Buy-Side Part Master"]},{"entry":[{},"Notification History"]},{"entry":[{},"PO Detail"]},{"entry":[{},"Sell-Side Part Master"]},{"entry":[{},"SO Detail"]},{"entry":["Resolution","No resolution."]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}},"2.22 Summary Bill of Material Disconnect","A Summary Bill of Material Disconnect rule is provided to identify the difference between Summary Bill of Materials for the enterprise and a Control Partner.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0181","num":"0205"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00016","num":"00016"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"49pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"168pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Rule","Fully explode the BoM to flatten out the tree and"]},{"entry":["Processing","get rid of all the different levels. Valid data is based"]},{"entry":[{},"on that data which is effective as of today's date."]},{"entry":[{},"Get Enterprise's Part Master for a build partner."]},{"entry":[{},"Identify BoM control partner in order to cross reference"]},{"entry":[{},"to the Enterprise's BoM. Disconnects are based on"]},{"entry":[{},"the quantities for a given P\/N being different between"]},{"entry":[{},"the Enterprise's BoM and the control Partner's."]},{"entry":[{},"Disconnects for P\/N that appear on one BoM but not the"]},{"entry":[{},"other are also disconnects. Alerts are generated based"]},{"entry":[{},"on either of these conditions."]},{"entry":["Data","Rule is configured for the CM and should be run"]},{"entry":["Dependency","periodically when changes to the BoM are loaded."]},{"entry":["Rule Properties","General Properties: CM."]},{"entry":["Escalation","Three levels: Age (In Days); Role. Participants:"]},{"entry":["Properties","Enterprise; CM."]},{"entry":["Alert Summary","Alert Generate Date"]},{"entry":["Display","Enterprise Partner"]},{"entry":[{},"CM"]},{"entry":[{},"Assembly P\/N"]},{"entry":[{},"Component P\/N"]},{"entry":[{},"Enterprise Quantity"]},{"entry":[{},"CM Quantity"]},{"entry":["Alert Detail","Details:"]},{"entry":["Display","Alert Generate Date"]},{"entry":[{},"CM"]},{"entry":[{},"Properties:"]},{"entry":[{},"Enterprise Partner"]},{"entry":[{},"Assembly P\/N"]},{"entry":[{},"Component P\/N"]},{"entry":[{},"Enterprise Quantities"]},{"entry":[{},"CM Partner"]},{"entry":[{},"CM Quantities"]},{"entry":[{},"Variance:"]},{"entry":[{},"Delta Quantity"]},{"entry":[{},"Configuration:"]},{"entry":[{},"Partner"]},{"entry":["Drill Down(s)","Buy-Side Part Master"]},{"entry":[{},"Notification History"]},{"entry":[{},"Sell-Side Part Master"]},{"entry":["Resolution","No resolution."]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}},"4. Hardware Overview","Embodiments of the invention may be implemented in one or more sequences of computer program instructions that are stored on computer-readable media and executed by one or more processors. For the purpose of clarity and completeness, an example implementation of a computer system and computer-readable media are now described.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0184","num":"0208"},"figref":"FIG. 8","b":["800","800","802","804","802","800","806","802","804","806","804","800","808","802","804","810","802"]},"Computer system  may be coupled via bus  to a display , such as a cathode ray tube (\u201cCRT\u201d), for displaying information to a computer user. An input device , including alphanumeric and other keys, is coupled to bus  for communicating information and command selections to processor . Another type of user input device is cursor control , such as a mouse, a trackball, or cursor direction keys for communicating direction information and command selections to processor  and for controlling cursor movement on display . This input device typically has two degrees of freedom in two axes, a first axis (e.g., x) and a second axis (e.g., y), that allows the device to specify positions in a plane.","The invention is related to the use of computer system  for automatically identifying and resolving one or more discrepancies in an outsourced manufacturing supply chain in which a plurality of supply chain partners participate. According to one embodiment of the invention, automatically identifying and resolving one or more discrepancies in an outsourced manufacturing supply chain in which a plurality of supply chain partners participate is provided by computer system  in response to processor  executing one or more sequences of one or more instructions contained in main memory . Such instructions may be read into main memory  from another computer-readable medium, such as storage device . Execution of the sequences of instructions contained in main memory  causes processor  to perform the process steps described herein. In alternative embodiments, hard-wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement the invention. Thus, embodiments of the invention are not limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software.","The term \u201ccomputer-readable medium\u201d as used herein refers to any medium that participates in providing instructions to processor  for execution. Such a medium may take many forms, including but not limited to, non-volatile media, volatile media, and transmission media. Non-volatile media includes, for example, optical or magnetic disks, such as storage device . Volatile media includes dynamic memory, such as main memory . Transmission media includes coaxial cables, copper wire and fiber optics, including the wires that comprise bus . Transmission media can also take the form of acoustic or light waves, such as those generated during radio wave and infrared data communications.","Common forms of computer-readable media include, for example, a floppy disk, a flexible disk, hard disk, magnetic tape, or any other magnetic medium, a CD-ROM, any other optical medium, punchcards, papertape, any other physical medium with patterns of holes, a RAM, a PROM, and EPROM, a FLASH-EPROM, any other memory chip or cartridge, a carrier wave as described hereinafter, or any other medium from which a computer can read.","Various forms of computer readable media may be involved in carrying one or more sequences of one or more instructions to processor  for execution. For example, the instructions may initially be carried on a magnetic disk of a remote computer. The remote computer can load the instructions into its dynamic memory and send the instructions over a telephone line using a modem. A modem local to computer system  can receive the data on the telephone line and use an infrared transmitter to convert the data to an infrared signal. An infrared detector can receive the data carried in the infrared signal and appropriate circuitry can place the data on bus . Bus  carries the data to main memory , from which processor  retrieves and executes the instructions. The instructions received by main memory  may optionally be stored on storage device  either before or after execution by processor .","Computer system  also includes a communication interface  coupled to bus . Communication interface  provides a two-way data communication coupling to a network link  that is connected to a local network . For example, communication interface  may be an integrated services digital network (\u201cISDN\u201d) card or a modem to provide a data communication connection to a corresponding type of telephone line. As another example, communication interface  may be a local area network (\u201cLAN\u201d) card to provide a data communication connection to a compatible LAN. Wireless links may also be implemented. In any such implementation, communication interface  sends and receives electrical, electromagnetic or optical signals that carry digital data streams representing various types of information.","Network link  typically provides data communication through one or more networks to other data devices. For example, network link  may provide a connection through local network  to a host computer  or to data equipment operated by an Internet Service Provider (\u201cISP\u201d) . ISP  in turn provides data communication services through the worldwide packet data communication network now commonly referred to as the \u201cInternet\u201d . Local network  and Internet  both use electrical, electromagnetic or optical signals that carry digital data streams. The signals through the various networks and the signals on network link  and through communication interface , which carry the digital data to and from computer system , are exemplary forms of carrier waves transporting the information.","Computer system  can send messages and receive data, including program code, through the network(s), network link  and communication interface . In the Internet example, a server  might transmit a requested code for an application program through Internet , ISP , local network  and communication interface . In accordance with the invention, one such downloaded application provides for automatically identifying and resolving one or more discrepancies in an outsourced manufacturing supply chain in which a plurality of supply chain partners participate as described herein.","Processor  may execute the received code as it is received, and\/or stored in storage device , or other non-volatile storage for later execution. In this manner, computer system  may obtain application code in the form of a carrier wave.","5. Extensions and Alternatives","In the foregoing specification, the invention has been described with reference to specific embodiments thereof. It will, however, be evident that various modifications and changes may be made thereto without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention. The specification and drawings are, accordingly, to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The present invention is illustrated by way of example, and not by way of limitation, in the figures of the accompanying drawings and in which like reference numerals refer to similar elements and in which:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 1A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 1B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 1C"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 2A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 2B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 2C"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 3A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":["FIG. 3B","FIG. 3A"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":"FIG. 8"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
