---
title: Method for defeating a warhead that carries submunitions
abstract: A method is provided for destroying a target that includes dispersing submunition fragments in an array that is directed to intercept the target, and engaging said fragments to collide against an outer shell of the target, wherein said array distributes said fragments as having a ratio between a characteristic length of said fragments and a separation distance of at most 2.5 and a collision velocity of between 1.8 km/s 2.0 km/s. The ratio is preferably at most 1.9. The characteristic length corresponds to a spherical radius of the fragment. Each fragment has a mass between 150 grains and 300 grains. The array is preferably aligned to intercept the target at an angle offset by between 15° and 45° from perpendicular to a longitudinal axis of the target. Each fragment has a preferable shape of a prism, a trapezoid or a pyramid.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=H0002236&OS=H0002236&RS=H0002236
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: H0002236
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070927
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATION","STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENT INTEREST","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["Pursuant to 35 U.S.C. \u00a7119, the benefit of priority from provisional application 60\/854,460, with a filing date of Sep. 29, 2006, is claimed for this non-provisional application.","The invention described was made in the performance of official duties by one or more employees of the Department of the Navy, and thus, the invention herein may be manufactured, used or licensed by or for the Government of the United States of America for government purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.","The invention relates generally to damage infliction on target structures. In particular, the invention relates to enhanced damage to submunitions and rupture of warhead targets carrying submunitions.","The United States Missile Defense Agency (MDA) is developing defense systems to intercept threat re-entry vehicles in their terminal stage of flight. The vehicle payloads may contain a large number of submunitions to be spread over a targeted territory. A typical submunition is a small breakable metal container filled with a chemical or biological agent. Several approaches are considered by the MDA to defeat the reentry vehicles.","Conventional methods yield disadvantages addressed by various exemplary embodiments of the present invention. Such disadvantages include external impact causing breakage of a number of submunitions. In particular, various embodiments provide for damaging the warhead's outer shell to rupture so as to compromise its aerodynamic characteristics and thereby cause its submunitions to be scattered prior to reaching the target.","Various exemplary embodiments provide a method for destroying a target that includes dispersing pressure-releasing fragments in an array that is directed to intercept the target, and engaging the fragments to collide against an outer shell of the target, wherein the array distributes the fragments as having a ratio between a characteristic length of the fragments and a separation distance of at most 2.5 and a collision velocity of between 1.8 km\/s and 2.0 km\/s.","In various other embodiments, the ratio is preferably at most 1.9. The characteristic length corresponds to an equivalent spherical radius of the fragment. Each fragment has a mass between 150 grains and 300 grains. The array is preferably aligned to intercept the target at an angle offset by between 15\u00b0 and 45\u00b0 from perpendicular to a longitudinal axis of the target. Each fragment has a preferable shape of a prism, a trapezoid or a pyramid.","In the following detailed description of exemplary embodiments of the invention, reference is made to the accompanying drawings that form a part hereof, and in which is shown by way of illustration specific exemplary embodiments in which the invention may be practiced. These embodiments are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice invention. Other embodiments may be utilized, and logical, mechanical, and other changes may be without departing from the spirit or scope of the present invention. The following detailed description is, therefore, not to be taken in a limiting sense, and the scope of the present invention is defined only by the appended claims.","Conventional methods of defeating submunition-filled payloads are based on kinetic kill vehicles (KKV). A solid object, namely the KKV, strikes the target at optimal angle and location to inflict damage to a maximum number of submunitions. This method has several limitations including lack of operational flexibility in view of sparse intelligence information regarding foreign submunitions development. Some submunitions are made of thin aluminum shells and require only modest collision to destroy, while others are robust thick-walled steel containers.","Another difficulty involves definining optimal angles and locations for the KKV impact. Conventionally, a large KKV is desired to ensure target destruction, but the KKV's inertia at a typical speed (near 2 km\/s) adversely influences maneuverability.","Various exemplary embodiments can be used as enhancement to the existing KKV-based defeat systems. Also these can be used against other thin-walled structures and vehicles including boats and ships where perforation of a large hole is desirable. As described herein, various exemplary embodiments incorporate arrays of pressure-releasing penetrators hitting the target almost simultaneously. The penetrators may be spaced to form a row or another pattern maximizing the extent of the impact region. Several damage mechanisms can be thereby produced.","Advantages from these embodiments include: (1) Perforation of the vehicle skin and submunitions due to direct hit by the penetrators. (2) Submunition damage due to inter-impacts. (3) Rupture and opening of aeroshell skin along the perforated holes due to internal overpressure. (4) Submunition expulsion through the skin openings under overpressure. (5) Loss of the target aerodynamic properties due to the structural damage.","Various exemplary embodiments provide for improved disabling of a target by multiple projectiles. In particular, these embodiments enable stress concentrations from the projectiles to produce structural failure of the target.  shows an elevation view  of a target  being approached by several submunitions .  shows an elevation view  of the target  after colliding with the submunitions , with portions of its outer shell (or sheath)  being opened, thereby causing premature release of its delivery contents as well as disruption of its aerodynamic characteristics. Arrays of pressure-releasing fragments can be used to induce cracking and petal unfurling of the target's aeroshell skin. Such submunitions  can be contained and dispersed by a launched projectile directed to intercept the target .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":["200","210","220","230","240","250","260","270","260","270"],"sub":["cr ","cr"]},"Artisans of ordinary skill will recognize that collision damage to a target depends on impact speed based on its relationship to momentum.  shows a graph  that provides experimental data for number of cracks in a target shell as a function of impact speed (in m\/s). The abscissa  represents the impact speed, whereas the ordinate  represents the cracks number. A dash line  represents a curve-fit for the measured data. As can be observed, below about 45 m\/s, at most only one crack develops, whereas a plateau of six cracks appear above 50 m\/s, which represents a threshold  for the conditions tested.","The experimental data were obtained for spheroid target and projectile geometries, all approximately one-inch in diameter. The projectile spheroid  is directed towards the target spheroids  disposed on a rigid flat surface.","An empirical formula for critical velocity Vis derived from characteristics of materials and geometry: V\u02dcCCC[\u03b5\u03c3\/ \u03c1], where \u03b5represents strain at failure, \u03c3represents yield or ultimate tensile strength, \u03c1 represents materials mass density, Cis a material constraints parameter, Crepresents shape, fill and stress concentration elements, and Crelates impact speed and number of submunitions.","Example values for aluminum structures is \u03b5=0.11, \u03c3=505 MPa, \u03c1=291 kg\/m, C=1.2 for aluminum, C=0.3 for an example sub munition, Ccan range from 0.8 to 1.1 for a single sub munition (between 41 m\/s and 55 m\/s) and from 1.4 to 1.9 two-to-four submunitions (between 68 m\/s and 95 m\/s).","Although a variety of geometric shapes can be employed for fragments, greater damage to a target's shell typically results from shapes with sharp corners, at which stress concentrations can be initiated upon contact with the target. Such preferable shapes include the prism, trapezoid and pyramid.","To propagate a crack within the target shell, an analysis provides information on stress concentration for a plate  in an infinite plane shown in  with uniform tensile stress \u03c3applied. An elliptical opening  is disposed amid the horizontal and vertical axes xand x. A line  representing a potential crack extends from one side of the opening, extending to an end point  at which may be calculated. The opening  has a longitudinal length of along the xaxis. The line  for the potential crack has a length r.","The tensile stresses can be calculated in the horizontal \u03c3and vertical \u03c3directions with the Westergaard's stress function Zfor each mode i=1, 2 representing the axes. Shear stress \u03c3and the Mode I stress intensity factor Kcan also be calculated. Square diagrams ,  and  illustrate the respective horizontal, vertical and shear stress orientations. These functional relations can be expressed as:\n\n\u03c3=Re Z(\u03be)\u2212xIm Z\u2032(\u03be)=\u03c3(a\/2r) cos(\u03b8\/2) [1\u2212sin(\u03b8\/2) sin(3\u03b8\/2)]\n\n\u03c3=Re Z(\u03be)+xIm Z\u2032(\u03be)=\u03c3(a\/2r) cos(\u03b8\/2) [1+sin(\u03b8\/2) sin(3\u03b8\/2)]\n\n\u03c3=\u2212xRe Z\u2032(\u03be)=\u03c3(a\/2r) sin(\u03b8\/2) cos(\u03b8\/2) cos(3\u03b8\/2) \n\nK=(\u03c0a) Iim(\u03be) Z(\u03be)=\u03c3(\u03c0a), \n\nwhere a represents opening longitudinal length, r represents crack length, \u03be is a complex variable representing length of the line  from the closet end of the opening  to the end point  on the plate , \u03b8 is the angle from the xaxis at the edge of the opening  to the point on the plate , and \u03c3represents the uniform static load. The complex stress function Zdepends on variable \u03be as an independent parameter, while Z\u2032represents the first derivative of Zwith respect to \u03be. The real and imaginary portions are denoted by Re and Im functions. Stress intensity factor (for Mode I) Kis proportional to the stress and the square root of crack length.\n",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"figref":"FIG. 5","b":["500","510","520","530","2","2"],"sub":["0 ","1 ","I","I","0 ","I "],"i":["a","b"],"br":[{},{}],"in-line-formulae":[{},{}],"sup":["\u00bd","\u00bd","\u00bd","\u00bd"]},"Stress rapidly increases with decreased distance between cracks. Desired distance b between openings is less than the opening length a multiplied by a factor of 1.5, or b\u22661.5a. This analytical solution suggests that the stress concentration can be enhanced by increasing the crack length and reducing the distance between the cracks.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0037"},"figref":"FIG. 6","b":["600","610","620","630","640"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0039","num":"0038"},"figref":"FIG. 7","b":["700","710","720","730","710","720","740","740","750","730","760"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0040","num":"0039"},"figref":"FIGS. 8A and 8B","b":["760","760","762","764","766","760"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0041","num":"0040"},"figref":["FIGS. 9A and 9B","FIG. 9A"],"b":["900","910","915","920","910","925","915","920","930","910","920","940"],"sub":["1","1 "]},"Similarly in , a target  with its intersection  is approached by a projectile  on a collision course  angularly offset  from the intersection  by 45\u00b0. The projectile  has an inertia defined by mValong an intercept direction . Upon contact with the target , the projectile  produces an opening . Tests were conducted with angular offsets of alternately 15\u00b0 and 45\u00b0.","For these tests, fragment speed was between about 1.8 and 2.0 km\/s. Tests results show that impact obliquity produces greater stress concentration for the elliptical opening at 45\u00b0 angle than the near-round opening at 15\u00b0 angle. Spherical fragments are measured in grains, in which 100 grains \u22486.5 grams. The spherical fragments had masses of 150 grains and 300 grains. The number of fragments ranged from 1 through 8 and the fragments were arranged as one row and two rows.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0044","num":"0043"},"figref":"FIG. 10","b":["1000","1010","1020","1030","1040","1050","1060","1070","1050"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0045","num":"0044"},"figref":"FIG. 11","b":["1100","1110","1120","1100"]},"These data represent point  for 4\u00d7300,  for 8\u00d7150,  for 3\u00d7300,  for 4\u00d7150 as well as 6\u00d7300, and  for 2\u00d7300. From this information, increasing the probability of target failure correlates with increasing overpressure P, which is achievable by increasing the number and size of penetrators, using more efficient materials and to decrease the distances between perforated openings.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0047","num":"0046"},"figref":"FIG. 12"},"Cracking between closely positioned holes appears to be due to direct impact or after release of a moderate amount of pressurized gas. \u201cPetal\u201d opening or complete skin stripping after releasing large amount of pressurized gas. From the tests, cracking occurred between closely located larger holes. Small cracks or no cracks occurred between the holes located at a larger distance from each other. The target contained a surrogate structure inside and was perforated by fragments, line cracking, small crack and indentation from small fragments.","Six 150-grain fragments having impact speed of 1.8-2.0 km\/s with fairly large spacing, caused minor damage. Minor damage was produced after impact by four 150-grain fragments with large spacing in a single-row array and impact speed of 1.8-2.0 km\/s. Catastrophic damage after impact was produced by eight 150-grain fragments with large spacing in a two-row array and impact peed of km\/s. Partial skin pealing after impact by three 300-grain fragments with impact speed of 1.9-2.0 km\/s. Catastrophic failure of the target with the skin blown fifty yards away resulted from impact by four 300-grain fragments at impact speed of 1.9-2.0 km\/s. Maximum damage to the target was achieved using four 300-grain fragments at 45\u00b0 obliquity and eight 150-grain fragments at 15\u00b0 obliquity. The skin was completely stripped off in these cases.","Small spacing between penetators and increased penetrator size are important for inducing crack propagation between perforated openings. Angles of obliquity 15\u00b0 and 45\u00b0 do not seem to influence the damage level. This can be explained by the contribution from the two opposite trends: at 15\u00b0 impact fragments tend to transfer less impulse to the target skin and probably deliver a smaller amount of penetrator material inside of the target's shell. However the perforated opening is a longer ellipse with a higher stress concentration as compared to rounder openings seen from the 45\u00b0 impacts.","To correlate the fragments with the openings, analogous length parameters can be determined. A characteristic length dimension of a typical fragment (e.g., a mean diameter within a distribution of fragments) can be compared to the length of the punctured openings in the target's shell. An average distance between fragments can be assumed to correspond to the distance between opening centers. Photographs of openings in the shell at collision velocity (i.e., relative difference between fragments and target) of \u02dc1.9 km\/s show a typical opening length of a \u02dc1 inch \u02dc2.5 cm and array distances of b\u02dc2 inches \u02dc5 cm where cracks connected the openings, and b\u02dc3.5 to 4 inches (9 to 10 cm) without cracks connecting the openings. Empirically, this indicates a ratio of opening to distance lengths of b\/a \u02dc2 for producing cracks, but that for b\/a<3.6, cracks connecting the openings may be absent.","Fragment dimensions can be analyzed with respect to the masses of fragments tested. Fragments of 150 grains and 300 grains were used. These correspond to \u02dc9.75 grams and \u02dc19.5 grams, respectively. Aluminum has a material density of 291 kg\/m=0.291 g\/cm. A sphere has a volume defined by v=4\u03c0r\/3=m\/p, where r is fragment radius, m is fragment mass and \u03c1 is material density. Thus, r=[3m\/4\u03c0\u03c1]=2 cm for this example.","The relationship between fragment radius and opening length can be characterized as a ratio of r\/a=0.8, and cracks appear to be preferably propagated (when b\u02dc5 cm) as a ratio r\/b\u02dc0.4, in which crack length is assumed to be substantially synonymous with the separation distance (i.e., spacing) between fragments. The previously obtained correlation b\u22661.5a can also be supplemented as by dividing the relations between opening and fragment as {b\/a\u00f7r\/a}1.5\/0.8 \u02dc1.9 for the stress calculations. This is confirmed by the absence of cracks in photographs with larger spacing between fragments in which the ratio as {b\/a\u00f7r\/a}=b\/r<3.6\/0.8\u02dc4.4. However, empirical data suggest that cracks between openings form at {b\/r}=(r\/b)\u02dc2.5, placing a less restrictive limit on this relation. These propagating cracks can facilitate the unfurling of the target's shell, substantially defeating the target's effectiveness in reaching its destination to deliver its contents.","While certain features of the embodiments of the invention have been illustrated as described herein, many modifications, substitutions, changes and equivalents will now occur to those skilled in the art. It is, therefore, to be understood that the appended claims are intended to cover all such modifications and changes as fall within the true spirit of the embodiments."],"GOVINT":[{},{}],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["These and various other features and aspects of various exemplary embodiments will be readily understood with reference to the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings, in which like or similar numbers are used throughout, and in which:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIGS. 1A and 1B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIGS. 8A and 8B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIGS. 9A and 9B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 11"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 12"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
