---
title: Ferroelectric ultrathin perovskite films
abstract: Disclosed herein are perovskite ferroelectric thin-film. Also disclosed are methods of controlling the properties of ferroelectric thin films. These films can be used in a variety materials and devices, such as catalysts and storage media, respectively.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08603573&OS=08603573&RS=08603573
owner: The Trustees of the University of Pennsylvania
number: 08603573
owner_city: Philadelphia
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071203
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS","STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENT INTERESTS","FIELD OF THE INVENTION","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF ILLUSTRATIVE EMBODIMENTS","REFERENCES METHODS AND MATERIALS"],"p":["This application is the National Stage of International Application No. PCT\/US2007\/086316, filed Dec. 3, 2007, which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60\/872,273, filed Dec. 1, 2006, the disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entireties.","The invention was made with U.S. Government support. The Government may have certain rights in the invention under U.S. Department of Energy, Office of Science, Basic Energy Sciences under Contract No. W-31-109-ENG-38, NSF DMR-0313764, ECS-0210449, ONR N00014-00-1-0372, N00014-01-1-0365 and AFOSR FA9550-04-1-0077.","The disclosed invention pertains to the field of ferroelectric films. The disclosed invention also pertains to perovskite compositions. The disclosed invention is also in the field of switchable perovskite films. The disclosed invention also pertains to the field of storage media and catalysis.","One of the outstanding fundamental needs for ferroelectric thin films is developing a stable polar phase when the polarization has a component perpendicular to the film plane. Although such orientations are desired for many applications and can be obtained (e.g., by compressive epitaxial strain), the polarization change at the film boundaries creates a \u201cdepolarizing field\u201d that should be neutralized for the polar phase to be stable. Two mechanisms appear to be available to reduce the depolarizing field energy: compensation by free charge at the boundaries or the formation of equilibrium stripe domains with oppositely oriented polarization. In both cases, the trade-off between bulk energy gain and surface energy cost leads to a suppression of the phase transition to the polar phase as films become thinner. These fundamental size effects may dramatically alter behavior in ultrathin films.","Accordingly, one aspect of the present invention provides methods of reversibly switching the polarization of a ferroelectric film by changing the chemical environment in contact with one surface of a ferroelectric film. In these methods, the chemical environment can be changed by controlling the oxygen partial pressure in contact with the ferroelectric film. For example, the change in oxygen partial pressure induces an outward or inward polarization, respectively, in the ferroelectric film. In other embodiments, the ferroelectric film comprises a perovskite thin-film. Suitable perovskite thin-films comprises PbTiO. In the other types of perovskite and films can also be utilized. Suitably, the ferroelectric film is supported on a conducting substrate. In particularly preferred embodiments, the ferroelectric films are thinner than 10 nm, and typically at least about 1 nm.","Another aspect of the present invention provides ferroelectric thin-film comprising a perovskite film thinner than 10 nm supported on a conducting substrate, the perovskite film comprising polar ground states in the presence of ionic adsorbates. Suitable perovskite thin-films comprise PbTiO. In other embodiments, the conducting substrates can comprise strontium ruthenium oxide or strontium titanium oxide. A suitable film thickness is greater than or about 1.2 nm. In certain preferred embodiments, the conducting substrate comprises an epitaxial conducting film. These ferroelectric thin films have uses in switchable catalysts and storage media.","The present invention also provides methods of inverting a domain in a ferroelectric thin-film, comprising applying a voltage to a probe tip adjacent to the ferroelectric thin-film. For example, in these methods the ferroelectric thin-film can comprise a perovskite film thinner than 10 nm supported on a conducting substrate, the perovskite film comprising polar ground states in the presence of ionic adsorbates. Suitable perovskite thin-films comprise PbTiO. In other embodiments, the conducting substrates can comprise strontium ruthenium oxide or strontium titanium oxide. A suitable film thickness is greater than or about 1.2 nm. In certain preferred embodiments, the conducting substrate comprises an epitaxial conducting film.","Another aspect of the present invention provides methods of writing a data bit in a ferroelectric thin-film, comprising: applying a voltage to a probe tip adjacent to the ferroelectric thin-film. For example, in these methods the ferroelectric thin-film can comprise a perovskite thin-film thinner than 10 nm supported on a conducting substrate, the perovskite film comprising polar ground states in the presence of ionic adsorbates. Suitable perovskite thin-films comprise PbTiO. In other embodiments, the conducting substrates can comprise strontium ruthenium oxide or strontium titanium oxide. A suitable film thickness is greater than or about 1.2 nm. In certain preferred embodiments, the conducting substrate comprises an epitaxial conducting film.","In another aspect, the present invention also provides methods for reducing the Curie temperature of a ferroelectric thin-film, comprising: reducing the thickness of the ferroelectric thin-film to less than 10 nm.","In yet other aspects, the present invention also provides methods of stabilizing the polar state in a thin-film, comprising: absorbing ions onto the thin-film surface. For example, in these methods the surface charge is passivated by adsorbing an adsorbate. Suitable thin-films comprise a ferroelectric material characterized as having a mono-domain state.","The present invention also includes aspects which include methods for electrically switching the reactivity of a ferroelectric thin-film surface, comprising: applying a voltage adjacent to the ferroelectric thin-film. A suitable ferroelectric thin-film comprises a perovskite film thinner than 10 nm supported on a conducting substrate. For example, the perovskite film may comprise polar ground states in the presence of ionic adsorbates.","Using in situ high-resolution synchrotron x-ray scattering, the Curie temperature Thas been determined for ultrathin c-axis epitaxial PbTiO3 films on conducting substrates (SrRuO3 on SrTiO3), with surfaces exposed to a controlled vapor environment. The suppression of TC was relatively small, even for the thinnest film (1.2 nm). We observe that 180\u00b0 stripe domains do not form, indicating that the depolarizing field is compensated by free charge at both interfaces. This is confirmed by ab initio calculations that find polar ground states in the presence of ionic adsorbates.","Here we focus on stabilization of the single-domain state in ultrathin ferroelectric perovskite films by interfacial charge. Key issues are determining the critical thickness, below which the monodomain, perpendicularly polarized state is not stable, and understanding the nature of the interfacial charge compensation. Previous experimental studies of ultrathin epitaxial films on conductive substrates have been carried out using electrical measurements, piezoresponse force microscopy (PFM), and x-ray lattice parameter measurements. These studies have found stable monodomain ferroelectricity at room temperature in films as thin as 3-4 nm. Lattice parameter measurements indicated a 50% reduction in PbTiO3 polarization when film thickness was reduced to 3 nm, which was explained using a model based on the finite screening length for charge in conducting electrodes. Interestingly, in some of these studies, the film did not have an electrode on the exposed surface. Interface compensation adequate to stabilize ultrathin polar films can occur by a mechanism other than electronic conduction, e.g., by the accumulation of charged ions. For relatively thick ferroelectric films exposed to ambient atmosphere, there is strong experimental evidence for surface compensation by ionic adsorption. Furthermore, monodomain ferroelectric films have been observed on nonconducting substrates, and it has been proposed that high-mobility electrons can exist at heterointerfaces in perovskite insulators due to unusual bonding states. The adequacy of these alternative, \u201cchemical\u201d rather than \u201celectronic\u201d mechanisms for reducing depolarization field energy sufficiently to stabilize ultrathin polar films is relatively unexplored.","Using real-time x-ray scattering, we also observe that the direction of polarization in a ferroelectric thin film can be reversibly switched by changing the oxygen partial pressure in equilibrium with its surface.","The reorientable spontaneous electric polarization of ferroelectric materials gives them unusual dielectric properties and utility for information storage. Polarization orientation is typically switched by applying a voltage across electrodes. Here we report real-time synchrotron x-ray scattering experiments showing that the polarization can also be reversibly switched by changing the chemical environment in contact with one surface of a ferroelectric film. High or low oxygen partial pressure induces outward or inward polarization, respectively, in a PbTiO3 film. Such chemical switching provides a new mechanism for manipulation of ferroelectric domain patterns and for novel applications such as chemical actuators and active catalysts.","Described herein is the paraelectric-ferroelectric phase transition in ultrathin PbTiO3 films grown on conducting substrates, with surfaces exposed to a controlled vapor environment. The structures of films as thin as 1.2 nm (3 unit cells) were determined as a function of temperature (T) using high-resolution grazing-incidence x-ray scattering. The polar phase was observed to form and remain single domain for all thicknesses studied (1.2-9.2 nm). The observed stability of the monodomain phase is explained by ab initio calculations that find a polar ground state if ionic adsorbates are present on the surface. The polarization direction depends on the chemical nature of the adsorbate.","The conducting substrates were epitaxial SrRuO3 films grown on SrTiO(001) single crystals by pulsed laser deposition. The PbTiO3 films were grown by metalorganic chemical vapor deposition (MOCVD) under conditions described previously. Grazing-incidence synchrotron x-ray scattering was used for in situ monitoring of the film during epitaxial growth and for subsequent observation of the phase transition as a function of T. This method allows study at high T while maintaining film stoichiometry and a well-controlled vapor interface and the study of ferroelectricity in films too thin to be characterized by other methods. Four PbTiO3 films of different thickness were studied: Three of the films (1.2, 2.0, and 3.6 nm) were grown at 930 K on 10-nm-thick SrRuO3 layers; the thickest PbTiO3 film (9.2 nm) was grown at 990 K on a 50-nm-thick SrRuO3 layer. All of the layers replicated the high crystalline quality of the substrates (0.01\u00b0 typical mosaic) and were measured to be fully lattice matched to the underlying SrTiO3. This compressive epitaxial strain produces polarization perpendicular to the film plane.","X-ray experiments were carried out at beam line 12ID-D of the Advanced Photon Source, as described previously in S. K. Streiffer, et al., 89, 067601 (2002). The Curie temperature TC was determined by measuring the T dependence of the c (out-of-plane) lattice parameter.  shows measurements along the 30 L crystal truncation rod (CTR) for a 9.2 nm- (23 unit-cell-) thick PbTiO3 film at various temperatures. This region of the CTR extends through the 304 peaks of PbTiO3, SrRuO3, and SrTiO3. From the position of the PbTiO3 peak, one can see that c increases as the film polarizes below TC, because of the strong polarization-strain coupling in this system [2]. The many fringes observed from the thicknesses of the SrRuO3 and PbTiO3 layers indicate the high quality of the interfaces.","For the 9.2 nm film, we also performed ex situ room-T PFM. We were able to \u201cwrite\u201d inverted domains by applying a positive voltage to the tip and to determine that the as grown state of the film was a single domain having a polarization directed out of the film (\u201cup\u201d polarization). For all films, we searched in situ near TC for satellites in the diffuse x-ray scattering around the PbTiO3 Bragg peaks, which occur when equilibrium 180\u00b0 stripe domains are present. None were observed, indicating that all the films transform directly into the monodomain polar state.","Values for the PbTiO3 lattice parameter c as a function of T were determined by fitting the x-ray CTR data to a 3-layer model (two films and a substrate). For the fits shown here, we assumed that the PbTiO3 polarization direction is up, with the square of atom displacements proportional to the change in c from its P=0 value, and that the SrRuO3 is SrO terminated and the PbTiO3 is PbO terminated. Changing these assumptions does not significantly affect the results for c. For each sample, the numbers of PbTiO3 and SrRuO3 unit cells were fixed. Eight parameters were varied in the fitting procedure: lattice constants, layer roughnesses, and interface offsets for the SrRuO3 and PbTiO3 layers, a scale factor for the SrRuO3, and an overall scale factor for the total scattered intensity. This simple structural model is able to reproduce the CTR intensities very well for all thicknesses and temperatures. Typical best fits are shown with the data in .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 2"],"sub":["C","C ","C","C ","C "],"sup":"\u221e"},"These results stand in some contrast to recently reported room-T lattice parameters of PbTiO3 films on Nb-doped SrTiO3 substrates, which showed a decrease in c for thinner films. We see no change in c as a function of thickness at our lowest T (550 K), even for smaller thicknesses than previously measured, although there is a clear variation in Twith thickness. Note also that we observe a systematic change in c with thickness in the nonpolar phase. Caution should thus be used when relating c to polarization or Tsuppression in ultrathin films using measurements at only one T.","The values of Tas a function of film thickness are shown in . Also shown are values of Tfor PbTiO3 grown directly on insulating SrTiO3, in which 180\u00b0 stripe domains have formed. In both cases, Tincreases towards the calculated T for thick films and decreases by hundreds of degrees below this limit for ultrathin films. The transition temperatures for PbTiO3 on SrRuO3 are somewhat higher than those on SrTiO3, in agreement with the observed difference in the equilibrium domain morphology: The conducting SrRuO3 electrode lowers the energy of the single-domain state, producing a direct transition from unpolarized to monodomain polarized at a higher T. The dependence of T-Ton film thickness we observe does not obey the power law predicted by the simplest theories of screening in electrodes but, instead, appears to be similar to that previously seen for films on insulating substrates.","The observation that polarization occurs without formation of 180\u00b0 domains implies that both the top and bottom interfaces of these films should be almost completely compensated by free charge. Thus, a SrRuO3 electrode will compensate PbTiO3 with a voltage offset small enough that even a 3-unit-cell-thick film polarizes above room temperature. This is in agreement with recent ab initio calculations on films with two SrRuO3 electrodes. The behavior of the top surface is perhaps even more intriguing\u2014although there is no conductor to supply electronic charge, exposure to the ambient vapor of the MOCVD growth environment evidently supplies sufficient free charge from ions to neutralize the depolarizing field.","To quantitatively verify whether adsorbed ions can stabilize the polar state in ultrathin films, we have performed ab initio density functional theory (DFT) calculations on the structure and energetics of PbTiO3 films on SrRuO3 bottom electrodes with various molecules adsorbed to the surface. Based on the composition of the MOCVD environment, we chose to study H, O, OH, HO, and COadsorption. Calculations were performed using methods described previously in Na Sai, A. M. Kolpak, and A. M. Rappe, Phys. Rev. B 72, 020101(R) (2005). We used DFT with the generalized gradient approximation as implemented in the ab initio code DACAPO, with ultrasoft pseudopotentials generated with the VASP code, a plane wave cutoff of 400 eV, a 4\u00d74\u00d71 Monkhorst-Pack k-point mesh, and an fast-Fourier-transform grid of 8 points\/{acute over (\u212b)} in all 3 directions. We modeled 3-unit-cell- (1.2-nm-) thick PbTiO3 films supported by 3 unit cells of SrRuO3, with a SrO\u2014TiO2 interface between PbTiO3 and SrRuO3 and a PbO terminated PbTiO3 surface. A vacuum of >2 nm separated periodic copies of the structures in the direction perpendicular to the surface, and a dipole correction was included in the center of the vacuum region to remove the artificial electric field due to the asymmetry in \u201celectrode\u201d materials. The in-plane lattice constant was fixed to the calculated zero-stress a value for bulk PbTiO3, which approximates the effect of the SrTiO3 substrate in the experiments. Data are reported for films with one adsorbate on a single unit-cell surface area; modeling of the c(2\u00d72) surface showed that the experimentally and theoretically determined reconstruction was present both with and without adsorbates but did not significantly affect the energy difference between the bare and adsorbed states.","For a bare surface, the ground state of the ferroelectric film was found to be nonpolar. With OH, O, or H adsorbates present, however, the ground state was polar, with atoms displaced from the centrosymmetric positions. Table I gives values of polarization relative to the theoretical bulk value P=0.75 Cm, calculated from the average over all PbO and TiO2 layers of the cation-anion displacements \u0394z=z\u2212z, each divided by the corresponding \u0394z in bulk theoretical PbTiO3. Since the conductive SrRuO3 electrode can provide either positive or negative compensation charge, the chemical nature of the adsorbate determines the direction of polarization. An overlayer of OH or O, which bind to the surface Pb, enforces an upwards polarization, while an overlayer of H, which bind to the surface O, stabilizes polarization in the opposite direction. On the other hand, COadsorption gives a very weak polarization, and undissociated H2O molecules bind only weakly to the surface, preserving the nonpolar state.","Table I also shows the differences in energy \u0394Ebetween the film with bound adsorbate and the separated bare film and free adsorbate atom (or OH molecule). To compare these T=0 K energies to experimental conditions, we estimated the standard Gibbs free energy of adsorption \u0394G(T)=\u0394H(T)\u2212T\u0394S(T). The change in enthalpy \u0394H\u00b0 is estimated from \u0394Eby adding P\u0394V \u2245\u2212kT. A small correction for zero-point energy and spin polarization is also applied for the case of OH adsorption.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0037"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00001","num":"00001"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"center"}},"thead":{"row":{"entry":"TABLE 1"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":"Polarization and \u0394Efrom DFT calculations,"},{"entry":"with estimated reaction energies per adsorbate at T = 300 K."}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"7"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"35pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"42pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"28pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"6","colwidth":"21pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"7","colwidth":"42pt","align":"center"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},{},{},"\u0394E","\u0394H","\u0394G","\u0394G"]},{"entry":[{},"Adsorbate","P\/|P|","(eV)","(eV)","(eV)","(eV)"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"7","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"7"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"35pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"42pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"28pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"6","colwidth":"21pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"7","colwidth":"42pt","align":"char","char":"."}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"OH","0.7","\u22122.00","\u22122.34","\u22121.96","\u22120.20"]},{"entry":[{},"O","0.9","\u22120.92","\u22120.95","\u22120.52","1.95"]},{"entry":[{},"H","\u22120.8","\u22122.90","\u22122.93","\u22122.65","0.79"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"7","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}},"The change in entropy \u0394Sis primarily due to the differences between the bound and free adsorbates. We estimated the entropy of the bound adsorbates and used tabulated entropies for free OH, O, and H at 1 bar [26]. Values of \u0394G\u00b0 at T=300 K are given in Table I. The free energy change under experimental conditions is \u0394G=\u0394{tilde over (G)}\u2212k{tilde over (T)} ln p. where pis the adsorbate partial pressure. For these experiments, the partial pressure of Owas controlled at 3.3\u00d710bar, while that of HO varied between 2\u00d710and 1\u00d710bar depending upon the reactions of the MOCVD process gases. To obtain the values of \u0394G in Table I, the partial pressures of free O, H, and OH at T=300 K were calculated using p=5\u00d710bar. Inspection of these \u0394G values shows that only OH adsorption is thermodynamically favored in our experimental environment.","The thermodynamic stability of OH adsorbates implies that the stable monodomain polarization direction is up, in agreement with the PFM result. The simple thermodynamic estimate presented here suggests that the full coverage of OH would desorb from the 3-unit-cell-thick film above T=450 K, resulting in a nonpolar film. Preliminary calculations that allow for partial coverage of OH give a higher transition T, in closer agreement with the observed T=700 K.","The DFT results presented herein verify that surface charge passivation by OH adsorbates is indeed adequate to stabilize the observed monodomain state in these films. For ultrathin films, the chemisorption energy of 2 eV is much larger than the bulk free energy difference between the polar and nonpolar states at zero field (e.g., 0.2 eV per unit-cell area for a 3-unit-cell-thick film). Such a strong influence of interfacial chemistry on polarization has broad implications for ultrathin ferroelectric films. To understand polarization stability, it is necessary for measurements to be performed with controlled interfacial chemistry. The behavior of ferroelectric films with exposed surfaces may differ significantly from those sandwiched between two electrodes. In the former case (e.g., PFM experiments), and without being bound by any theory of operation, it is believed that the switching mechanism likely involves a change in adsorbate. Charged impurities at buried interfaces may play a similar chemical role to the surface-adsorbed ions considered here. Exploitation of these effects for novel devices or templating techniques is possible, both through chemical control of polarity and through polarization control of ionic adsorption.","The ability to electrically switch the polarization of a ferroelectric film provides the basis for devices such as non-volatile ferroelectric memories. A direction of recent research has been to understand the behavior of ultrathin films, for which interfacial effects begin to dominate over the physics of the film interior. For example, interface potentials due to finite electronic screening lengths and work functions should be considered when attempting to understand the stability of the polar state. These have large effects in ultrathin films because the electric field they produce scales inversely with film thickness. In particular, the voltage required to induce polarization reversal in ultrathin films is similar in magnitude to these interface potentials. Recent studies have shown that monodomain polarization can be stabilized in thin films not only through the presence of electrodes that provide electronic compensation at the film interfaces but also through surface-adsorbed ions or charged interfacial defects\/impurities.","Compensation of ferroelectric surfaces by adsorbed ions can also be inferred from electric force microscopy measurements. This chemical nature of the environment interacts strongly with the polarization of thin films, since the electrochemical potential created by changes in the ambient becomes an alternative source of voltage to control film polarization. In particular, previous density functional theory calculations indicated that the electronegativity of adsorbates could determine the direction of polarization. Here, we use real-time synchrotron x-ray scattering to experimentally investigate changes in the polarization of PbTiOfilms induced by varying the chemistry of the vapor above the film surface.","We observe that the sign of the polarization can be reversibly switched by changing the partial pressure of oxygen in equilibrium with the film surface. The dependence of film lattice parameter on oxygen partial pressure (pO) is bistable, following a \u201cbutterfly loop\u201d analogous to that observed under applied voltage. The samples consist of 10-nm-thick PbTiOfilms grown on SrRuOfilms on SrTiO(001) substrates (20). Both epitaxial films are coherently strained to the SrTiOin-plane lattice parameter, forcing the polarization orientation in the PbTiOto be perpendicular to the film plane. The conductive SrRuOlayer provides electronic compensation of the bottom interface of the PbTiO, while the top surface is exposed to a controlled vapor ambient. The equilibrium structure in an oxidizing environment is a monodomain state with positive polarization, i.e. with polarization vector pointing out of the surface.","Chemical switching experiments were carried out with the sample at temperatures in the range 550-950 K by exposing it to various pOlevels in a flowing nitrogen ambient with a constant total pressure of 13 mbar. Polarization switching was observed by using synchrotron x-ray scattering to directly monitor the atomic-scale structure of the ferroelectric film. By fitting a structural model to the complex scattering pattern produced by interference between nearby film and substrate Bragg peaks, we can extract not only the c-axis (surface normal) lattice parameter but also the fraction of positive domains in the PbTiOfilm. The position of the PbTiOBragg peak gives the lattice parameter c, while its intensity is related to the domain fraction x. Peaks with relatively large Miller index L (e.g. L=4) are especially sensitive to x, since at high L oppositely polarized domains scatter nearly out of phase, resulting in a minimum in the intensity when equal fractions of positive and negative domains are present (x=0.5).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0046","num":"0045"},"figref":["FIGS. 4A and 4B","FIG. 4C","FIG. 4A"],"sub":["2 ","2 ","2","2 "]},"The results in  indicate that the ferroelectric film can be fully switched between monodomain states with positive and negative polarization orientations by varying the pOof the ambient, as illustrated in . The change in sign of the lattice parameter dependence on pOdemonstrates that the film polarization is opposite when equilibrated at high or low pO. We observe that the bistable behavior is repeatable, provided that the excursions in pOare large enough to fully switch the sample. For small changes in pOin the non-switching regions (xnear unity or zero), the measured strain remains on one of the two branches of the loop with no hysteresis, and equilibration is relatively rapid (within minutes). While a pOof 3.0 mbar is sufficient to fully switch the sample to positive polarization, full switching to negative polarization could be accomplished most rapidly at pOvalues below the minimum controllable value in the apparatus (3.3\u00d710mbar). For the data in , full switching to negative polarization was obtained by setting the oxygen input flow to zero, giving a value of pOless than 10mbar. Similar behavior is observed at both temperatures, with overall smaller c lattice parameters at the higher temperature consistent with those expected as the Curie point T\u2248920 K (10) is approached and polarization magnitudes decrease. We observe that there is no bistability in c as a function of pOat T=950 K, in the paraelectric phase above T.","Further evidence that the polarization switching is reversible (i.e. returns to an identical state) is given in , which shows distributions of scattering in the L direction (L scans) through the 304 Bragg peaks. The black, blue and red curves, respectively, were taken with the sample equilibrated (i) at high pO(3.0 mbar), before a switching cycle; (ii) at low pO(3.3\u00d710mbar), and (iii) again at pO=3.0 mbar, after the switching cycle. The three main peaks are the 304 Bragg reflections from the PbTiO, SrRuO, and SrTiO, respectively. The PbTiOand SrRuOpeaks are broadened and surrounded by fringes arising from the finite film thickness and film\/substrate interference effects. The intensity of the PbTiOpeak and the interference fringe pattern are sensitive to the polarization structure of the film. The intensity distribution obtained after the film is switched back to the oxidizing ambient is indistinguishable from that of the initial state, indicating that the initial polarization structure is recovered. The wide extent of the finite-thickness oscillations under both high and low pOconditions implies that the polarization and lattice parameter are approximately constant throughout the film thickness. Furthermore, the period of these oscillations indicates that the thickness of the perovskite structure PbTiOis the same in both states. We do not observe formation of second phases, as has been seen in annealing of powders. This is consistent with the lack of a high concentration of extended defects in these films, which are necessary for significant mass transport in the bulk of the film at these temperatures. To investigate the switching dynamics, we performed real-time reciprocal space mapping of the x-ray scattering intensity around the PbTiO Bragg peak during chemical switching between high and low pOstates.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0049","num":"0048"},"figref":["FIG. 6A","FIG. 7"],"sub":["3 ","pos ","2 ","3 ","2 "],"sup":"\u22126 "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0050","num":"0049"},"figref":"FIG. 6B","sub":["2","2 "]},"Without being bound by any theory of operation, we hypothesize that the species responsible for compensation of negatively polarized domains under low pOconditions are positively charged surface point defects such as oxygen vacancies. The vacancy concentration on the surface could be 8 substantially larger than that which can be tolerated in the bulk and could provide sufficient charge compensation. In fact, we observe that a surface reconstruction with 4 1 symmetry forms under reducing environments. Its intensity scales closely with the fraction of negative domains determined from the Bragg peak intensity, indicating that this reconstruction is formed by an ordering of the positively charged species compensating the surface of the negative domains.","Preliminary DFT calculations indicate that one oxygen vacancy per four surface unit cells will stabilize negative polarization in an ultrathin PbTiOfilm. We are still investigating the 4\u00d71 reconstruction using in situ x-ray scattering, and the atomic scale structure remains to be solved. The pOdependence of the lattice parameter of the monodomain state is relatively weak at the extremes of pO(regions I and III in ), and becomes stronger at intermediate values (e.g. pObetween 10to 10mbar). We attribute this to a saturation in the concentration of charged surface species at extremes of pO. In the intermediate region, the magnitude of the variation of c with log(pO) is about twice as large for positively polarized monodomain films than for negatively polarized films. Since the piezoelectric coefficients for opposite polarizations are expected to have equal magnitudes, this may indicate a difference in the pOdependence of the amount of surface charge. Chemical butterfly loops such as  thus provide direct evidence for the nature of the charged species compensating the surface. The switching behavior observed in this study indicates that chemistry on the ferroelectric surface plays an important role in controlling the polarization in ultrathin films without a top electrode. In particular, these results indicate that the chemical environment produces a surface potential that depends upon the composition of the ambient and is in general non-zero; this should be taken into consideration when studying size effects on ferroelectricity. It is possible to use chemical processes as a new method to create domain structures in ferroelectric films, including patterning through a lithographically produced mask. Conversely, the nature of ferroelectric film polarization can modify surface chemical reactions. The ability to electrically switch the reactivity of a surface could form the basis for new classes of thin-film chemical actuators and catalysts, offering dynamical control of reactivity and selectivity over a wide range in a single system. Adsorption of both cations and anions on nanoscale 180\u00b0 stripe domains would provide a means for sub-lithographic-spatial-scale pattern formation. Further understanding of the interactions of ambients with polarization at ferroelectric surfaces promises to provide a new means for manipulating both ferroelectricity and surface chemistry.","Methods and Materials","The experiments were performed at beamline 12-ID-D of the Advanced Photon Source. The PbTiOfilms were grown using metal-organic chemical vapor deposition in a chamber designed for in-situ synchrotron x-ray studies of film growth and processing (S1). PbTiOfilms were grown at 930 K following procedures described previously (S2), using SrTiO(001) substrates on which epitaxial SrRuOfilms had been previously deposited by pulsed laser deposition in a separate chamber (S3). Both the SrRuOand PbTiOlayers were fully coherently strained to the SrTiOin-plane lattice parameter. Results presented were obtained from a sample having 10 nm thick PbTiOand 24 nm thick SrRuOlayers, as determined by x-ray scattering. Four additional samples having PbTiOthicknesses of 6.4, 10, 11, and 21 nm were found to have similar reversible switching behavior at various temperatures from 550 to 825 K. After growth, the sample was cooled in an oxidizing environment (pO=3.0 mbar) to the temperatures for switching studies. The residual PbO vapor pressure in the chamber was sufficient to maintain a PbO surface termination (S4). When changing the pOof the gas mixture, the amount of Ncarrier gas was adjusted to keep the total active chamber flow at 1630 sccm.","The total chamber pressure was maintained at 13 mbar. Grazing incidence scattering of 28.3 keV x-rays was used for real-time monitoring of film growth and film strain during changes in the vapor ambient. The incidence angle was \u22661.0\u00b0, except for studies of the 4\u00d71 reconstruction, where it was \u22660.11\u00b0 (the critical angle). The x-ray scattering intensity (counts per second) shown in the plots has been normalized to correspond to a fixed incident flux typical of 100 mA current in the storage ring.","The chemical butterfly loops such as  were traced by changing pOin steps while performing repeated L scans through the PbTiO peak to monitor the strain changes. Dwell time at each intermediate pOwas 800 s, equivalent to \u02dc10 scans. This was typically long enough for the lattice parameter to equilibrate, except in the switching regions. Values reported were obtained from the last scattering pattern recorded at a given pObefore the next step change. A longer dwell (e.g. 10,000 s) was used to fully switch the sample at the extreme pOconditions before measuring the reverse half of the loop. Reciprocal space coordinates H, K, and L are given in reciprocal lattice units of the SrTiOsubstrate at 298 K, which has a cubic lattice parameter of 3.9051 \u212b (S5). To obtain accurate PbTiOlattice parameter values from the 304 peak position, the L offset was calibrated using the nearby Bragg peak from the SrTiOsubstrate (using SrTiOlattice parameters of 3.9194 \u212b and 3.9233 \u212b at 645 and 735 K, respectively (S5)). Evolution of the x-ray scattering distribution during switching, e.g. , was mapped by performing repeated scans alternating in the L and K directions while a change was made between high and low pOconditions. We found that the switching behavior was reproducible and that equilibrated L scans were identical even after the sample had been removed from the chamber and exposed to air, as long as it was first heated to the growth temperature 930 K with a PbO overpressure sufficient to maintain the PbO terminated PbTiOsurface but below the value for PbO deposition (S4), and then cooled to lower temperatures in the same manner as done with the as-grown films.","To obtain the PbTiOout-of-plane lattice parameter c and positive domain fraction xfrom the measured L scans, they were fit to scattering patterns calculated from an atomic-scale model of the PbTiO\/SrRuO\/SrTiOfilm\/substrate structure similar to that used previously (S6). The model is based on the experimental determination that the films are coherently strained to the SrTiOin-plane lattice constant. The atomic structure of the SrTiOand SrRuOare modeled as simple perovskites, with centrosymmetric atomic positions. Deviations of the PbTiOatomic positions from centrosymmetric sites are taken from literature values (S7) scaled linearly with polarization, where the polarization is obtained from the lattice parameter using Landau theory for monodomain coherently-strained PbTiOon SrTiO(S8,S9). This predicts that the square of polarization, |P|, is a linear function of the out-of-plane strain, x, given by",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0057","num":"0056"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00001","num":"00001"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":{"msup":{"mrow":{"mo":["\uf603","\uf604"],"mi":"P"},"mn":"2"},"mo":"=","mrow":{"msup":{"mrow":[{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"Q","mn":"11"},"mo":"-","mrow":{"mfrac":{"mrow":[{"mn":"2","mo":"\u2062","msub":{"mi":"s","mn":"12"}},{"msub":[{"mi":"s","mn":"11"},{"mi":"s","mn":"12"}],"mo":"+"}]},"mo":"\u2062","msub":{"mi":"Q","mn":"12"}}}},{"mo":"-","mn":"1"}]},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"x","mn":"3"},"mo":"-","mrow":{"mfrac":{"mrow":[{"mn":"2","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"msub":{"mi":"s","mn":"12"}},{"msub":[{"mi":"s","mn":"11"},{"mi":"s","mn":"12"}],"mo":"+"}]},"mo":"\u2062","msub":{"mi":["x","m"]}}}}}},"mo":","}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"S1"}}]}}}},"br":{},"sub":["11","12","11 ","12 ","3","m ","3","0","0","m","s","0","0","0 ","s","3 ","2 ","3 ","3 ","2","3 ","3 ","3","3","3 ","2","2 "],"b":"304"},"To model the polydomain states during switching, two additional structural parameters had to be determined: the out-of-plane lattice offset at 180\u00b0 domain walls, and the fraction of the scattering from oppositely polarized domains that sums incoherently, f. The domain wall offset was assumed to be proportional to polarization, with a value chosen to reproduce the temperature dependence of the PbTiO peak intensity for samples with 180\u00b0 stripe domains, which has a minimum at \u02dc650 K (S10). The value of fdepends on the domain size relative to the resolution of the scattering measurement.","For large domains or lower resolution, the scattering will add incoherently (fapproaches 1), while for small domains or higher resolution the scattering will add","coherently (fapproaches 0). The total intensity is given by\n\n1|+(1\u2212)||]+(1\u2212)|+(1\u2212)|\n\nwhere F and F are the scattering amplitudes from the positively and negatively polarized domains, respectively, including the contributions from the substrate.  shows the intensity as a function of xfor three values of f. The minimum at x=0.5 is due to the destructive interference between the scattering from the oppositely polarized domains. The minima in x-ray intensity we observe after changing pOare thus signatures of domain switching. Such minima have been predicted theoretically (S11) and can also be seen in literature data taken during electrical switching experiments (e.g. see  of reference (S12)). Since the depth of the minimum depends on f, we choose its value to match the minimum intensity observed during switching. Values of franging from 0.1 to 0.5 were found, increasing for slower switching speeds, consistent with the effect expected from larger domain sizes.\n","Using these parameters, fits were made to the short scans from L=3.75 to 3.90 across the PbTiO peak obtained at various pOconditions during measurements of the butterfly loops and switching dynamics. The only free parameters in these fits were the PbTiOlattice constant x and the positive domain fraction x. By using Eq. (S1) relating lattice parameter and polarization magnitude, the net polarization of the film |P|(1\u22122x) can be calculated, as given in . The position of the PbTiOpeak determines c (and thus |P|), and its intensity determines x. The peak position and intensity for the data of  are shown in . A comparison with the fit results in  illustrates the direct relationships. Since two values of xcan give the same intensity, there is some ambiguity in which solution to choose, especially near x=0.5. However, since the model includes anomalous scattering effects on atomic scattering factors, the intensity scattered from positively polarized PbTiOis calculated to be about 6% higher than that from negative at the x-ray energy used (28.3 keV) (see ). We observe a similar difference in the measurements for the extreme pOcases, which provides further evidence that we are observing switching and have correctly identified the polarization directions.","We observe weak effects of the incident x-ray intensity on the measured strain. The primary effect is that higher incident intensities increase the speed with which the strain equilibrates when pOis changed. The incident intensity also has a small, reversible effect on the equilibrium strain values, with high intensities producing \u02dc0.1% larger strains in both positively and negatively polarized films. These strains are small compared with those measured due to pOchanges. The effects are consistent with a hypothesis that reaction of molecular Owith the surface is the rate-limiting step in the chemical switching process, and that ionizing radiation increases the rate of this reaction (in both the oxidizing and reducing directions). Further studies of the reaction chemistry occurring at the surface are underway.","To address the question of whether surface oxygen vacancies can stabilize the negatively polarized domains at low pO, and the nature of the 4\u00d71 reconstruction observed under these conditions, we performed density functional theory (DFT) calculations using methods described previously (S6). The system size was 4 perovskite unit cells by 1 unit cell in plane, with a PbTiOlayer  unit cells thick on top of a SrRuOlayer  unit cells thick, strained to an in-plane lattice parameter appropriate to match the experimental conditions. The surface and interface terminations were the same as given above for the scattering model. One oxygen vacancy was located in the surface PbO layer.","We found that the presence of the oxygen vacancy stabilized a negative (inward) polarization in the PbTiOfilm. For this 2-unit-cell-thick film, the average polarization was only about 30% of that of bulk PbTiOat 0 K. We expect that the stabilization and polarization would increase for thicker films, such as those studied experimentally. Table 2 gives a comparison of the ground state energy \u0394Eat T=0 K and the estimated enthalpy and free energies at T=735 K. These are differences between the system with an oxygen vacancy plus a free oxygen atom, relative to the system with no oxygen vacancy (which we found to have an unpolarized ground state). As previously (S6), values are given per vapor atom, which in this case is per 4 perovskite surface unit cells. The free energy \u0394G=\u0394G\u00b0+kT ln pO has been calculated using an oxygen partial pressure of pO=1\u00d710bar corresponding to typical experimental conditions for the 4\u00d71 reconstruction, which gives an oxygen atom pressure at T=735 K of pO=9\u00d710bar (S13). We expect the polar oxygen vacancy structure will become increasingly stable as the film thickness increases, by as much as \u22120.2 eV per added unit cell thickness (the DFT ferroelectric well depth for bulk PbTiOper four-unit-cell area). Based on this estimate, PbTiOfilms having a thickness of 4 unit cells or larger would have a negative \u0394G and this be favored over the unpolarized system under the experimental T and pOconditions.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0064","num":"0063"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00002","num":"00002"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"center"}},"thead":{"row":{"entry":"TABLE 2"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":"Calculated ground state (T = 0 K) energy \u0394Eand"},{"entry":"polarization P\/|P|, standard enthalpy \u0394H\u00b0 and"},{"entry":"free energy \u0394G\u00b0 at T = 735 K, and free energy \u0394G"},{"entry":"at T = 735 K and pO = 9 10bar for a"},{"entry":"two-unit-cell-thick PbTiOlayer containing one oxygen"},{"entry":"vacancy per four unit cell surface area."}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"6"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"63pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"28pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"28pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"6","colwidth":"28pt","align":"center"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},{},"\u0394E","\u0394H\u00b0","\u0394G\u00b0","\u0394G"]},{"entry":["Compensation","P\/|P|","(eV)","(eV)","(eV)","(eV)"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"6","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["O vacancy (4 \u00d7 1)","\u22120.3","4.36","4.42","3.05","0.27"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"6","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0065","num":"0000"},"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0001","list-style":"none"},"li":["S1. G. B. Stephenson et al., 24 (1), 21 (January 1999).","S2. M. V. Ramana Murty et al., 80, 1809 (2002).","S3. J. Choi, C. B. Eom, G. Rijnders, H. Rogalla, D. H. A. Blank, 79, 1447 (2001).","S4. A. Munkholm et al., 88, 016101 (2002).","S5. , edited by Y. S. Touloukian (Plenum, N.Y., 1977) Vol. 13. p. 670.","S6. D. D. Fong et al., 96, 127601 (2006).","S7. A. M. Glazer and S. A. Mabud, 34, 1065 (1978).","S8. G. B. Stephenson, K. R. Elder, 100, 051601 (2006).","S9. N. A. Pertsev, A. G. Zembilgotov, A. K. Tagantsev, 80, 1988 (1998).","S10. G. B. Stephenson, et al., 336, 81 (2003).","S11. C. Thompson, C. M. Foster, J. A. Eastman, G. B. Stephenson, 71, 3516 (1997).","S12. A. Grigoriev et al., 96, 187601 (2006).","S13. Calculated from gas phase thermochemical data in M. W. Chase, Jr., NIST-JANAF Themochemical Tables, Fourth Edition, , Monograph 9, 1 (1998). Available online in NIST Standard Reference Database Number 69 (June 2005 Release) at http:\/\/webbook.nist.gov\/chemistry."]}}],"GOVINT":[{},{}],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 1","sub":"z "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 2","sub":["C","3"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 3","sub":"C ","i":"Science "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 4","sub":["2 ","3 ","3","3","2","2","2 "]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 6","FIG. 3"],"sub":["3","3","3 ","2","2","3 "],"sup":"\u22126 "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 6","sub":["3 ","2","2"],"sup":"\u22126 "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 6"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 8","sub":["2","3","3","3"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 9","sub":["3 ","pos ","inc"]}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
