---
title: Implementation defined segments for relational database systems
abstract: Embodiments disclosed herein provide an implementation defined segments (IDS) subsystem which allows new data segments to be added to an identity hub after deployment. A set of metadata tables are utilized to describe IDS, each of which is a data structure encapsulating a single row from a master data record residing in the identity hub. Once a segment (an object) is described, the identity hub can use the information to define persistent storage for the object in the database for any relational database management system, create internal structures to hold the data and process business rules and demographic comparisons against the data object, describe the data object to remote clients, and allow the clients to query the identity hub at runtime about what data objects exist, what fields and data types they contain, and additionally how they might be displayed or formatted on various clients.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08356009&OS=08356009&RS=08356009
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 08356009
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070913
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS","TECHNICAL FIELD","BACKGROUND","BRIEF SUMMARY OF THE DISCLOSURE","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["This application claims priority from U.S. Provisional Application No. 60\/845,073, filed Sep. 15, 2006, entitled \u201cMETHOD AND SYSTEM FOR IMPLEMENTATION DEFINED SEGMENTS USING META-DATA,\u201d which is fully incorporated by reference herein.","This disclosure relates generally to relational database systems and more particularly to data structures and processing in relational database systems. Even more particularly, embodiments disclosed herein relate to a system and method of creating implementation defined segments at runtime based on metadata.","For a software system to support the data needs of two or more vertical industries, it usually must make compromises in what data is available, or provide a large superset (e.g. the ability to encompass the data needs of all the industries it is desired to support) with many unused data items in order to satisfy the greatest common denominator. For instance, those demographic data items that may be important in a medical record registration application, may not have any use to a hotels central reservation system.","One way to support multiple vertical markets with the same application or software system (product) is to have a very generic data storage capability which does not have anything specific to a given industry, application or format. The problem with this approach is that the data items which are specific to an industry or application may be those that are most valuable to the customer. Some industries have Electronic Data Interchange Standards that can be used, but they do not fit every application and rarely have wide acceptance.","Another solution to the above problem is to create a large, all encompassing data model which tries to anticipate every conceivable contingency. This is cumbersome to install, and requires that the users wade through unused scaffolding if their particular business does not require the extra fields. And despite best efforts, they may still have requirements which are not included in the model.","Embodiments disclosed herein provide systems and methods that can eliminate or reduce the disadvantages of previously developed solutions to supporting multiple vertical industries with the same software system. More particularly, embodiments disclosed herein provide a way to describe data objects that will be used by the Initiate Identity Hub\u2122 Software, and to store that description inside the Identity Hub database in a set of metadata tables known generically as the data dictionary. Initiate\u2122 and Initiate Identity Hub\u2122 are trademarks of Initiate Systems, Inc. Once a data object has been described, the Identity Hub can use the information to:","1. Define persistent storage for the object in the database for any relational database management system (RDBMS) type supported by the Identity Hub software;","2. Create internal structures to hold the data and process business rules and demographic comparisons against the data object;","3. Create the on-the-wire protocol definition that describes the data object to remote clients using APIs such as the Initiate Identity Hub APIs. The communication software (e.g., contained in the Identity Hub) can transmit and receive these data objects without prior, hard coded knowledge; and","4. Provide a mechanism in the APIs to query the Identity Hub at runtime about what data objects exist, what fields and data types they contain, and additionally how they might be displayed or formatted on various clients.","Embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented entirely in software or may be implemented at least partially in hardware.","By adopting embodiments disclosed here to generate Implementation Defined Segments (IDS), software implementers (e.g., partners, customers, or Initiate services employees) can create custom attribute segments on an installation by installation basis. The users of the Initiate Identity Hub software can benefit from having access to the data that is vital to their industry or application specific data needs. Each customer does not have to conform to some pre-defined, limiting data model. Moreover, there is no need to create custom application code for sites that want to take advantage of this feature. The IDS data segments will behave substantially exactly like hard-coded, pre-defined segments. The legacy pre-defined segments in use in older implementations can use the IDS technology under the covers, and over time the pre-defined segments can be deprecated, and replaced with a pure IDS implementation.","Other features, advantages, and objects of the disclosure will be better appreciated and understood when considered in conjunction with the following description and the accompanying drawings.","Skilled artisans appreciate that elements in the figures are illustrated for simplicity and clarity and are not necessarily drawn to scale.","Preferred embodiments of the present invention and the various features and advantageous details thereof are explained more fully with reference to the examples illustrated in the accompanying drawings where like numerals are used to refer to like and corresponding parts or elements. Descriptions of known computer languages, data structures, programming techniques, operating systems, network protocols, and the like are omitted so as not to unnecessarily obscure the invention in detail. Skilled artisans should understand, however, that the detailed description and the specific examples, while disclosing preferred embodiments of the invention, are given by way of illustration only and not by way of limitation. Various substitutions, modifications, additions or rearrangements within the scope of the underlying inventive concept(s) will become apparent to those skilled in the art after reading this disclosure.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["100","100","12","14","16","14","18","12","120","122","124","126","128","128","16","160","162","164","166","168"]},"Each of client and server computers  and  is an example of a data processing system. ROM  and , RAM  and , HD  and , and database  include media that can be read by CPU  or . Therefore, each of these types of memories includes a data processing system readable medium. Within this disclosure, the term \u201cdata processing system readable medium\u201d is used interchangeably with the term \u201ccomputer-readable storage medium.\u201d These memories may be internal or external to computers  and .","Embodiments described herein may be implemented in suitable software code that may reside within ROM  or , RAM  or , or HD  or . In addition to those types of memories, some instructions implementing embodiments disclosed herein may be contained on a data storage device with a different data processing system readable storage medium, such as a floppy diskette.  illustrates a combination of software code elements , , and  that are embodied within a data processing system readable medium , on HD . Alternatively, the instructions may be stored as software code elements on a DASD array, magnetic tape, floppy diskette, optical storage device, or other appropriate data processing system readable medium or storage device.","In an illustrative embodiment, the computer-executable instructions may be lines of compiled C++, Java, or other language code. Other computer architectures may be used. For example, some functions of client computer  may be incorporated into server computer , and vice versa. Further, other client computers (not shown) or other server computers (not shown) similar to client computer  and server computer , respectively, may also be connected to network .","Communications between client computer  and server computer  can be accomplished using electronic, optical, radio frequency, or other signals. When a user is at client computer , client computer  may convert the signals to a human understandable form when sending a communication to the user and may convert input from a human to appropriate electronic, optical, radio frequency, or other signals to be used by client computer  or server computer .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 10"],"b":["300","300","16","300","300","310","320","330","340","310","320","320","300","320","330"]},"Embodiments of Hub  provide accurate, scalable, and deployable solutions for customer-centric master data management as Hub  enables business entities to create complete, real-time views of data from various data sources  and applications  to more effectively manage, control, analyze and integrate customer, patient or constituent information and relationships while protecting data privacy. In particular, Hub  has the ability to handle hundreds of millions of records in sub-second response times with unique proprietary matching and linking technology that identifies and resolves information routinely, even when there is duplicate, fragmented or incomplete data. Within this context, Manager , embodied in a software application, enables administrators and implementers (i.e., system administrators, application administrators, database administrators, software developers, software engineers, system architect, and those responsible for implementing Initiate\u2122 software applications) to easily manage Hub  software environment via a user interface. In this example, Manager  is installed on a server and accessible via an Intranet. In some embodiments, Manager  can be installed and run directly on a workstation.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0034"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":["430","330","430","402","406","404","406"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"figref":["FIGS. 5A-5C","FIG. 5A","FIG. 5A","FIG. 5B","FIG. 5C","FIG. 6"],"b":"330"},"Data segments or simply segments coincide with data schema of Hub  to define behavior of Engine  and member information. In some embodiments, a set of pre-defined (\u201cfixed\u201d) segments are created and packaged with Hub  prior to deployment. In some embodiments, implementers can add member-attribute implementation defined (\u201ccustom\u201d) segments through Manager  upon\/after deployment. Within this disclosure, each segment is a data structure which encapsulates a single row from the coinciding database table. In embodiments disclosed herein, segments are used as data storage structures for data that may be read from a database (e.g., database ), or sent in from a client application (e.g., application ). When Engine  operates on data, it passes around a set of these segment objects (i.e., they are Shared Objects).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0037"},"figref":"FIG. 6","b":["600","330","600","602","604","300","300","330"]},"In some embodiments, there are three types of segments: dictionary segments, member segments, and audit segments. Audit segments enable reporting and tracking. Member segments define individual entities (i.e., members and members associated with an entity), member attributes, and task workflow. In some embodiments, only member attribute segments can be defined at the time of implementation. Dictionary segments contain type definition and lookup values. These values define customer specific data, engine behavior, and other segment types. Dictionary segments can be divided into five sections.","a. Type Definition\u2014provides lookup values to define data types used by Hub ;","b. Segment Definitions\u2014enable the definition of internal (internal to Hub ) and customer-specific (i.e., implementation defined) segments that are maintained by Hub ;","c. Source Definitions\u2014enable the definition of source systems recognized by Hub  and the interactions therebetween;","d. Use Segments\u2014provide Hub  specific configuration that defines behavior of Engine , which includes comparison, derived data, and standardization strategies, as well as linkage rules and other behavior rules; and","e. User Access Definition Segments\u2014define valid Hub  users and their associated access control rules, including user IDs and permissions.","In , column Name lists physical (database) table name(s) for the data segment storage; column Code lists segment code name(s); column Object Code defines the segment type (e.g., dictionary, member, or audit) of a segment; column Attribute identifies whether a particular segment contains attribute data; column Engine Only identifies whether a particular segment is an engine configuration segment only; and column Status indicates if a particular segment is Active (i.e., in-use) or Inactive. In some embodiments, Engine  must be restarted before a newly added segment can be marked as Active.","In the past, a segment was defined by what was referred to as a package. Packages were hard-coded C language structures that defined the data fields, what data type those fields were, and how the system should treat those fields. Packages proved to be a very powerful way to describe data in a manner that the rest of the Initiate Identity Hub\u2122 software could use to operate on the data. However, because these packages were hard-coded C language structures, if a new segment definition is needed, a code change had to be made in the Initiate Identity Hub\u2122 engine, a database table that matched the change had to be made, and any API changes needed for others to be able to access the new segment also had to be made.","Embodiments of an Implementation Defined Segments subsystem disclosed herein represent an innovative way to support new segments without having to ship and support new code at each customer site that has unique data requirements. Instead of the package mechanism described above, a set of database tables, also referred to as metadata tables, would be read at system start-up to define the shape of the package data structures. If an implementer or administrator needs to change a segment, or add a new one, the implementer\/administrator could just add the proper data to the database, and on the next restart of Engine , Hub  would behave exactly as if the segment information had been hard-coded in the packages.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0048","num":"0047"},"figref":"FIG. 7","b":["702","704","320","702","704","702","706","706","702","704","704","706"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0049","num":"0048"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00001","num":"00001"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"center"}},"thead":{"row":[{"entry":"TABLE 1"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":"mpi_seghead Details"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"161pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Expanded name","Segment Definition Header"]},{"entry":["Initiate\u2009\u2122","This dictionary table provides the bridge between the"]},{"entry":["software use","logical names for storage segments, and the physical"]},{"entry":[{},"tables in which they are stored."]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"center"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":"mpi_seghead Attribute Descriptions"}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"49pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"168pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Attribute","Description"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["caudrecno","Creation of this particular record, from mpi_audhead"]},{"entry":["maudrecno","Last time the record value was modified, from"]},{"entry":[{},"mpi_audhead"]},{"entry":["recstat","Record status - \u2018A\u2019ctive, \u2018I\u2019nactive, \u2018D\u2019eleted, \u2018S\u2019hadow"]},{"entry":["segrecno","Unique segment identifier - surrogate key for segcode"]},{"entry":["segcode","Segment code definition - primary key"]},{"entry":["segname","Physical table name for data segment storage"]},{"entry":["objcode","Internal Initiate\u2009\u2122 software usage"]},{"entry":["hasattr","(Y\/N) Contains member attribute data"]},{"entry":["engineonly","(Y\/N) Engine configuration items only"]},{"entry":["segverno","Used for dictionary segment versioning to support"]},{"entry":[{},"multiple servers"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0050","num":"0049"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00002","num":"00002"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"center"}},"thead":{"row":[{"entry":"TABLE 2"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":"mpi_segxfld Details"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"63pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"154pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Expanded name","Segment-to-Field Association"]},{"entry":["Initiate\u2009\u2122","This dictionary table provides the engine with"]},{"entry":["software use","information on the fields that are available in each"]},{"entry":[{},"segment."]},{"entry":["Cross reference","This table cross-references mpi_seghead through"]},{"entry":[{},"segcode."]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"center"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":"mpi_segxfld Attribute Descriptions"}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"49pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"168pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Attribute","Description"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["caudrecno","Creation of this particular record, from mpi_audhead"]},{"entry":["maudrecno","Last time the record value was modified, from"]},{"entry":[{},"mpi_audhead"]},{"entry":["recstat","Record status - \u2018A\u2019ctive, \u2018I\u2019nactive, \u2018D\u2019eleted, \u2018S\u2019hadow"]},{"entry":["segcode","Segment code, from mpi_seghead"]},{"entry":["fldseqno","Field sequence number"]},{"entry":["fldname","Field name"]},{"entry":["fldtype","Initiate standard datatype (char, varchar, date, time,"]},{"entry":[{},"datetime, integer, smallint)"]},{"entry":["fldlength","Field length - 0 for all types except char\/varchar"]},{"entry":["ispkey","Flag whether field is primary key"]},{"entry":["isrequired","Flag whether field is required"]},{"entry":["isvirtual","Flag whether field is virtual (non database)"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0051","num":"0050"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00003","num":"00003"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"center"}},"thead":{"row":[{"entry":"TABLE 3"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":"mpi_segattr Details"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"70pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"147pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Expanded name","Segment Attribute Definitions"]},{"entry":["Initiate\u2009\u2122 software","This dictionary table describes the named"]},{"entry":["use","attributes that Initiate Identity Hub\u2009\u2122 software"]},{"entry":[{},"stores using the primary Initiate\u2009\u2122 data types."]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"center"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":"mpi_segattr Attribute Descriptions"}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"49pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"168pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Attribute","Description"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["caudrecno","Creation of this particular record, from mpi_audhead"]},{"entry":["maudrecno","Last time the record value was modified, from"]},{"entry":[{},"mpi_audhead"]},{"entry":["recstat","Record status - \u2018A\u2019ctive, \u2018I\u2019nactive, \u2018D\u2019eleted, \u2018S\u2019hadow"]},{"entry":["attrrecno","Attribute record number - Surrogate key for attrcode"]},{"entry":["memtypeno","Member type"]},{"entry":["segcode","Storage segment code from mpi_seghead (specifies"]},{"entry":[{},"physical table)"]},{"entry":["attrcode","Attribute code - primary key for this table"]},{"entry":["attrname","Attribute name"]},{"entry":["attrlabel","Attribute label, can be used for reports or interactive"]},{"entry":[{},"screen displays"]},{"entry":["attrdesc","Longer text description of the attribute"]},{"entry":["edtcode","Enumerated data type, if applicable, from mpi_edthead"]},{"entry":["isvirtual","Flag indicating if this segment is physical or virtual"]},{"entry":["adtrole","Abstract Data Type Role - unused at this time"]},{"entry":["nsactive","Number of allowable active-status instances for an"]},{"entry":[{},"attribute type (applies at a memrecno-atterecno-"]},{"entry":[{},"asaidxno level).*"]},{"entry":["nsexists","The maximum number of a member's attrcodes instances"]},{"entry":[{},"(applies at a memrecno-atterecno-asaidxno level). The"]},{"entry":[{},"system trims off any instances greater than this number.*"]},{"entry":["msfilter","Status filter for records"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"left"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":"*Special Values"},{"entry":"nsactive:"}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"203pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["\u20020","Determines the number of active values to maintain for this"]},{"entry":[{},"member. 0 or 1 retains one active value of an attribute"]},{"entry":[{},"type; the MCA attribute is the active attribute and all previous"]},{"entry":[{},"values become inactive. 2 maintains two active values, and so on."]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"left"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":"nsexists:"}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"203pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["\u20020","0 = no restriction on the number of attribute values stored for"]},{"entry":[{},"member; do not trim off any historical attribute values."]},{"entry":[">0","Any number above 0 tells the system to trim (delete) any"]},{"entry":[{},"historical attribute values above that number. For instance,"]},{"entry":[{},"if nsexists is set to 3, there are 3 values for the HOMEADDR"]},{"entry":[{},"attribute. If a member is updated to add a 4, then"]},{"entry":[{},"the oldest value is deleted."]}]}}]}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0052","num":"0051"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00004","num":"00004"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","pgwide":"1"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"378pt","align":"center"}},"thead":{"row":{"entry":"TABLE 4"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":"mpi_seghead"}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"10"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"42pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"28pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"49pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"6","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"7","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"8","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"9","colwidth":"42pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"10","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["caudrecno","maudrecno","recstat","segrecno","segcode","segname","objcode","hasattr","engineonly","segverno"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"10","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"10"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"35pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"42pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"28pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"35pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"49pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"6","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"7","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"8","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"9","colwidth":"42pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"10","colwidth":"35pt","align":"char","char":"."}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["1","1","A","1","SYSKEY","mpi_syskey","dic","N","N","0"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","2","SYSPROP","mpi_sysprop","dic","N","Y","0"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","3","APPHEAD","mpi_apphead","dic","N","N","0"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","4","APPPROP","mpi_appprop","dic","N","N","0"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","5","APPDATA","mpi_appdata","dic","N","N","0"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","6","SEQGEN","mpi_seqgen","dic","N","Y","0"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","7","STRHEAD","mpi_strhead","dic","N","N","0"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","8","STRXSTR","mpi_strxstr","dic","N","N","0"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","9","STRANON","mpi_stranon","dic","N","N","0"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","10","STREQUI","mpi_strequi","dic","N","N","0"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","11","STRFREQ","mpi_strfreq","dic","N","N","0"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","12","STRWORD","mpi_strword","dic","N","N","0"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","13","STREDIT","mpi_stredit","dic","N","N","0"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","14","STRNBKT","mpi_strnbkt","dic","N","N","0"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","15","STRSBKT","mpi_strsbkt","dic","N","N","0"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","16","WGTHEAD","mpi_wgthead","dic","N","N","0"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","17","WGTXWGT","mpi_wgtxwgt","dic","N","N","0"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","18","WGT1DIM","mpi_wgt1dim","dic","N","N","0"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","19","WGT2DIM","mpi_wgt2dim","dic","N","N","0"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","20","WGT3DIM","mpi_wgt3dim","dic","N","N","0"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","21","WGT4DIM","mpi_wgt4dim","dic","N","N","0"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","22","WGTNVAL","mpi_wgtnval","dic","N","N","0"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","23","WGTSVAL","mpi_wgtsval","dic","N","N","0"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","24","EDTHEAD","mpi_edthead","dic","N","N","0"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","25","EDTELEM","mpi_edtelem","dic","N","N","0"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","26","LIBHEAD","mpi_libhead","dic","N","N","0"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","27","STDFUNC","mpi_stdfunc","dic","N","N","0"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","28","DVDFUNC","mpi_dvdfunc","dic","N","N","0"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","29","BKTFUNC","mpi_bktfunc","dic","N","N","0"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","30","CMPFUNC","mpi_cmpfunc","dic","N","N","0"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","31","EXCFUNC","mpi_excfunc","dic","N","N","0"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","32","DVDHEAD","mpi_dvdhead","dic","N","N","0"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","33","DVDXSTD","mpi_dvdxstd","dic","N","N","0"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","34","DVDXCMP","mpi_dvdxcmp","dic","N","N","0"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","35","DVDXQRY","mpi_dvdxqry","dic","N","N","0"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","36","DVDXBKT","mpi_dvdxbkt","dic","N","N","0"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","37","DVDYBKT","mpi_dvdybkt","dic","N","N","0"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","38","CMPHEAD","mpi_cmphead","dic","N","N","0"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","39","CMPSPEC","mpi_cmpspec","dic","N","N","0"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","40","EXCHEAD","mpi_exchead","dic","N","N","0"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","41","EXCSPEC","mpi_excspec","dic","N","N","0"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","42","EVTTYPE","mpi_evttype","dic","N","N","0"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","43","ENTTYPE","mpi_enttype","dic","N","N","0"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","44","MEMTYPE","mpi_memtype","dic","N","N","0"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","45","MEMSTAT","mpi_memstat","dic","N","N","0"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","46","EIATYPE","mpi_eiatype","dic","N","N","0"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","47","EIASTAT","mpi_eiastat","dic","N","N","0"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","48","TSKTYPE","mpi_tsktype","dic","N","N","0"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","49","TSKSTAT","mpi_tskstat","dic","N","N","0"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","50","IXNHEAD","mpi_ixnhead","dic","N","Y","0"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","51","SEGHEAD","mpi_seghead","dic","N","Y","0"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","52","SEGATTR","mpi_segattr","dic","N","N","0"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","53","SEGXFLD","mpi_segxfld","dic","N","N","0"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","54","SRCHEAD","mpi_srchead","dic","N","N","0"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","65","SRCATTR","mpi_srcattr","dic","N","N","0"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","66","SRCXENT","mpi_srcxent","dic","N","N","0"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","55","SRCXSRC","mpi_srcxsrc","dic","N","N","0"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","56","CVWHEAD","mpi_cvwhead","dic","N","N","0"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","57","CVWXSEG","mpi_cvwxseg","dic","N","N","0"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","58","GRPHEAD","mpi_grphead","dic","N","N","0"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","59","GRPXIXN","mpi_grpxixn","dic","N","N","0"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","60","GRPXCVW","mpi_grpxcvw","dic","N","N","0"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","61","GRPXSEG","mpi_grpxseg","dic","N","N","0"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","62","USRHEAD","mpi_usrhead","dic","N","N","0"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","63","USRXGRP","mpi_usrxgrp","dic","N","N","0"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","64","USRPROP","mpi_usrprop","dic","N","N","0"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","101","MEMHEAD","mpi_memhead","mem","N","N","0"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","102","MEMBKTD","mpi_membktd","mem","N","Y","0"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","103","MEMCMPD","mpi_memcmpd","mem","N","Y","0"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","104","MEMQRYD","mpi_memqryd","mem","N","Y","0"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","111","MEMIQUE","mpi_memique","mem","N","Y","0"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","112","MEMOQUE","mpi_memoque","mem","N","Y","0"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","113","MEMNOTE","mpi_memnote","mem","N","N","0"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","114","MEMXEIA","mpi_memxeia","mem","N","N","0"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","115","MEMXTSK","mpi_memxtsk","mem","N","N","0"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","116","MEMLINK","mpi_memlink","mem","N","N","0"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","117","MEMRULE","mpi_memrule","mem","N","N","0"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","121","ENTIQUE","mpi_entique","mem","N","Y","0"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","122","ENTOQUE","mpi_entoque","mem","N","Y","0"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","123","ENTNOTE","mpi_entnote","mem","N","N","0"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","124","ENTXEIA","mpi_entxeia","mem","N","N","0"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","125","ENTXTSK","mpi_entxtsk","mem","N","N","0"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","126","ENTLINK","mpi_entlink","mem","N","N","0"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","127","ENTRULE","mpi_entrule","mem","N","N","0"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","131","MEMATTR","mpi_memattr","mem","Y","N","0"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","132","MEMENUM","mpi_memenum","mem","Y","N","0"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","133","MEMNAME","mpi_memname","mem","Y","N","0"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","134","MEMADDR","mpi_memaddr","mem","Y","N","0"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","135","MEMPHONE","mpi_memphon","mem","Y","N","0"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","137","MEMIDENT","mpi_memident","mem","Y","N","0"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","138","MEMDATE","mpi_memdate","mem","Y","N","0"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","139","MEMTEXT","mpi_memtext","mem","Y","N","0"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","140","MEMOREF","mpi_memoref","mem","Y","N","0"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","141","MEMAPPT","mpi_memappt","mem","Y","N","0"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","142","MEMELIG","mpi_memelig","mem","Y","N","0"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","143","MEMDRUG","mpi_memdrug","mem","Y","N","0"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","144","MEMCONT","mpi_memcont","mem","Y","N","0"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","145","MEMEXTA","mpi_memexta","mem","Y","N","0"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","146","MEMEXTB","mpi_memextb","mem","Y","N","0"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","147","MEMEXTC","mpi_memextc","mem","Y","N","0"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","148","MEMEXTD","mpi_memextd","mem","Y","N","0"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","149","MEMEXTE","mpi_memexte","mem","Y","N","0"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","201","AUDHEAD","mpi_audhead","aud","N","Y","0"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","202","AUDATTR","mpi_audattr","aud","N","Y","0"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","203","AUDXMEM","mpi_audxmem","aud","N","Y","0"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"10","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0053","num":"0052"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00005","num":"00005"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","pgwide":"1"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"441pt","align":"center"}},"thead":{"row":{"entry":"TABLE 5"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":"mpi_segxfld"}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"12"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"42pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"28pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"49pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"6","colwidth":"49pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"7","colwidth":"49pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"8","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"9","colwidth":"28pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"10","colwidth":"28pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"11","colwidth":"28pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"12","colwidth":"28pt","align":"center"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},{},{},"fld-",{},"isre-",{}]},{"entry":["caudrecno","maudrecno","recstat","segcode","fldseqno","fldname","fldlabel","fldtype","length","ispkey","quired","isvirtual"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"12","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"12"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"35pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"42pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"28pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"49pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"35pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"6","colwidth":"49pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"7","colwidth":"49pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"8","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"9","colwidth":"28pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"10","colwidth":"28pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"11","colwidth":"28pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"12","colwidth":"28pt","align":"center"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["1","1","A","MEMATTR","1","attrval","attrVal","CHAR","128","N","Y","N"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","MEMENUM","1","elemrecno","elemRecno","UDWORD","0","N","Y","N"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","MEMENUM","2","elemval","elemVal","CHAR","40","N","Y","Y"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","MEMNAME","1","onmlast","onmLast","CHAR","75","N","N","N"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","MEMNAME","2","onmfirst","onmFirst","CHAR","30","N","N","N"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","MEMNAME","3","onmmiddle","onmMiddle","CHAR","30","N","N","N"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","MEMNAME","4","onmprefix","onmPrefix","CHAR","10","N","N","N"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","MEMNAME","5","onmsuffix","onmSuffix","CHAR","10","N","N","N"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","MEMNAME","6","onmdegree","onmDegree","CHAR","10","N","N","N"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","MEMNAME","7","onmtitle","onmTitle","CHAR","20","N","N","N"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","MEMADDR","1","stline1","stLine1","CHAR","75","N","N","N"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","MEMADDR","2","stline2","stLine2","CHAR","75","N","N","N"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","MEMADDR","3","stline3","stLine3","CHAR","75","N","N","N"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","MEMADDR","4","stline4","stLine4","CHAR","75","N","N","N"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","MEMADDR","5","city","city","CHAR","30","N","N","N"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","MEMADDR","6","state","state","CHAR","15","N","N","N"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","MEMADDR","7","zipcode","zipCode","CHAR","10","N","N","N"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","MEMADDR","8","country","country","CHAR","3","N","N","N"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","MEMADDR","9","geotext1","geoText1","CHAR","40","N","N","N"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","MEMADDR","10","geocode1","geoCode1","CHAR","8","N","N","N"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","MEMADDR","11","geocode2","geoCode2","CHAR","8","N","N","N"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","MEMPHONE","1","phicc","phIcc","CHAR","3","N","N","N"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","MEMPHONE","2","pharea","phArea","CHAR","5","N","N","N"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","MEMPHONE","3","phnumber","phNumber","CHAR","20","N","Y","N"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","MEMPHONE","4","phextn","phExtn","CHAR","6","N","N","N"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","MEMPHONE","5","phcmnt","phCmnt","CHAR","20","N","N","N"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","MEMIDENT","1","idsrcrecno","idSrcRecno","UDWORD","0","N","Y","N"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","MEMIDENT","2","idissuer","idIssuer","CHAR","12","N","Y","Y"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","MEMIDENT","3","idnumber","idNumber","CHAR","40","N","Y","N"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","MEMIDENT","4","idexpdate","idExpDate","DTTM","0","N","N","N"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","MEMDATE","1","dateval","dateVal","CHAR","19","N","Y","N"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","MEMTEXT","1","textval","textVal","CHAR","32767","N","Y","N"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","MEMOREF","1","objrecno","objRecno","UDWORD","0","N","Y","N"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","MEMAPPT","1","apsrcrecno","apSrcRecno","UDWORD","0","N","Y","N"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","MEMAPPT","2","apissuer","apIssuer","CHAR","12","N","Y","Y"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","MEMAPPT","3","apnumber","apNumber","CHAR","40","N","Y","N"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","MEMAPPT","4","apstime","apStime","DTTM","0","N","Y","N"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","MEMAPPT","5","resid","resId","CHAR","20","N","N","N"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","MEMAPPT","6","resloc","resLoc","CHAR","20","N","N","N"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","MEMAPPT","7","resdept","resDept","CHAR","20","N","N","N"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","MEMELIG","1","onmlast","onmLast","CHAR","75","N","N","N"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","MEMELIG","2","onmfirst","onmFirst","CHAR","30","N","N","N"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","MEMELIG","3","onmmiddle","onmMiddle","CHAR","30","N","N","N"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","MEMELIG","4","onmprefix","onmPrefix","CHAR","10","N","N","N"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","MEMELIG","5","onmsuffix","onmSuffix","CHAR","10","N","N","N"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","MEMELIG","6","onmdegree","onmDegree","CHAR","10","N","N","N"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","MEMELIG","7","stline1","stLine1","CHAR","75","N","N","N"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","MEMELIG","8","stline2","stLine2","CHAR","75","N","N","N"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","MEMELIG","9","city","city","CHAR","30","N","N","N"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","MEMELIG","10","state","state","CHAR","15","N","N","N"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","MEMELIG","11","zipcode","zipCode","CHAR","15","N","N","N"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","MEMELIG","12","country","country","CHAR","3","N","N","N"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","MEMELIG","13","geotext1","geoText1","CHAR","40","N","N","N"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","MEMELIG","14","geocode1","geoCode1","CHAR","8","N","N","N"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","MEMELIG","15","geocode2","geoCode2","CHAR","8","N","N","N"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","MEMELIG","16","phicc","phIcc","CHAR","3","N","N","N"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","MEMELIG","17","pharea","phArea","CHAR","5","N","N","N"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","MEMELIG","18","phnumber","phNumber","CHAR","13","N","N","N"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","MEMELIG","19","phextn","phExtn","CHAR","6","N","N","N"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","MEMELIG","20","phcmnt","phCmnt","CHAR","20","N","N","N"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","MEMELIG","21","dob","dob","DTTM","0","N","N","N"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","MEMELIG","22","ssn","ssn","CHAR","9","N","N","N"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","MEMELIG","23","sex","sex","CHAR","1","N","N","N"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","MEMELIG","24","percode","perCode","CHAR","3","N","N","N"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","MEMELIG","25","insgroup","insGroup","CHAR","20","N","N","N"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","MEMELIG","26","insplan","insPlan","CHAR","20","N","N","N"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","MEMELIG","27","eligdate","eligDate","DTTM","0","N","N","N"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","MEMELIG","28","termdate","termDate","DTTM","0","N","N","N"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","MEMDRUG","1","onmlast","onmLast","CHAR","75","N","N","N"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","MEMDRUG","2","onmfirst","onmFirst","CHAR","30","N","N","N"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","MEMDRUG","3","onmmiddle","onmMiddle","CHAR","30","N","N","N"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","MEMDRUG","4","dob","dob","DTTM","0","N","N","N"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","MEMDRUG","5","ssn","ssn","CHAR","9","N","N","N"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","MEMDRUG","6","sex","sex","CHAR","1","N","N","N"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","MEMDRUG","7","percode","perCode","CHAR","3","N","N","N"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","MEMDRUG","8","rxnumber","rxNumber","CHAR","7","N","N","N"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","MEMDRUG","9","refillnumber","refillNumber","UWORD","0","N","N","N"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","MEMDRUG","10","totalrefills","totalRefills","UWORD","0","N","N","N"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","MEMDRUG","11","pharmacyid","pharmacyId","CHAR","17","N","N","N"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","MEMDRUG","12","datefilled","dateFilled","DTTM","0","N","N","N"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","MEMDRUG","13","drugcode","drugCode","CHAR","21","N","N","N"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","MEMDRUG","14","quantity","quantity","UDWORD","0","N","N","N"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","MEMDRUG","15","dayssupply","daysSupply","UWORD","0","N","N","N"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","MEMDRUG","16","prescriberid","prescriberId","CHAR","17","N","N","N"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","MEMCONT","1","ctrname","ctrName","CHAR","60","N","N","N"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","MEMCONT","2","ctrid","ctrId","CHAR","12","N","N","N"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","MEMCONT","3","ctrmasname","ctrMasName","CHAR","60","N","N","N"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","MEMCONT","4","ctrmasid","ctrMasId","CHAR","12","N","N","N"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","MEMCONT","5","ctrlob","ctrLob","CHAR","12","N","N","N"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","MEMCONT","6","ctrcenter","ctrCenter","CHAR","10","N","N","N"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","MEMCONT","7","ctrnetwork","ctrNetwork","CHAR","12","N","N","N"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","MEMCONT","8","ctrdeal","ctrDeal","CHAR","6","N","N","N"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","MEMCONT","9","ctrcisid","ctrCisId","CHAR","9","N","N","N"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","MEMCONT","10","ctrseqnum","ctrSeqNum","CHAR","3","N","N","N"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","MEMCONT","11","ctrparcd","ctrParCd","CHAR","9","N","N","N"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","MEMCONT","12","ctrmarket","ctrMarket","CHAR","12","N","N","N"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","MEMCONT","13","ctreffdate","ctrEffDate","DTTM","0","N","N","N"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","MEMCONT","14","ctrenddate","ctrEndDate","DTTM","0","N","N","N"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","MEMEXTA","1","subidnum","subIdnum","CHAR","60","N","N","N"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","MEMEXTA","2","hpmemidnum","hpMemIdnum","CHAR","30","N","N","N"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","MEMEXTA","3","hpsubidnum","hpSubIdnum","CHAR","30","N","N","N"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","MEMEXTA","4","hppolidnum","hpPolIdnum","CHAR","30","N","N","N"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","MEMEXTA","5","memexpdate","memExpDate","DTTM","0","N","N","N"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","MEMEXTA","6","empname","empName","CHAR","35","N","N","N"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","MEMEXTA","7","onmlast","onmLast","CHAR","75","N","N","N"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","MEMEXTA","8","onmfirst","onmFirst","CHAR","30","N","N","N"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","MEMEXTA","9","onmmiddle","onmMiddle","CHAR","30","N","N","N"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","MEMEXTA","10","onmprefix","onmPrefix","CHAR","10","N","N","N"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","MEMEXTA","11","onmsuffix","onmSuffix","CHAR","10","N","N","N"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","MEMEXTA","12","dob","dob","DTTM","0","N","N","N"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","MEMEXTA","13","sex","sex","CHAR","1","N","N","N"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","MEMEXTA","14","ssn","ssn","CHAR","9","N","N","N"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","MEMEXTA","15","stline1","stLine1","CHAR","60","N","N","N"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","MEMEXTA","16","stline2","stLine2","CHAR","60","N","N","N"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","MEMEXTA","17","city","city","CHAR","30","N","N","N"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","MEMEXTA","18","state","state","CHAR","2","N","N","N"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","MEMEXTA","19","zipcode","zipCode","CHAR","15","N","N","N"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","MEMEXTA","20","country","country","CHAR","3","N","N","N"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","MEMEXTA","21","comtype1","comType1","CHAR","2","N","N","N"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","MEMEXTA","22","comdata1","comData1","CHAR","80","N","N","N"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","MEMEXTA","23","comtype2","comType2","CHAR","2","N","N","N"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","MEMEXTA","24","comdata2","comData2","CHAR","80","N","N","N"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","MEMEXTA","25","comtype3","comType3","CHAR","2","N","N","N"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","MEMEXTA","26","comdata3","comData3","CHAR","80","N","N","N"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","MEMEXTB","1","txnid","txnID","UDWORD","0","N","Y","N"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","MEMEXTB","2","propcode","propCode","CHAR","8","N","Y","N"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","MEMEXTB","3","doa","doa","DTTM","0","N","Y","N"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","MEMEXTB","4","cctype","ccType","CHAR","2","N","Y","N"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","MEMEXTB","5","ccexpdate","ccExpDate","CHAR","8","N","Y","N"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","MEMEXTB","6","ccnumber","ccNumber","CHAR","40","N","Y","N"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","MEMEXTC","1","acctnumber","acctNumber","CHAR","20","N","N","N"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","MEMEXTC","2","encdate","encDate","DTTM","0","N","N","N"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","MEMEXTC","3","disdate","disDate","DTTM","0","N","N","N"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","MEMEXTC","4","pattype","patType","CHAR","20","N","N","N"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","MEMEXTC","5","svctype","svcType","CHAR","20","N","N","N"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","MEMEXTC","6","svcloc","svcLoc","CHAR","20","N","N","N"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","MEMEXTC","7","phys1","phys1","CHAR","20","N","N","N"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","MEMEXTC","8","phys2","phys2","CHAR","20","N","N","N"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","MEMEXTC","9","plan1","plan1","CHAR","20","N","N","N"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","MEMEXTC","10","plan2","plan2","CHAR","20","N","N","N"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","MEMEXTC","11","user1","user1","CHAR","20","N","N","N"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","MEMEXTC","12","user2","user2","CHAR","20","N","N","N"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","MEMEXTD","1","secidnum","secIdnum","CHAR","18","N","N","N"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","MEMEXTD","2","onmlast","onmLast","CHAR","18","N","N","N"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","MEMEXTD","3","onmfirst","onmFirst","CHAR","18","N","N","N"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","MEMEXTD","4","onmmiddle","onmMiddle","CHAR","18","N","N","N"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","MEMEXTD","5","onmsuffix","onmSuffix","CHAR","4","N","N","N"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","MEMEXTD","6","ssn","ssn","CHAR","11","N","N","N"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","MEMEXTD","7","sex","sex","CHAR","1","N","N","N"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","MEMEXTD","8","dob","dob","DTTM","0","N","N","N"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","MEMEXTD","9","stline1","stLine1","CHAR","30","N","N","N"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","MEMEXTD","10","stline2","stLine2","CHAR","30","N","N","N"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","MEMEXTD","11","city","city","CHAR","17","N","N","N"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","MEMEXTD","12","state","state","CHAR","2","N","N","N"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","MEMEXTD","13","zipcode","zipCode","CHAR","10","N","N","N"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","MEMEXTD","14","phone","phone","CHAR","12","N","N","N"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","MEMEXTD","15","expind","expInd","CHAR","1","N","N","N"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","MEMEXTD","16","expdate","expDate","DTTM","0","N","N","N"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","MEMEXTD","17","moddate","modDate","DTTM","0","N","N","N"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","MEMEXTE","1","accnum","accNum","CHAR","20","N","Y","N"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","MEMEXTE","2","studate","stuDate","DTTM","0","N","N","N"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","MEMEXTE","3","studyId","studyId","CHAR","64","N","N","N"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","MEMEXTE","4","refphys","refPhys","CHAR","40","N","N","N"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","MEMEXTE","5","studesc","stuDesc","CHAR","64","N","N","N"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","MEMEXTE","6","stumod","stuMod","CHAR","60","N","N","N"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","MEMEXTE","7","frmcnt","frmCnt","UDWORD","0","N","N","N"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","MEMEXTE","8","pacsid","pacsId","CHAR","180","N","N","N"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"12","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0054","num":"0053"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00006","num":"00006"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","orient":"land"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"574pt","align":"center"}},"thead":{"row":{"entry":"TABLE 6"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":"mpi_segattr"}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"16"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"42pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"28pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"42pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"6","colwidth":"49pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"7","colwidth":"49pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"8","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"9","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"10","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"11","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"12","colwidth":"28pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"13","colwidth":"28pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"14","colwidth":"28pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"15","colwidth":"28pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"16","colwidth":"28pt","align":"center"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["caudrecno","maudrecno","recstat","attrrecno","memtypeno","segcode","attrcode","attrname","attrlabel","attrdesc","edtcode","isvirtual","adtrole","nsactive","nsexists","msfilter"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"16","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"16"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"35pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"42pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"28pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"35pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"42pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"6","colwidth":"49pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"7","colwidth":"49pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"8","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"9","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"10","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"11","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"12","colwidth":"28pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"13","colwidth":"28pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"14","colwidth":"28pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"15","colwidth":"28pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"16","colwidth":"28pt","align":"center"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["1","1","A","11","1","MEMATTR","SEX","Sex","Sex","Sex","SEX","N","0","1","0","A"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","12","1","MEMATTR","RACE","Race","Race","Race","RACE","N","0","1","0","A"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","13","1","MEMATTR","MARSTAT","Marital","Marital","Marital","NULL","N","0","1","0","A"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},{},"Status","Status","Status"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","14","1","MEMATTR","RELIGION","Religion","Religion","Religion","NULL","N","0","1","0","A"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","15","1","MEMATTR","LANGUAGE","Language","Language","Language","NULL","N","0","1","0","A"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","16","1","MEMATTR","FACILIY","Facility","Facility","Facility","NULL","N","0","1","0","A"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","17","1","MEMATTR","OPERID","Registrar","Registrar","Registrar","NULL","N","0","1","0","A"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","18","1","MEMATTR","LOCATN","Location","Location","Location","NULL","N","0","1","0","A"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","19","1","MEMNAME","LGLNAME","Legal","Legal","Legal","NULL","N","0","1","0","A"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},{},"Name","Name","Name"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","20","1","MEMADDR","HOMEADDR","Home","Home","Home","NULL","N","0","1","0","A"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},{},"Address","Address","Address"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","21","1","MEMPHONE","HOMEPHON","Home","Home","Home","NULL","N","0","1","0","A"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},{},"Telephone","Telephone","Telephone"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","22","1","MEMPHONE","WORKPHON","Work","Work","Work","NULL","N","0","0","0","A"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},{},"Telephone","Telephone","Telephone"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","23","1","MEMIDENT","SSN","Social","Social","Social","NULL","N","0","1","0","A"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},{},"Security","Security","Security"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","24","1","MEMIDENT","PTENTRID","Enterprise","Enterprise","Enterprise","NULL","N","0","1","0","A"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},{},"ID","ID","ID"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","25","1","MEMIDENT","PTCHRTID","Chart","Chart","Chart","NULL","N","0","0","0","A"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},{},"ID","ID","ID"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","26","1","MEMIDENT","MRN","Medical","Medical","Medical","NULL","N","0","0","0","A"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},{},"Record","Record","Record"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},{},"Number","Number","Number"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","27","1","MEMDATE","BIRTHDT","Birth","Birth","Birth","NULL","N","0","1","0","A"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},{},"Date","Date","Date"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","28","1","MEMDATE","DEATHDT","Death","Death","Death","NULL","N","0","0","0","A"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},{},"Date","Date","Date"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","29","1","MEMNAME","PCPNAME","Primary","Primary","Primary","NULL","N","0","1","0","A"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},{},"Care","Care","Care"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},{},"Provider","Provider","Provider"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","30","1","MEMATTR","PCPLICID","Primary","Primary","Primary","NULL","N","0","1","0","A"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},{},"Care","Care","Care"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},{},"Provider","Provider","Provider"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},{},"License","License","License"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},{},"Id","Id","Id"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","31","1","MEMATTR","PCPPRAC","Primary","Primary","Primary","NULL","N","0","1","0","A"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},{},"Care","Care","Care"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},{},"Provider","Provider","Provider"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},{},"Practice","Practice","Practice"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},{},"Name","Name","Name"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","32","1","MEMPHONE","PCPPHN","Primary","Primary","Primary","NULL","N","0","1","0","A"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},{},"Care","Care","Care"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},{},"Provider","Provider","Provider"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},{},"Phone","Phone","Phone"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","33","1","MEMATTR","PCPDEAID","Primary","Primary","Primary","NULL","N","0","1","0","A"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},{},"Care","Care","Care"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},{},"Provider","Provider","Provider"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},{},"DEA Id","DEA Id","DEA Id"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","34","1","MEMATTR","PCPSPEC","Primary","Primary","Primary","NULL","N","0","1","0","A"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},{},"Care","Care","Care"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},{},"Provider","Provider","Provider"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},{},"Specialty","Specialty","Specialty"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","41","1","MEMATTR","ENCACCT","Encounter","Encounter","Encounter","NULL","N","0","0","0","A"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},{},"Acct","Acct","Acct"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},{},"Number","Number","Number"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","42","1","MEMDATE","ENCADM","Encounter","Encounter","Encounter","NULL","N","0","0","0","A"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},{},"Start Date","Start Date","Start Date"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","43","1","MEMDATE","ENCDIS","Encounter","Encounter","Encounter","NULL","N","0","0","0","A"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},{},"End Date","End Date","End Date"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","44","1","MEMATTR","ENCPAID","Encounter","Encounter","Encounter","NULL","N","0","0","0","A"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},{},"Paid","Paid","Paid"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","45","1","MEMATTR","ENCPTYPE","Encounter","Encounter","Encounter","NULL","N","0","0","0","A"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},{},"Patient","Patient","Patient"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},{},"Type","Type","Type"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","46","1","MEMATTR","ENCDIAG","Encounter","Encounter","Encounter","NULL","N","0","0","0","A"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},{},"Diagnosis","Diagnosis","Diagnosis"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","51","1","MEMNAME","GTNAME","Guarantor","Guarantor","Guarantor","NULL","N","0","0","0","A"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},{},"Name","Name","Name"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","52","1","MEMDATE","GTDOB","Guarantor","Guarantor","Guarantor","NULL","N","0","0","0","A"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},{},"Birthdate","Birthdate","Birthdate"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","53","1","MEMADDR","GTHADDR","Guarantor","Guarantor","Guarantor","NULL","N","0","0","0","A"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},{},"Home","Home","Home"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},{},"Address","Address","Address"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","54","1","MEMATTR","GTINSNM","Guarantor","Guarantor","Guarantor","NULL","N","0","0","0","A"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},{},"Ins Name","Ins Name","Ins Name"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","55","1","MEMATTR","GTINSPOL","Guarantor","Guarantor","Guarantor","NULL","N","0","0","0","A"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},{},"Ins Policy","Ins Policy","Ins Policy"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},{},"Number","Number","Number"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","56","1","MEMATTR","GTINSCOV","Guarantor","Guarantor","Guarantor","NULL","N","0","0","0","A"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},{},"Ins","Ins","Ins"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},{},"Coverage","Coverage","Coverage"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","57","1","MEMATTR","GTEMPNM","Guarantor","Guarantor","Guarantor","NULL","N","0","0","0","A"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},{},"Employer","Employer","Employer"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},{},"Name","Name","Name"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","58","1","MEMATTR","GTOCC","Guarantor","Guarantor","Guarantor","NULL","N","0","0","0","A"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},{},"Occupation","Occupation","Occupation"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","59","1","MEMIDENT","GTSSN","Guarantor","Guarantor","Guarantor","NULL","N","0","0","0","A"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},{},"SSN","SSN","SSN"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","60","1","MEMAPPT","APPT","APPT","APPT","APPT","NULL","N","0","0","0","A"]},{"entry":["1","1","A","61","1","MEMEXTC","ENCNTR","Encounter","Encounter","Encounter","NULL","N","0","0","0","A"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},{},"Information","Information","Information"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"16","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}},"Part of the IDS metadata defines how the data should be stored and persisted in a database. The mpi_seghead table gives the table name, and the segXfld table identifies the field name, the field data type, and field length (if needed). The tables defined above include flags which allow a user to define a segment that contains virtual fields, or virtual attributes. At a field level, the mpi_segxfld.isvirtual flag defines whether or not a data field should be stored. If it is marked as virtual, the Identity Hub engine will create space to store values, and will transport the values to and from any calling client application, but it will not save those values in the database. At an attribute level, the mpi_segattr.isvirtual flag says that the Identity Hub should not store the entire attribute. The IDS meta-data stores a generic data type that is not specific to any given relational database that the Identity Hub has been ported to. A mechanism in the Identity Hub engine translates from this generic data type to a RDBMS specific type through the use of a lookup file that is contained outside the database. A sample section of this file for the Oracle database is given below:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0056","num":"0055"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00007","num":"00007"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"center"}},"thead":{"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":"[ORACLE]"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":{}}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"49pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"154pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"integer =","number(10)"]},{"entry":[{},"smallint =","number(5)"]},{"entry":[{},"date =","date"]},{"entry":[{},"time =","date"]},{"entry":[{},"datetime =","date"]},{"entry":[{},"varchar =","varchar2(%s)"]},{"entry":[{},"char =","char(%s)"]},{"entry":[{},"bigtext =","long"]},{"entry":[{},"truncate =","truncate table %s"]},{"entry":[{},"optimize =","analyze table %s delete statistics"]},{"entry":[{},"optimize2 =","analyze table %s compute statistics for all indexes"]},{"entry":[{},"loader =","sqlldr"]},{"entry":[{},"tablist =","select table_name from user_tables"]},{"entry":[{},"idxlist =","select index_name from user_indexes"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}}]}}},"The IDS sub-system looks up the generic data type on the left from the mpi_segxfld table, and it is translated to the RDBMS specific type on the right. The reason this file is not stored in the database is that Engine  needs the RDBMS specific types prior to creating the segment metadata tables when the system is first installed. Hub  has utility programs that can create a database from the generic data types for any RDBMS that Hub  has been ported to. When defining a new segment, Manager  will export the generic DDL statement used to make the database specific table and indexes. An example is show below for a fictional customer segment that contains a customer name, phone number, a customer id number, and date that shows when the customer first started doing business:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0058","num":"0057"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00008","num":"00008"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"left"}},"thead":{"row":{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":"-- -------------------------------------------------"},{"entry":"-- Generated via Initiate Identity Hub Manager"},{"entry":"--"},{"entry":"T|MEM|mpi_memcust|IDS Generated Table|"},{"entry":"C|MEM|mpi_memcust|memrecno|integer|0|N|member record number|"},{"entry":"C|MEM|mpi_memcust|memseqno|smallint|0|N|member record"},{"entry":"sequence number|"},{"entry":"C|MEM|mpi_memcust|caudrecno|integer|0|N|create audit record number|"},{"entry":"C|MEM|mpi_memcust|maudrecno|integer|0|N|modify audit record"},{"entry":"number|"},{"entry":"C|MEM|mpi_memcust|recstat|char|1|N|record status: active,"},{"entry":"inactive, deleted|"},{"entry":"C|MEM|mpi_memcust|attrrecno|smallint|0|N|attribute record number|"},{"entry":"C|MEM|mpi_memcust|asaidxno|smallint|0|N|attribute"},{"entry":"sparse array index number|"},{"entry":"C|MEM|mpi_memcust|custname|varchar|40|Y|SEGXFLD generated|"},{"entry":"C|MEM|mpi_memcust|custid|integer|0|N|SEGXFLD generated|"},{"entry":"C|MEM|mpi_memcust|custphone|varchar|20|Y|SEGXFLD generated|"},{"entry":"C|MEM|mpi_memcust|custsince|datetime|0|Y|SEGXFLD generated|"},{"entry":"I|MEM|mpi_memcust|mpi_memcust|U|memrecno,memseqno||"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}},"The generated DDL statement above contains not only the fields defined by the user, but also the fields used to join this data table to the rest of the data model of Hub  and to provide for attribute-level auditing. The additional scaffolding is generated automatically and may change as future versions of Hub  may need to change the data model. As discussed above, these Data Definition Language (DDL) statements are sent to the file system instead of the database, so that they can be used to create the empty tables before the database is fully populated.","In some embodiments, every segment used by Hub  could be built by the IDS technology disclosed herein. In some embodiments, the scope of the IDS capability of Manager  is limited to a sub-section of the data model called Member Attributes. Member Attributes are data segments that contain the demographic data used for comparison by Hub . They are the most likely point in the data model for a customer to want to customize or add additional capability. However, as one skilled in the art can appreciate, the scope of the IDS capability may be extended to include all but a small kernel of segments that will need to remain pre-defined so that the system may bootstrap itself at startup.","In some embodiments, Manager  is programmed to enable an implementer or an administrator to define Implementation Defined Segments and the attributes that use these segments. As an example,  show screenshots of the dialogs where the MEMCUST example segment was defined. Specifically,  shows a screenshot of one embodiment of an Add Segment component of Manager . The first dialog as shown in  defines the MEMCUST example segment. The database independent DDL example shown above can be generated by selecting (clicking on) the Generate DDL button (icon). A field can be added, updated, or deleted by selecting an appropriate button or icon.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0062","num":"0061"},"figref":["FIG. 9","FIG. 9"],"b":["330","802"]},"The IDS subsystem described above provides a way to programmatically access the IDS metadata and determine what data segments are available, and what data fields they are made up of. Hub  includes a set of programming APIs (Application Programming Interfaces) as libraries that can be called from the C++ or Java programming language. These same APIs are used on pre-built applications so they can adapt to new data segments in the same manner that a custom built client application would. In some embodiments, the APIs have metadata classes that allow a programmer to find out at run-time how many segments are defined in the system, and for each of those segments, what fields and data types are they made up of. Additional classes allow the creation of an Implementation Defined Segment, and access to the data in each of the fields in either its native data type or as a generic string representation. When writing data to Hub , the programmer most often knows the shape of the attribute (what fields exist and their data type). In some cases, the incoming data may be in string format. and the API can convert it to the proper underlying data type for the caller. The dictionary store contains the metadata required to figure out what attribute is linked to a particular segment and the API will ensure that the proper amount of storage to hold that segment is allocated. By interrogating the metadata tables, knowledge of the shape of a particular segment can be obtained, as well as the number of segments defined (e.g., for an embodiment of Engine ).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0064","num":"0063"},"figref":"FIG. 10","b":["100","12","16","12","300","16","300","12","340"]},"When a user initiates an action (e.g., a retrieve), a specific interaction (e.g., MEMGET) sends the retrieve criteria to Hub . The returned data includes segments (e.g., MEMHEAD, MEMATTR, MEMNAME, MEMADDR, MEMPHONE, MEMTYPE, and\/or MEMIDENT) containing the requested member data from the applicable tables (e.g., mpi_memhead, mpi_memattr, mpi_memname, mpi_memaddr, mpi_memphone, mpi_memtype, and\/or mpi_memident). Depending upon the interaction, the specific criteria, and the information stored in Database  about a member, multiple segments may be returned. This process is illustrated in .","Although the present invention has been described in detail herein with reference to the illustrative embodiments, it should be understood that the description is by way of example only and is not to be construed in a limiting sense. It is to be further understood, therefore, that numerous changes in the details of the embodiments of this invention and additional embodiments of this invention will be apparent to, and may be made by, persons of ordinary skill in the art having reference to this description. It is contemplated that all such changes and additional embodiments are within the scope of the invention as detailed in the following claims."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE SEVERAL VIEWS OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["A more complete understanding of the present invention and the advantages thereof may be acquired by referring to the following description, taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings in which like reference numbers indicate like features and wherein:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":["FIGS. 5A-5C","FIG. 4"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 4"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":["FIG. 8","FIG. 4"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":["FIG. 9","FIG. 4"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 10"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
