---
title: Systems and methods for dynamic page creation
abstract: A computer-implemented method of dynamically creating a page module for a word on a display screen is provided. The page module is creating by determining a word provided for defining the page module, searching for text directly associated with the word and text contextually associated with the word, and, searching for media directly associated with the word and contextually associated with the word. The type of page module layout for the word is then identified. The page module layout includes placeholders for displaying at least some of the text that is directly or contextually associated with the word and at least some of the media that is directly or contextually associated with the word in the page module. The page module is then displayed by drawing the page module layout on the display screen and populating the page module layout with at least some of the media that is directly or contextually associated with the word.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09367639&OS=09367639&RS=09367639
owner: Yahoo! Inc.
number: 09367639
owner_city: Sunnyvale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070809
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS","FIELD OF THE INVENTION","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["This Application is related to co-pending: (1) patent application Ser. No. 11\/836,723, filed on Aug. 9, 2007, entitled \u201cSystems and Method for Comments Aggregation and Carryover in Word Pages\u201d, which issued as U.S. Pat. No. 8,972,458 on Mar. 3, 2015, (2) patent application Ser. No. 11\/836,721, filed on Aug. 9, 2007, entitled \u201cSystems and Methods for Providing Enhanced Content Portability in a Word Page Module\u201d, which issued as U.S. Pat. No. 8,595,183 on Nov. 26, 2013, (3) patent application Ser. No. 11\/836,719, filed on Aug. 9, 2007, entitled \u201cSystems and Methods for Providing a Multi-function Search Box for Creating Word Pages\u201d, and, (4) patent application Ser. No. 11\/836,717, filed on Aug. 9, 2007, entitled \u201cSystems and Methods for Providing a Persistent Navigation Bar in a Word Page\u201d, which issued as U.S. Pat. No. 7,930,645 on Apr. 19, 2011, each of which is incorporated herein by reference.","This invention generally relates to displaying information related to a given word. More specifically but without limitation, this invention relates to generating a web page to provide information that is focused around a word. The information in the word page is presented and organized to optimize user interactivity with the web page.","The computing industry has seen many advances in recent years, and such advances have produced a multitude products and services. Internet websites are examples of products and services, which are created to give users access to particular types of services, data, or searching capabilities. Today, websites can be readily created by most individuals desiring to post information or provide access or connectivity to other data. Websites are also created, updated, and supported to provide constantly updated current event information, news, and other information. This data is highly managed and processed so that its presentation can be easily displayed on web browsers or other Internet connected devices.","Currently to date, however, the traditional web sites provide mostly unstructured and contextually unrelated information to a user. For example, when a phrase is searched, resulting web page typically displays many links to external websites. These links to external websites are typically selected to be displayed on the web page based on phrase matching criteria without any consideration for user interactivity and\/or contextual relationship with the searched phrase. Generally, the user is forced to visit many external websites associated with presented links to find more information about the searched phrase.","The user, in this example, would feel disconnected with the content browsing experience, and may get exhausted from pointless information browsing during their search for more contextually related or connected information.","It is within this context that embodiments of the invention arise.","Broadly speaking, the present invention fills these needs by providing a modular system that generates and presents content related to one or more content types, that are defined herein to be \u201cvertical types.\u201d A vertical type may define a specific type of media content, such as movies, music, pictures, games, videos, gossip, etc. Each of the vertical types, in one embodiment, is presented in a page module. If more than one vertical type is presented in response to a \u201cword\u201d query, then a webpage is created with two or more modules, and each module may include the latest content for that vertical. Each vertical can then be navigated by users, and users can further define different views or arrangements of the content in each module, based on the received navigation of the user. Furthermore, the \u201cword\u201d query, when entered by the user, will define contextually related words, that can also cause the generation of new modules for the webpage. The resulting webpage is therefore dynamically generated and created, as opposed to visits to web pages that are pre-defined or constructed for conventional searching and navigation. Consequently, all searching and navigation occurs from within the webpage of modules, thus eliminating the need to perform external web searching.","In one embodiment, a computer-implemented method of dynamically creating a page module for a word on a display screen is provided. The page module is creating by determining a word provided for defining the page module, searching for text directly associated with the word and text contextually associated with the word, and, searching for media directly associated with the word and contextually associated with the word. The type of page module layout for the word is then identified. The page module layout includes placeholders for displaying at least some of the text that is directly or contextually associated with the word and at least some of the media that is directly or contextually associated with the word in the page module. The page module is then displayed by drawing the page module layout on the display screen and populating the page module layout with at least some of the media that is directly or contextually associated with the word.","In another embodiment, a computer-implemented method of defining and arranging page modules defined for a word in a word page is provided. The defining and arranging of page modules include monitoring a relative interest of a user in the page modules by calculating an interest index for the relative interest of the user in the page modules; the calculating of the interest index includes factoring user interactivity with the page modules. Moreover, the defining and arranging of page modules further include storing the relative interest of the user in a persistent storage and displaying the page modules in the word page chronologically by the interest index of each of the page modules.","In yet another embodiment, a page module for a word is provided. The page module is dynamically created through a user action related to the word. The page module includes a placeholder towards bottom of the page module to display a plurality of related words, each of the plurality of related words is related to the word with a subject context, a placeholder substantially in the middle of the page module to display a media, a placeholder towards top of the page module to display a title of the page module, a placeholder towards top of the page module to display a module search box to enable filtering of contents of the page module, and, a placeholder towards bottom of the page module to display a number denoting viewer comments count for the page module.","The advantages of the present invention are numerous. Most notably, the system and apparatus described herein provide the newest content for each vertical and\/or relevant interest all to the main page, which in turn allows a user to quickly scroll the page to find what they are interested in and then dive deeper into any of the modules, each hosting a specific type and flavor of information.","Other aspects and advantages of the present invention will become apparent from the following detailed description, taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings, illustrating by way of example the principles of the present invention.","The figures are provided in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention. The figures should not be construed as limiting the breath of the invention in any manner.","A system and apparatus for generating a \u201cword page\u201d including page modules that present content for a specific vertical (e.g., content types), is provided. A \u201cword page\u201d includes page modules that present content having specific context. Context can be defined based on types of media, or categories with a type of media. In one embodiment, a \u201cvertical\u201d defines a type of media, such as music, movies, communication, shopping, gaming, etc. Within each vertical, further contextual categories can be defined. For instance, within music, a context can be defined for types of music, each artist, etc. Thus, for purposes of clarity, the degrees and granularity by which types of context can be broken up or organized can grow over time, as further context definitions are generated for words. The \u201cword page\u201d, as used herein, is a web page, that is constructed from one or more page modules. The page modules, as noted above, will each define a type of content, such as movie related content, music related content, picture related content, game related content, video related content, gossip related content, etc. From within the word page or specific page modules, it is possible to enter or select a \u201cword\u201d, and that word will be used to rearrange, construct or obtain content that will define the presentation, data, interactivity, images, etc., of specific page modules. Thus, the word page is a contained page, that dynamically changes, depending on the selected or entered word. A word page is therefore not a search engine or search interface that triggers a search of web links or external websites. To the contrary, the word page will contain or generate one or more page modules, and the data that is presented in each of the page modules dynamically changes or is updated over time or based on the entered \u201cword\u201d or the selection of specific \u201cwords\u201d within a particular page module of the word page.","As used herein, to be \u201ccontextually related\u201d means that a particular word, that may be entered by a user is related to other words or phrases. Other words or phrases may be related in terms of context, and the context means that there is some weaving together of words, in terms of meaning, subject, or a combination thereof. Thus, words that are contextually related to other words or phrases may be connected in terms of coherence. Still further, context can be thought of in terms of parts of a discourse that surround a word or passage and can throw light on the meaning of the entered word. Some words, that are considered contextually related may be defined based on some descriptive interrelation, dependence, or condition, based on a theme, environment, setting, event, group of similar media, similar activities, or combinations thereof.","In one example, information retrieved for a user's interest is displayed in different types of page modules. For example, music related content is displayed in a music module, gossip related content is displayed in a gossip module, and so on. Various types of standard page modules are provided to display a set of popular content types. Unlike traditional search engines that provide links to possible information about a searched phrase, a web page (e.g., word page) is created for the entered word, as defined in one embodiment. Furthermore, the created word page provides content in a user friendly manner, as opposed to providing raw links to external web sites or web resources. Moreover, unlike traditional search engines that present links leading to possible unrelated information about a phrase, the word page hosts information either directly or contextually related to the entered word.","In one embodiment, a page module provides a filter to enable selection of particular content aspects within the same content type of the page module. The filter may be presented as a dropdown (or other interface format) that defines categories that will enable regeneration of the page module in accordance with the filter. For example, in a game module, the filter dropdown, in one embodiment, may include various game categories such as x-games, kids games, etc. Thus, the page module can be rebuilt around a selected category after the filter is applied.","The page module, in one embodiment, includes a \u201cword bar.\u201d A word bar is defined to include one or more words that may be selected by user selection. The words in the word bar can changed dynamically based on the focused content defined in the page module, and in one embodiment, selection of a word in the word bar can cause the regeneration of the entire word page (e.g., around the context of the selected word). Consequently, selection of a word from any of the word bars associated with any of the page modules can cause the regeneration of the word page that contains one or more page modules.","The page modules in a word page are rearranged based on the user interactivity with the page module. For example, if a user interact with music module more often than any other module, the music module will be positioned towards that top of the page during subsequent visits.","With this overview in mind, the following figures will illustrate example structure and functionality of dynamic generation of page modules of word pages, based on selection or entry of a word.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0039","num":"0038"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["50","52","54","56","52","52","54","50"]},"In one embodiment, the favorite module  is a special type of page module that is used for storing pointers or references to page modules  that were previously marked as \u201cfavorite\u201d. In another embodiment, various user defined content or links to external resources, media, movie clips, albums, etc. may also be stored in the favorite module . In yet another embodiment, the favorite module  contains content specific to a particular user. Such content is added to the favorite module  through user action. In yet another embodiment, one or more page modules  are generated for the entered word  \u201cfavorite\u201d. The page modules  that are generated for the entered word  \u201cfavorite\u201d contain user's favorite content in one or more vertical category such as music, movies, events, etc. User's favorite content in one embodiment is based on the logged in user's the user profile information including at least one of user's preferences, age, sexual orientation, geographical location. In another embodiment, if the user has not logged in, user's content browsing pattern and interactivity with the page modules is stored the cookies or temporary files which are then used to generate or assemble user's favorite content in various vertical content categories. In yet another embodiment, the generation of user's favorite content is based on a combination of user profile information and user's interactivity with the page modules  during one or more prior word website browsing sessions.","As illustrated in , word  surrounded by page modules , sponsored modules , and favorite module , signifies that a quest for information related to the word  leads to generation of various types of page modules  and sponsored modules , each hosting a specific type of content. Word  relates to a concept, person, brand, etc and functions as a carrier of meaning.  further illustrates that generation of the word page revolves around selection of the word , i.e. information displayed through various page modules  is focused on the selected word . For example, selecting \u201cpopular\u201d for word  will generate a word page with the most popular content for each respective page module (such as popular movie, popular music, popular celebrity, popular fashion, popular club, etc.). A new word page including a different set of page modules , is generated every time a new word  is selected. Hence, in above example, when the selection changes from \u201cpopular\u201d to \u201cnewest\u201d, a new word page including page modules  such as \u201cnewest movies\u201d, \u201cnewest music album\u201d, \u201cnewest car models\u201d, etc. will be generated. In one example, the word page for word  \u201cnewest\u201d will have a movie page module displaying trailers from the recently released movie \u201cSpider Man \u201d and a news module listing the latest news bulletins collected from one or more news sources.","In one embodiment, the system maintains a list of words  and a list of appropriate page modules  for various types of content related to each of the words  in the list. For example, for word  \u201cnewest\u201d the system may have a movie module, a games module, a music module, a news module, and a gossip module, etc. in the list. Hence, in this example, a word page generated for word  \u201cnewest\u201d will have a movie module, a games module, a music module, a news module, and a gossip module, by default. In one embodiment, words  and page modules  are maintained and updated by the information editors with the help of user's browsing patterns, latest stories about various celebrities, products, etc., various topics that users may be interested in, the latest news, etc. Content is grouped in different categories such as content related to a particular subject or word suitable or liked to a particular segment of users. In one embodiment, content is regularly and continuously updated to keep up with the latest developments. In another embodiment, various types of content are scanned and obtained from various electronic media sources automatically, based on context based search filters.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0043","num":"0042"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":["100","100","102","104","106","108","110","112","100","108","106","106","106","110","108","104","112"]},"The title  is used to display a title of content of a page module , sponsored module , or, favorite module . Text displayed in the title  is also a word , i.e. the title is selectable by a user and such selection would also triggers a generation of a new word page focused around the word  in the title . In one embodiment, some of the commonly used titles are music, movie, latest, gossip, etc. Title  is generally a topic name of content in the page module . For example, a page module  with title  text \u201cmusic\u201d will have contents either directly or contextually related to music.","Still referring to , because title  is also a word  that has its own context around it, selecting the title  will generate a new word page to display various page modules  centered or focused around the word. For example, in a word page focused around word  \u201cLindsay Lohan\u201d that contains a module named \u201cMusic\u201d (i.e. \u201cMusic\u201d is the title  of the page module ) featuring the music of \u201cLindsay Lohan\u201d, selecting (or clicking) on the title  of \u201cMusic\u201d page module  would cause generation of a new word page now focused at music. This new word page will, for instance, have page modules  focused at classical music, newest music album, heavy metal, jazz, etc., all centered around and focused on \u201cMusic\u201d. Thus, as used herein, a word does not have to be a single word, but can be a set of words to define a person, place or thing. A word, however, is different than a phrase which may be in the form of a sentence. Therefore, broadly speaking, a word can be a single word or tight collection of words that convey context.","Thus, cyclic generation of word pages that include only contextually relevant and highly focused information provide a higher degree of browsing experience because the user is not forced to jump from one website to another website in search of relevant content.","In one embodiment, the word bar  is provided to display other words  related to the subject matter of the page module . Word bar  may include words  that are contextually related to the subject matter of content of the page module . For example, word bar  in a scene module may contain words  \u201cClubbing\u201d, \u201cSunday Split\u201d, etc. because these words  are contextually related to the topic of page module .","In one embodiment, the word bar  may also contain one or more sponsored words . Sponsored words  are bought (or paid for) by advertisers and can be displayed in the word bar  when a specified sponsoring criteria is met. In another embodiment, the system identifies a sponsored word to be included in the word bar  based on the user interest in a particular type of subject matter, user's past browsing history, user's like for a particular brand, etc. Selecting a word  in the word bar  will generate a new word page to display page modules  and optionally sponsored modules  centered around and focused on the word  selected through the word bar . Hence, in this embodiment, if a word page is generated around a word  \u201cCelebrity\u201d in which a page module named \u201cMusic\u201d is displayed, the word  \u201cN-Sync\u201d would appear in the word bar . Selecting (or clicking) the word  \u201cN-Sync\u201d in the word bar  will cause generation of a new word page. This new word page will, for instance, have page modules  such as Music, Latest, Gossip, etc., all centered or focused around the word \u201cN-Sync\u201d.","In one embodiment, a word bar  can be used for targeted advertising campaigns. For example, the marketer of the brand Pepsi\u2122, through a advertising relationship, relates the word \u201cN-Sync\u201d with the word \u201cPepsi\u201d. Hence, in a word page centered around word  \u201cN-Sync\u201d that includes a \u201cLatest\u201d page module , word bar  in the \u201cLatest\u201d page module  may include a word  \u201cPepsi\u201d. Selecting word \u201cPepsi\u201d on the word bar  would generate a new page focused on brand \u201cPepsi\u201d and including content provided or specified by the advertiser. In one example, this sponsored content also includes content that is unrelated to the sponsored brand (e.g. a word page focused on \u201cPepsi\u201d may include page modules  to enable presentation of clips from the latest movies or latest music albums).","In order to make sponsored content unobtrusive, factors such as visual appeal, motion, and, minimal contribution to clutter, etc. are considered. Hence, at a first glance of the word page, advertising seems to be missing, but when a user interacts with any of page modules , sponsored content are intermixed with content of page modules . In one embodiment, this mixing of sponsored content with content of page modules  is done without jeopardizing contextual relationship of the entered word  with content of page modules .","In one embodiment, comments control  has two states i.e. a closed state and an expanded state. In closed state, comments control  shows a number referring to a number of comments written by the users for a page module  that includes a particular type of content focused on a particular word . Comments control  may be expanded by selecting or clicking on the word. In the expanded form, comments control  displays a full text of comments and replies to these comments. In one embodiment, a comment may be replied, a reply to a comment may be replied, and so on. The comments and replies are laid out for easy identification between a comment and a reply.","A comment or a reply or a reply to a reply may be in textual form, an audio form, or in an audio visual or audio-video form. The expanded view of comments control  provides functionality to control the audio and visual aspects of audio or audio-visual comments through volume and video controls provided therein.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0053","num":"0052"},"figref":["FIGS. 3A and 3B","FIG. 3B","FIG. 16A"],"b":["160","162","164","50","164","176","178","180","166","50","50"]},"In one embodiment, the database or a group of databases contains all content necessary to generate a word page from an entered word . In another embodiment, database or a group of databases may contain links or references to external sources from where information may be retrieved and formatted for displaying in page modules , and sponsored modules . Comments (and replies to comments) related to specific objects (such as a picture, part of the picture, a video, a quote, an event, etc.) on page modules  and sponsored modules  are also stored in databases along with a relationship of a comment to an object to which the comment relates.","Text and media directly and contextually related to the entered word  is retrieved  from the database or a group of databases. A media includes movies, videos, audios, audio-video, still pictures, or any other type of non-textually visual presentations. Based on the type of media and text, a page module layout  based on the subject matter of the retrieved data is identified . The page module layout  is populated with the retrieved text and media  to form a specific type of page module  or sponsored module . The system continues looking for relevant data to generate page modules  in the word page . Generation of word page ends when system no longer finds contextually relevant data in database or in the group of databases, or in one or more external sources.","In one embodiment, when database does not contain content related to entered word , the system tries to retrieve relevant information from a configured set of external sources through a commercially available internet search engine such as Yahoo\u2122 Search.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0057","num":"0056"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":["52","54","52","50","50","52","50","50","50"],"i":["a ","a "]},"In one embodiment, a \u201cToday\u201d module (not shown the ) may be shown in a word page. The Today module contains an editorial peak at what's big today with branded bumpers, content clips, and interactive games with new version available frequently. Thus, this content is related either directly or contextually to the searched word  which led to the generation of the Today module .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0059","num":"0058"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 9"],"b":["52","52","50","240","112"],"i":["c","c "]},"A Gossip module is provided to show the newest \u201cstreet talks\u201d about some specific contents or personality profile retrieved for the searched WORD . In one embodiment, the Gossip module also displays preview of past information about the subject matter and the source of the information.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0061","num":"0060"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":["54","54","50"]},"A Scene module is a special type of page module . The Scene module pulls photos from parties and events based on geo-targeting with a place for adding comments on one or more scenes, pictures, or media in the Scene module . In one embodiment, each scene is provided with a note box for writing comments. A DJ mix is also provided in this embodiment for a more immersive browsing experience. Moreover, the scenes in the Scene module may be viewed in full screen mode or in slideshow mode either with or without an audio associated with the scenes.","A Games module is also illustrated in . In one embodiment, the Games module contains video game trailers, game play footage, interviews, and reviews of video games. The games in the Games module may be sorted via the filter dropdown .","A Celebrity Photos module may also be included in the word page depending upon either a user preference, user browsing behavior, or, the subject matter of the word search, etc. This module shows a collection of celebrity photos that may be enlarged for viewing. The selection of photos included in this module is in direct or contextual relationship with the entered word . The photos may be viewed in a slideshow format. In one embodiment, additional information about a photo or a picture is displayed when the photo is selected or clicked by the user. Additional information may include a general description of the photo, names or one or more celebrities in the photo, location of the shoot, occasion, etc.","A Movie module may also be included in a word page for an entered word . The Movies module is an expanded video module with more room for metadata and an expanded thumbnail navigation. In one embodiment, the expanded thumbnail navigation is used for showing movie posters. This embodiment may also include action controls for operations such as \u201cshow times\u201d, \u201cadd to Netflix\u2122 queue\u201d, etc. The movie trailers may be filtered by genre. In another embodiment, a filter criteria based on the category of movies may be employed. In another embodiment, full length movies may be included in this module. The movies may be viewed full screen. In one embodiment, the full screen view also includes navigational elements for picking other trailers and filtering.","The Next module may be provided in a word page. In one embodiment, the Next module contains highlights of top words  that weren't on the top page. Selection of any of these words  would reload the entire word page with the information focused around the selected word . This module continues the browsing experience for a user who has consumed the entire page.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0067","num":"0066"},"figref":["FIGS. 5A and 5B","FIGS. 5A and 5B"],"b":["130","132","188","52","54","56","56","52","52","52","52","102","110","112","52","52","52","52","52"],"i":["f","c","h","e ","f","c","h","e "]},"Referring to , in one example, Word  \u201cJustin\u201d is shown in the multifunction search box , the word bar , and, the title  to illustrate that choosing or selecting this word  from the multifunction search box , the word bar , or the title  would result in the same results i.e. reloading or generating the word page focused around word  \u201cJustin\u201d.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0069","num":"0068"},"figref":"FIG. 5B","b":["52","52","52","52","52","52","52","52"],"i":["f","c","h","e","f","c","h","e "]},"Shell  of a word page may contain a logo of the choice of a website host, sign-in\/up functionality to enable users to either login or signup to be a new user. In one embodiment, login functionality is used to track user browsing pattern or behavior to help the word page show the most interesting contents to the logged in user. Shell  may also contain a background image or theme which may be selectable by a user, and, a scroll bar to move word page content up or down on the display screen.","In one embodiment, a word page determines which page modules  and sponsored modules  should be displayed. Word page also determines a display order of included page modules  and sponsored module  based on module prioritization of newness, events (i.e. New music Tuesdays, etc.), adaptive personalization via user interactions (for example, if a user views game related content more than anything else, game module will move up the word page and other modules  displaying game related content may be added in the word page), and editorial\/sales placement (i.e. big product releases or a sold event may impact how high up the page it may appear). In one embodiment, content within each page module is determined by the page modules themselves based on adaptive personalization via user interactions, etc. When a vertical category is selected in the multifunction search box , the word page is generated according to entered or selected word . For example, selecting \u201cmovies\u201d will still load a page with a music module, but it would be set to soundtracks.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0072","num":"0071"},"figref":"FIG. 6","b":["52","102","140","104","50"]},"Generation of a word page includes handling of constantly changing content, cross-vertical news and events, and varying time spans of freshness (i.e. new music is released once a week while photos and gossip may be added every few hours). The ever changing content make manual personalization less useful and less effective. Hence, in one embodiment, an adaptive personalization process is employed in the generation and ordering of content in the word page.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0074","num":"0073"},"figref":"FIG. 7","b":["52","52","52","52","52"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0075","num":"0074"},"figref":"FIG. 7","b":["192","130","50","50","132","50","132","50","132","50","52","52","52","52","52","52","52","52"],"i":["a ","h ","c","f","e","d","h ","c "]},"Still referring to , in a next visit to the word page by the 15 year old male user , the page modules  are ordered differently. Game module is pushed to the top of the word page based on previous interactivity and other deciding factors. In one embodiment, the order of page modules  is decided based on factors such as previous interactivity of the user with the content of the word page, age of the user , general preferences of other users of user age, current events, general preferences of members of user's community, etc. In one embodiment, one or more of these user preferences are obtained from information stored in the Internet browser cookies. In other embodiment, the user preferences and community preferences are obtained from the user registration storage.","Still referring to , a game module in which the games are pre-filtered to \u201cx-genre\u201d category is pushed to the top of the page in user's subsequent visit to the word page. In this embodiment, showing game module pre-filtered to \u201cx-genre\u201d game category is based on user's like for x-genre games during previous visits to the game module . Furthermore, more than one game module can be displayed to the user based on his strong liking for games related content. In one embodiment, the page module rankings are cut across the word pages i.e. user's preference for a particular type of content remains a factor in the generation of a web page focused around any word. For example, if a user was most interested in games related content in the word page focused around \u201cword A\u201d, user will see content related to the games at an elevated position in a new word page focused around \u201cword B\u201d.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0078","num":"0077"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 7"],"b":["192","192","192","52","192"],"i":["b ","b ","b ","d ","b. "]},"In one embodiment, a combination of interests and interactions enables the adaptive personalization engine to determine what additional content users may enjoy the most and what content should be higher on the word page for their frequency of interaction.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0080","num":"0079"},"figref":"FIG. 8","b":["204","204","108","204","204","206","208","210","52","212","52"]},"In one embodiment, media is a video, in another embodiment, media is a still picture, and in yet another embodiment, media can be one of audio-visual, audio, music audio album, music video album. In yet another embodiment, media could be any visual presentation that is capable of being displayed in the page module . Metadata display , as illustrated in , pertains to a music album. In other embodiments, metadata display  may take different shape and display different meta information based on the type of media.","In one embodiment, \u201cWho\u201d placeholder  displays identity of the singer or actor of the media. \u201cWhat\u201d placeholder  displays name of the song or title of the media. \u201cBuy Album\u201d control  initiates a transaction by which a user can buy the audio album of the song that is being played in page module . \u201cBuy Video\u201d control  initiates a transaction by which a user can buy the video album of the song or a music title that is being played in the page module .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0083","num":"0082"},"figref":"FIG. 9","b":["230","230","108","130","234","234","232","232","232"]},"In one embodiment, media control  also includes a \u201cBIG\u201d control . \u201cBIG\u201d control  is used to view media in a full screen mode. Selecting \u201cBIG\u201d control  enlarges the media in page module to occupy all available space in page module to show the media in full screen. In one embodiment, the media control  remains visible on the full screen view of media. Caption of \u201cBIG\u201d control  changes to \u201cLIL\u201d when media is being shown in a full screen mode. Selecting \u201cBIG\u201d control  when \u201cBIG\u201d control  is showing caption \u201cLIL\u201d reverts back the media to original viewing mode.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0085","num":"0084"},"figref":"FIG. 10","b":["52","106","100","230","241"],"i":"h "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0086","num":"0085"},"figref":["FIG. 11","FIG. 12"],"b":["56","50","56","50","50","52","50","52"],"i":["c ","c "]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0087","num":"0086"},"figref":"FIG. 13","b":["56","102","50","50"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0088","num":"0087"},"figref":["FIG. 14","FIGS. 16A and 16B"],"b":["50","50","1","282","2","282","280","282","50","50","50","50","50"],"i":["a ","b ","a ","b "]},"Still referring to , User  has indicated his\/her liking for \u201cBritney Spears\u201d , illustrated by a line linking user  with \u201cBritney Spears\u201d . Lines linking Pepsi\u2122 and Red Bull\u2122 to \u201cBritney Spears\u201d are indicating that both Pepsi\u2122 and Red Bull\u2122 are vying for the users who like \u201cBritney Spears\u201d .  also illustrates that user  likes Transformers and Surf's Up , which Pepsi\u2122 is associated with, hence making Pepsi\u2122 a better match for user  . User  , however, will see Pepsi\u2122 for Transformers content but not for Gears of War because User  is more interested in content associate with Red Bull\u2122 . As apparent, brand mapping information may also help advertisers by showing what their customers are interested in so that the advertisers may make necessary changes in the brand or advertising.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0090","num":"0089"},"figref":"FIG. 15","b":["310","50","50","50","50","50","312","314","316","326","320","322","324","326"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0091","num":"0090"},"figref":["FIGS. 16A and 16B","FIG. 16A","FIG. 7"],"b":["50","360","362","50","362","364","362","364"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0092","num":"0091"},"figref":"FIG. 16B","b":["366","380","382","382","390","388","390","366","384","380","388"]},"With the above embodiments in mind, it should be understood that the invention may employ various computer-implemented operations involving data stored in computer systems. These operations are those requiring physical manipulation of physical quantities. Usually, though not necessarily, these quantities take the form of electrical or magnetic signals capable of being stored, transferred, combined, compared, and otherwise manipulated. Further, the manipulations performed are often referred to in terms, such as producing, identifying, determining, or comparing.","Any of the operations described herein that form part of the invention are useful machine operations. The invention also relates to a device or an apparatus for performing these operations. The apparatus may be specially constructed for the required purposes, such as the carrier network discussed above, or it may be a general purpose computer selectively activated or configured by a computer program stored in the computer. In particular, various general purpose machines may be used with computer programs written in accordance with the teachings herein, or it may be more convenient to construct a more specialized apparatus to perform the required operations.","The programming modules, page modules, and, subsystems described in this document can be implemented using a programming language such as Flash, JAVA, C++, C, C#, Visual Basic, JAVA Script, PHP, XML, HTML etc., or a combination of programming languages. Commonly available application programming interface (API) such as HTTP API, XML API and parsers etc. are used in the implementation of the programming modules. As would be known to those skilled in the art that the components and functionality described above and elsewhere in this document may be implemented on any desktop operating system which provides a support for a display screen, such as different versions of Microsoft Windows, Apple Mac, Unix\/X-Windows, Linux etc. using any programming language suitable for desktop software development.","The programming modules and ancillary software components, including configuration file or files, along with setup files required for installing the widget dock and related functionality as described in this document, are stored on a computer readable medium. Any computer medium such as a flash drive, a CD-ROM disk, an optical disk, a floppy disk, a hard drive, a shared drive, and an storage suitable for providing downloads from connected computers, could be used for storing the programming modules and ancillary software components. It would be known to a person skilled in the art that any storage medium could be used for storing these software components so long as the storage medium can be read by a computer system.","The invention may be practiced with other computer system configurations including hand-held devices, microprocessor systems, microprocessor-based or programmable consumer electronics, minicomputers, mainframe computers and the like. The invention may also be practiced in distributing computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a network.","The invention can also be embodied as computer readable code on a computer readable medium. The computer readable medium is any data storage device that can store data, which can thereafter be read by a computer system. Examples of the computer readable medium include hard drives, network attached storage (NAS), read-only memory, random-access memory, CD-ROMs, CD-Rs, CD-RWs, DVDs, Flash, magnetic tapes, and other optical and non-optical data storage devices. The computer readable medium can also be distributed over a network coupled computer systems so that the computer readable code is stored and executed in a distributed fashion.","While this invention has been described in terms of several preferable embodiments, it will be appreciated that those skilled in the art upon reading the specifications and studying the drawings will realize various alternation, additions, permutations and equivalents thereof. It is therefore intended that the present invention includes all such alterations, additions, permutations, and equivalents as fall within the true spirit and scope of the invention."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF DRAWINGS","p":["The present invention will be readily understood by the following detailed description in conjunction with the accompanying drawings. To facilitate this description, like reference numerals designate like structural elements.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIGS. 3A and 3B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIGS. 5A and 5B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 11"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":"FIG. 12"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":"FIG. 13"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIG. 14"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":"FIG. 15"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":"FIGS. 16A and 16B"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
