---
title: Question type-sensitive answer summarization
abstract: In a question answering system, the system identifies a type of question input by a user. The system then generates answer summaries that summarize answers to the input question in a format that is determined based on the type of question asked by the user. The answer summaries are output, in the corresponding format, in answer to the input question.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07966316&OS=07966316&RS=07966316
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 07966316
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080415
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["There are many different types of techniques for discovering information, using a computer network. One specific technique is referred to as a community-based question and answering service (referred to as cQA). The cQA service is a kind of web service through which people can post questions and also answer other people's questions on a web site. The growth of cQA has been relatively significant, and it has recently been offered by commercially available web search engines.","In current cQA services, a community of users either subscribes to the service, or simply accesses the service through a network. The users in the community can then post questions that are viewable by other users in the community. The community users can also post answers to questions that were previously submitted by other users. Therefore, over time, cQA services build up very large archives of previous questions and answers posted for those previous questions.","In some current cQA systems, once the user who has asked a question and has received a sufficient number of answers, the user can then choose the best answer from those answers that have been received. The user may also simply leave it to the community to vote for the best answer. This results in large question and answer archives, representing knowledge repositories, that can be used later.","For instance, these repositories can be used to expedite answers to the user. In other words, there is typically a lag time between the time when a user in the community posts a question, and the time when other users of the community post answers to that question. In order to avoid this lag time, some cQA services automatically search the archive of questions and answers to see if the same question has previously been asked. If the question is found in the archives, then one or more previous answers can be provided, in answer to the current question, with very little delay. This type of searching for previous answers is sometimes referred to as \u201cquestion search\u201d or \u201con-line search\u201d.","The discussion above is merely provided for general background information and is not intended to be used as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter.","In a question answering system, the system identifies a type of question input by a user. The system then generates answer summaries that summarize answers to the input question in a format that is determined based on the type of question asked by the user. The answer summaries are output, in the corresponding format, in answer to the input question.","This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter, nor is it intended to be used as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter. The claimed subject matter is not limited to implementations that solve any or all disadvantages noted in the background.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["100","100","102","104","106","102","108","108","102","108","110"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1","FIG. 2","FIG. 2"],"b":["102","108","120","104","102","122"]},"Answer summarization component  then generates answer summaries, in a form corresponding to the type of the question identified. This is indicated by block  in . In doing so, component  attempts to summarize the answers that were identified by users as the best answers to the question being processed.","In analyzing the types of questions asked in cQA services, it has been found that some types of questions have best answers that are reusable in later searching, while others do not. For instance, questions that ask for answers that are facts may likely have a best answer that is extremely useful in later searching. However, cQA questions that ask for an opinion may not be helpful in later information searching.","For example, a fact-based, closed ended question, such as \u201cWhat was the birth date of Abraham Lincoln?\u201d will have one unique answer. Therefore, an answer that is labeled in a cQA system as the best answer to that question will likely be reusable and very relevant in later information searching. However, a question such as \u201cWhat actress has the most seductive voice?\u201d asks for an opinion. Therefore, even the answer labeled by the community as the best answer is still only an opinion. Thus, those answers may not be as reusable in later information searching processes.","Similarly, even fact-based open-ended questions may not be as reusable as a closed-ended question. For instance, a question such as \u201cDoes anyone know of any movie stars having birthdays coming up soon?\u201d is open ended. First of all, the time period of the question is relevant because it asks for birthdays that are \u201ccoming up soon\u201d. Similarly, there may be a wide variety of different people answering the question, and so they may provided a wide variety of different birthdays for different movie stars, depending on the type of movie that they enjoy. Thus, answers to this type of fact-based open-ended question, even if they are labeled as \u201cbest answers\u201d may be less reusable or less relevant to later information searching processes.","Therefore, in order to generate summaries of answers to cQA questions, question type identifier  identifies the question type, and answer summarization component  identifies the types of answers to the identified question, and generates a summary of the best answers (and optionally other answers as well) in a format that is determined based on the type of the question identified.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 2A","b":["200","200","200","202","204","206"]},"The reusable best answers are further divided into factual best answers  and subjective best answers . A factual best answer is a fact that can be used as the best answer, while a subjective best answer is an opinion type of answer that can be used as the best answer.","The factual best answers  can be divided into two further types, those being unique best answers  and non-unique best answers . A unique best answer has only a single best answer to its question. A non-unique best answer has alternative best answers.","These alternative (non-unique) best answers  can be divided into direct answers  and indirect best answers . A direct answer is just that, an answer that answers its question directly. An indirect answer is an answer which answers the question through inference.","The non-reusable best answers  are divided into two types: relevant best answers  and irrelevant best answers . Relevant best answers  are not reusable as a best answer to its question, if that question is asked at a later time, but they are relevant to the question. An irrelevant best answer is not reusable as a best answer to its question and it is irrelevant to its question.","Table 1 summarizes answer type taxonomy  and gives examples for each answer type.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00001","num":"00001"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","pgwide":"1"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"441pt","align":"center"}},"thead":{"row":{"entry":"TABLE 1"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":"Summary of cQA Answer Taxonomy with Examples"}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"154pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"98pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"189pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Type","Description","Example"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"5"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"49pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"35pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"70pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"98pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"189pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Reusab","Factua","Unique","BA is an accurate and complete","Question: Which country has the largest population?"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"answer for its question.","BA: China"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"5"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"84pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"98pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"189pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"Not Unique","Direct","BA is one of the best answers to","Question: How can I recover data erased on my computer?"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"its question.","BA: There's a program I used to have called \u2018ABC"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},"Utilitities 2006\u2019, I think you can recover lost files"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},"with it. It's not free but you can download a free 30"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},"day trial http:\/\/www.ABC.com\/ Hope this works for you"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},"A: ABC's GetDataBack . . ."]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},"A: http:\/\/www.undelete.com\/file-recovery.as . . . God Bless"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},"A: . . . use SYSTEM RESTORE . . ."]},{"entry":[{},{},"Indirect","BA is the best answer to the","Question: Where can i download duckwire from because"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"inferred goal of its question.","every website i go on wants to charge me?"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"There are also user responses","A: Go to duckwire.com and download the basic version,"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"answering its question directly.","which is free."]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},"BA: you may as well just avoid all the confusion and"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},"get chickwire then: http:\/\/www.duckwire.com\/ it's"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},"identical to duckwire, but open source so it'll always be free"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"4"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"49pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"105pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"98pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"189pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"Subjective","BA is one of the best subjective","Question: What is the best sci-fi movie u ever saw?"]},{"entry":[{},{},"answers for its question. Other","A: XYZ Movie"]},{"entry":[{},{},"subjective answers might be","A: DEF Movie"]},{"entry":[{},{},"chosen as the best answer if","BA: GHI Movie"]},{"entry":[{},{},"askers are different."]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"4"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"49pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"105pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"98pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"189pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Not Reusable","Relevant","BA is relevant to its question","Question: Why was \u201cThe ABC Song\u201d by John Doe so"]},{"entry":[{},{},"but it cannot be reused.","shortlived?"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"BA: I'm not sure where you live, but in NJ, especially"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"South Jersey, that song was played out. It may have"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"made the New Year's \u201cWe're never playing this song"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"again\u201d list."]},{"entry":[{},"Irrelevant","BA is unrelated to the question","Question: How to forward e-mail without the email"]},{"entry":[{},{},"itself.","addresses in the To Box?"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"BA: It appears that the question period has expire. If"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"an answer has been given that meets your needs, please"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"pick a \u2018best answer\u2019. Regards."]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"A: put those e-mails that you don't want no one to see"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"in the bcc box and then send"]},{"entry":[{},{},"BA's question is nonsense so is","Question: *oink* Whose gunna partay with me?"]},{"entry":[{},{},"its anwers.","BA: I'll party w\/you I'm old enough to drink but it's"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"over rated. I'll bring the cheese in the can HAPPY NEW YEAR"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}},"Table 1 first shows a reusable, factual, unique best answer. This best answer type provides enough useful information in the answer and no other answers add more information. For instance, if a question asks \u201cWhich country has the largest population?\u201d and the best answer is \u201cChina\u201d. This answer is accurate and complete, so it can be categorized as the unique type.","The difference between direct and indirect answer types is a bit subtle. A direct best answer answers its question in a straightforward manner; while an Indirect best answer answers its question in an inferred manner. Answerers of Indirect best answers usually look beyond the surface level of the question and try to give answers that satisfy the inferred needs behind question. For example, a question asked \u201cWhere can i download fatwire from because every website i go on wants to charge me?\u201d and the best answer was \u201chttp:\/\/www.duckwire.com\/\u201d. This answer addresses the \u2018free\u2019 and \u2018download\u2019 parts of the question. However, instead of giving a FatWire download site, the BA suggested an alternative, i.e. DuckWire, that presumably would fulfill what the asker really wanted. Notice that a possible Direct BA suggested that download the basic version of FatWire from Fatwire.com that is free. Assume FatWire is a popular peer to peer (P2P) file sharing tool, and that it has two versions. The Basic version is free but the Pro version is not free. It can be inferred from the question that the asker wanted the Pro version and not the Basic. A true Direct BA is a site where the asker could download the Pro version without paying but it may very likely be an illegal site even if it does exist. Therefore the DuckWire suggestion is likely a very good alternative. Another example of Direct vs. Indirect BA is shown earlier in Table 1. The question asked celebrity birthdays in the coming month (November). A Direct BA contains a list of celebrity birthdays in November as shown in one of the answers in Table 1. A better alternative, i.e. an Indirect one, showed the asker where she can find this information herself not only for November but for all other months.","A Subjective BA answers questions that look for personal opinions or recommendations. For example, a question asked \u201cWhat is the best sci-fi movie u ever saw?\u201d Each answerer would have his or her own opinion about what the best sci-fi movie is. There might be consensus but it will likely not be unique. Many answers in the Entertainment & Music category are this type.","Answers that fall into the Not Reusable category could be relevant or irrelevant to their questions. Despite their relevance, they could not be used as the BAs. For example, a question asked \u201cWhy was \u201cThe ABC Song\u201d by John Doe so shortlived?\u201d A Relevant BA said \u201cI'm not sure where you live, but in NJ, especially South Jersey, that song was played out. It may have made the New Year's \u201cWe're never playing this song again\u201d list.\u201d This BA seems relevant to the question but we could not be sure it is the BA without knowing where the asker resided.","There are many possible reasons that make a BA irrelevant. Two exemplary possible explanations are listed in Table 1. One is that the BA does not answer its question. For example, a question asked for how to forward an email without showing the email addresses in the To box. There is an answer that contains the correct method \u201cput the email address into the bcc box\u201d, but the best answer voted by one community is: \u201cIt appears that the question period has expired. If an answer has been given that meets your needs, please pick a \u2018best answer\u2019.\u201d Another one is that the BA's question is nonsense and therefore its answers are as well. For example, someone asked \u201c*oink* Whose gunna partay with me?\u201d Though a BA was chosen, it does not make sense to reuse the BA.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"figref":"FIG. 2B","b":["300","300","302","304","306","308","310"]},"The informational question  includes questions that request information about topics, and can be divided into constant questions  and dynamic questions . Constant questions have a fixed or stable set of answers, while dynamic questions do not.","The dynamic questions  can be further divided into three categories, those including opinion , context dependent questions  and open questions . Opinion questions are those asking for opinions. Questions in this category seek opinions from people in the cQA community about what they think of someone, some event, some object, etc. Context-dependent questions  are those questions which have different answers, depending on the different context in which they are asked. For example, the question \u201cWhat is the population of China?\u201d will have different answers according to the date on which it is asked. Open questions  are those questions that ask for some facts or methods but have a variety of answers, or the answer itself may have unconstrained depth.","The transactional questions  can further be divided into possessive questions  and interactive questions . Possessive questions  indicate the askers intention to own the resource requests, regardless of whether a computer is required to make use of the required resource. The interactive questions  are questions looking for entertainment or utility resources.","Social questions  do not intend to obtain any given answer. These questions include telling jokes, and expressing the askers own ideas. For instance, one social question may be \u201cWhy do so many lazy people come on here simply just to ask . . . ?\u201d The question is actually expressing a negative sentiment toward the large number of people who ask how to accomplish a certain task in the cQA community.","Table 2 illustrates question taxonomy , and gives examples of each type of question.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0040","num":"0039"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00002","num":"00002"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","pgwide":"1"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"294pt","align":"center"}},"thead":{"row":{"entry":"TABLE 2"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":"Community Question Answering Service (cQA) Question Taxonomy with Examples"}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"49pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"133pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"112pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Question Type","Description","Example"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["Navigational","The question asks about URL information of","The official website of the us lottery"]},{"entry":[{},"specific websites.","program for immigration?"]},{"entry":["Informational","The question asks for information about","In a word \u2018tetra-hadron\u2019 what exactly"]},{"entry":[{},"something.","\u2018a-tetra\u2019 denotes?"]},{"entry":["Constant","The question requires no additional","What is the best sci-fi movie u ever"]},{"entry":[{},"information and has fixed answers.","saw?"]},{"entry":["Dynamic","The question has wide ranges of answers.","Who won XYZ Gameshow?"]},{"entry":["Opinion","The question seeks people's opinions of","Can you list some birthdays of stars"]},{"entry":[{},"something.","in the coming week?"]},{"entry":["Context-","The question needs additional context"]},{"entry":["dependent","information to limit the range of answers."]},{"entry":["Open","The question has a variety of answers or"]},{"entry":[{},"the answer can have unconstrained depth."]},{"entry":["Transactional","The question intends to get some","Is there a computer program that lets"]},{"entry":[{},"resources.","you create a planet?"]},{"entry":["Possessive","The question intends to find some files","Installing ABC Software - serial"]},{"entry":[{},"that are downloadable or something that","number?"]},{"entry":[{},"can be read off the screen or printed.","A good weather website?"]},{"entry":["Interactive","The question intends to find some websites"]},{"entry":[{},"that one can log on it and do something."]},{"entry":["Social","This question is just chatting, joking, or","Ever been on a boat ride?"]},{"entry":[{},"expressing one's own idea and doesn't mind","Two men who are sitting in a pub?"]},{"entry":[{},"to get an answer."]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}},"Identifying the question type and answer type as set out in  can be done automatically, or simply by asking the user to select (such as from a drop down box) the type of question or answer that is being provided.","In using these taxonomies and analyzing large archives of cQA responses, it has been found that a number of the different question types have answers, less than 50 percent of which can be reused in later searching given a similar type of question. Therefore, in one embodiment, answer summarization component  uses question-focused multi-document summarization techniques to generate the best answers for reuse in answering questions that are submitted again, later, in the cQA service.","Generating summaries is discussed in greater detail below with respect to Tables 3-8. In any case, however, once the summaries are generated, based on the type of question that the answers are provided for, the questions and answer summaries (which may be best answer summaries) are output for use in other information searching systems (such as in question answer systems). In that instance, the questions with summarized answers can be stored in data store  shown in . This is indicated by block  in .","Some illustrative embodiments of summarizing answers, based on question type, will now be described. In doing this, answer summarizer component  illustratively invokes one of a plurality of different summarization modules 1-N, one of which exists for each different question type. Examines of some illustrative summarization modules are shown in tables 3, 5, and 6. The present discussion proceeds with respect to applying question-focused multi-document summarization techniques to create answer summaries for open and opinion questions (questions  and ) as shown in . Of course, these techniques can be used with other question types as well, and the open and opinion questions are discussed herein for the sake of example only.","In one embodiment, answer summarization component  employs the summarization steps set out in Table 3 in order to summarize open-type questions . The steps in Table 3 follow multi-document summarization procedures which include topic identification, interpretation and fusion, and then summary generation. In the topic identification phase, answers are clustered using any of a wide variety of relatively simple clustering techniques. For instance, cosine measure, which is a known similarity measure, can be used to estimate answer similarity and an empirically determined threshold can be used to merge answers into clusters. This is indicated in step 1 of Table 3.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0046","num":"0045"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00003","num":"00003"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"center"}},"thead":{"row":[{"entry":"TABLE 3"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":"Summarization Algorithm of Open-type Questions"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":{}}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"21pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"196pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["1.","Employ the clustering algorithm on answers"]},{"entry":["2.","Extract the noun phrases in every cluster by using a shallow parser."]},{"entry":["3.","For each cluster and each label (or noun phrase), calculate the"]},{"entry":[{},"score by using the Relevance Scoring Function:"]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":[{},{"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00001","num":"00001"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mrow":[{"munder":{"mo":"\u2211","mi":"w"},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mi":"p","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":["w","\u03b8"],"mo":"|"}}},{"mi":"PMI","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":"w","mo":",","mrow":{"mi":["l","C"],"mo":"|"}}}}],"mo":"\u2062"}},{"mi":"D","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":["\u03b8","C"],"mo":"|"}}}],"mo":"-"}}}}]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":[{},"Where \u03b8 is the cluster, w is the word, l is the label or noun phrase,"]},{"entry":[{},"C is the background context which is composed of 5,000 questions"]},{"entry":[{},"in the same category, p(\u00b7) is conditional probability, PMI(\u00b7)"]},{"entry":[{},"pointwise mutual information, and D(\u00b7) is KL-divergence"]},{"entry":["4.","Extract the key answer which contains the noun phrase that has the"]},{"entry":[{},"highest score in each cluster"]},{"entry":["5.","Rank these key answers by the cluster size and present the results."]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}},"Next, in order to understand the main idea of each cluster, salient noun phrases can be extracted using any of a wide variety of shallow parsing components. This is indicated in step 2 of Table 3. Each label (or noun phrase) in each cluster can then have a relevance score calculated for it, such as by using a known first-order relevance scoring function also sometimes referred to as automatic labeling of multi-nomial topic models. This is set out in step 3 in Table 3. The relevance function can be used to extract a key answer that contains the noun phrase that has the highest score (calculated in step 3) in each cluster, and the key answers can also be ranked, within each cluster, based on the relevance score. This is indicated by step 4 in Table 3.","Finally, the summarized answer can be presented to the user, by extracting the most important answer in each cluster, and sorting those most important answers according to the cluster size that spawned the answers. This is indicated by step 5 in Table 3.","Table 4 illustrates an example of summarization of results of an open-type question. The question asked methods of changing a first style of operating system to a second style. There are many kinds of software that have this functionality. The best answer to the question only listed a single choice\u2014The ACMEDOCK product while other answers suggested ABC and DEF and GHI products. The summarized answer contains a variety of software that have this functionality and a web page link that lists all kinds of software for turning the first style of operating system into the second style.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0050","num":"0049"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00004","num":"00004"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"center"}},"thead":{"row":[{"entry":"TABLE 4"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":"Summarization Result of Open-Type questions"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":{}}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"203pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"Question"]},{"entry":[{},"(http:\/\/answers.alpha.com\/question\/?qid=1005120801427)"]},{"entry":[{},"What is the best way to make 123 look like Mac osX?"]},{"entry":[{},"Best Answer Chosen"]},{"entry":[{},"I found the best way to do this is to use BetaBlinds. A"]},{"entry":[{},"program that, if you use the total AMCEDock, package"]},{"entry":[{},"will allow you to add the ObjectBar in addition to"]},{"entry":[{},"changed the toolbars to be OPSX stylized. If you want"]},{"entry":[{},"added functionality you can download programs off the"]},{"entry":[{},"internet that will mimic the Expose feature which will"]},{"entry":[{},"show you a tiled set of all open windows. Programs that"]},{"entry":[{},"will do this include: ABC, DEF, and GHI"]},{"entry":[{},"Auto-summarized Answer"]},{"entry":[{},"An additional option is JKL - a \u201cShell Replacement\u201d for"]},{"entry":[{},"ABC that has a variety of themes you can install."]},{"entry":[{},"Undoubtedly there are various OPSX themes available for"]},{"entry":[{},"JKL. I have included a source to a max OPSX theme for"]},{"entry":[{},"JKL at customize.org. DOE is a transformation pack and"]},{"entry":[{},"the most comprehensive in terms of converting an XP"]},{"entry":[{},"system's look to that of an OPSX system, google it up"]},{"entry":[{},"and you should find it, v3 seems to be in development"]},{"entry":[{},"and should be out soon."]},{"entry":[{},"Beta"]},{"entry":[{},"http:\/\/www.ACMEdock.com\/products\/Beta . . ."]},{"entry":[{},"Manually-summarized Answer"]},{"entry":[{},"There are multiple ways of solution. One is to use"]},{"entry":[{},"Beta. The package will allow you to add the ObjectBar"]},{"entry":[{},"for changing to the OPSX theme. You can also make added"]},{"entry":[{},"functionality of Expose feature by downloading the"]},{"entry":[{},"programs like ABC, DEF and GHI. The download URL of it"]},{"entry":[{},"is http:\/\/www.ACMEdock.com\/products\/beta\/."]},{"entry":[{},"Another option is to use DOE which is a transformation"]},{"entry":[{},"pack."]},{"entry":[{},"The third Option is the JKL, it is a \u201cShell"]},{"entry":[{},"Replacement\u201d for windows that has a variety of OPSX"]},{"entry":[{},"tehmes you can install. The download url is"]},{"entry":[{},"http:\/\/JKL.net and I have included a source of OPSX"]},{"entry":[{},"theme for JKL at"]},{"entry":[{},"http:\/\/www.customize.org\/details\/33409."]},{"entry":[{},"To have a complete study of the methods of converting"]},{"entry":[{},"123 style to OPSX style, you may also refer to"]},{"entry":[{},"http:\/\/features.JKEL.com\/entry\/8828351836181248\/ for"]},{"entry":[{},"detail information."]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}}]}}},"Table 5 shows a question-focused answer summarization technique for opinion type questions. Opinion type questions can be divided into two subcategories. One is sentiment-oriented questions that ask the sentiment about something. For instance, \u201cWhat do you think of . . . \u201d is a sentiment type question. The other type of opinion question is a list-oriented question that requests a list of answers and looks to determine which item is most popular. In sentiment-oriented questions, the askers likely care about how many people support or oppose something. Table 5 shows steps for summarizing answers to sentiment-type questions. Table 6 shows steps for summarizing list-type questions. Tables 7 and 8 show summaries generated for sentiment-type questions and list-type questions, respectively. Of course, the methods in Tables 5 and 6 and the summaries in Tables 7 and 8 are exemplary only.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0052","num":"0051"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00005","num":"00005"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"center"}},"thead":{"row":[{"entry":"TABLE 5"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":"Summarization Algorithm of Sentiment Questions"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":{}}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"left"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":"For each answer"}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"14pt","align":"right"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"203pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["1.","If an answer begins with negative cue phrase (e.g. \u201cNo, it isn't\u201d etc.),"]},{"entry":[{},"it is annotated as Against. If a response begins with positive cue"]},{"entry":[{},"phrase (e.g. \u201cYes, it is\u201d etc.), it is annotated as Support."]},{"entry":["2.","For a clause, if number of positive sentiment word is larger than"]},{"entry":[{},"negative sentiment word, the sentiment of the clause is Positive."]},{"entry":[{},"Otherwise, the sentiment of the clause is Negative."]},{"entry":["3.","If there are negative indicators such as \u201cdon't\/never\/ . . . \u201d in front of"]},{"entry":[{},"the clause, the sentiment should be reversed."]},{"entry":["4.","If number of negative clauses is larger than number of positive"]},{"entry":[{},"clauses, the sentiment of the answer is Negative. Otherwise, the"]},{"entry":[{},"sentiment of the answer is Positive."]},{"entry":["5.","Denote the sentiment value of question as s(q), the sentiment value of"]},{"entry":[{},"an answer as s(a), and then the final sentiment of the answer is logical"]},{"entry":[{},"AND of s(q) and s(a)"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0053","num":"0052"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00006","num":"00006"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"center"}},"thead":{"row":[{"entry":"TABLE 6"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":"Summarization Algorithm of List Questions"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":{}}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"14pt","align":"right"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"203pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["1.","Segment the answers into sentences"]},{"entry":["2.","Cluster sentences"]},{"entry":["3.","For each cluster,"]},{"entry":[{},"Choose the key sentence based on mutual information between itself"]},{"entry":[{},"and other sentences within the cluster"]},{"entry":["4.","Rank the key sentences by the cluster size"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0054","num":"0053"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00007","num":"00007"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"center"}},"thead":{"row":[{"entry":"TABLE 7"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":"Summary of Sentiment-Opinion Question"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":{}}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"21pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"196pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"Question"]},{"entry":[{},"(http:\/\/answers.Alpha.com\/question\/?qid=1006050125145)"]},{"entry":[{},"I am 16 and i stil talk to my erm..teddy bear . . . am i"]},{"entry":[{},"wierd???"]},{"entry":[{},"Best Answer Chosen"]},{"entry":[{},"not at all i'm 14 and i too do that"]},{"entry":[{},"Auto-summarized Answer"]},{"entry":[{},"A: No, you're not weird . . . you're Pratheek! :D"]},{"entry":[{},"(Against)"]},{"entry":[{},"A: no, i like to hold on to my old memories too. i do"]},{"entry":[{},"it sometimes too. (Against)"]},{"entry":[{},"A: It's might be a little uncommon for a 16 year old to"]},{"entry":[{},"talk to a teddy bear but there would be a serious"]},{"entry":[{},"problem if you told me that your teddy bear answered"]},{"entry":[{},"back as you talked to him!!:) (Support)"]},{"entry":[{},"A: You still has a teddy bear, wow that really uncommon"]},{"entry":[{},"for a boy your age to have a teddy bear. But I GUESS IT"]},{"entry":[{},"GOOD because you talk to it. (Support)"]},{"entry":[{},"A: Yes. (Support)"]},{"entry":[{},"A: i talk to a seed im growing .. its not weird . . . :)"]},{"entry":[{},"(Support)"]},{"entry":[{},"A: It will get weird when he starts to answer back!"]},{"entry":[{},"(Against)"]},{"entry":[{},"A: not really. it depends how you talk i mean not if"]},{"entry":[{},"you talk to it like its a little kid like my brother"]},{"entry":[{},"does. (Against)"]},{"entry":[{},"A: I slept with my teddy bear until I graduated. Can't"]},{"entry":[{},"say that I ever had a conversation with him, but if I"]},{"entry":[{},"had I'm sure he would've been a very good listener."]},{"entry":[{},"(Support)"]},{"entry":[{},"A: You may pass GO . . . (Neutral)"]},{"entry":[{},"A: not at all i'm 14 and i too do that (Aganist)"]},{"entry":[{},"Overall Attitude:"]},{"entry":[{},"Support 5 Votes"]},{"entry":[{},"Neutral 1 Votes"]},{"entry":[{},"Against 5 Votes"]},{"entry":[{},"Manually-summarized Answer"]},{"entry":[{},"against (vote 5) reasons: i like to hold on to my old"]},{"entry":[{},"memories too. (vote 1) I slept with my teddy bear until"]},{"entry":[{},"I graduated. (vote 1) i'm 14 and i too do that (vote 1)"]},{"entry":[{},"support (vote 4) neuter (vote 2)"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}}]}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0055","num":"0054"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00008","num":"00008"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"center"}},"thead":{"row":[{"entry":"TABLE 8"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":"Summary of List-Opinion Question"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":{}}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"203pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"Question"]},{"entry":[{},"(http:\/\/answers.ABC.com\/question\/?qid=20060718083151AACYQJn)"]},{"entry":[{},"What is the best sci-fi movie u ever saw?"]},{"entry":[{},"Best Answer Chosen"]},{"entry":[{},"Independance Day"]},{"entry":[{},"Auto-summarized Answer"]},{"entry":[{},"DEF Movie (5)"]},{"entry":[{},"GHI Movie (3)"]},{"entry":[{},"fi movie has to be JKL Movie (2)"]},{"entry":[{},"But the best \u201cB\u201d sci (2)"]},{"entry":[{},"I liked MNO Movie it didn't scare me and I though they"]},{"entry":[{},"did a great job receating Egypt (3)"]},{"entry":[{},"PQR Movie (3)"]},{"entry":[{},"Manually-summarized Answer"]},{"entry":[{},"DEF Movie (vote 6); GHI Movie (vote 3); JKL Movie (vote"]},{"entry":[{},"2); MNO Movie (vote 2); PQR Movie (vote 2); STU Movie"]},{"entry":[{},"(vote 2); VWX Movie v.s XYZ Movie (vote 1); ABC123"]},{"entry":[{},"Movie (vote 1); DEF456 Movie(vote 1); GHI789 Movie(vote"]},{"entry":[{},"1); JKL123 Movie (vote 1); MNO456 Movie (vote 1);"]},{"entry":[{},"PQR789 Movie (vote 1); STU123 Movie (vote 1); VWX456"]},{"entry":[{},"Movie (vote 1)"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}}]}}},"As shown in Table 5, Answers are summarized by first determining whether they begin with a negative queue phrase or a positive queue phrase. This can be done simply by using an opinion-word dictionary that is a dictionary of opinion words, and a queue phrase list that lists queue phrases into positive and negative queue phrases. If the answer beings with a negative queue phrase, it is annotated as being \u201cagainst\u201d what is proposed, and if it begins with a positive queue phrase it is annotated as \u201csupporting\u201d what is proposed.","If the answer cannot be annotated in step 1, then, for a clause, answer summarizer  determines whether a number of positive sentiment words in the clause is larger than the number negative sentiment words. If so, the clause is annotated \u201cpositive\u201d and if not, it is annotated \u201cnegative\u201d.","In step 3, if there are negative indicators such as \u201cdon't\u201d, \u201cnever\u201d, etc. in front of the clause, then the sentiment is reversed.","In step 4, if the number of negative clauses is larger than the number of positive clauses in the answer, then the sentiment of the answer is \u201cnegative\u201d. Otherwise, it is \u201cpositive\u201d.","Finally, in step 5 of Table 5, the sentiment value of the question (is denoted as S(Q)), and the sentiment value of the answer is denoted as (S(A)). The final sentiment of the answer is the logical Boolean AND of S(Q) and S(A).","In Table 6, the steps for summarizing answers to list questions include first segmenting the answers into sentences and clustering the sentences using the clustering technique set out above in Table 3. This is indicated by steps 1 and 2 in Table 6.","Next, for each cluster, a key sentence based on mutual information between itself and other sentences within the cluster is chosen. The key sentences are then ranked by cluster size that spawned the key sentences. This is indicated by steps 3 and 4 in Table 6.","For the list-oriented questions, it can be seen that a simple counting algorithm tallies different answers of questions, together with their supporting votes, to obtain the answer summaries.","It can be seen that Table 7 presents the summarization result of a sentiment-oriented question which asks whether it is strange for a 16 year old child to talk to a teddy bear. The best answer is a negative response. However, if all answers are considered, it can be seen that half of the answers agree, but another half of them disagree. This tally is thus presented in the answer summarization.","Table 8 shows the summarization result of a list-oriented question which asks for users to identify the best science fiction movie they have ever seen. The best answer just gives a single choice, while the summarized answer gives a list of best science fiction movies with the number of supporting votes.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0066","num":"0065"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 4","FIG. 3"],"b":"350"},"Question search component  first receives an input question  from a user. This is indicated by block  in . Component  then identifies, within data store  (that contains questions with summarized answers) whether any questions in data store  are similar to question . This is indicated by block  in . In doing so, component  can use any of a wide variety of different techniques that are used to identify similarity between two textual inputs. For instance, component  can identify the question type and keywords in the question and compare that with the question type and keywords (content) in data store . Of course, other more sophisticated natural language processing techniques can be used as well. For instance, component  can convert the input question  into a syntax parse tree or logical form (content), and that can be compared to syntax parse trees or logical forms generated for the questions in data store . A wide variety of other processing techniques can be used as well, in order to identify questions in data store  that are similar to input question .","In any case, once the similar questions are identified in data store , the answers to those questions are retrieved from data store . This is indicated by block  in . Component  then outputs the question and answer summaries , for review by the user. This is indicated by block  in . Of course, component  can also allow the user to interact with the summarized answers, such as to identify a best answer among them, or allow the community to define the best answer among them, etc.","It should also be noted that question search component  can be any type of information search component, such as an information retrieval system. In that type of system, data store  may be a valuable repository of knowledge that can be searched in response to an information retrieval query. Therefore, system  is not limited to a community question answering system, but can be any other type of information seeking system as well, that accesses the data stored in store  based on community based question answering services.","With reference to , an exemplary system for implementing some embodiments includes a general-purpose computing device in the form of a computer . Components of computer  may include, but are not limited to, a processing unit , a system memory , and a system bus  that couples various system components including the system memory to the processing unit . The system bus  may be any of several types of bus structures including a memory bus or memory controller, a peripheral bus, and a local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. By way of example, and not limitation, such architectures include Industry Standard Architecture (ISA) bus, Micro Channel Architecture (MCA) bus, Enhanced ISA (EISA) bus, Video Electronics Standards Association (VESA) local bus, and Peripheral Component Interconnect (PCI) bus also known as Mezzanine bus.","Computer  typically includes a variety of computer readable media. Computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by computer  and includes both volatile and nonvolatile media, removable and non-removable media. By way of example, and not limitation, computer readable media may comprise computer storage media and communication media. Computer storage media includes both volatile and nonvolatile, removable and non-removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions, data structures, program modules or other data. Computer storage media includes, but is not limited to, RAM, ROM, EEPROM, flash memory or other memory technology, CD-ROM, digital versatile disks (DVD) or other optical disk storage, magnetic cassettes, magnetic tape, magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices, or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by computer . Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions, data structures, program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term \u201cmodulated data signal\u201d means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example, and not limitation, communication media includes wired media such as a wired network or direct-wired connection, and wireless media such as acoustic, RF, infrared and other wireless media. Combinations of any of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.","The system memory  includes computer storage media in the form of volatile and\/or nonvolatile memory such as read only memory (ROM)  and random access memory (RAM) . A basic input\/output system  (BIOS), containing the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within computer , such as during start-up, is typically stored in ROM . RAM  typically contains data and\/or program modules that are immediately accessible to and\/or presently being operated on by processing unit . By way of example, and not limitation,  illustrates operating system , application programs , other program modules , and program data . The systems discussed above in  can be stored in other program modules  or elsewhere, including being stored remotely.","The computer  may also include other removable\/non-removable volatile\/nonvolatile computer storage media. By way of example only,  illustrates a hard disk drive  that reads from or writes to non-removable, nonvolatile magnetic media, a magnetic disk drive  that reads from or writes to a removable, nonvolatile magnetic disk , and an optical disk drive  that reads from or writes to a removable, nonvolatile optical disk  such as a CD ROM or other optical media. Other removable\/non-removable, volatile\/nonvolatile computer storage media that can be used in the exemplary operating environment include, but are not limited to, magnetic tape cassettes, flash memory cards, digital versatile disks, digital video tape, solid state RAM, solid state ROM, and the like. The hard disk drive  is typically connected to the system bus  through a non-removable memory interface such as interface , and magnetic disk drive  and optical disk drive  are typically connected to the system bus  by a removable memory interface, such as interface .","The drives and their associated computer storage media discussed above and illustrated in , provide storage of computer readable instructions, data structures, program modules and other data for the computer . In , for example, hard disk drive  is illustrated as storing operating system , application programs , other program modules , and program data . Note that these components can either be the same as or different from operating system , application programs , other program modules , and program data . Operating system , application programs , other program modules , and program data  are given different numbers here to illustrate that, at a minimum, they are different copies.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0075","num":"0074"},"figref":"FIG. 5","b":"546"},"A user may enter commands and information into the computer  through input devices such as a keyboard , a microphone , and a pointing device , such as a mouse, trackball or touch pad. Other input devices (not shown) may include a joystick, game pad, satellite dish, scanner, or the like. These and other input devices are often connected to the processing unit  through a user input interface  that is coupled to the system bus, but may be connected by other interface and bus structures, such as a parallel port, game port or a universal serial bus (USB). A monitor  or other type of display device is also connected to the system bus  via an interface, such as a video interface . In addition to the monitor, computers may also include other peripheral output devices such as speakers  and printer , which may be connected through an output peripheral interface .","The computer  is operated in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers, such as a remote computer . The remote computer  may be a personal computer, a hand-held device, a server, a router, a network PC, a peer device or other common network node, and typically includes many or all of the elements described above relative to the computer . The logical connections depicted in  include a local area network (LAN)  and a wide area network (WAN) , but may also include other networks. Such networking environments are commonplace in offices, enterprise-wide computer networks, intranets and the Internet.","When used in a LAN networking environment, the computer  is connected to the LAN  through a network interface or adapter . When used in a WAN networking environment, the computer  typically includes a modem  or other means for establishing communications over the WAN , such as the Internet. The modem , which may be internal or external, may be connected to the system bus  via the user input interface , or other appropriate mechanism. In a networked environment, program modules depicted relative to the computer , or portions thereof, may be stored in the remote memory storage device. By way of example, and not limitation,  illustrates remote application programs  as residing on remote computer . It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are exemplary and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers may be used.","Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and\/or methodological acts, it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather, the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIGS. 2A and 2B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 3"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 5"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
