---
title: Missile boost-ballistic estimator
abstract: A hostile missile engager senses the missile and supplies kinematic data to an interceptor missile fire control processor, which predicts the target's future location with the aid of a powered/unpowered identifier. The identifier passes the kinematic data through filters having lags for powered and unpowered operation, to produce residuals and residual covariances. The probabilities of powered and unpowered motion are determined, and thresholded. If the probability of powered motion or unpowered motion exceeds its threshold, the motion is deemed known. If the target is deemed to be powered, a set of the three-dimensional kinematic features is applied to a nine-state Kalman filter to produce an optimal state. If the target missile is unpowered, a set of the three-dimensional kinematic features corresponding to the second lag is applied to a six-state Kalman filter to produce an optimal state for the unpowered motion. The optimal states control the interceptor toward the target.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07663528&OS=07663528&RS=07663528
owner: Lockheed Martin Corporation
number: 07663528
owner_city: Bethesda
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080320
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"GOVINT":[{},{}],"heading":["STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENTAL INTEREST","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION"],"p":["This invention was made with Government support under Contract\/Grant N00024-03-C-6110 awarded by the Department of the Navy. The United States Government has certain rights in this invention.","Modern transportation and military systems place great reliance on systems for tracking airborne or flying objects. In the context of transportation, air traffic control requires that the locations of aircraft be known, preferably with great precision. U.S. Pat. Nos. 7,009,554 and 7,180,443, issued Mar. 7, 2006 and Feb. 20, 2007, respectively, in the name of Mookerjee et al. describe tracking systems generally. In the context of military systems, there is a need to track missiles, both friendly and hostile, and which may be either unpowered (ballistic) or powered (boost). U.S. Pat. No. 7,026,980, issued Apr. 11, 2006 in the name of Mavroudakis et al. describes a system for identifying and tracking a target missile. A missile tracking system described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11\/879,538, filed Jul. 18, 2007 in the name of Luu et al. describes a system which estimates the location of a missile. Luu et al. make use of a \u201cstaging logic and early thrust termination\u201d function for determining the boost or ballistic state, to improve the accuracy of their estimator. A system and method for tracking and engaging a hostile missile is described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11\/868,554, filed Oct. 8, 2007 in the name of Luu, et al. This system and method also attempts to determine the boost or ballistic state of the missile being tracked. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11\/253,309, filed Oct. 19, 2005 in the name of Wolf, now U.S. Pat. No. 7,295,149, describes a system including a radar sensor, a hostile missile, an interceptor missile, a boost\/ballistic determination arrangement, and an interceptor controller using the boost\/ballistic determination to aid in interceptor guidance.","It will be clear that an accurate estimate of the location and path of a target missile to be engaged by an interceptor missile requires some knowledge of the boost and ballistic operating condition of the target missile. Improved and or alternative boost\/ballistic estimating arrangements are desired.","A method according to an aspect of the invention is for engaging a target missile with an interceptor missile. The method comprises the steps of sensing three-dimensional or full kinematic features, including at least position of the target missile, to thereby generate sensed kinematic data. The kinematic data includes position, which is at least one of slant range, bearing and elevation. The current value of the three-dimensional kinematic features is or are stored, together with a set of previous values of the three-dimensional kinematic features. At least a portion of the current value of the sensed kinematic data is passed through a first filter having a fixed first filter lag. The first filter is suited for maneuver motion of the missile, and generates first residuals and first residual covariances. At least a portion of the current value of the sensed kinematic data is passed through a second filter having a fixed second filter lag. The second filter is suited for non-maneuver motion of the missile, to generate second residuals and second residual covariances. From the first residuals, the first residual covariances, the second residuals, and the second residual covariances, the probability of being in maneuvering motion and the probability of being in non-maneuvering motion are determined. The probability of being in maneuvering motion tends toward unity when the target missile is in maneuvering motion and tends toward zero when the target missile is in non-maneuvering motion. The probability of being in non-maneuvering motion tends toward unity when the target missile is in non-maneuvering motion and tends toward zero when the target missile is in maneuvering motion. The probability of being in maneuvering motion and the probability of being in non-maneuvering motion are compared with at least one threshold value The target missile is deemed to be in maneuvering motion if the probability of being in maneuvering motion exceeds the threshold value, and the target missile is deemed to be in non-maneuvering motion if the probability of being in non-maneuvering motion exceeds the threshold value. If the target missile is deemed to be in maneuvering motion, a set of the three-dimensional kinematic features corresponding to the first lag is applied to a nine-state Kalman filter to produce an optimal state for the maneuvering motion. The nine states of the nine-state Kalman filter correspond with three position states, three velocity states, and three acceleration states. If the target missile is deemed to be in non-maneuvering motion, a set of the three-dimensional kinematic features corresponding to the second lag is applied to a six-state Kalman filter to produce an optimal state for the non-maneuvering motion. The six states of the six-state Kalman filter correspond to three position states and three velocity states. The optimal states are applied to at least (a) a missile engagement planner for initialization of interceptor guidance and (b) to an interceptor for guidance of the interceptor toward the target missile.","A method according to an aspect of the invention is for estimating or determining transitions between powered and unpowered motion of a target missile. The method comprises the steps of sensing three-dimensional kinematic features of the target. The three-dimensional kinematic features include position, which includes at least one of slant range, bearing and elevation. The sensing of the three-dimensional kinematic features generates sensed kinematic data. The current value of the full set of three-dimensional kinematic features is stored in a memory, which may be a computer memory, together with a set of previous values of the full three-dimensional kinematic features. At least a portion of the current value of the sensed kinematic data is passed through a first filter having a fixed first filter lag, the first filter being suited for or matching powered motion of the missile, to thereby generate first residuals and first residual covariances. At least a portion of the current value of the sensed kinematic data is passed through a second filter having a fixed second filter lag. The second filter is suited for or matching non-powered motion of the missile, to generate second residuals and second residual covariances. From the first residuals, the first residual covariances, the second residuals, and the second residual covariances, determining the probability of being in powered motion and the probability of being in non-powered motion, which probability of being in powered motion tends toward unity when the missile is in powered motion and tends toward zero when the missile is in non-powered motion, and which probability of being in non-powered motion tends toward unity when the missile is in non-powered motion and tends toward zero when the missile is in powered motion. The probability of being in powered motion and the probability of being in non-powered motion are compared with at least one threshold value, to thereby deem the missile to be in powered motion if the probability of being in powered motion exceeds the threshold value, and to deem the missile to be in non-powered motion if the probability of being in non-powered motion exceeds the threshold value. If the missile is deemed to be in powered motion, a set of the full or three-dimensional kinematic features corresponding to the first lag are applied to a nine-state (position velocity acceleration) Kalman filter to produce an optimal state for the powered motion. If the missile is deemed to be in non-powered motion, a set of the three-dimensional or full kinematic features corresponding to the second lag are applied to a six-state Kalman filter (three position states and three velocity states) to produce an optimal state for the non-powered motion.","A method according to another aspect of the invention is for estimating or determining transitions between ACM (Attitude Control Module) and non-ACM motion of an airborne vehicle. The method comprises the steps of sensing three-dimensional kinematic features (including position, which is at least one of slant range, bearing and elevation) of the target, to thereby generate sensed kinematic data. The method includes the steps of storing, as in computer memory, the current value of the three-dimensional or full) kinematic features, and a set of previous values of the three-dimensional kinematic features. At least a portion of the current value of the sensed kinematic data is passed through a first filter having a fixed first filter lag. The first filter is suited for ACM motion of the vehicle to generate first residuals and first residual covariances. At least a portion of the current value of the sensed kinematic data is passed through a second filter having a fixed second filter lag. The second filter is suited for non-ACM motion of the vehicle to generate second residuals and second residual covariances. From (a) the first residuals, the (b) first residual covariances, (c) the second residuals, and (d) the second residual covariances, the probability of being in ACM motion and the probability of being in non-ACM motion are determined. The probability of being in ACM motion tends toward unity when the vehicle is in ACM motion and tends toward zero when the vehicle is in non-ACM motion. The probability of being in non-ACM motion tends toward unity when the vehicle is in non-ACM motion and tends toward zero when the vehicle is in ACM motion. The probability of being in ACM motion and the probability of being in non-ACM motion are compared with at least one threshold value. The vehicle is deemed to be in ACM motion if the probability of being in ACM motion exceeds the threshold value, and is deemed to be in non-ACM motion if the probability of being in non-ACM motion exceeds the threshold value. If the vehicle is deemed to be in ACM motion, a set of the three-dimensional (full) kinematic features corresponding to the first lag is applied to a nine-state Kalman filter to thereby produce an optimal state for the ACM motion. If the vehicle is deemed to be in non-ACM motion, a set of the three-dimensional (full) kinematic features corresponding to the second lag is applied to a six-state Kalman filter (three position states and three velocity states) to produce an optimal state for the non-ACM motion.","In , a system  includes a radar  with an antenna . Radar  generates electromagnetic signals which are transmitted by antenna , as suggested by \u201clightning bolt\u201d . If there is a target within range of the radar , a portion of the transmitted signals will be reflected back toward the radar. In this case, a target illustrated as a missile  is present. Missile  may be in powered (boost) flight, or it may be in unpowered (ballistic) flight. In any case, target  causes reflected or return signals return along the same path illustrated as  to the radar system. The radar system  processes the reflected signals to produce information relating to at least target slant range, and possibly bearing and elevation. These are referred to as \u201ckinematic\u201d features of the target. The kinematic features appear at an output port of radar , and are coupled to an interceptor missile fire control system . Fire control system  estimates the actual current location of the target missile , and estimates its trajectory or path . Fire control system  generates fire control solutions, initiates the interceptor missile  while it is still at the interceptor launcher . Fire control system  commands a launch of the interceptor missile, and also tracks the location of the interceptor missile . Fire control system  guides the interceptor  toward the expected intercept point  after launch.","In , the sensor measurements block  represents the receipt of signals by way of path  from radar  of  and by way of a path , from another source, designated Overhead Non-Imaging InfraRed (ONIR). The sensor measurements are applied to a track filter , which multihypothesis track filter combines a-priori knowledge of the characteristics of various possible types of threat missiles with the track data from the sensors, to establish separate estimates of the target hypotheses' states (at least position and velocity) for n possible hypotheses. A multihypothesis track filter maintains separate filters for each hypothesis and uses a priori information about each hypothesis to improve the state estimates for each hypothesis over (by comparison with) a filter that uses no a priori information. One implementation of a multihypothesis filter is found in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11\/072,902, filed Mar. 4, 2005 in the name of Mavroudakis et al., and entitled \u201cMissile Identification and Tracking System and Method,\u201d now U.S. Pat. No. 7,026,980. The separate estimates consisting of n possible threat\/stage hypotheses appear at output ports , , , . . . , n of the track filter , and are made available to a typing processor represented as a block  and to a target propagator represented as a block . Typing algorithm or block  uses multiple metrics to determine the likelihood that each hypothesis is correct. These likelihoods sum to unity or one, and this summing characteristic is later used to generate weighting factors for each threat hypothesis. The track filter states from track filter block  of  and the likelihoods from typing block  are applied to a multihypothesis target propagator block . Target propagator block  propagates into the future all those threat hypotheses having likelihoods above a threshold level. In one version of the target propagator, the threshold level is fixed. As illustrated in , target propagator block  produces n-m propagated threat states, where m is the number of hypotheses with likelihoods falling below the threshold. Significant computational resource savings arise from not propagating the low-likelihood threat states. Early in an engagement little track data is available from which the track filter can produce estimated track states, so there is little information on which to base the discarding of hypotheses, so most or all hypotheses are propagated. As more data becomes available from the sensors the typing block  is expected to be able to discount certain hypotheses and to assign low probabilities to other hypotheses. The propagated multihypothesis threat states from target propagator block  of  are applied to an engagement planner illustrated as a block  together with the likelihood information from typing block . Engagement planner  also receives interceptor missile flyout data or tables from a block illustrated as . Engagement planner  uses a subset of the hypotheses to determine an optimal way to engage the target. In order to conserve computational resources, the engagement planner  ignores those hypotheses having likelihoods below the threshold. The optimal engagement information is coupled to initialize an interceptor guidance processing illustrated as a block . Interceptor guidance block  of  receives optimal engagement information from block , propagated threat missile states from , likelihood information from block , and interceptor state information from a block . The interceptor state information contains information describing the state of the interceptor (such as position, velocity, and acceleration) at the time that the interceptor guidance function block  is entered from block . Interceptor guidance block  estimates the location of the target at the time of intercept. Launch and intercept guidance commands are applied from interceptor guidance block  to the interceptor . The intercept guidance commands are preferably based on a boost\/ballistic phase guidance algorithm which uses the propagated hypothesis positions and likelihoods to estimate the location of the target at intercept. During guidance a composite track is formed or generated that represents a weighted-average position of the hypotheses. The weighted-average position is a function of each threat hypothesis' position and its associated likelihood. During the course of an engagement, the target state and hypothesis likelihoods are updated as more information becomes available. The track filter , the target propagator , the engagement planner , and the interceptor guidance  all take advantage of the new data to refine their solutions.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 2","FIG. 3"],"b":["18","20","22","24","96","22","24"]},"The output at port of first filter block  of  represents the first residuals and the first residual covariances of the filtered data and these are coupled by way of a path  to a first input port of a processor illustrated as a block . The output at port of second filter block  of  represents the second residuals and the second residual covariances of the filtered data, and these are coupled by way of a path  to a second input port of processor .","Processor  of  receives the first residuals and first residual covariances at input port and receives the second residuals and the second residual covariances at input port . Processor  processes the information and produces (a) at an output port a measure or indication of the probability that the target missile is in a powered state and (b) at an output port a measure or indication of the probability that the target missile is in an unpowered state. The signal appearing at output port , representing the probability of being in powered motion, tends toward unity when the missile is in powered motion and tends toward zero when the missile is in non-powered motion. The signal appearing at output port , representing the probability of being in unpowered motion, tends toward unity when the missile is in non-powered motion and tends toward zero when the missile is in powered motion.","The signal representing the probability that the missile is in powered flight which appears at output port of block  of  is coupled to a threshold function illustrated as a block . Threshold function  compares the signal with a threshold value to make a determination (PWR) as to whether the missile is in powered flight or not. Similarly, the signal representing the probability that the missile is in unpowered flight which appears at output port is coupled to a threshold function illustrated as a block . Threshold function  compares the signal with a threshold value to make a determination ( ) as to whether the missile is in unpowered flight or not. By nature of the processor, the probability that the missile is in powered flight is one (1) minus the probability that the missile is in unpowered flight. Similarly the probability that the missile is in unpowered flight is one (1) minus the probability that the missile is in powered flight.","Regardless of whether the missile is in powered or unpowered flight, both a 9-State Kalman \u201cpowered\u201d filter designated  and a 6-State Kalman \u201cunpowered\u201d filter designated  begin track filtering by initializing with the kinematic data accessed via paths  and , respectively, from data memory . Filtered data from the 9-State Kalman powered motion filter  represents position, velocity and acceleration in the x direction, y direction, and z direction (x,{dot over (x)},{umlaut over (x)},y,{dot over (y)},\u00ff,z,\u017c,{umlaut over (z)}). The filtered data from the 9-State Kalman \u201cpowered motion\u201d filter  is outputted or coupled by way of a path  to a 9-State filtered data memory designated  and by way of a path  to an end user designated  if the threshold test determines the missile to be in powered flight. If the threshold test determines that the missile is not in powered flight, the filtered data from powered flight filter  is not stored or used. Similarly, the filtered data from the 6-State Kalman \u201cunpowered motion\u201d data filter which represents position and velocity in the x direction, y direction, and z direction (x,{dot over (x)},y,{dot over (y)},z,\u017c), is sent by way of a path  to a 6-state filtered data memory  and to the end user  if the threshold test designated  determines the missile to be in unpowered flight, and is not stored or used if the threshold test determines that the missile is not in unpowered flight.","First \u201cpowered motion\u201d detector  and second \u201cunpowered motion\u201d detector  of  continually filter the raw data provided by radar . Prior to a time at which the missile  changes from unpowered flight to powered flight, 6-state filter  will have been filtering the data and storing information in 6-state memory . When missile  changes from unpowered flight to powered flight, threshold test block  alerts the 9-state Kalman \u201cpowered motion\u201d filter  via path . The 9-state Kalman filter for powered motion will access the 6-state filtered data memory  via path  for the filtered data provided at t-lag, where t-lag represents the current time minus the lag duration. This data initializes the 9-State \u201cpowered flight\u201d filter  with the most accurate available data. The raw data in memory  will be accessed by the 9-state Kalman filter, , for the data points in the interval from t-lag to the current time and filters the data and continually sends the filtered data to the end user . This condition continues until the missile switches from powered motion to unpowered motion and the threshold test  alerts the change. The 6-State Kalman filter for unpowered motion, , will then access the t-lag data stored in the 9-state filtered data memory  via link , and initialize using the t-lag stored data. Six-state Kalman filter  then continues to filter the data in the interval from t-lag to the current time data which is stored in memory , and provides filtered data to end user .","In , the Power Detector  includes two range filters; a range (\u03b1,\u03b2) detector filter  and a range (\u03b1,\u03b2,\u03b3) detector filter . A fixed lag is used in filtering. Likelihood functions then utilize the filter outputs to calculate probabilities. The Power Detector  predictor equations for \u03b1,\u03b2 detector filter  range direction are\n\n\u0394\n\n\n\nwhere:\n\nris the current predicted position data point;\n\nris the most recent corrected position data point;\n\n{dot over (r)}\u0394 is the most recent corrected velocity data point;\n\nThe power detector  \u03b1-\u03b2 detector filter  gain equations in the x direction are given by\n",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"maths":[{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00001","num":"00001"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["\u03b1","r"]},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mn":"1","mo":"-","msup":{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mfrac":{"mi":"\u03c4","mrow":{"mi":["T","\u03c4"],"mo":"+"}}},"mn":"2"}}}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00001-2","num":"00001.2"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["\u03b2","r"]},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":"\u2062","msup":{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mfrac":{"mi":"T","mrow":{"mi":["T","\u03c4"],"mo":"+"}}},"mn":"2"}}}}}],"br":[{},{},{},{},{},{}],"b":["96","24"],"in-line-formulae":[{},{}],"i":["r","=r","r","\u2212r"],"sub":["k","k","r","k","k"],"sup":["s","p","m","p"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00002","num":"00002"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"msubsup":{"mover":{"mi":"r","mo":"."},"mi":["k","s"]},"mo":"=","mrow":{"msubsup":{"mover":{"mi":"r","mo":"."},"mi":["k","p"]},"mo":"+","mrow":{"mfrac":{"msub":{"mi":["\u03b2","r"]},"mi":"\u0394"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msubsup":[{"mi":["r","k","m"]},{"mi":["r","k","p"]}],"mo":"-"}}}}}}}},"The power detector  \u03b1-\u03b2-\u03b3 detector filter } predictor equations in the x direction are",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"maths":[{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00003","num":"00003"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"msubsup":{"mi":["r","k","p"]},"mo":"=","mrow":{"msubsup":{"mi":["r","s"],"mrow":{"mi":"k","mo":"-","mn":"1"}},"mo":["+","+"],"mrow":[{"mi":"\u0394","mo":"\u2062","msubsup":{"mover":{"mi":"r","mo":"."},"mrow":{"mi":"k","mo":"-","mn":"1"},"mi":"s"}},{"mfrac":{"mn":["1","2"]},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"msubsup":{"mover":{"mi":["r","\u00a8"]},"mrow":{"mi":"k","mo":"-","mn":"1"},"mi":"s"},"msup":{"mi":"\u0394","mn":"2"}}]}}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00003-2","num":"00003.2"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"msubsup":{"mover":{"mi":"r","mo":"."},"mi":["k","p"]},"mo":"=","mrow":{"msubsup":{"mover":{"mi":"r","mo":"."},"mrow":{"mi":"k","mo":"-","mn":"1"},"mi":"s"},"mo":"+","mrow":{"mi":"\u0394","mo":"\u2062","msubsup":{"mover":{"mi":["r","\u00a8"]},"mrow":{"mi":"k","mo":"-","mn":"1"},"mi":"s"}}}}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00003-3","num":"00003.3"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"msubsup":[{"mover":{"mi":["r","\u00a8"]},"mi":["k","p"]},{"mover":{"mi":["r","\u00a8"]},"mrow":{"mi":"k","mo":"-","mn":"1"},"mi":"s"}],"mo":"="}}}],"br":{},"b":["96","22"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"maths":[{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00004","num":"00004"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["\u03b1","r"]},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mn":"1","mo":"-","msup":{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mfrac":{"mi":"\u03c4","mrow":{"mi":["T","\u03c4"],"mo":"+"}}},"mn":"3"}}}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00004-2","num":"00004.2"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["\u03b2","r"]},"mo":"=","mfrac":{"mrow":{"mn":"3","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":"\u2062","mi":"\u03c4"},"mo":"+","mi":"T"}},"msup":{"mi":"T","mn":"2"}},"msup":{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":["\u03c4","T"],"mo":"+"}},"mn":"3"}}}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00004-3","num":"00004.3"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["\u03b3","r"]},"mo":"=","mfrac":{"mrow":{"mn":"6","mo":"\u2062","msup":{"mi":"T","mn":"3"}},"msup":{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":["\u03c4","T"],"mo":"+"}},"mn":"3"}}}}}],"br":{},"b":["96","22"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"maths":[{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00005","num":"00005"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"msubsup":{"mi":["r","k","s"]},"mo":"=","mrow":{"msubsup":{"mi":["x","k","p"]},"mo":"+","mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["\u03b1","r"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msubsup":[{"mi":["r","k","m"]},{"mi":["r","k","p"]}],"mo":"-"}}}}}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00005-2","num":"00005.2"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"msubsup":{"mover":{"mi":"r","mo":"."},"mi":["k","s"]},"mo":"=","mrow":{"msubsup":{"mover":{"mi":"r","mo":"."},"mi":["k","p"]},"mo":"+","mrow":{"mfrac":{"msub":{"mi":["\u03b2","r"]},"mi":"\u0394"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msubsup":[{"mi":["r","k","m"]},{"mi":["r","k","p"]}],"mo":"-"}}}}}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00005-3","num":"00005.3"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"msubsup":{"mover":{"mi":["r","\u00a8"]},"mi":["k","s"]},"mo":"=","mrow":{"msubsup":{"mover":{"mi":["r","\u00a8"]},"mi":["k","p"]},"mo":"+","mrow":{"mfrac":{"msub":{"mi":["\u03b3","r"]},"msup":{"mi":"\u0394","mn":"2"}},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msubsup":[{"mi":["r","k","m"]},{"mi":["r","k","p"]}],"mo":"-"}}}}}}}]},"A sliding window memory is maintained in block  consisting of current data values as well as a set number of historical points. Specifically, the measurement values for position and velocity (x,y,z and {dot over (x)},{dot over (y)},\u017c) are maintained. Current range values are also found in the memory.","The Optimal tracking filters  include two optimal tracking filters  and . Filter  is an optimal \u03b1,\u03b2 filter for x,y, and z measurements and the other 32 filter is an optimal \u03b1,\u03b2,\u03b3 filter for {dot over (x)},{dot over (y)}, and z measurements. The (\u03b1,\u03b2) filter  accesses the data from the 9-State Filtered Data Memory  and the \u03b1,\u03b2,\u03b3 filter  accessed the data from the 6-State Filtered Data Memory  once the powered detector has detected that the vehicle has transitioned between the states of powered and unpowered.","The Optimal filter  \u03b1-\u03b2 optimal filter  predictor equations in the x direction are\n\n\u0394\n\n,\n\nthe Optimal tracking filter  \u03b1,\u03b2 filter  gain equations in the x direction are\n",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"maths":[{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00006","num":"00006"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["\u03b1","x"]},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mn":"1","mo":"-","msup":{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mfrac":{"mi":"\u03c4","mrow":{"mi":["T","\u03c4"],"mo":"+"}}},"mn":"2"}}}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00006-2","num":"00006.2"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["\u03b2","x"]},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":"\u2062","msup":{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mfrac":{"mi":"T","mrow":{"mi":["T","\u03c4"],"mo":"+"}}},"mn":"2"}}},"mo":[",","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},"mi":"and"}}}],"br":{},"b":["94","34"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"maths":[{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00007","num":"00007"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"msubsup":{"mi":["x","k","s"]},"mo":"=","mrow":{"msubsup":{"mi":["x","k","p"]},"mo":"+","mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["\u03b1","x"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msubsup":[{"mi":["x","k","m"]},{"mi":["x","k","p"]}],"mo":"-"}}}}}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00007-2","num":"00007.2"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"msubsup":{"mover":{"mi":"x","mo":"."},"mi":["k","s"]},"mo":"=","mrow":{"msubsup":{"mover":{"mi":"x","mo":"."},"mi":["k","p"]},"mo":"+","mrow":{"mfrac":{"msub":{"mi":["\u03b2","x"]},"mi":"\u0394"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msubsup":[{"mi":["r","k","m"]},{"mi":["r","k","p"]}],"mo":"-"}},"mo":"."}}}}}}],"br":[{},{},{},{}],"b":["94","34","94","34"],"in-line-formulae":[{},{},{},{}],"i":["y","=y","+{dot over (y)}","{dot over (y)}","={dot over (y)}"],"sub":["k","k-1","k-1","k","k-1"],"sup":["p","s","s","p","s"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"maths":[{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00008","num":"00008"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["\u03b1","y"]},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mn":"1","mo":"-","msup":{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mfrac":{"mi":"\u03c4","mrow":{"mi":["T","\u03c4"],"mo":"+"}}},"mn":"2"}}}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00008-2","num":"00008.2"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["\u03b2","y"]},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":"\u2062","msup":{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mfrac":{"mi":"T","mrow":{"mi":["T","\u03c4"],"mo":"+"}}},"mn":"2"}}},"mo":[",","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},"mi":"and"}}}],"br":{},"b":["94","34"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"maths":[{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00009","num":"00009"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"msubsup":{"mi":["y","k","s"]},"mo":"=","mrow":{"msubsup":{"mi":["y","k","p"]},"mo":"+","mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["\u03b1","y"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msubsup":[{"mi":["r","k","m"]},{"mi":["r","k","p"]}],"mo":"-"}}}}}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00009-2","num":"00009.2"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"msubsup":{"mover":{"mi":"y","mo":"."},"mi":["k","s"]},"mo":"=","mrow":{"msubsup":{"mover":{"mi":"y","mo":"."},"mi":["k","p"]},"mo":"+","mrow":{"mfrac":{"msub":{"mi":["\u03b2","y"]},"mi":"\u0394"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msubsup":[{"mi":["y","k","m"]},{"mi":["y","k","p"]}],"mo":"-"}},"mo":"."}}}}}}],"br":[{},{},{},{}],"b":["94","34","94","34"],"in-line-formulae":[{},{},{},{}],"i":["z","=z","+\u017c","\u017c","=\u017c"],"sub":["k","k-1","k-1","k","k-1"],"sup":["p","s","s","p","s"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"maths":[{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00010","num":"00010"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["\u03b1","z"]},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mn":"1","mo":"-","msup":{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mfrac":{"mi":"\u03c4","mrow":{"mi":["T","\u03c4"],"mo":"+"}}},"mn":"2"}}}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00010-2","num":"00010.2"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["\u03b2","z"]},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":"\u2062","msup":{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mfrac":{"mi":"T","mrow":{"mi":["T","\u03c4"],"mo":"+"}}},"mn":"2"}}},"mo":[",","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},"mi":"and"}}}],"br":{},"b":["94","34"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"maths":[{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00011","num":"00011"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"msubsup":{"mi":["z","k","s"]},"mo":"=","mrow":{"msubsup":{"mi":["z","k","p"]},"mo":"+","mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["\u03b1","z"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msubsup":[{"mi":["z","k","m"]},{"mi":["z","k","p"]}],"mo":"-"}}}}}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00011-2","num":"00011.2"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"msubsup":{"mover":{"mi":"z","mo":"."},"mi":["k","s"]},"mo":"=","mrow":{"msubsup":{"mover":{"mi":"z","mo":"."},"mi":["k","p"]},"mo":"+","mrow":{"mfrac":{"msub":{"mi":["\u03b2","z"]},"mi":"\u0394"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msubsup":[{"mi":["z","k","m"]},{"mi":["z","k","p"]}],"mo":"-"}}}}}}}]},"The Optimal tracking filter  \u03b1-\u03b2-\u03b3 filter filter equations in the x direction are",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"maths":[{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00012","num":"00012"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"msubsup":{"mi":["x","k","p"]},"mo":"=","mrow":{"msubsup":{"mi":["x","s"],"mrow":{"mi":"k","mo":"-","mn":"1"}},"mo":["+","+"],"mrow":[{"mi":"\u0394","mo":"\u2062","msubsup":{"mover":{"mi":"x","mo":"."},"mrow":{"mi":"k","mo":"-","mn":"1"},"mi":"s"}},{"mfrac":{"mn":["1","2"]},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"msubsup":{"mover":{"mi":["x","\u00a8"]},"mrow":{"mi":"x","mo":"-","mn":"1"},"mi":"s"},"msup":{"mi":"\u0394","mn":"2"}}]}}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00012-2","num":"00012.2"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"msubsup":{"mover":{"mi":"x","mo":"."},"mi":["x","p"]},"mo":"=","mrow":{"msubsup":{"mover":{"mi":"x","mo":"."},"mrow":{"mi":"k","mo":"-","mn":"1"},"mi":"s"},"mo":"+","mrow":{"mi":"\u0394","mo":"\u2062","msubsup":{"mover":{"mi":["x","\u00a8"]},"mrow":{"mi":"k","mo":"-","mn":"1"},"mi":"s"}}}}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00012-3","num":"00012.3"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"msubsup":{"mover":{"mi":["x","\u00a8"]},"mi":["k","p"]},"mo":"=","mrow":{"msubsup":{"mover":{"mi":["x","\u00a8"]},"mrow":{"mi":"k","mo":"-","mn":"1"},"mi":"s"},"mo":"."}}}}]},"The Optimal tracking filter  \u03b1-\u03b2-\u03b3 filter  gain equations in the x direction are",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0037"},"maths":[{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00013","num":"00013"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["\u03b1","x"]},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mn":"1","mo":"-","msup":{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mfrac":{"mi":"\u03c4","mrow":{"mi":["T","\u03c4"],"mo":"+"}}},"mn":"3"}}}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00013-2","num":"00013.2"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["\u03b2","x"]},"mo":"=","mfrac":{"mrow":{"mn":"3","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":"\u2062","mi":"\u03c4"},"mo":"+","mi":"T"}},"msup":{"mi":"T","mn":"2"}},"msup":{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":["\u03c4","T"],"mo":"+"}},"mn":"3"}}}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00013-3","num":"00013.3"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["\u03b3","x"]},"mo":"=","mfrac":{"mrow":{"mn":"6","mo":"\u2062","msup":{"mi":"T","mn":"3"}},"msup":{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":["\u03c4","T"],"mo":"+"}},"mn":"3"}}}}}],"br":{},"b":["94","32"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0039","num":"0038"},"maths":[{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00014","num":"00014"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"msubsup":{"mi":["x","k","s"]},"mo":"=","mrow":{"msubsup":{"mi":["x","k","p"]},"mo":"+","mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["\u03b1","x"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msubsup":[{"mi":["x","x","m"]},{"mi":["x","k","p"]}],"mo":"-"}}}}}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00014-2","num":"00014.2"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"msubsup":{"mover":{"mi":"x","mo":"."},"mi":["k","s"]},"mo":"=","mrow":{"msubsup":{"mover":{"mi":"x","mo":"."},"mi":["k","p"]},"mo":"+","mrow":{"mfrac":{"msub":{"mi":["\u03b2","x"]},"mi":"\u0394"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msubsup":[{"mi":["x","k","m"]},{"mi":["x","k","p"]}],"mo":"-"}}}}}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00014-3","num":"00014.3"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"msubsup":{"mover":{"mi":["x","\u00a8"]},"mi":["k","s"]},"mo":"=","mrow":{"msubsup":{"mover":{"mi":["x","\u00a8"]},"mi":["k","p"]},"mo":"+","mrow":{"mfrac":{"msub":{"mi":["\u03b3","x"]},"msup":{"mi":"\u0394","mn":"2"}},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msubsup":[{"mi":["x","k","m"]},{"mi":["x","k","p"]}],"mo":"-"}}}}}}}],"br":{},"b":["94","32"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0040","num":"0039"},"maths":[{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00015","num":"00015"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"msubsup":{"mi":["y","k","p"]},"mo":"=","mrow":{"msubsup":{"mi":["y","s"],"mrow":{"mi":"k","mo":"-","mn":"1"}},"mo":["+","+"],"mrow":[{"mi":"\u0394","mo":"\u2062","msubsup":{"mover":{"mi":"y","mo":"."},"mrow":{"mi":"k","mo":"-","mn":"1"},"mi":"s"}},{"mfrac":{"mn":["1","2"]},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"msubsup":{"mover":{"mi":["y","\u00a8"]},"mrow":{"mi":"k","mo":"-","mn":"1"},"mi":"s"},"msup":{"mi":"\u0394","mn":"2"}}]}}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00015-2","num":"00015.2"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"msubsup":{"mover":{"mi":"y","mo":"."},"mi":["k","p"]},"mo":"=","mrow":{"msubsup":{"mover":{"mi":"y","mo":"."},"mrow":{"mi":"k","mo":"-","mn":"1"},"mi":"s"},"mo":"+","mrow":{"mi":"\u0394","mo":"\u2062","msubsup":{"mover":{"mi":["y","\u00a8"]},"mrow":{"mi":"k","mo":"-","mn":"1"},"mi":"s"}}}}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00015-3","num":"00015.3"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mrow":{"msubsup":[{"mover":{"mi":["y","\u00a8"]},"mi":["k","p"]},{"mover":{"mi":["y","\u00a8"]},"mrow":{"mi":"k","mo":"-","mn":"1"},"mi":"s"}],"mo":"="},"mo":","}}}],"br":{},"b":["94","32"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0041","num":"0040"},"maths":[{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00016","num":"00016"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["\u03b1","y"]},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mn":"1","mo":"-","msup":{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mfrac":{"mi":"\u03c4","mrow":{"mi":["T","\u03c4"],"mo":"+"}}},"mn":"3"}}}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00016-2","num":"00016.2"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["\u03b2","y"]},"mo":"=","mfrac":{"mrow":{"mn":"3","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":"\u2062","mi":"\u03c4"},"mo":"+","mi":"T"}},"msup":{"mi":"T","mn":"2"}},"msup":{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":["\u03c4","T"],"mo":"+"}},"mn":"3"}}}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00016-3","num":"00016.3"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["\u03b3","y"]},"mo":"=","mfrac":{"mrow":{"mn":"6","mo":"\u2062","msup":{"mi":"T","mn":"3"}},"msup":{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":["\u03c4","T"],"mo":"+"}},"mn":"3"}}},"mo":[",","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},"mi":"and"}}}],"br":[{},{}],"b":["94","32"],"in-line-formulae":[{},{}],"i":["y","=y","y","\u2212y"],"sub":["k","k","y","k","k"],"sup":["s","p","m","p"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0042","num":"0041"},"maths":[{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00017","num":"00017"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"msubsup":{"mover":{"mi":"y","mo":"."},"mi":["k","s"]},"mo":"=","mrow":{"msubsup":{"mover":{"mi":"y","mo":"."},"mi":["k","p"]},"mo":"+","mrow":{"mfrac":{"mi":["\u03b2","\u0394"]},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msubsup":[{"mi":["y","k","m"]},{"mi":["y","k","p"]}],"mo":"-"}}}}}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00017-2","num":"00017.2"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"msubsup":{"mover":{"mi":["y","\u00a8"]},"mi":["k","s"]},"mo":"=","mrow":{"msubsup":{"mover":{"mi":["y","\u00a8"]},"mi":["k","p"]},"mo":"+","mrow":{"mfrac":{"msub":{"mi":["\u03b3","y"]},"msup":{"mi":"\u0394","mn":"2"}},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msubsup":[{"mi":["y","k","m"]},{"mi":["y","k","p"]}],"mo":"-"}}}}}}}],"br":{},"b":["94","32"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0043","num":"0042"},"maths":[{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00018","num":"00018"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"msubsup":{"mi":["z","k","p"]},"mo":"=","mrow":{"msubsup":{"mi":["z","s"],"mrow":{"mi":"k","mo":"-","mn":"1"}},"mo":["+","+"],"mrow":[{"mi":"\u0394","mo":"\u2062","msubsup":{"mover":{"mi":"z","mo":"."},"mrow":{"mi":"k","mo":"-","mn":"1"},"mi":"s"}},{"mfrac":{"mn":["1","2"]},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"msubsup":{"mover":{"mi":["z","\u00a8"]},"mrow":{"mi":"k","mo":"-","mn":"1"},"mi":"s"},"msup":{"mi":"\u0394","mn":"2"}}]}}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00018-2","num":"00018.2"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"msubsup":{"mover":{"mi":"z","mo":"."},"mi":["k","p"]},"mo":"=","mrow":{"msubsup":{"mover":{"mi":"z","mo":"."},"mrow":{"mi":"k","mo":"-","mn":"1"},"mi":"s"},"mo":"+","mrow":{"mi":"\u0394","mo":"\u2062","msubsup":{"mover":{"mi":["z","\u00a8"]},"mrow":{"mi":"k","mo":"-","mn":"1"},"mi":"s"}}}}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00018-3","num":"00018.3"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mrow":{"msubsup":[{"mover":{"mi":["z","\u00a8"]},"mi":["k","p"]},{"mover":{"mi":["z","\u00a8"]},"mrow":{"mi":"k","mo":"-","mn":"1"},"mi":"s"}],"mo":"="},"mo":","}}}],"br":{},"b":["94","32"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0044","num":"0043"},"maths":[{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00019","num":"00019"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["\u03b1","z"]},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mn":"1","mo":"-","msup":{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mfrac":{"mi":"\u03c4","mrow":{"mi":["T","\u03c4"],"mo":"+"}}},"mn":"3"}}}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00019-2","num":"00019.2"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["\u03b2","z"]},"mo":"=","mfrac":{"mrow":{"mn":"3","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":"\u2062","mi":"\u03c4"},"mo":"+","mi":"T"}},"msup":{"mi":"T","mn":"2"}},"msup":{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":["\u03c4","T"],"mo":"+"}},"mn":"3"}}}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00019-3","num":"00019.3"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["\u03b3","z"]},"mo":"=","mfrac":{"mrow":{"mn":"6","mo":"\u2062","msup":{"mi":"T","mn":"3"}},"msup":{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":["\u03c4","T"],"mo":"+"}},"mn":"3"}}},"mo":[",","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},"mi":"and"}}}],"br":{},"b":["94","32"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0045","num":"0044"},"maths":[{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00020","num":"00020"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"msubsup":{"mi":["z","k","s"]},"mo":"=","mrow":{"msubsup":{"mi":["z","k","p"]},"mo":"+","mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["\u03b1","z"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msubsup":[{"mi":["z","k","m"]},{"mi":["z","k","p"]}],"mo":"-"}}}}}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00020-2","num":"00020.2"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"msubsup":{"mover":{"mi":"z","mo":"."},"mi":["k","s"]},"mo":"=","mrow":{"msubsup":{"mover":{"mi":"z","mo":"."},"mi":["k","p"]},"mo":"+","mrow":{"mfrac":{"msub":{"mi":["\u03b2","z"]},"mi":"\u0394"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msubsup":[{"mi":["z","k","m"]},{"mi":["z","k","p"]}],"mo":"-"}}}}}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00020-3","num":"00020.3"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"msubsup":{"mover":{"mi":["z","\u00a8"]},"mi":["k","s"]},"mo":"=","mrow":{"msubsup":{"mover":{"mi":["z","\u00a8"]},"mi":["k","p"]},"mo":"+","mrow":{"mfrac":{"msub":{"mi":["\u03b3","z"]},"msup":{"mi":"\u0394","mn":"2"}},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msubsup":[{"mi":["z","k","m"]},{"mi":["z","k","p"]}],"mo":"-"}}}}}}}]},"In order to determine the Mode Probability, let \u03bcbe the mode probability for the modes i=1, 2","where i=1 for the \u03b1-\u03b2 filter  for mode, i=2 for the \u03b1-\u03b2-\u03b3 filter  mode, and n=observation time. Then \u03bccan be described by",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0047","num":"0046"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00021","num":"00021"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mrow":[{"msubsup":{"mi":["\u03bc","i","n"]},"mo":"=","mfrac":{"mrow":[{"msubsup":[{"mi":["\u039b","i","n"]},{"mi":["\u03bc","i"],"mrow":{"mi":"n","mo":"-","mn":"1"}}],"mo":"\u2062"},{"mrow":[{"msubsup":[{"mi":["\u039b","n"],"mn":"1"},{"mi":"\u03bc","mn":"1","mrow":{"mi":"n","mo":"-","mn":"1"}}],"mo":"\u2062"},{"msubsup":[{"mi":["\u039b","n"],"mn":"2"},{"mi":"\u03bc","mn":"2","mrow":{"mi":"n","mo":"-","mn":"1"}}],"mo":"\u2062"}],"mo":"+"}]}},{"mi":"i","mo":"=","mn":"1"}],"mo":[",",","],"mn":"2"}}},"br":{},"sub":"i","sup":"n "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0048","num":"0047"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00022","num":"00022"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"msubsup":{"mi":["\u039b","i","n"]},"mo":"=","mfrac":{"msup":{"mi":"e","mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mo":"-","mfrac":{"mn":["1","2"]}},{"mo":["(",")"],"msubsup":{"mi":["v","i","n"]}}],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"msup":[{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"msubsup":{"mi":["v","i","n"]}},"mi":"T"},{"mrow":[{"mo":["(",")"],"msubsup":{"mi":["S","i","n"]}},{"mo":"-","mn":"1"}]}]}}},"mrow":{"msup":[{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":"\u2062","mi":"\u03c0"}},"mfrac":{"mn":["3","2"]}},{"mrow":{"mo":["\uf603","\uf604"],"msubsup":{"mi":["S","i","n"]}},"mfrac":{"mn":["1","2"]}}],"mo":"\u2062"}}}}},"br":{},"sub":["i","i"],"sup":["n ","n "]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0049","num":"0048"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00023","num":"00023"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mrow":{"msubsup":{"mi":["S","i","n"]},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mfrac":{"msubsup":{"mrow":{"mi":"\u03c3","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"n"}},"mi":"mi","mn":"2"},"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mn":"1","mo":"-","msubsup":{"mi":["\u03b1","i","n"]}}}}}},"mo":","}}},"br":{},"sub":["1","i","i"],"sup":["n","n","n "]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0050","num":"0049"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00024","num":"00024"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"msubsup":{"mrow":{"mi":"\u03c3","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"n"}},"msub":{"mi":["m","i"]},"mn":"2"}}},"br":{}},"For the case of optimal gains in optimal gains track filtering, the lag \u03c4 must be evaluated using the standard deviation of measurement error variance denoted here by \u03c3. In the \u03b1-\u03b2 filter , the optimal lag \u03c4 may be equated as",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0052","num":"0051"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00025","num":"00025"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mi":"\u03c4","mo":"=","msup":{"mrow":[{"msup":{"mi":"T","mrow":{"mn":["1","5"],"mo":"\/"}},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mfrac":{"mrow":[{"mn":"3","mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mi":"n","mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"msub":{"mi":["\u03c3","m"]}},{"mn":"2","mo":"\u2062","mi":"A"}]}}},{"mn":["2","5"],"mo":"\/"}]}}}},"br":{}},"For the lag calculation in the \u03b1-\u03b2-\u03b3 filter of , the optimal lag \u03c4 may be equated as",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0054","num":"0053"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00026","num":"00026"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mi":"\u03c4","mo":"=","msup":{"mrow":[{"msup":{"mi":"T","mrow":{"mn":["1","7"],"mo":"\/"}},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mfrac":{"mrow":[{"mn":"15","mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mi":"n","mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"msub":{"mi":["\u03c3","m"]}},{"mn":"2","mo":"\u2062","mi":"J"}]}}},{"mn":["2","7"],"mo":"\/"}]}}}},"br":{}},"In the case of the optimal filters , measurement error must be calculated in order to determine the lag. The measurement error in Cartesian coordinates is",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0056","num":"0055"},"maths":[{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00027","num":"00027"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["R","m"]},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mrow":{"mi":"J","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":[{"msubsup":{"mi":["\u03c3","r"],"mn":"2"}},{"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}},{"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}}]},{"mtd":[{"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}},{"mrow":{"mi":"r","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"msubsup":{"mi":["\u03c3","AZ"],"mn":"2"}}},{"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}}]},{"mtd":[{"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}},{"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}},{"mrow":{"mi":"r","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"msubsup":{"mi":["\u03c3","EL"],"mn":"2"}}}]}]}}},"mo":"\u2062","msup":{"mi":["J","T"]}}}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00027-2","num":"00027.2"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mi":"with"}},{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00027-3","num":"00027.3"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mi":"J","mo":"=","mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mi":"cos","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"EL"}},{"mi":"sin","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"AZ"}}],"mo":"\u2062"}},{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mi":"cos","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"EL"}},{"mi":"sin","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"AZ"}}],"mo":"\u2062"}},{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mo":"-","mrow":{"mi":"sin","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"EL"}}},{"mi":"sin","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"AZ"}}],"mo":"\u2062"}}]},{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mi":"cos","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"EL"}},{"mi":"cas","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"AZ"}}],"mo":"\u2062"}},{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mo":"-","mrow":{"mi":"cos","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"EL"}}},{"mi":"sin","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"AZ"}}],"mo":"\u2062"}},{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mo":"-","mrow":{"mi":"sin","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"EL"}}},{"mi":"cos","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"AZ"}}],"mo":"\u2062"}}]},{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mi":"sin","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"EL"}}},{"mn":"0"},{"mrow":{"mi":"cos","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"EL"}}}]}]}}}}}],"br":[{},{},{},{}],"in-line-formulae":[{},{},{},{},{},{}],"sub":["m",{"sub2":"x"},"m","m",{"sub2":"x"},"m","m",{"sub2":"y"},"m","m",{"sub2":"y"},"m","m",{"sub2":"z"},"m","m",{"sub2":"z"},"m"],"sup":["2","2","2"],"i":["=R","R","=R","R","=R","R"],"img":[{"@attributes":{"id":"CUSTOM-CHARACTER-00001","he":"2.12mm","wi":"2.79mm","file":"US07663528-20100216-P00001.TIF","alt":"custom character","img-content":"character","img-format":"tif"}},{"@attributes":{"id":"CUSTOM-CHARACTER-00002","he":"2.12mm","wi":"2.79mm","file":"US07663528-20100216-P00001.TIF","alt":"custom character","img-content":"character","img-format":"tif"}},{"@attributes":{"id":"CUSTOM-CHARACTER-00003","he":"2.12mm","wi":"2.79mm","file":"US07663528-20100216-P00001.TIF","alt":"custom character","img-content":"character","img-format":"tif"}}]},"\u03c3, \u03c3, \u03c3are used in calculating optimal lag \u03c4, which in turn is used to calculate the optimal filter gains (\u03b1-\u03b2-\u03b3) for (\u03b1-\u03b2) filter and (\u03b1-\u03b2-\u03b3) filter."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWING","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0008","num":"0007"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 2"]}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
