---
title: Incorporating prior knowledge into independent component analysis
abstract: The quality of sound recorded from a plurality of people speaking at the same time is improved by incorporating prior knowledge into an independent component analysis (ICA) separating algorithm. More particularly, prior knowledge is defined as a probability distribution according to some prior situation (e.g., prior distribution of people in a room). A mixture of sounds (e.g., mixture of voices) from a plurality of sources (e.g., people) captured by one or more recording devices (e.g., microphones) is separated into individual components (e.g., individual voices from respective people) by applying an maximum a posteriori (MAP) ICA algorithm which incorporates prior knowledge of the respective sources (e.g., location of sources) directly into the MAP ICA algorithm thereby allowing recovery of independent underlying sounds associated with individual sources from the mixture. Therefore, incorporating prior knowledge into an ICA algorithm provides sound quality substantially equal to existing ICA systems, but at reduced computational complexity.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08515096&OS=08515096&RS=08515096
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 08515096
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080618
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["In recent history, advances in technology have caused the world to become increasingly integrated and globalized. Many companies are now global entities comprising offices and manufacturing sites geographically dispersed throughout the world. With such an integrated, yet geographically diverse, world people often need to communicate with other parties who are located far away. In order to facilitate such communication teleconferencing and video conferencing are widely used. Teleconferencing connects two or more parties over an audio network. Video conferencing further includes a camera and a video monitor allowing the parties to converse while viewing video images of each other.","Teleconferencing and videoconferencing systems are often used during meetings. During meetings situations often occur in which numerous people using a single teleconferencing device (e.g., a single phone) are talking over each other in a single room. In such situations the sound that is captured (e.g., received) by one or more microphone(s) of the teleconferencing device is a mixture of a plurality of voices and reverberating sounds from around the room. Blind Signal Separation (BSS) relates to the task of separating signals (e.g., sounds) when only their mixtures are observed (e.g., captured). BSS has diverse applications in many fields including vision research, brain imaging, and telecommunications. Of particular interest to this disclosure, in telecommunications BSS can be used to improve the sound quality of captured sound in digital communication such as teleconferencing, voice over IP, computer as a phone, and speech recognition.","Recently, Independent Component Analysis (ICA) has become a popular method of performing BSS. ICA is a computational method for separating a mixture of signals captured (e.g., received) from the plurality of sources into individual components associated with respective sources. For example, in telecommunications, ICA algorithms are designed to receive a mixture of sound (e.g., mixture of voices) output by a plurality of sources (e.g., people) from one or more recording devices (e.g., microphones) dispersed throughout a room (e.g., in the middle of a table) and unmix the captured mixture of sound to recover sound from individual sources without having any information of who the sources are or where they are located.","More particularly, ICA is a form of BSS that supposes a mutual statistical independence of the source signals (e.g., people's voices). When used in a telecommunication system, an ICA algorithm is performed independent of assumptions regarding the room or people using the system. Instead, an ICA algorithm utilizes a simple statistical model to manipulate captured signals so that statistically what comes out of each microphone is a signal that is independent from the signals coming from other microphones.","This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key factors or essential features of the claimed subject matter, nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.","A sound signal comprising a mixture of voices (e.g., from a plurality of people speaking at the same time) captured (e.g., received) by one or more microphones is separated by a maximum a posteriori (MAP) ICA algorithm utilizing prior knowledge thereby providing a sound quality substantially equal to existing ICA systems, but at a reduced computational complexity.","More particularly, a mixture of signals (e.g., mixture of human speech) from a plurality of sources (e.g., people) captured (e.g., received) by one or more recording devices (e.g., microphones) is separated into individual components (e.g., individual voices from respective people) by applying an ICA algorithm. The ICA algorithm incorporates prior knowledge, defined according to a probability distribution that describes the respective sources (e.g., the location of the sources), directly into the ICA algorithm in a structured manner thereby allowing recovery of independent underlying signals associated with individual sources from the mixture.","Essentially, a prior knowledge model (e.g., a prior distribution) is defined comprising information pertaining to a prior probability distribution of sources (e.g., people) at a prior time. Sound signals captured from a plurality of sources are then sampled and represented as a vector according to a statistical model. The signals captured by a microphone are equal to the vector multiplied by a mixing matrix. A maximum a posteriori estimate of the inverse of the mixing matrix (called the unmixing matrix) is formulated (e.g., as a log-likelihood equation) incorporating prior knowledge of a prior probability distribution in a structured manner. The MAP estimate of the unmixing matrix is then enhanced. Enhancement is performed by applying an optimization algorithm that results in an enhanced unmixing matrix that can be used to determine individual sources from a captured source signal. Therefore, prior knowledge incorporated into the algorithm allows the source to be determined using the ICA algorithm thereby avoiding a post algorithm processing step.","To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends, the following description and annexed drawings set forth certain illustrative aspects and implementations. These are indicative of but a few of the various ways in which one or more aspects may be employed. Other aspects, advantages, and novel features of the disclosure will become apparent from the following detailed description when considered in conjunction with the annexed drawings.","The claimed subject matter is now described with reference to the drawings, wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description, for purposes of explanation, numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the claimed subject matter. It may be evident, however, that the claimed subject matter may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances, structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing the claimed subject matter.","While the method and systems provided herein are often described in relation to sound signals it will be appreciated that they can be applied to a wide range of mixed signals. For example, the methods and system provided herein may be used to perform maximum a posteriori ICA for diverse applications comprising vision research, brain imaging, MRI, biomedical signal processing, etc.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":["FIG. 1","FIG. 1","FIG. 1","FIG. 1"],"b":["100","122","124","102","104","102","104","106","108","102","104","106","108","102","104","110","110","112","112","112","102","104","114"],"i":["a","b"]},"As shown in , when output from a dynamic processing unit (dynamic processor)  performing an ICA algorithm, respective frequency bins associated with a given source (e.g., first source  or second source ) may to go to a different channels,  or , thereby causing respective channels,  or , to have a mixture of frequency bins comprising sound signals from the first source (white) and the second source (gray). For example, in the first channel  a first frequency bin may comprise a first speaker's voice (shown in white), but a second frequency bin may comprise the second speaker's voice (shown in gray). As is well known in the art, this is known as the \u201cthe permutation problem\u201d and results in low sound quality (e.g., distortion). Some ICA systems  are configured to perform a post processing repair step after a dynamic processor  performs an ICA algorithm to fix the permutation problem. For example, a post processor  may perform a repair step using attributes (e.g., direction of arrival) to unmix the frequency bins  after the signal has been separated. However, such post processing repair steps are computationally intense and undesirable. Therefore, in the field of ICA there is a need for a method to prevent the permutation problem.","The techniques and systems, provided herein, relate to a method of performing an ICA algorithm comprising prior knowledge of the unmixing process (e.g., the location of the sources) which does not suffer from the permutation problem. More particularly, a mixture of sounds from a plurality of sources (e.g., human speech) captured (e.g., received) by a recording device are separated into individual signals by applying a maximum a posteriori (MAP) ICA algorithm which incorporates prior knowledge of respective sources (e.g., the location of the sources) directly into the ICA algorithm in a structured manner. Incorporating prior knowledge into an ICA algorithm results in an MAP ICA algorithm that does not experience the permutation problem and thereby allows recovery of independent underlying sounds from the mixture without post processing computation (e.g., a post processing repair step). Therefore, a sound quality on-par with existing ICA systems is provided while avoiding an expensive post-processing step.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 2"],"b":["200","202","204","206","208","202","204","206","208","202","204","210","210","212","212","214","212","122","124","216","122","124","214","122","202","124","204"]},"While it will be appreciated that a MAP ICA algorithm as presented herein may be applied to different types of mixing (e.g., linear, non-linear), the MAP ICA algorithm will be described according to a linear mixing of sounds output from a plurality of sources. In such a linear description a vector y (captured sound vector) denotes observed data (e.g., a mixture of the sound captured by a recording device) from the plurality of sources. The observed data y has T components, the components corresponding to T independent observations y(components of observed data denoted by subscripts) of the captured sound (e.g., y={y, . . . , y}). The sound output from respective talkers can be represented by a vector x (source vector), where respective components of the vector x correspond to sound output from one of the plurality of sound sources. In a linear MAP ICA algorithm, the observed data y (e.g., captured sound) is related to an unknown value of the source vector x multiplied by a mixing matrix H (e.g., y=Hx). The mixing matrix H describes how sounds output (e.g., the source vector x) from the plurality of sources mix with each other prior to being captured. For example, if there are two sources, xand x, and a recording device (e.g., microphone) captures an even mixture of sound from both sources, then H is a 2\u00d72 matrix with all values set equal to \u00bd. Therefore, ywould have a value of \u00bdx+\u00bdxand ywould have \u00bdx+\u00bdx.","Performing MAP ICA is the act of determining the unknown value of the source vector x, comprising a signal from the individual sources. Based on the above linear mixing model, the unknown value of the source vector x can be determined from the observed data y by finding an unmixing matrix W, which is equal to the inverse of the mixing matrix H (e.g., x=Wy). For example, if two people are talking at the same time, a recording device will pick up some combination of both of the two voices mixed by the matrix H. To determine the individual voices the combination of voices must be unmixed by operating on the combination of voices with an unmixing matrix W.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":["FIGS. 3 through 6","FIG. 3","FIG. 3","FIG. 4","FIG. 4","FIG. 5","FIG. 5","FIG. 3","FIG. 4","FIG. 5","FIG. 4","FIG. 3"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":["300","300"]},"At  a prior knowledge model is defined. The prior knowledge model comprises information pertaining to the structure of a proper unmixing matrix. The prior knowledge model p(W) is defined as a probability density over real valued elements of the unmixing matrix according to some prior situation (e.g., a prior distribution of people in a room). The prior knowledge model p(W) may be developed by any number of methods. For example, the prior knowledge model p(W) may be formed from prior information (e.g., prior experiments) regarding the location of the speakers. In a further example discussed below in , the prior knowledge model p(W) is modeled as the joint probability of N independent Gaussian distributions, wherein beamforming is used to determine the parameters defining the Gaussian distributions. In another example, a data driven method is used to determine the prior knowledge model p(W). In the data driven method a prior knowledge model p(W) may be formed by running an ICA algorithm in practice and extracting information from the results. For example, an ICA algorithm can be run 100 times using different people in different places. The results can be recorded and used to build a statistical data driven model.","At  sound signals output from a plurality of sources are captured and converted to the frequency domain. One or more recording device(s) (e.g., microphones) can be configured to capture the sound signals. Sound signals captured by the one or more recording device(s) are a mixture of sound from the plurality of sources. Once captured, the sound signals are converted from the time domain to the frequency domain. Conversion to the frequency domain can be performed by means of a mathematical transformation (e.g., Fourier Transform), for example. Conversion to the frequency domain causes the captured signals to be segmented into a plurality of frequency bins (e.g., snapshots of data), each bin comprising signals in a range of frequencies (e.g., a subset of the captured signals frequency range). The MAP ICA algorithm may apply the same optimization strategy for k frequency bins independently, resulting in a separate value of W for respective frequencies. Since respective frequency bins comprise a relatively small amount of data, conversion of the captured sound signals to the frequency domain reduces the computational complexity required to determine the unmixing matrix by reducing the amount of data which must be considered for a calculation.","At  a maximum a posteriori (MAP) estimate of the unmixing matrix is calculated incorporating the prior knowledge model. The MAP estimate of the unmixing matrix may be proportional to a posterior distribution p(W|y) which may be expressed as the product of the prior knowledge model p(W) and a likelihood distribution p(y|W) (e.g., joint density) of the observed data y and the unmixing matrix W. For example, the MAP estimate of the unmixing matrix can be written as:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00001","num":"00001"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["W","MAP"]},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mrow":[{"munder":{"mi":["argmax","W"]},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mrow":{"mi":"p","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":["W","y"],"mo":"\u2758"}}}},{"munder":{"mrow":{"mi":["arg","max"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}},"mi":"W"},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mrow":[{"mi":"p","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":["y","W"],"mo":"\u2758"}}},{"mi":"p","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"W"}}]}],"mo":"="}}}},"br":{}},"The MAP estimate of the unmixing matrix is then enhanced (e.g., maximized) at . Enhancement of the MAP estimate of the unmixing matrix Wis performed by application of an optimization algorithm. Enhancement provides an unmixing matrix W that both separates sources via the ICA algorithm and agrees with the prior knowledge model. Enhancement of Wcan be performed, for example, by finding a log likelihood function of Wand then taking the derivative of the log likelihood function with respect to W, thereby resulting in an expression for the derivative of the enhanced MAP estimate of the unmixing matrix. A gradient descent algorithm can be subsequently performed on the log likelihood function to arrive at an enhanced (e.g., optimal) value for the unmixing matrix. For example, the gradient of the log likelihood function of the unmixing matrix W may be set equal to:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0034"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00002","num":"00002"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"msup":{"mrow":{"mi":"\u0394W\u03b1","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"msup":{"mi":"W","mrow":{"mo":"-","mn":"1"}}}},"mi":"T"},"mo":["+","+"],"mrow":[{"mfrac":{"mn":"1","mi":"T"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"munder":{"mo":"\u2211","mi":"t"},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mrow":{"mrow":{"mi":"g","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"msub":{"mi":["Wy","t"]}}},"mo":"\u2062","msubsup":{"mi":["y","t","H"]}}}},{"mfrac":{"mn":"1","mi":"T"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mi":"h","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"W"}}}]}}},"br":{}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00003","num":"00003"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mrow":{"mi":"g","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"x"}},"mo":"=","mfrac":{"mrow":[{"msup":{"mi":"p","mrow":{"mi":"\u2032","mo":"\u2062","mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}}},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"x"}},{"mi":"p","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"x"}}]}},{"mrow":{"mi":"and","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},"mrow":{"mi":"h","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"W"}}},"mo":"=","mfrac":{"mrow":[{"msup":{"mi":"p","mrow":{"mi":"\u2032","mo":"\u2062","mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}}},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"W"}},{"mi":"p","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"W"}}]}}],"mo":","}}},"br":{}},"The change in the unmixing matrix \u0394W computed according to method  allows the use of an iterative approach to the determining the unmixing matrix. For example, if Wis a current value (e.g., an initial guess) of the unmixing matrix and Wis the updated value, W=W+\u03bc\u0394W, where \u0394W is the gradient of the log likelihood function with respect to the unmixing matrix W and \u03bc is a learning rate that controls how fast the unmixing matrix adapts. At the next iteration, Wbecomes the W, and then Wis updated with a new value. This iterative process continues until the value of Wdoesn't change much from the value of Wand a solution is converged upon. Alternatively, the iterative approach could be run for a fixed number of iterations.","At  the enhanced unmixing matrix Wis used to calculate the sound output from an individual source. The enhanced unmixing matrix Wis applied to the observed data y comprising the captured sound resulting in the source vector x comprising the sound output from respective individual sources.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0039","num":"0038"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":"400"},"At  the prior knowledge model (e.g., prior probability distribution) is expressed as a probability dependent upon an auxiliary variable. The auxiliary variable \u2295 may be related to the location of sources with respect to a recording device (e.g., microphone). The location of the sources (e.g., represented by an angle \u2295) relative to the recording device provides information about a prior unmixing matrix. For example, for a microphone configured to define straight ahead as 0\u00b0, if a first speaker is at 30\u00b0 and a second speaker is at 40\u00b0 a prior knowledge model can be determined. In one particular example, the prior distribution p(W) can be described as:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0041","num":"0040"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00004","num":"00004"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mi":"p","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"W"}},{"munder":{"mo":"\u2211","mi":"\u03b8"},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mrow":{"munder":{"mo":"\u220f","mi":"\u03c9"},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mi":"p","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mrow":{"mi":"W","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"\u03c9"}},"mo":"\u2758","mi":"\u03b8"}}},{"mi":"p","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"\u03b8"}}],"mo":"\u2062"}}}],"mo":"="}}},"br":{},"sub":["1","N","i ","N"]},"At  the posterior distribution of the unmixing matrix is expressed as a function of the auxiliary variable by incorporating the prior distribution reformulated as a function of the auxiliary variable. As consequence, the posterior distribution p(W|y) (e.g., , element ) can be described as:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0043","num":"0042"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00005","num":"00005"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mi":"p","mo":"(","mrow":{"mrow":[{"mi":"w","mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mo":["\uf603",")"],"mi":"y"}},{"mi":"p","mo":"(","mrow":{"mi":"y","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mrow":[{"mo":["\uf603",")"],"mi":"W"},{"munder":{"mo":"\u2211","mi":"\u03b8"},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mrow":{"mi":"p","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":["W","\u03b8"],"mo":","}}}}]}}],"mo":"\u221d"}}}},"br":{},"b":"400"},"The posterior distribution of the unmixing matrix is then enhanced (process shown as ) by an iterative process comprising acts -. Enhancement of the posterior distribution p(W|y) can be performed by taking a log likelihood function of the posterior distribution p(W|y) and then taking the derivative of the log likelihood function with respect to W. The resultant equation comprises a term representing the contribution of the prior knowledge to a MAP ICA algorithm (e.g., is analogous to h(W)) based upon the auxiliary variable. For example, the term representing the prior knowledge may equal:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0045","num":"0044"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00006","num":"00006"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mfrac":{"mo":"\u2202","mrow":{"mo":"\u2202","mi":"W"}},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mi":"log","mrow":{"munder":{"mo":"\u2211","mi":"\u03b8"},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mrow":{"mi":"p","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":["w","\u03b8"],"mo":","}}}}},{"munder":{"mo":"\u2211","mi":"\u03b8"},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mi":"p","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":["\u03b8","W"],"mo":"\u2758"}}},{"munder":{"mo":"\u2211","mi":"\u03c9"},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mrow":{"mfrac":{"mrow":[{"mo":"\u2202","mi":"y"},{"mo":"\u2202","mrow":{"mi":"W","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"\u03c9"}}}]},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mrow":{"mi":"log","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":"p","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mrow":{"mi":"W","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"\u03c9"}},"mo":"\u2758","mi":"\u03b8"}}}}},"mo":"."}}}],"mo":"\u2062"}}],"mo":"="}}},"br":{}},"At  a posterior probability of the auxiliary variable and the unmixing matrix is computed. The posterior probability p(\u0398|W) is computed from the prior distribution of W over all frequency bins. In the log likelihood equation the posterior probability p(\u0398|W) is unknown, but using Bayes rule, it can be formulated in terms of known quantities:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0047","num":"0046"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00007","num":"00007"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mrow":{"mi":"p","mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":["\u03b8","W"],"mo":"\u2758"}},"mo":"=","mfrac":{"mrow":[{"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"munder":{"mo":"\u220f","mi":"\u03c9"},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mi":"p","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mrow":{"mi":"W","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"\u03c9"}},"mo":"\u2758","mi":"\u03b8"}}},{"mi":"p","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"\u03b8"}}],"mo":"\u2062"}}},{"mrow":{"munder":{"mo":"\u2211","msup":{"mi":["\u03b8","\u2032"]}},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mrow":{"munder":{"mo":"\u220f","mi":"\u03c9"},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mi":"p","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mrow":{"mi":"W","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"\u03c9"}},"mo":"\u2758","mi":"\u03b8"}}},{"mi":"p","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"\u03b8"}}],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"]}}},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mtext":{}}}]}}}},"br":{}},"Once the posterior probability is computed expressions exist for determining the unmixing matrix Wand the posterior probability p(\u0398|W) and method  can be utilized to perform MAP ICA as shown in the method of . In particular, for a given posterior probability p(\u0398|W) the value of the unmixing matrix W can be updated to get W(e.g., , element ). Then, the new estimate of the unmixing matrix Wcan be used to update the posterior probability p(\u0398|W). These two acts may be iteratively repeated until to optimize both the posterior probability p(\u0398|W)and the unmixing matrix Wuntil an optimal solution is arrived at.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0049","num":"0048"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 6"],"b":["500","500","500"]},"At  the space surrounding a recording device (e.g., microphone) is segmented into a plurality of regions.  illustrates a 180\u00b0 region surrounding a recording device  segmented into four regions , , , . In , the four regions , , ,  are illustrated as being 45\u00b0 wide. However, regions can be defined according to a user's preference and can be smaller (e.g., 1\u00b0) or larger (e.g., 60\u00b0) than the regions illustrated in .","At  a beamformer (e.g., ideal beamformer) is estimated for a plurality of sources located within respective regions. The sources' locations may be chosen randomly throughout a given region.  illustrates regions comprising a plurality of randomly chosen locations , respective locations  associated with a different angle and a different distance relative to the recording device . For respective locations , the appropriate beamformer can be directly computed. Computation of the beamformers is not described in this application as it is beyond the scope of the application.","At  the estimated beamformers in a given region are averaged together to come up with an average beamformer. Information pertaining to the average beamformer can be used to form a prior knowledge model for an associated region. Since an average over a given region is used uncertainty in the direction of captured sound is allowed for.","At  the prior knowledge model is defined according to the averaged beamformer estimates. More particularly, the prior knowledge model may be defined as a joint probability of N independent multivariate Gaussian sources given as:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0054","num":"0053"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00008","num":"00008"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mi":"p","mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mrow":{"mi":"w","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"\u03c9"}},"mo":"\u2758","mi":"\u03b8"}},{"mrow":[{"munderover":{"mo":"\u220f","mrow":{"mi":"i","mo":"=","mn":"1"},"mi":"N"},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mrow":{"mi":"p","mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["w","i"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"\u03c9"}},"mo":"\u2758","msub":{"mi":["\u03b8","i"]}}}},{"munderover":{"mo":"\u220f","mrow":{"mi":"i","mo":"=","mn":"1"},"mi":"N"},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mrow":{"mi":"N","mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":["w","i"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"\u03c9"}},{"msub":{"mi":"\u03bc","msub":{"mi":["\u03b8","i"]}},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"\u03c9"}}],"mo":";"},{"munder":{"mo":"\u2211","msub":{"mi":["\u03b8","i"]}},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"\u03c9"}}],"mo":","}}}],"mo":"="}],"mo":"="}}},"br":{},"sub":["1 ","i ","\u03b8",{"sub2":"i "},"74 ",{"sub2":"i "},"\u03b8",{"sub2":"i "},"\u03b8",{"sub2":"i "}]},"It will be appreciated that the techniques and methods provided herein can be applied to a wide variety of applications. For example,  illustrates a block diagram illustrating a communications system  utilizing the MAP ICA algorithm (performed by a processing unit ) as provided herein. In its simplest form, the communication system of  comprises a microphone  to receive a voice communication from a user, a transmission device  to facilitate communication with others, and a processing unit  configured to perform a MAP ICA algorithm as provided herein. The communication system  will utilize MAP ICA algorithm to improve the quality of captured sound. In one embodiment, the processing unit , the transmission device , and the recording device  are commonly housed within a communication device (e.g., telephone, speakerphone, computer, teleconferencing system). In an alternative communication system,  may optionally further comprise one or more of a visual display unit  (e.g., computer monitor), a visual recording device  (e.g., webcam), and\/or one or more input device(s) (e.g., keyboard, mouse). The visual display  and the visual recording device  provide a means to concurrently communicate visually and verbally.","Still another embodiment involves a computer-readable medium comprising processor-executable instructions configured to apply one or more of the techniques presented herein. An exemplary computer-readable medium that may be devised in these ways is illustrated in , wherein the implementation  comprises a computer-readable medium  (e.g., a CD-R, DVD-R, or a platter of a hard disk drive), on which is encoded computer-readable data . This computer-readable data  in turn comprises a set of computer instructions  configured to operate according to one or more of the principles set forth herein. In one such embodiment, the processor-executable instructions  may be configured to perform a method of , such as the exemplary method  of , for example. In another such embodiment, the processor-executable instructions  may be configured to implement a system configured to provide a sound quality on-par with existing ICA systems is provided while avoiding an expensive post-processing step (e.g., perform MAP ICA as provided herein). Many such computer-readable media may be devised by those of ordinary skill in the art that are configured to operate in accordance with the techniques presented herein.","Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and\/or methodological acts, it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather, the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.","As used in this application, the terms \u201ccomponent,\u201d \u201cmodule,\u201d \u201csystem\u201d, \u201cinterface\u201d, and the like are generally intended to refer to a computer-related entity, either hardware, a combination of hardware and software, software, or software in execution. For example, a component may be, but is not limited to being, a process running on a processor, a processor, an object, an executable, a thread of execution, a program, and\/or a computer. By way of illustration, both an application running on a controller and the controller can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and\/or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and\/or distributed between two or more computers.","Furthermore, the claimed subject matter may be implemented as a method, apparatus, or article of manufacture using standard programming and\/or engineering techniques to produce software, firmware, hardware, or any combination thereof to control a computer to implement the disclosed subject matter. The term \u201carticle of manufacture\u201d as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer-readable device, carrier, or media. Of course, those skilled in the art will recognize many modifications may be made to this configuration without departing from the scope or spirit of the claimed subject matter.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0060","num":"0059"},"figref":["FIG. 9","FIG. 9"]},"Although not required, embodiments are described in the general context of \u201ccomputer readable instructions\u201d being executed by one or more computing devices. Computer readable instructions may be distributed via computer readable media (discussed below). Computer readable instructions may be implemented as program modules, such as functions, objects, Application Programming Interfaces (APIs), data structures, and the like, that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Typically, the functionality of the computer readable instructions may be combined or distributed as desired in various environments.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0062","num":"0061"},"figref":["FIG. 9","FIG. 9"],"b":["910","912","912","916","918","918","914"]},"In other embodiments, device  may include additional features and\/or functionality. For example, device  may also include additional storage (e.g., removable and\/or non-removable) including, but not limited to, magnetic storage, optical storage, and the like. Such additional storage is illustrated in  by storage . In one embodiment, computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein may be in storage . Storage  may also store other computer readable instructions to implement an operating system, an application program, and the like. Computer readable instructions may be loaded in memory  for execution by processing unit , for example.","The term \u201ccomputer readable media\u201d as used herein includes computer storage media. Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile, removable and non-removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions or other data. Memory  and storage  are examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media includes, but is not limited to, RAM, ROM, EEPROM, flash memory or other memory technology, CD-ROM, Digital Versatile Disks (DVDs) or other optical storage, magnetic cassettes, magnetic tape, magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices, or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by device . Any such computer storage media may be part of device .","Device  may also include communication connection(s)  that allows device  to communicate with other devices. Communication connection(s)  may include, but is not limited to, a modem, a Network Interface Card (NIC), an integrated network interface, a radio frequency transmitter\/receiver, an infrared port, a USB connection, or other interfaces for connecting computing device  to other computing devices. Communication connection(s)  may include a wired connection or a wireless connection. Communication connection(s)  may transmit and\/or receive communication media.","The term \u201ccomputer readable media\u201d may include communication media. Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions or other data in a \u201cmodulated data signal\u201d such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term \u201cmodulated data signal\u201d may include a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal.","Device  may include input device(s)  such as keyboard, mouse, pen, voice input device, touch input device, infrared cameras, video input devices, and\/or any other input device. Output device(s)  such as one or more displays, sources, printers, and\/or any other output device may also be included in device . Input device(s)  and output device(s)  may be connected to device  via a wired connection, wireless connection, or any combination thereof. In one embodiment, an input device or an output device from another computing device may be used as input device(s)  or output device(s)  for computing device .","Components of computing device  may be connected by various interconnects, such as a bus. Such interconnects may include a Peripheral Component Interconnect (PCI), such as PCI Express, a Universal Serial Bus (USB), firewire (IEEE 1394), an optical bus structure, and the like. In another embodiment, components of computing device  may be interconnected by a network. For example, memory  may be comprised of multiple physical memory units located in different physical locations interconnected by a network.","Those skilled in the art will realize that storage devices utilized to store computer readable instructions may be distributed across a network. For example, a computing device  accessible via network  may store computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein. Computing device  may access computing device  and download a part or all of the computer readable instructions for execution. Alternatively, computing device  may download pieces of the computer readable instructions, as needed, or some instructions may be executed at computing device  and some at computing device .","Various operations of embodiments are provided herein. In one embodiment, one or more of the operations described may constitute computer readable instructions stored on one or more computer readable media, which if executed by a computing device, will cause the computing device to perform the operations described. The order in which some or all of the operations are described should not be construed as to imply that these operations are necessarily order dependent. Alternative ordering will be appreciated by one skilled in the art having the benefit of this description. Further, it will be understood that not all operations are necessarily present in each embodiment provided herein.","Moreover, the word \u201cexemplary\u201d is used herein to mean serving as an example, instance, or illustration. Any aspect or design described herein as \u201cexemplary\u201d is not necessarily to be construed as advantageous over other aspects or designs. Rather, use of the word exemplary is intended to present concepts in a concrete fashion. As used in this application, the term \u201cor\u201d is intended to mean an inclusive \u201cor\u201d rather than an exclusive \u201cor\u201d. That is, unless specified otherwise, or clear from context, \u201cX employs A or B\u201d is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is, if X employs A; X employs B; or X employs both A and B, then \u201cX employs A or B\u201d is satisfied under any of the foregoing instances. In addition, the articles \u201ca\u201d and \u201can\u201d as used in this application and the appended claims may generally be construed to mean \u201cone or more\u201d unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form.","Also, although the disclosure has been shown and described with respect to one or more implementations, equivalent alterations and modifications will occur to others skilled in the art based upon a reading and understanding of this specification and the annexed drawings. The disclosure includes all such modifications and alterations and is limited only by the scope of the following claims. In particular regard to the various functions performed by the above described components (e.g., elements, resources, etc.), the terms used to describe such components are intended to correspond, unless otherwise indicated, to any component which performs the specified function of the described component (e.g., that is functionally equivalent), even though not structurally equivalent to the disclosed structure which performs the function in the herein illustrated exemplary implementations of the disclosure. In addition, while a particular feature of the disclosure may have been disclosed with respect to only one of several implementations, such feature may be combined with one or more other features of the other implementations as may be desired and advantageous for any given or particular application. Furthermore, to the extent that the terms \u201cincludes\u201d, \u201chaving\u201d, \u201chas\u201d, \u201cwith\u201d, or variants thereof are used in either the detailed description or the claims, such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term \u201ccomprising.\u201d"],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 9"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
