---
title: Method and system for saving money with a group of mobile devices
abstract: A plurality of users have a savings goal, and a plurality of mobile devices each belong to a user. An electronic message from a user's mobile device is received. The electronic message comprises a description of a service or product not purchased and the amount of money not spent because it was not purchased. The description and amount are stored and a running total of the amount of money not spent is computed. A second electronic message is transmitted to all of the plurality of mobile devices except the first mobile device. The second electronic message comprises the description, amount, and an identifier of the user of the first mobile. Receiving, storing, computing, and transmitting are repeated until the savings goal is reached. A system includes the plurality of mobile devices, at least one communication network, and a computer in communication with the communication network. The system may also include a bank.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08090656&OS=08090656&RS=08090656
owner: 
number: 08090656
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20081202
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["While most people recognize the importance of saving money, many people find it very difficult to do so. According to recent findings by the Pew Research Center on the savings habits of Americans, 73% of people aged 24 to 49 say they should be saving more money. When asked what they would cut back on, responses fell largely into three categories: entertainment and recreation, food and dining out, and shopping and personal items.","In large part, these and other similar categories represent day-to-day expenditures consisting of small amounts spent here and there on things that are not necessarily needed but are desired at the time such as desserts, snacks, movies, clothing, meals out, and the like. These things are often extremely difficult to say no to because they are generally low-cost items and provide immediate gratification. If people were able to cut back on these types of small expenditures which occur regularly, if not daily, they could save a considerable amount of money over the course of a week, a month, or longer.","There are several commonly known techniques to save money. One technique is budgeting. Budgeting involves tracking expenses over time, identifying unnecessary expenditures, and then setting a weekly or monthly spending limit that eliminates the unnecessary expenditures. Unfortunately, adhering to a budget takes extreme discipline, especially when presented with an unnecessary but low-cost purchase that offers immediate gratification. In fact, studies have shown that people who keep budgets are as likely to overspend as those who do not budget.","Another technique to save is by setting up recurring, automatic drafts of money from one's checking account to one's savings account. Though this may work for some, it often creates a larger problem, because the technique does nothing to address spending habits. Success of this technique is premised on the idea that if the money is not available in one's checking account it simply cannot be spent. This would hold true if money were not available from some other source. However, the use of credit has become so common for even basic purchases that it takes great self-discipline not to use a credit card when the money in the checking account has run out. For example, a person might set up an automatic savings draft of $100 per month but then find themselves charging $110 on their credit card that month. If this money is not paid back immediately, there is not only no net savings for the month but, given the difference in interest charged on the borrowed money and paid on the \u201csaved\u201d money, the loss is compounded over time.","Yet another approach is to offer or share tips on saving money. Examples of tips include where and when sales and promotions are taking place, deals given by discount retailers, and which companies offer cheaper services. This may reduce one's costs, but if the product or service purchased was unnecessary, no \u201csavings\u201d can be claimed.","Given the shortcomings of the savings methods discussed above, a need presently exists for a savings method that will help people to alter their spending habits by providing them a reward for not spending. If the reward is great enough and can be delivered at the moment the decision to not spend is made, the immediate gratification promised by a product or service will not seem as compelling as otherwise, and the money will not be wasted but saved instead.","A method for saving money with mobile devices comprises providing a plurality of mobile devices. Each of the plurality of mobile devices belongs to a user of a plurality of users. The plurality of users have a savings goal. An electronic account is created at a computer. A periodic sum of money to be saved by the plurality of users is computed. The periodic sum of money to be saved is computed according to the savings goal. A first electronic message is received. The first electronic message is received from a first mobile device of the plurality of mobile devices. The first electronic message comprises a description of a service or product not purchased by the user of the first mobile device and the amount of money not spent. The description and the amount is stored in the account, and a running total of the amount of money not spent is computed. A second electronic message is transmitted. The second electronic message is transmitted to all of the plurality of mobile devices except the first mobile device. The second electronic message comprises the description, amount, and an identifier identifying the user of the first mobile device belongs. The method repeats receiving, storing, computing the running total, and transmitting until the savings goal is reached. A system for saving money with mobile devices comprises at least one communication network, a plurality of mobile device operable to send and receive electronic messages and in communication with the at least one communication network, and a computer in communication with the at least one communication network. The system may also comprise a bank in communication with the communication network. The computer comprises a storage device and microprocessor, the storage device comprises computer executable code with when executed by the microprocessor causes the computer to carry out a method for saving money with mobile devices.","Briefly, the disclosed systems and methods give users the opportunity to commit money they are about to spend to a savings goal instead, and to do so using a mobile device. Giving the user the opportunity to take this action and then immediately sharing it with their savings partners can help to overwhelm the desire for immediate gratification with the rewards of having taken a step towards their goal, and being recognized by family and friends for having saved some money. Additionally, the user is encouraged by having their various commitments to save recorded and presented graphically on a website so they can further celebrate and share the process of accomplishing their goal.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["10","40","20","40","1","40","40","50","40","1","40","2","40","3","50"]},"So, in one example users of mobile devices in the group ((), (), ()) make purchasing decisions throughout a typical day, for example whether to buy a snack, to go to the movies, take a taxi, and the like. These are generally low cost items that offer immediate gratification. The users have the opportunity to commit the money that they would spend on these items to the savings goal rather than spending it. In one example, Jim, the user of mobile device (), when presented with the decision of whether to purchase a snack, decides not to and sends a text message from the mobile device () describing an amount representing the money not spent, or portion of the money not spent, and the product or service not purchased. One exemplary text message is \u201c$5 snack.\u201d This text message is received by computer  over the communication network . The computer  records the amount and description of the product or service, as well as an identifier identifying the sender.","The computer  then forwards, over the communication network , a message such as a text message to the other mobile devices () and () comprising the amount, the good or service not purchased, and the name of the person who decided not to purchase, for example, \u201cJim, $5 snack!\u201d Knowing that a savings partner has committed money to the savings goal encourages others in the group to do the same. For example, after receiving the text message, Sally, the user of mobile device () is presented with the dilemma of whether to purchase a shirt that costs $24 or one that costs $32. Sally, desirous to go on vacation, and being encouraged by the actions of Jim, decides not to purchase the more expensive shirt but rather to purchase the less expensive one. Accordingly, Sally, the user of mobile device () sends a text message such as \u201c$8 cheaper shirt.\u201d The message is received by computer  which then transmits a message to the other mobile devices () and () such as \u201cSally, $8 cheaper shirt!\u201d. In this way all member of the group are aware of each others' actions and are accordingly encouraged to save.","In another example, Jim chooses not to purchase a pair of shoes that cost $100, but only wants to contribute $30 to the savings goal. In this case, an exemplary text message is \u201c$30 shoes.\u201d Thus, with respect to not spending money \u201can amount\u201d or \u201cthe amount\u201d is understood herein to include the total amount of the money saved (that is, not spent), or a portion thereof. In yet another example, in order to save money, Sally chooses to stay home instead of going out with her friends on the weekend. Sally knows from experience that if she goes out with her friends she is likely to spend around $60. In this case, an exemplary message is \u201c$60, stayed home and didn't go out with friends.\u201d Thus, with respect to not spending money, the \u201cdescription of the good or service not purchased\u201d is understood herein to include not taking part in an event or activity, giving up an event or activity, or any other action that results in money not being spent.","In addition to storing the descriptions and amounts not spent, computer  also keeps a running total of the amount of money not spent, that is the amount of money saved towards the savings goal. Computer  generates periodic reports from the stored information. The reports, such as graphs and figures, show progress made towards the savings goal. The reports may be transmitted to the mobile devices  of the users, published as a web page to be viewed by other computers , transmitted to a \u201ccheering section\u201d , that is a group of people who are not saving but want to encourage group  to save, to blogs, web applications, social networks, instant messaging applications, email, and the like.","Computer  may transmit periodic message reminders to the users (that is the mobile devices ) reminding them to transfer the money they have saved that period to a savings account . Each user may receive a different message as each user may have saved a different amount. The message reminders may also be transmitted to email addresses and the like.","Each user may have a different savings goal, and each user may have a different or individual savings account . In one embodiment, the users pool their money and resources to reach a common savings goal. In another embodiment, each user has an individual and different savings goal and separate savings account. For example, one user's savings goal may be to reduce credit card debt, and another user's savings goal may be to save for a vacation.","Some or all of the users may optionally provide bank account information, stored by computer , so that computer  can automatically transfer money from one bank account such as the user's checking account, to a savings account . For example, an Automated Clearing House (ACH) transfer could be executed on a weekly basis for the amount saved by each of the users.","Furthermore, members of the cheering section  can transmit messages to members of the group  in order to encourage them. Exemplary messages include \u201cSally, you better stop buying shoes\u201d and \u201cIf you can all save $160 next week I will give you a gift of $50.\u201d In this way, other members of the cheering section can contribute to the saving goal as well as encourage the group .","Now, with the system of  in mind,  shows a method for saving money with mobile devices. At step  a plurality of mobile devices is provided. Each of the plurality of mobile devices belongs to or is operated by a user of a plurality of users. The plurality of users of the group may also be referred to herein as \u201csavings partners.\u201d Each of the plurality of users has a savings goal. The savings goal may be common for the plurality of users, or different for some of the users in the group. The savings goal, for example, includes an amount of money to save and a length of time.","At step  an electronic account is created. The account is created and stored at a computer. The account stores, for example, identifying information about each of the plurality of users, the savings goal, and how the savings goal is divided among the plurality of users. The identifying information about each of the users includes the name of the user and a unique electronic identifier (step ). The electronic identifier is for contacting the user electronically, that is sending an electronic message to the user. Each user may have more than one electronic identifier. Examples of electronic identifiers include email address, mobile phone numbers, user IDs for instant messaging services, user IDs for social networking application, user IDs for blogs and micro-blogs, and the like. The account may also store bank information.","The account may be created by one or more than one of the savings partners. In creating the account, the savings goal is defined. So, the step of creating the electronic account  further includes defining a duration and an amount of money to save (step ). For example, if there are four savings partners and their savings goal is to save $1040 over eight weeks then their common savings goal amount is $1040 and the duration is 8 weeks. Step  may also include selecting or uploading a goal image and a description of the goal which is stored in the account (step ). For example, using the above example, the common amount to save is $1040, and the duration is eight weeks. The description is, for example, \u201cTrip to Costa Rica!\u201d. One or more of the users may select or upload an image of a beach, for example, to be displayed as their exemplary goal image.","At step  a periodic sum of money to be saved by the plurality of users is computed according to the savings goal. Using the savings goal example of $1040 over eight weeks for four users (also referred to herein as savings partners), one exemplary computation of the periodic total sum of $130\/wk ($1040\/8 weeks), the period being one week, and with each savings partner having an individual periodic savings goal of $32.50 ($1040\/8 weeks\/4 users). This is only one exemplary computation however and it is noted that elements of the savings goal can be modified or adjusted so that the periodic total sum and individual periodic savings goal varies from varies from period to period, the length of the period varies, and the individual periodic savings goal is different or varies among the savings partners. This is, at least in part, designated by arrow . Thus, step  of computing the periodic sum may further include computing the periodic sum such that it is different for at least some of the plurality of users, or is different for all of the plurality of users from period to period, or such that the length of time of the period is variable.","The method of  may also include selecting a goal from a library of goals. In this way a \u201ctemplate\u201d may be presented to automate at least some of the elements of steps  and .  shows one such exemplary goal library. Each of the goals  includes at least some of the elements resulting from steps , , and . Examining goal (), there are two users (step ) as show by icons , the amount (step ) is $1920 as denoted by \u201cgoal\u201d , the duration (step ) is 16 weeks as denoted by \u201cduration\u201d, the description  (step ) is \u201cAdios Credit Card Debt!\u201d, and the image  (step ) is an image of credit cards. In this example, the periodic sum to be saved (step ) as denoted by lead line  is \u201c$50\/wk\u201d for user () and \u201c$70\/wk\u201d for user (). Those skilled in the art will appreciate that these are only a few of the steps and element in creating an electronic account and computing a periodic sum and that many variations and changes are possible while remaining within the scope the present invention.","Turning back to , at step  a first electronic message from a first mobile device of the plurality of mobile devices is received. The first electronic message comprises, at least, a description of a service or product not purchased by user of the first mobile device and the amount of money not spent. Revisiting the example given above, Jim sends a text message (\u201c$5 snack\u201d) from his mobile phone (() of ) which is received (step ) by the computer ( of ), the computer being operative to receive electronic messages such as text messages. This first electronic message is transmitted when Jim makes his decision to not purchase the snack. It is noted that the term \u201cfirst mobile device\u201d refers to the mobile device that is currently transmitting the electronic message and that any one of the mobile devices may be considered the first mobile device. \u201cFirst mobile device\u201d should not be confused with any particular order in which the mobile devices are physically arranged in the figures. From iteration to iteration of the method of , any one of the mobile devices can be the first mobile device.","At step  the description and amount are stored in the account, and they are associated with the user by way of the electronic identifier. In the present example, the electronic identifier is the mobile phone number of Jim's mobile phone (() of ).","At step  a running total of the amount of money not spent (that is, the money saved) is computed. This is computed separately for each of the savings partners since they may each have different savings goals and savings from week to week. If the savings goal is common, it is computed in aggregate to determine if the common savings goal has been reached.","At step  a second electronic message is transmitted to all of the plurality of mobile devices except the first mobile device. The second electronic message comprises the description, amount, and an identifier identifying the user of the first mobile device. Recall, this information is available as described with reference to step . The second electronic message may be transmitted to a mobile phone number, an email address, a blog, a micro-blog, an instant messaging application, a web application, or any electronic device operable to receive messages. Web applications may include any program that can be executed in a web browser or served from a server to a client computer, including applications such as Facebook and other social networking sites. Many social networking sites provide an application programming interface for developing third party social applications. Accordingly, \u201cweb application\u201d as used herein also includes such applications. Also, a third electronic message may be transmitted to the first mobile device. The third electronic message may comprise, for example, confirmation of receipt of the first electronic message, a copy of the first electronic message, or other information.","Next, at step  it is determined if the savings goal has been reached. The savings goal is reached when the running total of step  is at least equal to the amount of the savings goal. Steps , , , and  are repeated if the savings goal or goals have not been reached.","Referring to , at step  an electronic message reminder is periodically transmitted (for example, from the computer  of ) reminding the plurality of users to transfer money to a bank account. These periodic reminders are sent until the savings goal is reached (step ). The periodic reminders can be sent to each user only until their individual savings goal is reached. The period may be, for example, monthly. The amount of money the electronic message reminds each user to transfer may vary among users since their individual savings goals may be different, and their actual savings may be more or less than their goals. Thus, the electronic message reminders may be tailored based on each users' description and amount (step ), and individual running totals and aggregate running totals (step ). Some or all of this information is transmitted to each user according to their electronic identifier. Depending on the electronic identifiers, the electronic message reminders may be transmitted to, for example, mobile devices, and to computers, such messages to computers including email, blogs, micro-blogs, web pages, RSS feeds, instant messaging applications, web applications, and the like.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0037","num":"0036"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 4"],"b":["420","220"]},"One way of linking accounts is to store bank account numbers and bank routing numbers associated with each user. In this way, the computer can execute electronic money transfers, such as automated clearing house (ACH) transfers from each user's checking account to the corresponding savings account.","No matter the type of transfer executed and the details of the accounts that are stored, at step  money is periodically electronically transferred from at least one bank account to at least one other bank account. As disclosed with reference to , the period and amounts may vary according to each user. The periodic electronic transfers continue until the savings goal is reached (step ).","As shown in , and as already mentioned above, the computer also generates reports. The reports, including graphs and figures, show progress made towards the savings goal and may also show progress made towards individual savings goals. The reports may be transmitted or published to the mobile devices, to other computers to be displayed as a web page, to a \u201ccheering section\u201d, that is a group of individuals who are not savings partners but want to encourage the savings partners, to blogs, web applications, social networks, instant messaging applications, email, and the like. The reports may be periodic, such as weekly, as long as the savings goal has not been reached (step ), and they may also be a final report such as once the savings goal has been reached (step ). The reports may show progress of each user in relation to their individual savings goal, and they may show progress of the savings partners as a whole. Those skilled in the art will recognize that many different types of reports may be generated, all within the scope of the present invention.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0041","num":"0040"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 1","FIG. 1"],"b":["460","470","480","490","90","490","40"]},"Referring back to the figures, many other variations are possible. For example, users ( of ) may have more than one savings goal, and they may belong to more than one group ( of ). Also, users ( of ) may save without a specific goal in mind. In such an embodiment, the duration and amount of the savings goal (step  of ) may be defined, either alone or in combination, as a number so large such that it is never possible to reach in one's lifetime (for example, 10). In this case, the savings goal is never reached (step  of ) and the method of  only ends when ended manually. Also, it is possible that there is only one user. Is this case, no second electronic message is transmitted (step  of  is skipped). Instead, the third electronic message disclosed above is transmitted to the first mobile device. The third electronic message may be an automated response selected from a list of responses. For example, after the description and the amount is received (step  of ), the third electronic message may be \u201cWay to go!\u201d or \u201cCongratulations!\u201d or the like. Or the third electronic message may comprise the running total (step  of ), for example.","Finally, it is appreciated that the mobile devices  may comprise many different types of mobile devices such as cell phones, smart phones, PDAs, portable computers, and any other type of mobile device operable to transmit and receive electronic messages. The computer network(s)  may include the internet and wireless networks such as a mobile phone network . Computer  may be one or more computers and may comprise any type of computer capable of storing computer executable code and executing the computer executable code on a microprocessor, and communicating with the communication network(s) . For example computer  may be a web server. The electronic identifiers include email addresses, mobile phone numbers, user IDs for instant messaging services, user IDs for social networking application, user IDs and URLs for blogs and micro-blogs, URIs, and the like. It is appreciated that other elements and configurations of  are possible while remaining within the scope of the present invention.","The foregoing detailed description has discussed only a few of the many forms that this invention can take. It is intended that the foregoing detailed description be understood as an illustration of selected forms that the invention can take and not as a definition of the invention. It is only the following claims, including all equivalents, that are intended to define the scope of this invention."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 7"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
