---
title: Parametric amplification of a MEMS gyroscope by capacitance modulation
abstract: Parametric amplification of the output of a MEMS gyroscope is achieved by modulating the sense capacitance, or an auxiliary capacitance having an applied DC voltage. The capacitance modulation is produced by the driven motion of the gyroscope mechanism, so the pump signal of the parametric amplifier is not subject to phase errors in the electronics. The capacitance modulation affects the mechanical gain of the sensor (transfer function from input force to sensor mechanism displacement), as well as the electrical gain of the sensor (transfer function from sensor mechanism displacement to output electrical signal). The mechanical and electrical gains of the sensor become phase-dependent, so the Coriolis rate signal can be amplified while the unwanted quadrature-phase signal is attenuated.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08037757&OS=08037757&RS=08037757
owner: Honeywell International Inc.
number: 08037757
owner_city: Morristown
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080430
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["PRIORITY CLAIM","GOVERNMENT INTEREST","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENT"],"p":["This patent application claims priority from copending U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61\/013,041 filed Dec. 12, 2007, and entitled, \u201cParametric Amplification of a MEMS Gyroscope by Capacitance Modulation,\u201d the contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.","The present invention was made with support from the United States Government under contract number W15P7T-05-C-P609 and\/or W15P7T-07-C-P609 awarded by the United States Army. The United States Government may have certain rights in the invention.","A Micro-Electro-Mechanical Systems (MEMS) gyroscope sensor consists of one or more movable proof masses connected to each other and to one or more substrates by flexible suspensions. Typically, the proof masses and suspensions are fabricated by etching heavily doped silicon, and the silicon is bonded to one or more upper and\/or lower glass or silicon substrates.","The proof masses are driven electrostatically at the resonant frequency of the \u201cmotor\u201d mode. When the sensor experiences rotation, the velocity of the motor mode motion causes the proof masses to experience Coriolis forces perpendicular to the motor velocity and the rotation axis. The proof mass motion produced by the Coriolis force is sensed capacitively, by sense electrodes, to produce an electrical output signal.","In various MEMS gyroscopes, the motor mode consists of the two proof masses moving with equal and opposite velocities parallel to the substrate and along a line connecting the centers of the two proof masses. The motor mode resonant frequency can be in the range of 10 to 20 kHz. MEMS gyroscope sensors may be designed to sense rotation either parallel or perpendicular to the substrate. The Coriolis force drives the \u201csense\u201d resonant mode of the silicon mechanism, which consists of the two proof masses moving in opposing directions parallel or perpendicular to the substrate, depending on whether the rotation axis is perpendicular or parallel to the substrate. A sensor designed to sense rotation around an axis parallel to the substrate is referred to as an in-plane gyroscope (IPG), and a sensor designed to sense rotation around an axis perpendicular to the substrate is referred to as a z-axis gyroscope or out-of-plane gyroscope (OPG).","In a MEMS gyroscope, the resonant frequency of the sense mode is typically 5% to 10% below the resonant frequency of the motor mode, so the Coriolis force drives the sense mode off-resonance. Other MEMS gyroscopes may operate with the sense resonant frequency as close as possible to the motor resonant frequency, in order to maximize scale factor. However, the bandwidth of such sensors is very limited, and they can have stability issues.","Other MEMS gyroscopes may be quite different from the two-proof mass configuration described above. However, they all have a motor mode driven at its resonant frequency, they all experience a Coriolis force during rotation, and the Coriolis force drives a sense mode whose motion is detected capacitively.","The sensor output signal in MEMS gyroscopes is an AC signal at the motor resonant frequency. Typical MEMS gyroscopes have a large output error signal, designated \u201cquadrature\u201d, which is 90 degrees out-of-phase with the output signal produced by the Coriolis force. Phase-sensitive detection allows the Coriolis rate signal to be detected in the presence of a much larger quadrature signal. However, phase shifts in the electronics and in the sensor can cause the quadrature-phase signal to produce errors in the Coriolis-phase signal.","Parametric amplification in a MEMS gyroscope using a pump signal consisting of AC voltages applied to the sense electrodes has been described previously, in U.S. Pat. No. 6,715,353 (Burgess R. Johnson, issued Apr. 6, 2004), which is incorporated by reference in its entirety herein. The AC pump voltages can increase the mechanical gain of the sensor (transfer function from input force to sensor mechanism displacement), as well as the electrical gain of the sensor (transfer function from sensor mechanical displacement to output electrical signal). Also, the mechanical and electrical gains of the sensor become phase-dependent, so that the Coriolis rate signal can be amplified while the unwanted quadrature-phase signal is attenuated.","Oropeza-Ramos, et. al., have described the use of parametric resonance to modify the characteristics of the driven mode of a MEMS gyroscope (\u201cParametric Resonance Amplification in a MEM Gyroscope,\u201d L. A. Oropeza-Ramos and K. L. Turner, Proceedings of the 2005 IEEE Sensors Conference, pages 660-663, Oct. 31-Nov. 3, 2005, Irvine, Calif.), incorporated by reference in its entirety herein.","A difficulty with using AC pump voltages to provide parametric amplification, as described in U.S. Pat. No. 6,715,353, is that the phase of the pump voltages must be precisely synchronized with the phase of the driven motion of the sensor mechanism. If this is not done, the parametric amplification produces a phase shift of the sensor output signal relative to the phase of the input force on the sensor. As a result, the relatively large quadrature-phase force on the sensor mechanism can produce sensor output at the Coriolis rate phase, resulting in a large zero-rate bias error.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["100","100","102","104","106","108","109","110","112","114","116","118","120","122","124","126"]},"The left motor  is capacitively coupled to the first vibrating mass  via the left comb structure . The right motor  is capacitively coupled to the second vibrating mass  via the right comb structure . The center motor pickoffs ,  are capacitively coupled to the first vibrating mass  via the first center comb structure . The center motor pickoffs ,  are capacitively coupled to the second vibrating mass  via the second center comb structure . The left motor  and the right motor  are driven with signals to impart a vibrating motion at a known frequency to the first vibrating mass  and the second vibrating mass , hereinafter referred to as the motor frequency. The center motor pickoffs ,  are biased with DC voltages, so that motion of the proof masses along the x-axis produces AC electrical currents which are input to electronics controlling the signals applied to the motor combs.","The sense electrodes ,  are capacitively coupled to the first and second vibrating masses , , respectively, by a plurality of comb finger pairs . Each comb finger pair  has one comb finger attached to the vibrating mass and another comb finger attached to a sense electrode. Sense electrodes ,  are coupled to anchors . In the exemplary embodiment, comb finger pairs  are separated from other comb finger pairs by a predefined distance. Further, in some embodiments of the sense electrodes , , the comb finger pairs are arranged so that each pair has a corresponding pair such that the two pairs have mirror symmetry about the motor axis shown in . Other configurations for comb structures may be used in alternative embodiments of the MEMS capacitance modulation device .","Embodiments of the MEMS capacitance modulation device  employ various configurations in the structure of the comb finger pairs , as described in greater detail below. The structures of the comb finger pairs allow the capacitance of a comb finger pair  to vary with the displacement of the vibrating mass along the motor axis.","Embodiments of the MEMS capacitance modulation device  produce parametric amplification with the phase of the pump force precisely synchronized with the phase of the motor motion of the sensor mechanism. In some embodiments, this is achieved by designing the sense electrodes ,  so that motor motion produces a modulation of the sense capacitance at twice the motor frequency, resulting in a parametric pump force at twice the motor frequency, due to modulation of the electrostatic force on the sense mode. The phase of the parametric pump force is precisely synchronized with the motor motion of the proof masses, because the parametric pump force is produced by the motor motion of the proof masses.","The time-dependent electrostatic force Falong the y-axis produced by a capacitance C that is a function of time and of y-axis displacement (e.g., sense mode displacement) is given by equation (1):",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00001","num":"00001"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":["F","y"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"t"}},{"mfrac":[{"mn":["1","2"]},{"mrow":[{"mo":"\u2202","mrow":{"mi":"C","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"t"}}},{"mo":"\u2202","mi":"y"}]}],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"msubsup":{"mi":["V","bias"],"mn":"2"}}],"mo":"="},"mo":","}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"1"}}]}}}},"br":{},"sub":["bias ","y ","bias ","y","y"],"sup":"2 "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":["200","202","202","200","202","204","206","204","206","208","208","204","206","210","212","202","202","204","206","210","212","202"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":["200","204","206","210","212"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":["400","128","400","400","402","404","406","402","408","404","410","402","412","406","414","404","406","416","416"]},"The sense electrode comb fingers ,  are defined by an end portion  and an attaching portion  which secures them to their respective sense electrodes . The proof mass comb fingers ,  are defined by an end portion  and an attaching portion  which secures the proof mass comb fingers ,  to the proof mass body .","The separation between the proof mass comb fingers ,  and the sense electrode comb fingers , , respectively, defines the gaps , . The gaps ,  define the capacitive coupling (capacitance) between the sense electrode comb fingers ,  and the proof mass comb fingers , .","In , the comb finger end portion  has a width that is greater than the width of the comb finger attaching portion . Optionally, the proof mass comb fingers ,  have an end portion  that is wider than a portion  attached to the body  of the proof mass . (In yet another embodiment, the comb finger portions  and  are the same width while the comb finger end portion  is wider than the comb finger portion .) The differences in the width of the comb finger portions  and , and\/or the comb finger portions  and , causes a change in the gaps ,  as the motor motion is induced to the proof mass . In an exemplary embodiment, the sense electrode comb fingers ,  have capacitance modulated at twice the motor frequency.","A motor motion induced to the proof mass , resulting in a motor displacement distance (\u03b4x) along the illustrated x-axis, causes a detectable variance in the capacitance between the sense electrodes  and the proof mass  as the gaps ,  change. The derivative of said capacitance with respect to displacement along the illustrated y-axis also changes with motor displacement \u03b4x . As a result, when a DC bias voltage is applied between the sense electrodes  and the proof mass , the electrostatic force along the illustrated y-axis, given by equation , varies with x-axis displacement of the proof mass. The capacitance is configured to decrease with positive and negative motor displacement distance (\u03b4x), in accordance with . For positive \u03b4x , the average gap separation between comb fingers  and  increases, relative to \u03b4x=0, and the average gap separation between comb fingers  and  is constant. Thus, the total capacitance decreases relative to its value when \u03b4x=0. Because of the mirror symmetry of the assembly , negative values of \u03b4x also produce a decrease in capacitance.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"figref":"FIG. 6","b":["600","128","600","600","602","604","606","602","608","604","610","602","612","606","614","604","606","616","616"]},"The sense electrode comb fingers ,  are defined by an end portion  and an attaching portion  which secures the sense electrode comb fingers ,  to their respective sense electrodes . The proof mass comb fingers ,  are defined by an end portion  and an attaching portion  which secures the proof mass comb fingers ,  to the proof mass body .","The separation between the proof mass comb fingers ,  and the sense electrode comb fingers , , respectively, defines the gaps , . The gaps ,  define the capacitive coupling (capacitance) between the sense electrode comb fingers ,  and the proof mass comb fingers , .","In , the width of end portion  is smaller than the width of portion . Optionally, the proof mass comb fingers ,  have an end portion  with a width that is less than the width of a portion  attached to the body  of the proof mass . (In yet another embodiment, the portions  and  are the same width while the end portion  has a width less than the portion .) The differences in the widths of the portions  and , and\/or the portions  and , cause a change in the capacitance of the gaps ,  as the motor motion is induced to the proof mass . In an exemplary embodiment, the comb fingers ,  have capacitance modulated at twice the motor frequency. Accordingly, capacitance increases with motor displacement. The capacitance is illustrated as a function of motor displacement in .","A motor motion induced to the proof mass , resulting in a motor displacement distance (\u03b4x) along the illustrated x-axis, causes a detectable variance in the capacitance between the sense electrodes  and the proof mass  as the gaps ,  change. The derivative of said capacitance with respect to displacement along the illustrated y-axis also changes with motor displacement \u03b4x. As a result, when a DC bias voltage is applied between the sense electrodes  and the proof mass , the electrostatic force along the illustrated y-axis, given by equation 1, varies with x-axis displacement of the proof mass. The capacitance is configured to increase with positive and negative motor displacement distance (\u03b4x), in accordance with . For positive \u03b4x, the average gap separation between comb fingers  and  decreases, relative to \u03b4x=0, and the average gap separation between comb fingers  and  is constant. Thus, the total capacitance increases relative to its value when \u03b4x=0. Because of the mirror symmetry of the assembly , negative values of \u03b4x also produce an increase in capacitance.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0039","num":"0038"},"figref":"FIG. 8","b":["800","128","800","800","802","804","806","802","808","804","810","802","812","806","814","804","806","816","816"]},"The sense electrode comb fingers ,  are defined by an end portion  and an attaching portion  which secures the sense electrode comb fingers ,  to their respective sense electrodes . The proof mass comb fingers ,  are defined by an end portion  and an attaching portion  which secures the proof mass comb fingers ,  to the proof mass body . The separation between the proof mass comb fingers ,  and the comb fingers , , respectively, defines the gaps , . The gaps ,  define the capacitive coupling (capacitance) between the sense electrode comb fingers ,  and the proof mass comb fingers , .","In , the sense electrode comb fingers ,  have a corrugated end portion  and a non-corrugated attaching portion . Optionally, the proof mass comb fingers ,  have an end portion  that is corrugated and a non-corrugated attaching portion . (In yet another embodiment, the end portions  are corrugated while the portions  are non-corrugated.) The corrugation of the portion , and\/or the portions , cause a change in the capacitance gaps ,  as the motor motion is induced to the proof mass . In an exemplary embodiment, the sense electrodes  have capacitance modulated at twice the motor frequency. Accordingly, capacitance increases with motor displacement. The capacitance is illustrated as a function of motor displacement in .","A motor motion induced to the proof mass , resulting in a motor displacement distance (\u03b4x) along the illustrated directions (x-axis), causes a detectable variance in the capacitance between the sense electrodes  and the proof mass  as the gaps ,  change. The derivative of the capacitance with respect to displacement along the illustrated y-axis also changes with motor displacement \u03b4x. As a result, when a DC bias voltage is applied between the sense electrodes  and the proof mass , the electrostatic force along the illustrated y-axis, given by equation 1, varies with x-axis displacement of the proof mass. The capacitance is configured to increase with positive and negative motor displacement distance (\u03b4x), in accordance with . For positive and negative \u03b4x, the average of the inverse of the gap separations in gaps ,  increases, relative to \u03b4x=0. Thus, the total capacitance increases relative to its value when \u03b4x=0. Because of the mirror symmetry of the assembly , negative values of \u03b4x produce the same increase in capacitance as positive values of \u03b4x.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0043","num":"0042"},"figref":"FIG. 10","b":["1000","128","1000","1000","1002","1004","1006","1002","1008","1004","1010","1002","1012","1006","1014","1004","1006","1016","1016"]},"The sense electrode comb fingers ,  are defined by an end portion  and an attaching portion  which secures the sense electrode comb fingers ,  to their respective sense electrodes . The proof mass comb fingers ,  are defined by an end portion  and an attaching portion  which secures the proof mass comb fingers ,  to the proof mass body . The separation between the proof mass comb fingers ,  and the comb fingers , , respectively, defines the gaps , . The gaps ,  define the capacitive coupling (capacitance) between the sense electrode comb fingers ,  and the proof mass comb fingers , .","In , the sense electrode comb fingers ,  have a corrugated end portion  and a non-corrugated attaching portion . In this embodiment, the corrugations of comb finger  oppose the corrugations of comb finger , and the corrugations of comb finger  oppose the corrugations of comb finger .","The corrugation of the portions  and the portions  cause a change in the capacitance gaps ,  as the motor motion is induced to the proof mass . In an exemplary embodiment, the sense electrodes  have capacitance modulated at twice the motor frequency. Accordingly, capacitance decreases with motor displacement. The capacitance is illustrated as a function of motor displacement in .","A motor motion induced to the proof mass , resulting in a motor displacement distance (\u03b4x) along the illustrated directions (x-axis), causes a detectable variance in the capacitance between the sense electrodes  and the proof mass  as the gaps ,  change. The derivative of said capacitance with respect to displacement along the illustrated y-axis also changes with motor displacement \u03b4x. As a result, when a DC bias voltage is applied between the sense electrodes  and the proof mass , the electrostatic force along the illustrated y-axis, given by equation 1, varies with x-axis displacement of the proof mass. The capacitance is configured to decrease with positive and negative motor displacement distance (\u03b4x), in accordance with . For positive and negative \u03b4x, the average of the inverse of the gap separations in gaps ,  decreases, relative to \u03b4x=0. Thus, the total capacitance decreases relative to its value when \u03b4x=0. Because of the mirror symmetry of the assembly , negative values of \u03b4x produce the same decrease in capacitance as positive values of \u03b4x.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0048","num":"0047"},"figref":"FIG. 12","b":["1200","128","1200","1200","1202","1204","1206","1202","1208","1204","1210","1202","1212","1206","1214","1204","1206","1216","1216"]},"The sense electrode comb fingers ,  are defined by an end portion  and an attaching portion  which secures the sense electrode comb fingers ,  to their respective sense electrodes . The proof mass comb fingers ,  are defined by an end portion  and an attaching portion  which secures the proof mass comb fingers ,  to the proof mass body .","The separation between the proof mass comb fingers ,  and the sense electrode comb fingers , , respectively, defines the gaps , . The gaps ,  define the capacitive coupling (capacitance) between the sense electrode comb fingers ,  and the proof mass comb fingers , .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0051","num":"0050"},"figref":["FIG. 12","FIG. 11"],"b":["1204","1206","1210","1214","1204","1206","1208","1212","1202","1210","1214","1202","1210","1214"]},"In , capacitance is illustrated as a function of motor displacement, for the assembly of . The capacitance is a non-linear function of the motor displacement distance (\u03b4x) along the illustrated x-axis. The derivative of said capacitance with respect to displacement along the illustrated y-axis also changes with motor displacement \u03b4x. As a result, when a DC bias voltage is applied between the sense electrodes  and the proof mass , the electrostatic force along the illustrated y-axis, given by equation 1, varies with x-axis displacement of the proof mass.","The non-linear capacitance as a function of x-axis displacement of the proof mass  in assembly  may provide more effective parametric amplification than the electrodes of the assemblies shown in , , and\/or , since the frequency component of the capacitance modulation at twice the motor frequency is larger when the capacitance is an approximately parabolic function of motor displacement than when it is proportional to the absolute value of motor displacement, for equal amplitudes of oscillatory motor displacement. However, the configurations of , , and\/or  may be preferable for some situations, because the tilted electrodes illustrated in  may be impractical and\/or difficult to make when the comb fingers are very long.","The modulation of capacitance produced by the mating comb fingers of the comb finger pairs  illustrated in , , ,  and\/or  also produces modulation of the first and second derivatives of capacitance with respect to displacement along the y-axis. The modulation of these derivatives is the origin of the parametric amplification effects that are the subject of the various embodiments.","Modulating the sense capacitance affects the MEMS gyro sensor's mechanical gain (transfer function between input force and proof mass displacement) as well as its electrical gain (transfer function between proof mass displacement and electrical output signal). The effect on mechanical gain is described hereinbelow.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0056","num":"0055"},"figref":["FIGS. 14","FIGS. 14","FIGS. 14"],"i":["a","b","c ","a","b","c ","a","b","c "],"b":["14","14","1400","14","14","14","14","1400"],"sub":["+1","1","\u22121","1","+2","2","\u22122","2"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0057","num":"0056"},"figref":["FIG. 14","FIG. 14","FIG. 14"],"i":["a ","b ","c "],"b":["1402","1404","1406","1408","1408","1410"],"sub":["+","\u2212","bias","+","\u2212"]},"The x-axis displacements of the two proof masses ,  have the same magnitude (labeled as \u201cx\u201d in , , and ), but opposite directions. Rotation about an axis orthogonal to the motor axis (x axis) and the sense axis (y axis) produces Coriolis forces on the proof masses along the sense axis. The resulting proof mass displacements change the four sense capacitances, producing time-varying charges q(t) and q(t) on the sense capacitances, which are inputs to the charge amplifiers shown in , , or ","The outputs of the sensor\/charge amplifier combined systems shown in , , and are designed to be sensitive only to the differential sense-axis motion produced by the Coriolis forces. Equation (2) describes the differential motion for this embodiment:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0060","num":"0059"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00002","num":"00002"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mover":{"mi":["y","\u00a8"]},"mi":"S"},"mo":["+","+"],"mrow":[{"mfrac":{"mi":["\u03b3","m"]},"mo":"\u2062","msub":{"mover":{"mi":"y","mo":"."},"mi":"S"}},{"msubsup":{"mi":["\u03c9","SM"],"mn":"2"},"mo":"\u2062","msub":{"mi":["y","S"]}}]},{"mrow":{"mfrac":{"msup":{"mi":"V","mn":"2"},"mrow":{"mn":"4","mo":"\u2062","mi":"m"}},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mfrac":{"mrow":[{"mo":"\u2146","mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}},{"mo":"\u2146","msub":{"mi":"y","mn":"1"}}]},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":"C","mrow":{"mo":"+","mn":"1"}},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":"x","mo":",","msub":{"mi":"y","mn":"1"}}}},{"msub":{"mi":"C","mrow":{"mo":"-","mn":"1"}},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":"x","mo":",","msub":{"mi":"y","mn":"1"}}}}],"mo":"+"}}},{"mfrac":{"mrow":[{"mo":"\u2146","mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}},{"mo":"\u2146","msub":{"mi":"y","mn":"2"}}]},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":"C","mrow":{"mo":"+","mn":"2"}},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":"x","mo":",","msub":{"mi":"y","mn":"2"}}}},{"msub":{"mi":"C","mrow":{"mo":"-","mn":"1"}},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":"x","mo":",","msub":{"mi":"y","mn":"2"}}}}],"mo":"+"}}}],"mo":"-"}}},"mo":"+","mfrac":{"mrow":{"mi":"F","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"t"}},"mi":"m"}}],"mo":"="}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"2"}}]}}}},"br":{},"b":["1404","1406"],"sub":"S"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0061","num":"0060"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00003","num":"00003"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":["y","S"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"t"}},{"mfrac":{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":"y","mn":"1"},{"mi":"y","mn":"2"}],"mo":"-"}},"mn":"2"},"mo":"."}],"mo":"\u2261"}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"3"}}]}}}},"br":{},"sub":["S","S ","S"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0062","num":"0061"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00004","num":"00004"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mrow":{"mi":"F","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"t"}},"mo":"\u2261","mfrac":{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":"F","mn":"1"},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"t"}},{"msub":{"mi":"F","mn":"2"},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"t"}}],"mo":"-"},"mn":"2"}},{"msub":{"mi":"F","mn":"0"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mi":"cos","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mrow":{"mi":["\u03c9","t"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}},"mo":"+","mi":"\u03c8"}}}}],"mo":"="},"mo":","}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"4"}}]}}}},"br":[{},{}],"in-line-formulae":[{},{}],"i":["x","t","x","t"],"sub":"0 "},"Other variables in equation (2) are defined as follows:\n\n","The first term on the right hand side of equation (2) is the differential electrostatic force produced by the sense capacitances. The displacements y(t) and y(t) are typically small. Therefore, it is useful to expand the capacitances in Taylor series in y(t) and y(t), and ignore terms beyond second order. Assuming all four sense capacitances are identical when x, yand yare zero, equation (2) becomes equation (6) as follows:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0065","num":"0068"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00005","num":"00005"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mrow":{"msub":{"mover":{"mi":["y","\u00a8"]},"mi":"S"},"mo":["+","+"],"mrow":[{"mfrac":{"mi":["\u03b3","m"]},"mo":"\u2062","msub":{"mover":{"mi":"y","mo":"."},"mi":"S"}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msubsup":{"mi":["\u03c9","SM"],"mn":"2"},"mo":"-","mfrac":{"mrow":{"mrow":{"msubsup":{"mi":["C","\u2033"],"mrow":{"mo":"+","mn":"1"}},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":"x","mo":",","mn":"0"}}},"mo":"\u2062","msup":{"mi":"V","mn":"2"}},"mi":"m"}}},"mo":"\u2062","msub":{"mi":["y","S"]}}]},"mo":"=","mfrac":{"mi":["F","m"]}},"mo":","}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"6"}}]}}}},"br":{},"sub":["+1","+1","1","1","1"]},"The motor motion modulates C\u2033(x,0) as a function of time. The modulation can be expressed as a Fourier series consisting of harmonics of twice the motor frequency \u03c9, as defined by equation (7):",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0067","num":"0070"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00006","num":"00006"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"msubsup":{"mi":["C","\u2033"],"mrow":{"mo":"+","mn":"1"}},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mrow":{"mi":"x","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"t"}},"mo":",","mn":"0"}}},{"mrow":[{"msubsup":{"mi":["C","\u2033"],"mrow":{"mo":"+","mn":"1"}},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mn":["0","0"],"mo":","}}},{"munderover":{"mo":"\u2211","mrow":{"mi":"n","mo":"=","mn":"1"},"mi":"\u221e"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"msubsup":{"mi":["\u03b1","n","\u2033"]},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mi":"cos","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mi":["n","\u03c9","t"],"mstyle":[{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}]}}}}}],"mo":["+","+"],"msubsup":{"mi":["\u03b1","\u2033"],"mn":"0"}}],"mo":"="},"mo":","}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"7"}}]}}}},"br":{},"sub":["0","n"],"figref":"FIGS. 4","b":["6","8","10","12"]},"Terms in equation (7) higher than n=1 do not have a significant effect on y(t), so they may optionally be ignored. Inserting equation (7) into equation (6) gives equation (8):",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0069","num":"0072"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00007","num":"00007"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mrow":{"msub":{"mover":{"mi":["y","\u00a8"]},"mi":"S"},"mo":["+","+"],"mrow":[{"mfrac":{"mi":["\u03b3","m"]},"mo":"\u2062","msub":{"mover":{"mi":"y","mo":"."},"mi":"S"}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msubsup":{"mi":["\u03c9","S"],"mn":"2"},"mo":"-","mrow":{"mfrac":{"mrow":{"msubsup":{"mi":["\u03b1","\u2033"],"mn":"1"},"mo":"\u2062","msup":{"mi":"V","mn":"2"}},"mi":"m"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mi":"cos","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mi":["\u03c9","t"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}}}}}}},"mo":"\u2062","msub":{"mi":["y","S"]}}]},"mo":"=","mfrac":{"mi":["F","m"]}},"mo":","}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"8"}}]}}}},"br":{},"sub":"S "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0070","num":"0073"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00008","num":"00008"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"msubsup":{"mi":["\u03c9","S"],"mn":"2"},"mo":"\u2261","mrow":{"msubsup":{"mi":["\u03c9","SM"],"mn":"2"},"mo":"-","mrow":{"mfrac":{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mrow":{"msubsup":{"mi":["C","\u2033"],"mrow":{"mo":"+","mn":"1"}},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mn":["0","0"],"mo":","}}},"mo":"+","msubsup":{"mi":["\u03b1","\u2033"],"mn":"0"}}},"mo":"\u2062","msup":{"mi":"V","mn":"2"}},"mi":"m"},"mo":"."}}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"9"}}]}}}}},"Equation (8) has the form of the well-known Mathieu equation. It shows that the sense resonant frequency is modulated at twice the motor frequency, due to the modulation of C\u2033(x,0) by the motor motion of the proof masses. This modulation of the sense frequency produces parametric amplification in the embodiments.","The sense mode response y(t) given by solving equation (8) is primarily at the motor frequency \u03c9, because the driving force F(t) is at frequency \u03c9, which is close to the sense resonant frequency \u03c9, where the mechanical response is large. Terms at other frequencies are far from the sense resonant frequency, so they do not produce a large contribution to y(t). This is also the reason that equation (8) excludes terms in C\u2033(x,0) with frequency higher than 2\u03c9.","Assuming a solution to equation (8) is of the form of equation (10) below:\n\n()\u2261cos(\u03c9\u03b8), \u2003\u2003(10)\n\nand neglecting the damping term, the solution can be written as equation (11) below:\n",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0074","num":"0077"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00009","num":"00009"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"y","mn":"0"},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mfrac":[{"mi":["F","m"]},{"mn":"1","mrow":{"msubsup":{"mi":["\u03c9","S"],"mn":"2"},"mo":"-","mrow":{"msup":{"mi":"\u03c9","mn":"2"},"mo":"\u2213","mfrac":{"mrow":[{"msubsup":{"mi":["\u03b1","\u2033"],"mn":"1"},"mo":"\u2062","msup":{"mi":"V","mn":"2"}},{"mn":"2","mo":"\u2062","mi":"m"}]}}}}],"mo":["[","]"]}},"mo":","}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"11"}}]}}}}},"with the phase \u03b8 being equal to the phase \u03c8 of the force F(t). The sign in the denominator of equation (11) is negative for \u03c8=0 (Coriolis), and positive for \u03c8=\u03c0\/2 (quadrature). Equation (11) shows that if the sign of \u03b1\u2033 is the same as the sign of \u03c9\u2212\u03c9, then the amplitude of the response of y(t) to a Coriolis-phase force (\u03c8=0) is increased by the capacitance modulation, and the response to a quadrature-phase force is decreased in amplitude.","An expression for the sensor electrical gain, the transfer function from proof mass sense-axis displacement to electrical output, is derived in this section. The non-linear mixing between the capacitance modulation and the sense mode displacements of the proof masses causes the electrical gain to be phase-dependent, so the electrical gain for the Coriolis-phase signal can be larger than that of the quadrature-phase signal.","The charges q and q on the sense capacitances are defined by equation (12) as:\n\n()=()+()],\u2003\u2003(12)\n\nwhere V is the bias voltage on the positive or negative polarity sense capacitances, as defined in and , or the bias voltage Vapplied to proof masses ,  in . Expanding the sense capacitances in Taylor series in yand y, and assuming all four capacitances are identical when x, y, and yare zero, equation (12) can be approximated for small yand yas defined by equation (13):\n\n()=2(0)\u00b1(0)()]. \u2003\u2003(13)\n\nThe capacitance C(x,0), and C\u2032(x,0), its first derivative with respect to y, can be written as Fourier series in a manner similar to equation (7) for C\u2033(x,0) as defined by equations (14) and (15) as:\n",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0078","num":"0081"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00010","num":"00010"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":"C","mrow":{"mo":"+","mn":"1"}},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mrow":{"mi":"x","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"t"}},"mo":",","mn":"0"}}},{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":"C","mrow":{"mo":"+","mn":"1"}},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mn":["0","0"],"mo":","}}},{"munderover":{"mo":"\u2211","mrow":{"mi":"n","mo":"=","mn":"1"},"mi":"\u221e"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["\u03b1","n"]},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mi":"cos","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mi":["n","\u03c9","t"],"mstyle":[{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}]}}}}}],"mo":["+","+"],"msub":{"mi":"\u03b1","mn":"0"}}],"mo":"="},"mo":[",","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mtext":{}},"mi":"and"}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"14"}}]},{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"msubsup":{"mi":["C","\u2032"],"mrow":{"mo":"+","mn":"1"}},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mrow":{"mi":"x","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"t"}},"mo":",","mn":"0"}}},{"mrow":[{"msubsup":{"mi":["C","\u2032"],"mrow":{"mo":"+","mn":"1"}},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mn":["0","0"],"mo":","}}},{"munderover":{"mo":"\u2211","mrow":{"mi":"n","mo":"=","mn":"1"},"mi":"\u221e"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"msubsup":{"mi":["\u03b1","n","\u2032"]},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mi":"cos","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mi":["n","\u03c9","t"],"mstyle":[{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}]}}}}}],"mo":["+","+"],"msubsup":{"mi":["\u03b1","\u2032"],"mn":"0"}}],"mo":"="},"mo":","}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"15"}}]}]}}},"br":{},"sub":["0","0","n","n","S"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0079","num":"0082"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00011","num":"00011"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":"q","mo":"\u00b1"},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"t"}},{"mn":"2","mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"V","mo":"\u00b1"},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"mrow":{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":"C","mrow":{"mo":"+","mn":"1"}},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mn":["0","0"],"mo":","}}},{"mrow":[{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":"\u03b1","mn":"1"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mi":"cos","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mi":["\u03c9","t"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}}}}},{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":"y","mn":"0"},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"mrow":{"mrow":{"msubsup":{"mi":["C","\u2032"],"mrow":{"mo":"+","mn":"1"}},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mn":["0","0"],"mo":","}}},"mo":"+","msubsup":{"mi":["\u03b1","\u2032"],"mn":"0"}}}},{"mi":"cos","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mrow":{"mi":["\u03c9","t"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}},"mo":"+","mi":"\u03b8"}}}],"mo":"\u2062"}],"mo":"\u00b1"},{"mfrac":{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"y","mn":"0"},"mo":"\u2062","msubsup":{"mi":["\u03b1","\u2032"],"mn":"1"}},"mn":"2"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mi":"cos","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mrow":{"mi":["\u03c9","t"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}},"mo":"-","mi":"\u03b8"}}}}],"mo":"\u00b1"}],"mo":["+","+"],"msub":{"mi":"\u03b1","mn":"0"}}}},"mo":"."}}],"mo":"="}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"16"}}]}}}}},"In equation (16), terms with frequency higher than 2\u03c9 are neglected. The readout electronics of the MEMS gyroscope uses phase-sensitive detection to reject signals at frequencies other than the desired motor frequency \u03c9, so only the motor frequency component of the sensor output is of interest. Also, the first three terms on the right hand side of equation (16) do not contribute to the gyro output, because the configuration of bias voltages, combined with the choice of a single-ended or differential charge amplifier in the embodiments of , , and , is designed to null the contribution of these terms at the charge amplifier output.","Evaluating equation (16) for Coriolis-phase (\u03b8=0) and quadrature-phase (\u03b8=\u03c0\/2) sense mode displacements, and ignoring the first three terms on the right hand side, the charges on the sense capacitances are defined by equations (17) and (18):",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0082","num":"0085"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00012","num":"00012"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":"q","mo":"\u00b1"},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"t"}},{"mrow":[{"mo":"\u00b1","mn":"2"},{"msub":{"mi":"y","mn":"0"},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"mrow":{"mrow":{"msubsup":{"mi":["C","\u2032"],"mrow":{"mo":"+","mn":"1"}},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mn":["0","0"],"mo":","}}},"mo":["+","+"],"msubsup":{"mi":["\u03b1","\u2032"],"mn":"0"},"mfrac":{"msubsup":{"mi":["\u03b1","\u2032"],"mn":"1"},"mn":"2"}}}},{"mi":"cos","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":["\u03c9","t"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}}}},{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":"\u03b8","mo":"=","mn":"0"}}],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"msub":{"mi":"V","mo":"\u00b1"},"mstyle":[{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},{"mtext":"-"},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.6em","height":"0.6ex"}}}],"mi":["Coriolis","phase"]}],"mo":"="},"mo":[",","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mtext":{}},"mi":"and"}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"17"}}]},{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":"q","mo":"\u00b1"},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"t"}},{"mrow":[{"mo":"\u2213","mn":"2"},{"msub":{"mi":"y","mn":"0"},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"mrow":{"mrow":{"msubsup":{"mi":["C","\u2032"],"mrow":{"mo":"+","mn":"1"}},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mn":["0","0"],"mo":","}}},"mo":["+","-"],"msubsup":{"mi":["\u03b1","\u2032"],"mn":"0"},"mfrac":{"msubsup":{"mi":["\u03b1","\u2032"],"mn":"1"},"mn":"2"}}}},{"mi":"sin","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":["\u03c9","t"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":"\u03b8","mo":"=","mrow":{"mi":"\u03c0","mo":"\/","mn":"2"}}},"mo":"."}],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"msub":{"mi":"V","mo":"\u00b1"},"mstyle":[{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},{"mtext":"-"},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.6em","height":"0.6ex"}}}],"mi":["Quadrature","phase"]}],"mo":"="}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"18"}}]}]}}}},"Equations (17) and (18) show that the amplitudes of the sense capacitance charges are dependent on the phase of the sense mode displacement y(t). Thus, the electrical gain of the sensor is phase-dependent, so the electrical gain for a Coriolis-phase signal can be larger than that of a quadrature-phase signal.","An alternative to modulating the sense capacitance is to provide a set of auxiliary electrodes whose capacitance is modulated by the motor motion. If a DC bias voltage is applied to these auxiliary electrodes, and the second derivative of their capacitance with respect to sense axis displacement is modulated by motor motion, then these electrodes can modulate the sense frequency and produce parametric amplification. The parametric amplification is produced by modifying the mechanical gain of the sensor, as expressed by equation (11). The electrical gain of the sensor is not modified, since the electrical gain is determined by the sense electrodes. Thus, the use of auxiliary electrodes may provide greater flexibility in designing the mechanical and electrical gains of the sensor independently.","The above described embodiments of the comb finger pairs were described in the context of an out-of-plane MEMS gyroscope. Embodiments may also be implemented in an in-plane MEMS gyroscope, in a MEMS accelerometer, or other MEMS devices that employ comb pairs operated to generate a sensed capacitance. Furthermore, alternative embodiments of a MEMS capacitance modulation device  may have the sense electrodes, proof masses, and\/or their respective comb fingers arranged differently, or may include more or less, than the exemplary embodiments described and\/or illustrated herein.","While the preferred embodiment of the invention has been illustrated and described, as noted above, many changes can be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly, the scope of the invention is not limited by the disclosure of the preferred embodiment. Instead, the invention should be determined entirely by reference to the claims that follow."],"GOVINT":[{},{}],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["Preferred and alternative embodiments of the present invention are described in detail below with reference to the following drawings:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 2"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIGS. 4","b":["6","8","10","12"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":["FIGS. 5","FIGS. 4"],"b":["7","9","11","13","6","8","10","12"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIGS. 14","i":["a","b","c "],"b":["14","14"]}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
