---
title: RFID tag chips and tags refraining from participating in a subsequent inventorying attempt and methods
abstract: RFID tags and chips for RFID tags are capable of being inventoried in one or more early attempts. These tags are capable of then refraining from participating in one or more subsequent inventorying attempts. In some embodiments refraining is performed solely by the tag, while in others it is guided by the RFID reader. In some embodiments, an inventoried indicator in the tag becomes updated upon backscattering. The updated value is used by the tag to recognize a subsequent attempt, and thus refrain from participating in it. This permits the subsequent attempt to be used more intensively for inventorying the more elusive, harder-to-read tags, especially in more demanding scenarios.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08279045&OS=08279045&RS=08279045
owner: Impinj, Inc.
number: 08279045
owner_city: Seattle
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080328
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS","FIELD OF THE INVENTION","BACKGROUND","BRIEF SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["This application claims priority from U.S.A. Provisional Application No. 60\/920,686, filed on 2007 Mar. 29, the disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference for all purposes.","This application claims priority from U.S.A. Provisional Application No. 60\/932,627, filed on 2007 May 31, the disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference for all purposes.","This application claims priority from U.S.A. Provisional Application No. 61\/005,249, filed on 2007 Dec. 4, the disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference for all purposes.","The present description addresses the field of Radio Frequency IDentification (RFID) systems.","Radio Frequency IDentification (RFID) systems typically include RFID tags and RFID readers. RFID readers are also known as RFID reader\/writers or RFID interrogators. RFID systems can be used in many ways for locating and identifying objects to which the tags are attached. RFID systems are particularly useful in product-related and service-related industries for tracking objects being processed, inventoried, or handled. In such cases, an RFID tag is usually attached to an individual item, or to its package.","In principle, RFID techniques entail using an RFID reader to interrogate one or more RFID tags. The reader transmitting a Radio Frequency (RF) wave performs the interrogation. The RF wave is typically electromagnetic, at least in the far field. The RF wave can also be predominantly electric or magnetic in the near field.","A tag that senses the interrogating RF wave responds by transmitting back another RF wave. The tag generates the transmitted back RF wave either originally, or by reflecting back a portion of the interrogating RF wave in a process known as backscatter. Backscatter may take place in a number of ways.","The reflected-back RF wave may further encode data stored internally in the tag, such as a number. The response is demodulated and decoded by the reader, which thereby identifies, counts, or otherwise interacts with the associated item. The decoded data can denote a serial number, a price, a date, a destination, other attribute(s), any combination of attributes, and so on.","An RFID tag typically includes an antenna system, a radio section, a power management section, and frequently a logical section, a memory, or both. In earlier RFID tags, the power management section included an energy storage device, such as a battery. RFID tags with an energy storage device are known as active or semi-active tags. Advances in semiconductor technology have miniaturized the electronics so much that an RFID tag can be powered solely by the RF signal it receives. Such RFID tags do not include an energy storage device, and are called passive tags.","Problems arise when more and more tags are desired to be inventoried, in less and less time. There is less time as tags are moving.","An emerging pattern is that some tags are occasionally harder to read than others, even with repeated inventorying attempts. Such tags could be, for example, in the center of a large group. This pattern can become a problem when there is less time to read the group, such as when the group is moving past the antennas without stopping.","The invention improves over the prior art.","Briefly, the present invention provides RFID tags and chips for RFID tags that are capable of being inventoried in one or more early attempts. These tags are capable of then refraining from participating in one or more subsequent inventorying attempts. In some embodiments refraining is performed solely by the tag, while in others it is guided by the RFID reader.","The invention offers the advantage that, when these tags refrain from participating in the subsequent attempts, they permit these attempts to be used more intensively for inventorying the more elusive, harder-to-read tags, especially in more demanding scenarios.","These and other features and advantages of the invention will be better understood from the specification of the invention, which includes the following Detailed Description and accompanying Drawings.","The present invention is now described. While it is disclosed in its preferred form, the specific embodiments of the invention as disclosed herein and illustrated in the drawings are not to be considered in a limiting sense. Rather, these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete, and will fully convey the scope of the invention to those skilled in the art. Indeed, it should be readily apparent in view of the present description that the invention may be modified in numerous ways. Among other things, the present invention may be embodied as devices, methods, software, and so on. Accordingly, the present invention may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment, an entirely software embodiment, an entirely firmware embodiment, or an embodiment combining aspects of the above. This description is, therefore, not to be taken in a limiting sense.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0049","num":"0048"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["100","110","112","120","110","112","126","110","126"]},"Reader  and tag  exchange data via wave  and wave . In a session of such an exchange, each encodes, modulates, and transmits data to the other, and each receives, demodulates, and decodes data from the other. The data is modulated onto, and demodulated from, RF waveforms.","Encoding the data in waveforms can be performed in a number of different ways. For example, protocols are devised to communicate in terms of symbols, also called RFID symbols. A symbol for communicating can be a delimiter, a calibration symbol, and so on. Further symbols can be implemented for ultimately exchanging binary data, such as \u201c0\u201d and \u201c1\u201d, if that is desired. In turn, when the waveforms are processed internally by reader  and tag , they can be equivalently considered and treated as numbers having corresponding values, and so on.","Tag  can be a passive tag or an active or semi-active tag, i.e. having its own power source. Where tag  is a passive tag, it is powered from wave .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0053","num":"0052"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1"],"b":["220","120","220"]},"Tag  is formed on a substantially planar inlay , which can be made in many ways known in the art. Tag  includes an electrical circuit, which is preferably implemented in an integrated circuit (IC) . IC  is arranged on inlay .","Tag  also includes an antenna for exchanging wireless signals with its environment. The antenna is usually flat and attached to inlay . IC  is electrically coupled to the antenna via suitable antenna ports (not shown in ).","The antenna may be made in a number of ways, as is well known in the art. In the example of , the antenna is made from two distinct antenna segments , which are shown here forming a dipole. Many other embodiments are possible, using any number of antenna segments.","In some embodiments, an antenna can be made with even a single segment. Different points of the segment can be coupled to one or more of the antenna ports of IC . For example, the antenna can form a single loop, with its ends coupled to the ports. It should be remembered that, when the single segment has more complex shapes, even a single segment could behave like multiple segments, at the frequencies of RFID wireless communication.","In operation, a signal is received by the antenna, and communicated to IC . IC  both harvests power, and responds if appropriate, based on the incoming signal and its internal state. In order to respond by replying, IC  modulates the reflectance of the antenna, which generates the backscatter from a wave transmitted by the reader. Coupling together and uncoupling the antenna ports of IC  can modulate the reflectance, as can a variety of other means.","In the embodiment of , antenna segments  are separate from IC . In other embodiments, antenna segments may alternately be formed on IC , and so on.","The components of the RFID system of  may communicate with each other in any number of modes. One such mode is called full duplex. Another such mode is called half-duplex, and is described below.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0061","num":"0060"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 1","FIG. 2"],"b":["300","120","220"]},"RFID reader  and RFID tag  talk and listen to each other by taking turns. As seen on axis TIME, when reader  talks to tag  the communication session is designated as \u201cR\u2192T\u201d, and when tag  talks to reader  the communication session is designated as \u201cT\u2192R\u201d. Along the TIME axis, a sample R\u2192T communication session occurs during a time interval , and a following sample T\u2192R communication session occurs during a time interval . Of course interval  is typically of a different duration than interval  here the durations are shown approximately equal only for purposes of illustration.","According to blocks  and , RFID reader  talks during interval , and listens during interval . According to blocks  and , RFID tag  listens while reader  talks (during interval ), and talks while reader  listens (during interval ).","In terms of actual technical behavior, during interval , reader  talks to tag  as follows. According to block , reader  transmits wave , which was first described in . At the same time, according to block , tag  receives wave  and processes it, to extract data and so on. Meanwhile, according to block , tag  does not backscatter with its antenna, and according to block , reader  has no wave to receive from tag .","During interval , tag  talks to reader  as follows. According to block , reader  transmits a Continuous Wave (CW), which can be thought of as a carrier signal that ideally encodes no information. As discussed before, this carrier signal serves both to be harvested by tag  for its own internal power needs, and also as a wave that tag  can backscatter. Indeed, during interval , according to block , tag  does not receive a signal for processing. Instead, according to block , tag  modulates the CW emitted according to block , so as to generate backscatter wave . Concurrently, according to block , reader  receives backscatter wave  and processes it.","In the above, an RFID reader\/interrogator may communicate with one or more RFID tags in any number of ways. Some such ways are called protocols. A protocol is a specification that calls for specific manners of signaling between the reader and the tags.","One such protocol is called the Specification for RFID Air Interface-EPC\u2122 Radio-Frequency Identity Protocols Class-1 Generation-2 UHF RFID Protocol for Communications at 860 MHz 960 MHz, which is also colloquially known as \u201cthe Gen2 Spec\u201d. The Gen2 Spec has been ratified by EPCglobal, which is an organization that maintains a website at: <http:\/\/www.epcglobalinc.org\/> at the time this document is initially filed with the USPTO. Version 1.1.0 of the Gen2 Spec is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.","In addition, a protocol can be a variant of a stated specification such as the Gen2 Spec, for example including fewer or additional commands than the stated specification calls for, and so on. In such instances, additional commands are sometimes called custom commands.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0069","num":"0068"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 2"],"b":["424","424","224","424","424"]},"Circuit  includes at least two antenna connections , , which are suitable for coupling to one or more antenna segments (not shown in ). Antenna connections ,  may be made in any suitable way, such as using pads and so on. In a number of embodiments more than two antenna connections are used, especially in embodiments where more antenna segments are used.","Circuit  includes a section . Section  may be implemented as shown, for example as a group of nodes for proper routing of signals. In some embodiments, section  may be implemented otherwise, for example to include a receive\/transmit switch that can route a signal, and so on.","Circuit  also includes a Power Management Unit (PMU) . PMU  may be implemented in any way known in the art, for harvesting raw RF power received via antenna connections , . In some embodiments, PMU  includes at least one rectifier, and so on.","In operation, an RF wave received via antenna connections ,  is received by PMU , which in turn generates power for components of circuit . This is true for either or both R\u2192T and T\u2192R sessions, whether or not the received RF wave is modulated.","Circuit  additionally includes a demodulator . Demodulator  demodulates an RF signal received via antenna connections , . Demodulator  may be implemented in any way known in the art, for example including an attenuator stage, an amplifier stage, and so on.","Circuit  further includes a processing block . Processing block  receives the demodulated signal from demodulator , and may perform operations. In addition, it may generate an output signal for transmission.","Processing block  may be implemented in any way known in the art. For example, processing block  may include a number of components, such as a processor, memory, a decoder, an encoder, and so on.","Circuit  additionally includes a modulator . Modulator  modulates an output signal generated by processing block . The modulated signal is transmitted by driving antenna connections , , and therefore driving the load presented by the coupled antenna segment or segments. Modulator  may be implemented in any way known in the art, for example including a driver stage, amplifier stage, and so on.","In one embodiment, demodulator  and modulator  may be combined in a single transceiver circuit. In another embodiment, modulator  may include a backscatter transmitter or an active transmitter. In yet other embodiments, demodulator  and modulator  are part of processing block .","Circuit  additionally includes a memory , which stores data . Memory  is preferably implemented as a Nonvolatile Memory (NVM), which means that data  is retained even when circuit  does not have power, as is frequently the case for a passive RFID tag.","It will be recognized at this juncture that the shown components of circuit  can be those of a circuit of an RFID reader according to the invention, with or without needing PMU . Indeed, an RFID reader can be powered differently, such as from a wall outlet, a battery, and so on. Additionally, when circuit  is configured as a reader, processing block  may have additional Inputs\/Outputs (I\/O) to a terminal, network, or other such devices or connections.","In terms of processing a signal, circuit  operates differently during a R\u2192T session and a T\u2192R session. The different operations are described below, in this case with circuit  representing an RFID tag.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0082","num":"0081"},"figref":["FIG. 5A","FIG. 4","FIG. 3"],"b":["524","424","312","432","433","442","444"]},"Version -A shows as relatively obscured those components that do not play a part in processing a signal during a R\u2192T session. Indeed, PMU  may be active, but only in converting raw RF power. And modulator  generally does not transmit during a R\u2192T session. Modulator  typically does not interact with the received RF wave significantly, either because switching action in section  of  decouples the modulator  from the RF wave, or by designing modulator  to have a suitable impedance, and so on.","While modulator  is typically inactive during a R\u2192T session, it need not be always the case. For example, during a R\u2192T session, modulator  could be active in other ways. For example, it could be adjusting its own parameters for operation in a future session.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0085","num":"0084"},"figref":["FIG. 5B","FIG. 4","FIG. 3"],"b":["524","424","326","444","446","432","433"]},"Version -B shows as relatively obscured those components that do not play a part in processing a signal during a T\u2192R session. Indeed, PMU  may be active, but only in converting raw RF power. And demodulator  generally does not receive during a T\u2192R session. Demodulator  typically does not interact with the transmitted RF wave, either because switching action in section  decouples the demodulator  from the RF wave, or by designing demodulator  to have a suitable impedance, and so on.","While demodulator  is typically inactive during a T\u2192R session, it need not be always the case. For example, during a T\u2192R session, demodulator  could be active in other ways. For example, it could be adjusting its own parameters for operation in a future session.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0088","num":"0087"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 1"],"b":["610","110","620","620","630","630","630","635","630","635","640"]},"A driver  can send to its respective antenna  a driving signal that is in the RF range, which is why connector  is typically but not necessarily a coaxial cable. The driving signal causes the antenna  to transmit an RF wave , which is analogous to RF wave  of . In addition, RF wave  can be backscattered from the RFID tags, analogous to RF wave  of . Backscattered RF wave  then ultimately becomes a signal sensed by unit .","Unit  also has other components , such as hardware and\/or software and\/or firmware, which may be described in more detail later in this document. Components  control drivers , and as such cause RF wave  to be transmitted, and the sensed backscattered RF wave  to be interpreted. Optionally and preferably there is a communication link  to other equipment, such as computers and the like, for remote operation of system .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0091","num":"0090"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 1","FIG. 1","FIG. 6"],"b":["700","700","710","770","710","770","110","710","770","110","700","710","710","620"]},"Local block  is responsible for communicating with the tags. Local block  includes a block  of an antenna and a driver of the antenna for communicating with the tags. Some readers, like that shown in local block , contain a single antenna and driver. Some readers contain multiple antennas and drivers and a method to switch signals among them, including sometimes using different antennas for transmitting and for receiving. And some readers contain multiple antennas and drivers that can operate simultaneously. A demodulator\/decoder block  demodulates and decodes backscattered waves received from the tags via antenna block . Modulator\/encoder block  encodes and modulates an RF wave that is to be transmitted to the tags via antenna block .","Local block  additionally includes an optional local processor . Processor  may be implemented in any number of ways known in the art. Such ways include, by way of examples and not of limitation, digital and\/or analog processors such as microprocessors and digital-signal processors (DSPs); controllers such as microcontrollers; software running in a machine such as a general purpose computer; programmable circuits such as Field Programmable Gate Arrays (FPGAs), Field-Programmable Analog Arrays (FPAAs), Programmable Logic Devices (PLDs), Application Specific Integrated Circuits (ASIC), any combination of one or more of these; and so on. In some cases some or all of the decoding function in block , the encoding function in block , or both, may be performed instead by processor .","Local block  additionally includes an optional local memory . Memory  may be implemented in any number of ways known in the art. Such ways include, by way of examples and not of limitation, nonvolatile memories (NVM), read-only memories (ROM), random access memories (RAM), any combination of one or more of these, and so on. Memory , if provided, can include programs for processor  to run, if provided.","In some embodiments, memory  stores data read from tags, or data to be written to tags, such as Electronic Product Codes (EPCs), Tag Identifiers (TIDs) and other data. Memory  can also include reference data that is to be compared to the EPC codes, instructions and\/or rules for how to encode commands for the tags, modes for controlling antenna , and so on. In some of these embodiments, local memory  is provided as a database.","Some components of local block  typically treat the data as analog, such as the antenna\/driver block . Other components such as memory  typically treat the data as digital. At some point there is a conversion between analog and digital. Based on where this conversion occurs, a whole reader may be characterized as \u201canalog\u201d or \u201cdigital\u201d, but most readers contain a mix of analog and digital functionality.","If remote components  are indeed provided, they are coupled to local block  via an electronic communications network . Network  can be a Local Area Network (LAN), a Metropolitan Area Network (MAN), a Wide Area Network (WAN), a network of networks such as the internet, or a mere local communication link, such as a USB, PCI, and so on. In turn, local block  then includes a local network connection  for communicating with network .","There can be one or more remote component(s) . If more than one, they can be located at the same location, or in different locations. They can access each other and local block  via network , or via other similar networks, and so on. Accordingly, remote component(s)  can use respective remote network connections. Only one such remote network connection  is shown, which is similar to local network connection , etc.","Remote component(s)  can also include a remote processor . Processor  can be made in any way known in the art, such as was described with reference to local processor .","Remote component(s)  can also include a remote memory . Memory  can be made in any way known in the art, such as was described with reference to local memory . Memory  may include a local database, and a different database of a Standards Organization, such as one that can reference EPCs.","Of the above-described elements, it is advantageous to consider a combination of these components, designated as operational processing block . Block  includes those that are provided of the following: local processor , remote processor , local network connection , remote network connection , and by extension an applicable portion of network  that links connection  with connection . The portion can be dynamically changeable, etc. In addition, block  can receive and decode RF waves received via antenna , and cause antenna  to transmit RF waves according to what it has processed.","Block  includes either local processor , or remote processor , or both. If both are provided, remote processor  can be made such that it operates in a way complementary with that of local processor . In fact, the two can cooperate. It will be appreciated that block , as defined this way, is in communication with both local memory  and remote memory , if both are present.","Accordingly, block  is location agnostic, in that its functions can be implemented either by local processor , or by remote processor , or by a combination of both. Some of these functions are preferably implemented by local processor , and some by remote processor . Block  accesses local memory , or remote memory , or both for storing and\/or retrieving data.","Reader system  operates by block  generating communications for RFID tags. These communications are ultimately transmitted by antenna block , with modulator\/encoder block  encoding and modulating the information on an RF wave. Then data is received from the tags via antenna block , demodulated and decoded by demodulator\/decoder block , and processed by processing block .","The invention also includes methods. Some are methods of operation of an RFID reader or RFID reader system. Others are methods for controlling an RFID reader or RFID reader system.","These methods can be implemented in any number of ways, including the structures described in this document. One such way is by machine operations, of devices of the type described in this document.","Another optional way is for one or more of the individual operations of the methods to be performed in conjunction with one or more human operators performing some of them. These human operators need not be collocated with each other, but each can be only with a machine that performs a portion of the program.","The invention additionally includes programs, and methods of operation of the programs. A program is generally defined as a group of steps or operations leading to a desired result, due to the nature of the elements in the steps and their sequence. A program is usually advantageously implemented as a sequence of steps or operations for a processor, such as the structures described above.","Performing the steps, instructions, or operations of a program requires manipulation of physical quantities. Usually, though not necessarily, these quantities may be transferred, combined, compared, and otherwise manipulated or processed according to the steps or instructions, and they may also be stored in a computer-readable medium. These quantities include, for example, electrical, magnetic, and electromagnetic charges or particles, states of matter, and in the more general case can include the states of any physical devices or elements. It is convenient at times, principally for reasons of common usage, to refer to information represented by the states of these quantities as bits, data bits, samples, values, symbols, characters, terms, numbers, or the like. It should be borne in mind, however, that all of these and similar terms are associated with the appropriate physical quantities, and that these terms are merely convenient labels applied to these physical quantities, individually or in groups.","The invention furthermore includes storage media. Such media, individually or in combination with others, have stored thereon instructions of a program made according to the invention. A storage medium according to the invention is a computer-readable medium, such as a memory, and is read by a processor of the type mentioned above. If a memory, it can be implemented in a number of ways, such as Read Only Memory (ROM), Random Access Memory (RAM), etc., some of which are volatile and some non-volatile.","Even though it is said that the program may be stored in a computer-readable medium, it should be clear to a person skilled in the art that it need not be a single memory, or even a single machine. Various portions, modules or features of it may reside in separate memories, or even separate machines. The separate machines may be connected directly, or through a network such as a local access network (LAN) or a global network such as the Internet.","Often, for the sake of convenience only, it is desirable to implement and describe a program as software. The software can be unitary, or thought in terms of various interconnected distinct software modules.","This detailed description is presented largely in terms of flowcharts, algorithms, and symbolic representations of operations on data bits on and\/or within at least one medium that allows computational operations, such as a computer with memory. Indeed, such descriptions and representations are the type of convenient labels used by those skilled in programming and\/or the data processing arts to effectively convey the substance of their work to others skilled in the art. A person skilled in the art of programming may use these descriptions to readily generate specific instructions for implementing a program according to the present invention.","Embodiments of an RFID reader system can be implemented as hardware, software, firmware, or any combination. It is advantageous to consider such a system as subdivided into components or modules. A person skilled in the art will recognize that some of these components or modules can be implemented as hardware, some as software, some as firmware, and some as a combination. An example of such a subdivision is now described.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0115","num":"0114"},"figref":["FIG. 8","FIG. 7"],"b":["800","800"]},"RFID reader system  includes one or more antennas , and an RF Front End , for interfacing with antenna(s) . These can be made as described above. In addition, Front End  typically includes analog components.","System  also includes a Signal Processing module . In this embodiment, module  exchanges waveforms with Front End , such as I and Q waveform pairs. In some embodiments, signal processing module  is implemented by itself in an FPGA.","System  also includes a Physical Driver module , which is also known as Data Link. In this embodiment, module  exchanges bits with module . Data Link  can be the stage associated with framing of data. In one embodiment, module  is implemented by a Digital Signal Processor.","System  additionally includes a Media Access Control module , which is also known as MAC layer. In this embodiment, module  exchanges packets of bits with module . MAC layer  can be the stage for making decisions for sharing the medium of wireless communication, which in this case is the air interface. Sharing can be between reader system  and tags, or between system  with another reader, or between tags, or a combination. In one embodiment, module  is implemented by a Digital Signal Processor.","System  moreover includes an Application Programming Interface module , which is also known as API, Modem API, and MAPI. In some embodiments, module  is itself an interface for a user.","All of these functionalities can be supported by one or more processors. One of these processors can be considered a host processor. Such a processor would, for example, exchange signals with MAC layer  via module . In some embodiments, the processor can include applications for system . In some embodiments, the processor is not considered as a separate module, but one that includes some of the above-mentioned modules of system .","A user interface  may be coupled to API . User interface  can be manual, automatic, or both. It can be supported by a separate processor than the above mentioned processor, or implemented on it.","It will be observed that the modules of system  form something of a chain. Adjacent modules in the chain can be coupled by the appropriate instrumentalities for exchanging signals. These instrumentalities include conductors, buses, interfaces, and so on. These instrumentalities can be local, e.g. to connect modules that are physically close to each other, or over a network, for remote communication.","The chain is used in opposite directions for receiving and transmitting. In a receiving mode, wireless waves are received by antenna(s)  as signals, which are in turn processed successively by the various modules in the chain. Processing can terminate in any one of the modules. In a transmitting mode, initiation can be in any one of these modules. Ultimately, signals are transmitted internally, for antenna(s)  to transmit as wireless waves.","The architecture of system  is presented for purposes of explanation, and not of limitation. Its particular subdivision into modules need not be followed for creating embodiments according to the invention. Furthermore, the features of the invention can be performed either within a single one of the modules, or by a combination of them.","An economy is achieved in the present document in that a single set of flowcharts is used to describe methods in and of themselves, along with operations of hardware and\/or software and\/or firmware. This is regardless of how each element is implemented.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0127","num":"0126"},"figref":"FIG. 9","b":["900","910","920","910","920","900"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0128","num":"0127"},"figref":"FIG. 10A","b":["1041","1042","1043","910","912","920","900","1041","1","2","1042","1043"]},"Each inventorying attempt , , , . . . includes at least one command. The commands, and the replies that the tags may give in response to them, are part of the applicable communication protocol, assuming that both follow the same protocol. Each set of commands and replies might result in reading a code of the tag, preferably after singulating the tag from the remainder of the tag population. Each inventorying attempt , , , . . . attempts to read all the tags.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0130","num":"0129"},"figref":["FIG. 10B","FIG. 9","FIG. 10A"],"b":["1041","1061","1042","1043","1062","1063","1069","1061","1062","1063"]},"The shape of each of reading curves , ,  is approximate, and also shown in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11\/210,384, published as Document Number 2005\/0280505A1, which is incorporated by reference in its entirety.  of that other document shows a succession of inventory rounds, which are one inventorying attempt.  of that other document shows the tags being read in a dashed reading curve (numbered  in that document), as a Q parameter is being varied.","Returning to the present invention, for purposes of knowing about all the tags, a thicker cataloguing line  shows which tags become known to reader , and when. Tags become inventoried by being read at least the first time, at which time they also become catalogued. So, cataloguing line  starts at a value NS which represents the number of tags that are to be inventoried, and is reduced to zero by the first reading curve  alone. After that, the subsequent reading curves ,  add no new information, and cataloguing line  remains at zero. In that sense, subsequent inventorying attempts ,  are redundant in this case. In practice, subsequent inventorying attempts ,  are provided to ensure that all tags have been read, even the harder ones to read that might be missed by first inventorying attempt .","In scenario , the easier reading conditions are apparent because first inventorying attempt  alone resulted in reading curve  that read all the tags. Subsequent inventorying attempts , , contributed no new tags being inventoried. A more demanding scenario is now described.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0134","num":"0133"},"figref":"FIG. 11","b":["1100","1110","1120","1100","900","1111","1120","1121","1120","1110","1112","1041","1042","1043"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0135","num":"0134"},"figref":"FIG. 12","b":["1120","1110","1261","1262","1263","1264","1269","1264"]},"A cataloguing line  shows the progress in inventorying the tags. First reading curve  will read all the easier tags. The reading curves , ,  of the subsequent attempts will contribute a few more of the harder to read tags. A problem is when not all have been inventoried by the time they leave the field of view. Another problem is when they have to all be inventoried at least twice, to guard against the inclusion of inadvertent stray reads, which could be one-time only.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0137","num":"0136"},"figref":"FIG. 13","b":["1350","1350","1352","1352"]},"Memory  also stores an inventoried flag . Flag  is Boolean, in that it is capable of having only two states. Operations of the tag many flip the state from the one value to the other. Some of these operations may be inventorying operations, both in terms of selecting a subgroup of tags in the first place, and also in terms of commanding or not the state of flag  to be flipped upon the tag becoming inventoried. Such an inventoried flag  is specified, for example, in the Gen2 Spec as one of the S, S, S, S inventoried flags, whose values can be namely A or B. It should be noted that the Gen2 Spec permits only one of these flags to be used in a session for inventorying.","Memory  further stores an inventoried indicator INV_ID . Inventoried indicator  is updated in conjunction with backscattering the code. As such, it can help control whether a tag will participate in a subsequent inventorying attempt, or refrain to allow others a better chance. It should be noted that inventoried indicator  is distinct from the Select Flag of the Gen2 Spec, which does not become updated in conjunction with backscattering the code.","While code , inventoried flag , and inventoried indicator  are shown stored in memory , they are not necessarily stored in the same part of the memory. They can each be stored under different conditions. For example, code  can be stored in a non-volatile memory that needs no power to be refreshed, even for years. In embodiments according to the Gen2 Spec, inventoried flag  would have persistence as specified in its Table 6.14. And inventoried indicator  has persistence as can be discerned by the person skilled in the art in view of this disclosure.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0141","num":"0140"},"figref":["FIG. 14","FIG. 13"],"b":["1424","1424","1432","1434","1436","1434","1436","1432","1436","1460","1432","1432","1460","1436","1460","1460","1432"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0142","num":"0141"},"figref":["FIG. 15","FIG. 14"],"b":["1534","1434","1502","1504","1502","1506","1504","1508","1508","1502"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0143","num":"0142"},"figref":"FIG. 16","b":["1650","1660","1660","1612","1665","1612","1650","1660"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0144","num":"0143"},"figref":"FIG. 17","b":["1750","1760","1760","1712","1765","1712"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0145","num":"0144"},"figref":"FIG. 18","b":["1800","1800"]},"Flowchart  may be repeated a number of times, as a loop. For example, the tag may go through that loop once for every inventorying attempt, such as for the inventorying attempts described above. That is why, although the individual operations flowchart  will be described in a certain order, they may take place in a different order.","At operation , a first attempt to read the code is detected. The first attempt can be an inventorying attempt, as per the above. The first attempt agrees with a current state of the flag, in that it calls for it exactly, or does not call for a condition that would contradict it.","At optional next operation , it is determined whether the inventoried indicator, as has been most recently updated, meets a participation condition. Examples of the participation condition will be described later in this document. The inventoried indicator can be updated at a later operation .","If the participation condition is not met, the tag will refrain, according to embodiments. This means that execution may return to operation , waiting to detect the onset of another inventorying attempt that agrees with a current state of the flag. Along with returning to operation , the tag may backscatter an error code, indicating that it is present but will not fully properly participate. Or it may backscatter nothing. If, however, the participation condition is indeed met, then the tag may participate plus update its inventoried indicator, as per the below.","At optional next operation , the tag becomes singulated from the population of tags it is with. This can be performed by the reader and the tag performing steps appropriate for the applicable communication protocol. Singulation will thus ensure that all the other tags in the population will not be responding, so that the reader can discern the forthcoming backscatter from the tag.","At next operation , the code is backscattered responsive to the first attempt.","At next operation , the inventoried indicator is updated in conjunction with backscattering the code. In terms of exact operation, the inventoried indicator can be updated after backscattering the code, or concurrently with it, or before it.","At next operation , the state of the inventoried flag is flipped or not, responsive to the first attempt. For example, the first attempt may include an instruction to flip or not flip the inventoried flag. Or it may not include such an instruction, but by its structure it might cause the inventoried flag to be flipped or not.","At optional next operation , the updated inventoried indicator becomes reset, such that the inventoried indicator now meets the participation condition. This operation may also take place at other times in flowchart , for example if after operation  it has been determined to refrain from participating.","Resetting may take place in any number of ways. In some embodiments, this can be automatic after enough time passes. For example, there can be a preset time that elapses from an event, and then there is reset. Alternately a suitable Reset command can be receiving wirelessly.","Execution then can return to operation . Or, since operation  is optional, execution can return to operation  after operation , instead. Operation  may be reached either without losing power in the tag since operation  was executed, or with losing and regaining power.","Once back at operation , a second inventorying attempt can be detected, which can agree with a current state of the flag. Then, again according to operation , it is again determined whether the inventoried indicator, updated at operation , meets the participation condition. It might not meet it, due to the update. If it does, then the above sequence of operations can be repeated, and so on.","In some embodiments, the reader also transmits a serial number in association with the first attempt, and the tag receives it. The serial number can be transmitted and received in any suitable way. One suitable way for transmitting it is via a Select command or a BlockWrite of the Gen2 Spec, as is described later in this document.","Then the inventoried indicator can be updated by being set to a new value. The new value can be the serial number itself, or another number determined from the serial number. In some of these embodiments, the participation condition can refer to whether the updated inventoried indicator differs from the new value. So, when a new attempt is detected, if it corresponds to the same serial number, the tag will know to refrain, and the participation condition can be defined accordingly so as to effectuate the refraining, for example by returning to operation  directly from operation . If the new attempt corresponds to a different serial number, there will be participation. The new attempt could be from a different reader, or from the same reader that wants to inventory again all the tags in its field of view. The latter embodiment can take place if the reader is confident that it has inventoried all tags, and does not need any of them to refrain from the second attempt.","The serial number can be specific to a group of forthcoming attempts by a reader. Plus, if two readers are cooperating, they could use the same serial number. This way, once a tag is inventoried by one of the readers, it will refrain from being read also by the other. The serial number could also be specific to the reader, which is useful if two readers have overlapping fields of view. This way, once a tag is inventoried by one of the readers, it will refrain from being read by it. But it will not refrain from being read by the other reader. In some of these embodiments, the tag can maintain a list of such serial numbers, so as to be able to refrain from being read by multiple readers.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0161","num":"0160"},"figref":["FIG. 19","FIG. 12","FIG. 12","FIG. 19","FIG. 12","FIG. 19","FIG. 19"],"b":["1900","1900","1961","1962","1963","1964","1965","1966","1967","1980","1","3"]},"In fact, in this example, reading curve  returned no new tags. As such, there was a Reset command , and then another reading curve , starting again from all the tags.","The reading curves and cataloguing line of  can be caused by any number of operations by the reader. Two alternative examples are now described, with reference to .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0164","num":"0163"},"figref":["FIG. 20","FIG. 19"],"b":["2041","2042","2043","2044","2045","2046","2047","1","1","2040","2041","2042","2043","2044","2045","2046","2047","1961","1962","1963","1964","1965","1966","1967"]},"According to comment , attempt  returned no new tags. A command  can transmit a second serial number SN for the next forthcoming group. Command  can operate as Reset command . Then another attempt  can result in another reading curve , and so on.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0166","num":"0165"},"figref":["FIG. 21","FIG. 19"],"b":["2141","2142","2143","2144","2145","2146","2147","1","1","2141","2142","2143","2144","2145","2146","2147","1961","1962","1963","1964","1965","1966","1967"]},"According to comment , attempt  returned no new tags. Then another attempt  can result in another reading curve , and so on. Attempt  can include the second serial number SN of its own group, and thus no Reset command is needed.","Returning to , it will be observed that each tag was inventoried only once, and tags were not read again until there was confidence that all tags had been inventoried. Sometimes, however, it is desired to read tags more than once, for example so as to validate against a tag code arising spuriously. In some sample instances, a rule can be implemented that, unless a tag is read redundantly, for example at least twice, it will be considered a stray read, and thus not counted. The invention can help in such instances, by having tags refrain from being counted more than twice. Examples are now described, which can be different from where the inventoried indicator was a serial number.","In some embodiments, the inventoried indicator is a number, which is stored in a counter. For example, register  would store that number. Updating the inventoried indicator can be performed by adjusting the number in the counter, and the participation condition is that the number in the counter has not reached a limit. This can be implemented in many ways. For example, the number in the counter can be adjusted by being incremented up to some limit. Or, the number in the counter can be adjusted by being decremented down to a limit. In some of these embodiments, that limit can be zero.","In some embodiments, this feature operates autonomously. In others, assistance from the reader is called for. The reader can enable the feature, or disable it, if that is called for. Optionally, the reader can transmit and the tag can receive a participation parameter. Then a number initially stored in the counter, or the limit, can be determined from the received participation parameter. The participation parameter can be received via a Select command or a BlockWrite of the Gen2 Spec, or other suitable commands.","The number in the counter and the limit thus determine in how many attempts the tag will participate, before it starts refraining. For example, if the number in the counter starts from 1, and counts down to zero, the tag will participate only once, and the profile of  will result. A different example is now described, where each tag participates twice.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0172","num":"0171"},"figref":["FIG. 22","FIG. 22","FIG. 12","FIG. 19","FIG. 12","FIG. 22"],"b":["2200","2200","2261","2262","2263","2264","2265","2266","2267","2268","2280"]},"In some embodiments, a tag refrains from being inventoried in subsequent rounds as per the above. In others, it does that only when the tag is in an enabled state, as opposed to a disabled state. An example is now described.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0174","num":"0173"},"figref":["FIG. 23","FIG. 4"],"b":["2348","2348","444","2348","2365","2385","2365","2385","2360","2380","2365","2385"]},"In some embodiments, enabled state  and disabled state  are provided in a way that does not define additional states in the underlying protocol. For example, for the Gen2 Spec, the initial Ready state can be disabled state , while one or more of the other states can be enabled states . Or some of the other states can also be characterized as disabled state .","In other embodiments, either one or both of enabled state  and disabled state  can be provided as states different from, and in addition to what is required by the Gen2 Spec.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0177","num":"0176"},"figref":["FIG. 24","FIG. 1"],"b":["2412","112","2460","2360","2470","2040","2050","2140","2041","2141","2480","2380"]},"As will be realized, commands , ,  can be configured in any number of ways. For example, if Enable Refraining command  is provided, it can be separate from command . Preferably, these are configured as separate standalone commands, each occurring at a single one of the communication sessions such as those of time interval  of . In addition, the tag need not backscatter a reply to any one of them individually.","In addition, command , plus optionally commands  and , may be used among other commands that will be transmitted to the tag in question, and possibly other tags. Equally, the optional first and second replies will be among other replies backscattered by the tag in question, and possibly other tags.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0180","num":"0179"},"figref":"FIG. 25","b":["2500","2500","2500"]},"At operation , a first attempt to read the code is caused to be transmitted wirelessly, which agrees with a current state of the inventoried flag, and includes a first participation parameter. The first participation parameter can be any suitable parameter. In some embodiments, for example, it is a serial number that is associated with the first attempt, as per the above. In other embodiments, the inventoried indicator includes a number stored in a counter, which is determined from the received participation parameter. In other words, the first participation parameter is used to help determine the number in the counter. The first participation parameter can be caused to be transmitted in any suitable way, for example as part of a command, a parameter of a command, and so on. For implementations of the Gen2 Spec, such can be a Select command, a BlockWrite command, and so on.","At next operation , the backscattered code is received from the tag responsive to the first attempt. Concurrently with the first attempt, the tag may further update the inventoried indicator in conjunction with backscattering the code, and flip or not the state of its inventoried flag, as also per the above.","At next operation , a second attempt to read the code is caused to be transmitted wirelessly. This second inventorying attempt agrees with a current state of the inventoried flag.","At optional next operation , it is determined whether a participation condition is met. The participation condition refers to whether the updated inventoried indicator differs from the first participation parameter. The inventoried indicator may have been updated concurrently with receiving the backscattered code at operation .","If, at operation , the participation condition is met, then at optional next operation , the backscattered code is received responsive to the second attempt, as it was also received in operation . Else, at optional next operation , the backscattered code is not received, as per the above.","Returning to , each one of commands , ,  can be constructed in any number of ways. In some instances, they can be considered as custom commands as not being specified in a particular communication protocol. In some instances they would be standalone commands, made by a sequence of bits chosen so that they do not conflict with other commands of the protocol. In other instances, they can be commands with a custom payload. Such commands can be known to the protocol or not, and the payload can be used to distinguish among different custom commands, and optionally further transfer a parameter for the commands.","When commands are used that are known to the protocol, a section of their payload can be advantageously used for the purpose of implementing a custom command, such as commands , , . Such a section in the payload can be a mask field, according to embodiments. For the Gen2 Spec, two such commands are the Select command and the BlockWrite command. Between these two candidate commands, it should be considered that the Select command can be transmitted before or after a tag is singulated out of its population, while the BlockWrite is better suited for singulated tags. In addition, the BlockWrite command is optional to the Gen2 Spec, and the tag would probably have to have a controller that can accept it.","Each one of commands , ,  can thus be constructed as an implementation of this Select command or the BlockWrite command. An example is now described in terms of the Select command, but would apply equally to the BlockWrite command.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0189","num":"0188"},"figref":"FIG. 26A","b":["2460","2470","2480"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0190","num":"0189"},"figref":"FIG. 26B"},"The Feature Enabling Field (FEF) enables the tag to verify that it is a proper recipient for the command, by comparing the transmitted FEF value against a value in Membank. In this case, Membank can be EPC, TID or USER memory. As can be seen, the FEF can be further partitioned into subfields, for better clarity. Such subfields can include a Class Identifier, the MDID, and an Indicator Bit.","The Class Identifier can be two bits. For example, EPCglobal can correspond to a value of 10. This would allow the custom command to apply, for example, only to EPCglobal tags.","The MDID is the tag manufacturer's ID, which is stored in the tag's TID memory. For Impinj tags, this number is 000000000001 or 100000000001. The MDID allows a reader to select tags of only the manufacturer of interest. So, even if this Select command is transmitted and received before singulation, the Select command can select also according to the tag manufacturer's ID. This will cause the manufacturer's tags to be selected, and thus the reader can ensure prior knowledge of the tag manufacturer's identification.","The Indicator Bit can be set to 0 or 1. In the Gen2 Spec, a tag model number follows the MDID. A bit of this model number can serve as the Indicator Bit, and can be interpreted as follows: If it is 0, the tags can interpret the command as an \u201cordinary\u201d Select, and execute it per the Gen2 spec. Else, if it is 1, the tags can interpret the Select command as a custom instruction, and execute according to the FCF.","The Feature Command Field (FCF) can have a command code that indicates the number of the custom instruction. For example, a command code of 00000 could be the custom command. This permits  possible custom commands. In addition, a command code of 11111 could indicate an extended command code that extends into the subsequent data field.","The data field can contain data needed to implement the custom instruction, if any. Not all commands will use it. The data field can be variable in size. Its meaning will derive from the command codes.","In some embodiments, the tag may ignore the Target and Action field in the Select command, depending on whether these fields are relevant to the CI. In other embodiments, the tag may also set the appropriate flag.","In preferred embodiments, the entire Select command must be valid for the tag to accept and execute the custom command. That means valid values for Membank, Length, Pointer, Mask, CRC-16, etc. An example is now described.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0199","num":"0198"},"figref":["FIG. 26C","FIG. 26B"]},"Everything described above in terms of readers and reader components finds some correspondence with tags and tag chips. In some instances, some of the above also describe features and behavior of tag chips.","Numerous details have been set forth in this description, which is to be taken as a whole, to provide a more thorough understanding of the invention. In other instances, well-known features have not been described in detail, so as to not obscure unnecessarily the invention.","The invention includes combinations and subcombinations of the various elements, features, functions and\/or properties disclosed herein. The following claims define certain combinations and subcombinations, which are regarded as novel and non-obvious. Additional claims for other combinations and subcombinations of features, functions, elements and\/or properties may be presented in this or a related document."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The following Detailed Description proceeds with reference to the accompanying Drawings, in which:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 2"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":["FIG. 5A","FIG. 4","FIG. 3"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":["FIG. 5B","FIG. 4","FIG. 3"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":"FIG. 9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":["FIG. 10A","FIG. 9","FIG. 9"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":["FIG. 10B","FIG. 9","FIG. 9","FIG. 10A"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":["FIG. 11","FIG. 9"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":["FIG. 12","FIG. 11","FIG. 11","FIG. 10A"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":"FIG. 13"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":["FIG. 14","FIG. 13"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"figref":["FIG. 15","FIG. 14"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0034"},"figref":["FIG. 16","FIG. 13"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"figref":["FIG. 17","FIG. 13"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0037","num":"0036"},"figref":"FIG. 18"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0037"},"figref":"FIG. 19"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0039","num":"0038"},"figref":["FIG. 20","FIG. 19"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0040","num":"0039"},"figref":["FIG. 21","FIG. 19"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0041","num":"0040"},"figref":"FIG. 22"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0042","num":"0041"},"figref":["FIG. 23","FIG. 4"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0043","num":"0042"},"figref":"FIG. 24"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0044","num":"0043"},"figref":"FIG. 25"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0045","num":"0044"},"figref":["FIG. 26A","FIG. 24"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0046","num":"0045"},"figref":"FIG. 26B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0047","num":"0046"},"figref":["FIG. 26C","FIG. 26B"]}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
