---
title: Disabling apparatus for road vehicles
abstract: A vehicle disabling apparatus may include at least one plunger assembly having a plunger and a toggle operable to pivot inside the vehicle tire. The apparatus may include energetic material disposed adjacent the plunger and configured to force the plunger into a vehicle tire. A method of disabling a vehicle having a tire may include using the vehicle's tire to move the plunger and thereby activate the energetic material; and moving the plunger into the tire using gas produced by the energetic material.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07988381&OS=07988381&RS=07988381
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 07988381
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080909
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS","STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENT INTEREST","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS"],"p":["This application claims the benefit under 35 USC 119(e) of U.S. provisional patent application No. 60\/993,102 filed Sep. 10, 2007, which application is hereby incorporated by reference.","The inventions described herein may be manufactured, used and licensed by or for the U.S. Government for U.S. Government purposes.","The invention relates, in general, to devices for disabling road vehicles, and, in particular, to devices that puncture tires of road vehicles.","Law enforcement personnel are often required to halt fleeing vehicles, and military and security personnel are often required to stop unauthorized vehicles from entering secure areas. It is desirable in these circumstances to slow the vehicle by partially or completely disabling the vehicle. A conventional method of disabling the vehicle is to deflate the vehicle's tires. Although frequently done, it has been found that firing weapons at the tires of fleeing or approaching vehicles tires is inefficient and presents an unacceptable risk of injury to law enforcement\/security\/military personnel or bystanders.","A number of devices have been developed to serve as partial or complete barricades. Other devices may be deployed across roadways to puncture a vehicle's pneumatic tires as the vehicle passes over the device. Examples of conventional devices are shown in U.S. Pat. No. 3,652,059, issued to Groblebe, on Mar. 28, 1972; U.S. Pat. No. 4,382,714, issued to Hutchison, on May 10, 1983; U.S. Pat. No. 4,995,756, issued to Kilgrow et al., on Feb. 26, 1991; U.S. Pat. No. 5,253,950, issued to Kilgrow et al., on Oct. 19, 1993 (and reissue U.S. Pat. No. Re. 35,373 issued on Nov. 5, 1996); U.S. Pat. No. 5,482,397, issued to Soleau, on Jan. 9, 1996; U.S. Pat. No. 5,536,109, issued to Lowndes, on Jul. 16, 1996; U.S. Pat. No. 5,611,408, issued to Abukhader, on Mar. 18, 1997; U.S. Pat. No. 5,775,832, issued to Kilgrow, et al., on Jul. 7, 1998; U.S. Pat. No. 5,820,293, issued to Groen et al., on Oct. 13, 1998; and U.S. Pat. No. 5,839,849, issued to Pacholok et al., on Nov. 24, 1998.","The conventional devices may deflate the tires of a fleeing vehicle. However, the conventional devices have numerous disadvantages. Conventional tire deflation devices are bulky in size and, accordingly, are inherently cumbersome to deploy, store, operate, and maintain. Conventional tire deflation devices are awkward to handle and often difficult to quickly or surreptitiously move.","More importantly, although the conventional tire deflation devices may deflate tires, they also allow vehicles to continue traveling on the deflated tires. The failure to halt the travel of vehicles is a serious and potentially catastrophic disadvantage in many high security and combat situations. For example, when military personnel are attempting to halt a suicide car bomber's approach to a checkpoint, deflating the tires merely slows the vehicle down and allows the vehicle to continue traveling on the deflated tires. It is crucial in such situations to completely halt the vehicle to prevent the suicide car bomber from reaching his\/her target.","It is an object of the invention to provide a device that may be easily deployed across a roadway.","It is another object of the invention to provide a device for deflating the tires and halting the travel of a moving vehicle.","One aspect of the invention is a vehicle disabling apparatus comprising at least one plunger assembly including a plunger and a toggle operable to pivot inside a vehicle tire. The apparatus may further comprise energetic material disposed adjacent the plunger and configured to force the plunger into the vehicle tire. The at least one plunger assembly may include a case and a cap wherein the plunger is disposed in one end of the case and the cap is disposed in another end of the case.","The apparatus may further comprise a plurality of plunger assemblies fixed to a base that includes top and bottom strips.","Another aspect of the invention is a method of disabling a vehicle having a tire, the method comprising providing the apparatus described above, and pivoting the toggle inside the tire. The method may further comprise using the tire to move the plunger and thereby activate the energetic material; and moving the plunger into the tire using gas produced by the energetic material.","The invention will be better understood, and further objects, features, and advantages thereof will become more apparent from the following description of the preferred embodiments, taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.","The present invention includes a tire-deflating and drive train entanglement apparatus for stopping a vehicle. The apparatus may be positioned across a roadway. The apparatus includes one or more spike-tipped plungers that initiate energetic material when compressed by a tire of a vehicle. The expanding gases produced by the energetic material force one or more of the spike-tipped plungers into the tire. When the plunger has penetrated deep enough into the vehicle tire, a toggle on the plunger pivots inside of the tire and prevents the plunger from withdrawing from the punctured tire. The entire apparatus is then pulled into the vehicle's drive train by further movement of the vehicle. The apparatus may deflate one or more vehicle tires and may become entangled with the vehicle drive train, thereby halting the vehicle.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["10","12","10","16","18","10","38","24","20","22","26","28","32","34"]},"Plunger  is shown in detail in  and . , B, C, and D are front (viewing  from the left side), side and two perspective views, respectively, of plunger  and  is a sectional view of the plunger , along the line - of . One end of plunger  may include a spiked tip  and the other end of the plunger  may include a protrusion , which may function as a firing pin. An opening  may be formed in the upper portion of plunger  for receiving a pivot pin  for mounting toggle  (). Plunger  may include first and second slots , , in which the toggle  may be rotatably mounted. Two holes ,  may be formed in a bottom portion of plunger . Hole  may have a smaller diameter than hole , and receives a shear pin  (). Hole  receives a stop pin  ().","Case  is shown in detail in  and . , B, C, D, and F are front (viewing  from the left side), side, rear, and two perspective views, respectively, of the case  of .  is a sectional view of the case , along the line - of . A bottom  of case  may rest on the top of top strip  (). An opening  may be formed in case  for receiving a shear pin  (). Case  may include first and second slots , . First slot  may be open at a top portion  and may allow the arm  of the toggle  to move upward and out of the case . Second slot  may be closed at a top portion  and may provide a stop for stop pin  (). Closed top portion  of slot  engages stop pin  fixed to plunger  and prevents plunger  from completely exiting case  as plunger  moves upward.","Cap  is shown in detail in  and .  are front and perspective views, respectively, of the cap  of .  is a sectional view of the cap , along the line - of . Cap  may include a head  having a slot  formed therein for engaging, for example, a screw driver. Cap  may include an externally threaded portion  that engages internal threads formed on an interior of the bottom of case . Cap  may include an opening  therein. Opening  may include a shoulder . As seen in , energetic material , for example a primer, may be placed in the opening  in cap .","Toggle  is shown in detail in . , B, and C are front, side and perspective views, respectively, of the toggle  of . Toggle  may include an opening  for receiving toggle pivot pin  (). A bottom surface  of toggle arm  of toggle  may be rounded so that when surface  bears against the inside surface of a tire , arm  will slide across the interior tire surface and cause the toggle  to rotate about pivot pin , as shown in . Rotation of the toggle  may prevent the plunger  from being pulled out of tire .","Referring now to ,  shows plunger assembly  prior to contact with tire . Energetic material  may be disposed in opening  in cap . Cap  may fit through openings (described below) in top and bottom strips , , and may thread into bottom of case , thereby securing the plunger assembly  to the strips , . A shear pin  may be disposed in opening  in case  and opening  () in plunger . Stop pin  may be disposed in opening  () in plunger  and in slot  () in case . Toggle  may be rotatably fixed to plunger  using pivot pin .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0037"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1","FIG. 1"],"b":["10","12","12","14","38","32","30","38","28","28"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0039","num":"0038"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 1","FIG. 7B"],"b":["10","28","28","38","12","38","34","56","24","12","38","12"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0040","num":"0039"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 1","FIG. 12"],"b":["10","20","12","38","58","12","20","22","20","78","20","78","20","80","12","38","12","12","12","82","16","18","10","12"]},"A disabling apparatus for road vehicles may include a plurality of plunger assemblies  mounted on a base or support member. A top view of one embodiment of a disabling apparatus  is shown in . Apparatus  may include a plurality of plunger assemblies  that may rotatably join a plurality of bottom strips  to respective top strips . Top and bottom strips ,  may include openings  () for receiving the plunger assemblies . The bottom  () of case  may rest on top strip . Cap  () may be inserted through opening  in bottom strip  and opening  in top strip  and then threaded into the bottom of case .","To prevent the apparatus  from unfolding into a straight line, appropriate stop members  () may be provided on bottom strip . As shown in , stop members  may comprise a raised portion at ends of bottom strip . The maximum angle alpha () between a top and bottom strip ,  may be adjusted in various ways, for example, by moving the location of openings  or stop member . By way of example only, top and bottom strips ,  may be about 7 inches long, about 0.6 inches wide, and about 0.1 inch thick. In , an exemplary angle alpha may be about 113 degrees.","Additional plunger assemblies  may be provided at locations on strips ,  other than those shown in the Figs. In addition, the strips ,  may be connected via openings  using fasteners, such as bolts and nuts, rather than using the plunger assemblies . In that case, the plunger assemblies  may be located on the strips ,  between the openings .","A variety of materials may be appropriate for manufacturing the components of apparatus . By way of example only, the top and bottoms strips , , plunger , case , cap , and toggle  may be made of steel.","The toggle  may be effective in preventing the plunger  from retracting from the tire . Alternatives to the toggle  may be possible. For example, the toggle  may be eliminated and the spiked tip  may be replaced with an arrowhead type design.  is a perspective view of the tip of a plunger  having an arrowhead type of tip . The arrowhead tip  may be attached to a reduced diameter portion . The bottom surface  of the arrowhead tip  may provide the surface that bears against the interior of the tire  to prevent retraction of the plunger . Other variations of the toggle  may include a pivoting spike tip.","If a tire  is relatively thin-walled, an alternative embodiment of a plunger assembly may include a spike-tipped plunger with a slot therein for a toggle . The case, cap, and energetic material described above may not be included. The plunger may be fastened directly to a base, as by welding, for example. Upon penetration of a tire wall, the toggle  will rotate and prevent the plunger from being retracted from the tire . Further rotation of the tire  may cause a plurality of the linked plungers to be pulled around the vehicle's axle and into the vehicle's drive train. By entangling the vehicle's tires, axles, and drive train with the disabling apparatus, the vehicle may be halted well before tire  is completely deflated.","While the invention has been described with reference to certain preferred embodiments, numerous changes, alterations and modifications to the described embodiments are possible without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined in the appended claims, and equivalents thereof."],"GOVINT":[{},{}],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["In the drawings, which are not necessarily to scale, like or corresponding parts are denoted by like or corresponding reference numerals.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":["FIGS. 5A","FIG. 1","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 5A"],"b":["6","6"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":["FIGS. 7A","FIG. 1","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":["FIG. 8","FIG. 7"],"b":["8","8"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":["FIGS. 9A","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":["FIG. 10","FIG. 9A"],"b":["10","10"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":["FIGS. 11A","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":"FIG. 12"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIG. 13"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":"FIG. 14"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":"FIG. 15"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
