---
title: System and method to manage a policy related to a network-based service
abstract: A method of managing a policy related to a network-based service can include receiving a policy request at a policy creation system from a service creation and development (SCD) system, the request identifying a network-based service. The method can also include developing a policy template related to the network-based service based on requirements of a service level agreement associated with the network-based service. The method can also include sending the policy template to the SCD system after verifying that the policy template meets the requirements of the service level agreement.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09037716&OS=09037716&RS=09037716
owner: AT&T INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I, L.P.
number: 09037716
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20090819
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["FIELD OF THE DISCLOSURE","BACKGROUND","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS"],"p":["The present disclosure generally relates to communications networks, and more particularly relates to systems and methods to manage a policy related to a network-based service.","A service provider can provide various network-based services. The service provider can implement a service policy, for example, to meet the service's service level agreement, to prevent misuse of the service, to tie service levels to a payment scale, or for other reasons. As the enterprise offers increasing numbers of service bundles to an increasing population, policy creation can become more challenging.","The use of the same reference symbols in different drawings indicates similar or identical items.","The numerous innovative teachings of the present application will be described with particular reference to the presently preferred exemplary embodiments. However, it should be understood that this class of embodiments provides only a few examples of the many advantageous uses of the innovative teachings herein. In general, statements made in the specification of the present application do not necessarily limit any of the various claimed systems, methods and computer-readable media. Moreover, some statements may apply to some inventive features but not to others.","In the description below, a flow-charted technique may be described in a series of sequential actions. The sequence of the actions and the party performing the steps may be freely changed without departing from the scope of the teachings. Actions may be added, deleted, or altered in several ways. Similarly, the actions may be re-ordered or looped. Further, although processes, methods, algorithms or the like may be described in a sequential order, such processes, methods, algorithms, or any combination thereof may be operable to be performed in alternative orders. Further, some actions within a process, method, or algorithm may be performed simultaneously during at least a point in time (e.g., actions performed in parallel), can also be performed in whole, in part, or any combination thereof.","As used herein, the terms \u201ccomprises,\u201d \u201ccomprising,\u201d \u201cincludes,\u201d \u201cincluding,\u201d \u201chas,\u201d \u201chaving\u201d or any other variation thereof, are intended to cover a non-exclusive inclusion. For example, a process, method, article, or apparatus that comprises a list of features is not necessarily limited only to those features but may include other features not expressly listed or inherent to such process, method, article, or apparatus. Further, unless expressly stated to the contrary, \u201cor\u201d refers to an inclusive-or and not to an exclusive-or. For example, a condition A or B is satisfied by any one of the following: A is true (or present) and B is false (or not present), A is false (or not present) and B is true (or present), and both A and B are true (or present).","Also, the use of \u201ca\u201d or \u201can\u201d is employed to describe elements and components described herein. This is done merely for convenience and to give a general sense of the scope of the invention. This description",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["100","100","102","122","102","104","106","102","108","110","110","102","122"]},"The policy creation, validation and maintenance environment  can include a policy creation and maintenance environment  that can include a policy template creation system  that communicates with the SCD system  and the OSS\/BSS server . The policy template creation system  can also communicate with a policy library  and a master policy repository . The policy creation, validation and maintenance environment  can also include policy execution environment  that can include a policy execution engine . The policy execution engine  can communicate with the master policy repository .","In addition, the policy creation, validation and maintenance environment  can include a policy testing environment  that can include a policy test results store  communicating with the policy template creation system . The policy testing environment  can also include a data store  that stores, for example, data related to service subscriptions, product catalog information, information related to customer devices through which a service is used (e.g., set-top boxes, cellular phones, Internet routers, etc.), network topology information, other information related to network-based services, or any combination thereof. The policy testing environment  can also include a policy test simulator system  and testing equipment , which can communicate with the policy execution engine .","Further, the policy creation, validation and maintenance environment  can include a user terminal  or other computing system that can communicate with the policy template creation system . The policy creation, validation and maintenance environment  can also include a policy decision function and policy execution function (PDF\/PEF) system  that can communicate with the policy library .","In a particular illustrative embodiment, a plurality of policy templates can be stored at the policy library , the master policy repository , or a combination thereof. These policy templates can be populated, modified, otherwise manipulated, or any combination thereof, as needed for a network-based service offered by a service provider. In one example, the policy creation system  can retrieve an existing policy from a PDF, PEF or any combination thereof, at the PDF\/PEF system  and store the policy as a policy template in the policy library , the master policy repository , or any combination thereof. A user may access these templates via the terminal  in order to standardize the policy templates or otherwise make the policy templates more suitable for creating a new policy. For instance, the user can modify a template, abstract a template, link templates, create a parent-child relationship or other relationship between templates, cause a template to conform to a pre-defined standard, language or format, or any combination thereof.","The SCD system  can receive data identifying a network-based service to be offered by a service provider. It is to be understood that the term \u201cservice,\u201d as used herein, can include a network-based service or a service bundle. A service can include providing a physical item, such as a cellular phone, set-top box device, other physical good, or any combination thereof, that is to be used with a network-based service. Some providers may refer to a network-based service as a \u201cproduct,\u201d in which case the term \u201cproduct\u201d can be used in place of the term \u201cservice.\u201d","The SCD system  can send a policy request to the policy template creation system  for generation of a policy template related to the network-based service. The policy request can include service information associated with the network-based service, such as an identifier of the network-based service, whether the network-based service has previously been offered, a portion of a service level agreement related to the network-based service, cost information, other service information, or any combination thereof. For instance, the SCD system  can deliver a policy request including service information to the policy creation system  via an application programming interface (API) that triggers creation of a new policy template at the policy creation system .","The policy creation system  receives a policy request from the SCD system . The policy creation system can also receive operational information related to the network-based service from the OSS\/BSS system , such as marketing information, ordering information, billing information, business rule information, other information related to the service, or any combination thereof. In one example, the policy creation system  can receive the information from the OSS\/BSS system  via an API.","After receiving the policy request from the SCD system , the policy creation system  can check for a pre-existing policy template corresponding to the network-based service at the policy library , the master policy repository , or a combination thereof. In one embodiment, the policy creation system  can map each element of the network-based service to a policy template stored at the policy library . For instance, where the network-based service includes a plurality of bundled services, the policy creation system  can map each of the bundled services to a corresponding policy template. In one embodiment, the policy creation system  can prompt a user to perform the mapping via the terminal . For instance, the user may use a drag and drop feature of a graphical user interface to map each service to a policy template. In another embodiment, a rules engine at the policy creation system  can perform the mapping process automatically.","The policy creation system  can receive network performance data from the network FCAPS data store  and can adjust mapping results based on the performance data. For instance, the policy creation system  can develop or fine-tune a policy template to be in line with network capacity planning strategies.","The policy creation system  can receive policy test results related to pre-existing policy templates and can modify a particular policy template based on the policy test results, such that the particular policy template conforms to standards associated with the network-based service, such as a service level agreement associated with the network-based service.","The policy template creation system  can create a policy template for the network-based service, based on by developing a new policy template, using a pre-existing policy template, modifying a pre-existing policy template, or any combination thereof. The policy template can include, for example, a quality of service (QoS) policy, an access control policy, a security policy, a customer billing policy, a service disruption policy, another policy, or any combination thereof. A policy template can be created in multiple versions. For instance, the policy creation system  can create a policy template in different languages or otherwise tailored to a local subscriber population.","The policy template for the network-based service can be stored at the master policy repository . In addition, the policy template creation system  can send the policy to the SCD system , where it can be stored in a product catalog. In one embodiment, the SCD system  can send a stored policy template related to a network-based service to the policy creation system  with the policy template request, and the policy creation system  can create the new policy template using the stored policy template.","Though policy template creation has been described with reference to a network-based service offering, policy template creation or modification at the policy creation system  can be triggered by an event other than a network-based service offering. For example, a policy template can be created or modified in response to a request sent from the SCD system  to the policy creation system , indicating a business rule change (such as billing, marketing or ordering process changes) associated with a service offered by the service provider. In another example, the application manager  can send a request indicating a real-time or other temporary service change to the policy creation system , and the policy creation system  can create a temporary policy related to the temporary service change. A temporary service change can include, for instance, a temporary bandwidth increase (bandwidth on demand), a video on demand order, or another service change.","After a new policy template is created, it can be verified via the policy testing environment  to ensure it meets the product's Service Level Agreement (SLA) and performance requirements. The policy testing environment  can include a portion of a network used to provide the network-based service, a portion of a lab network, a portion of a simulated network, or any combination thereof.","In one embodiment, the policy test simulator  can receive a sample of subscription database information, product catalog information, device information, topology data (SPDT), other information related to providing the network-based service to subscribers via a network, or any combination thereof. For a subscription-based service, a trigger can be sent from the OSS\/BSS system  to the policy test simulator . For a transaction-based service, a trigger can be sent from the application manager . In another embodiment, the policy test simulator  can be equipped with scripting capabilities to enable test engineers to simulate a live subscription order or a transactional service.","When a trigger is received or generated at the policy test simulator , the policy test simulator  can send a testing request to the policy execution engine , which can be, for example, an enterprise policy decision function (e-PDF) or a local policy decision function for a small system. The e-PDF or local PDF can fetch a previously mapped set of policy templates from the master policy repository  and execute the policy or push them to a distributed PDF\/PEF at the testing equipment  for execution.","Testing results can be collected at the policy testing results repository . An outcome from a test can be stored and analyzed at the policy creation system  and compared to desired results. If the test outcome does not meet desired results, the new policy template can be modified for retest.","In a particular embodiment, the policy creation system can assign a \u201cstate\u201d to a policy in a stage of its lifecycle, to improve the manageability. Examples of a state include New, Ready-to-Deploy, Active, Re-evaluate, Inactive and Ready-to-Retire. For instance, when a policy template is first built, it can be assigned with a New state. After passing a testing procedure successfully, the policy template can be assigned a Ready-to-Deploy state. When a policy is used in the production environment, it can be assigned an Active state.","In addition, the effectiveness of a policy template can be tracked and analyzed against a predefined set of standards. When a policy template does not meet the standards, the policy template can be assigned a Re-evaluate state, and a user can be alerted via the terminal , for example, to modify the policy. The policy state can be changed to Ready-to-Deploy after such modification. A policy may be assigned an Inactive state, for example, due to failure during testing. An obsolete policy can be assigned a Ready-to-Retire state, and the policy can be archived.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":["200","202","204","206","208"]},"At decision node , the policy creation system can determine whether an existing policy template at a policy library, for example, relates to the network-based service. If so, the method moves to block , and the policy creation system can receive the existing policy template from the policy library. In addition, the policy creation system can determine, at decision node , whether testing results related to the existing policy template are stored at a policy test results repository. If so, the method proceeds to block , and the policy creation system can receive the resting results.","Continuing to block , the policy creation system can develop a policy template for the network-based service based on requirements received from the service creation and development system. The developed policy template can include an existing policy template, a new policy template, a modified existing policy template, or any combination thereof. A new policy template can include a policy template created for the network-based service, automatically via a rules engine or manually by a policy creator, based on service requirements, operational information, network performance data, other information, or any combination thereof. Advancing to block , the policy creation can store the developed policy at a master policy repository.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0037","num":"0036"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 1","FIG. 1"],"b":["300","128","130","132"]},"Moving to block , the policy creation system can receive a policy template that is to be tested. Proceeding to block , the policy creation system can convert the policy template to a configuration profile. The configuration profile can include attributes, such as a committed rate related to a service, a peak rate related to the service, an access control list related to the service, a uniform resource locator (URL) redirect related to the service, another attribute or any combination thereof. Continuing to block , the policy creation system sends the configuration profile to a user terminal, such as the terminal  in .","At decision node , the policy creation system can determine whether additional information related to the configuration profile is received from the user terminal. If so, the method moves to block , and the information is added to the configuration profile. Proceeding to block , the policy creation system distributes the configuration profile to a policy execution function (PEF) ready to be verified.","Continuing to decision node , the policy creation system determines whether all PEFs have configuration files. After all the PEFs have configuration files, the method advances to block , and the policy creation system can generating testing cases, where each testing case includes a policy configuration file, and can send the testing cases to test equipment. At block , the policy creation system can receive test results from the test equipment or from a test results repository communicating with the test equipment. The method terminates at .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0041","num":"0040"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 1"],"b":["400","400"]},"In a networked deployment, the computer system  may operate in the capacity of a server or as a client user computer in a server-client user network environment, or as a peer computer system in a peer-to-peer (or distributed) network environment. The computer system  can also be implemented as or incorporated into various devices, including, for instance, user devices adapted to send a service request, such as a personal computer (PC), a tablet PC, a set-top box (STB), a personal digital assistant (PDA), a mobile device, a palmtop computer, a laptop computer, a desktop computer, a communications device, a wireless telephone, a land-line telephone, a control system, a camera, a scanner, a facsimile machine, a printer, a pager, a personal trusted device, a web appliance, a network router, switch or bridge, or any other machine capable of executing a set of instructions (sequential or otherwise) that specify actions to be taken by that machine. In a particular embodiment, the computer system  can be implemented using electronic devices that provide voice, video or data communication. Further, while a single computer system  is illustrated, the term \u201csystem\u201d shall also be taken to include any collection of systems or sub-systems that individually or jointly execute a set, or multiple sets, of instructions to perform one or more computer functions.","The computer system  may include a processor , such as a central processing unit (CPU), a graphics processing unit (GPU), or both. Moreover, the computer system  can include a main memory  and a static memory  that can communicate with each other via a bus . As shown, the computer system  may further include a video display unit , such as a liquid crystal display (LCD), an organic light emitting diode (OLED), a flat panel display, a solid state display, or a cathode ray tube (CRT). Additionally, the computer system  may include an input device , such as a keyboard, and a cursor control device , such as a mouse. The computer system  can also include a disk drive unit , a signal generation device , such as a speaker or remote control, and a network interface device .","In a particular embodiment as depicted in , the disk drive unit  may include a computer-readable medium  in which one or more sets of instructions , e.g. software, can be embedded. Further, the instructions  may embody one or more of the methods or logic as described herein. In a particular embodiment, the instructions  may reside completely, or at least partially, within the main memory , the static memory , and\/or within the processor  during execution by the computer system . The main memory  and the processor  also may include computer-readable media. The network interface device  can provide connectivity to a network , such as a wide area network (WAN), a local area network (LAN), or other network.","In an alternative embodiment, dedicated hardware implementations, such as application specific integrated circuits, programmable logic arrays and other hardware devices, can be constructed to implement one or more of the methods described herein. Applications that may include the apparatus and systems of various embodiments can broadly include a variety of electronic and computer systems. One or more embodiments described herein may implement functions using two or more specific interconnected hardware modules or devices with related control and data signals that can be communicated between and through the modules, or as portions of an application-specific integrated circuit. Accordingly, the present system encompasses software, firmware, and hardware implementations.","In accordance with various embodiments of the present disclosure, the methods described herein may be implemented by software programs executable by a computer system. Further, in an exemplary, non-limited embodiment, implementations can include distributed processing, component\/object distributed processing, and parallel processing. Alternatively, virtual computer system processing can be constructed to implement one or more of the methods or functionality as described herein.","The present disclosure contemplates a computer-readable medium that includes instructions  or receives and executes instructions  responsive to a propagated signal, so that a device connected to a network  can communicate voice, video or data over the network . Further, the instructions  may be transmitted or received over the network  via the network interface device .","While the computer-readable medium is shown to be a single medium, the term \u201ccomputer-readable medium\u201d includes a single medium or multiple media, such as a centralized or distributed database, and\/or associated caches and servers that store one or more sets of instructions. The term \u201ccomputer-readable medium\u201d shall also include any medium that is capable of storing, encoding or carrying a set of instructions for execution by a processor or that cause a computer system to perform any one or more of the methods or operations disclosed herein.","In a particular non-limiting, exemplary embodiment, the computer-readable medium can include a solid-state memory such as a memory card or other package that houses one or more non-volatile read-only memories. Further, the computer-readable medium can be a random access memory or other volatile re-writable memory. Additionally, the computer-readable medium can include a magneto-optical or optical medium, such as a disk or tapes or other storage device to capture carrier wave signals such as a signal communicated over a transmission medium. A digital file attachment to an e-mail or other self-contained information archive or set of archives may be considered a distribution medium that is equivalent to a tangible storage medium. Accordingly, the disclosure is considered to include any one or more of a computer-readable medium or a distribution medium and other equivalents and successor media, in which data or instructions may be stored.","Although the present specification describes components and functions that may be implemented in particular embodiments with reference to particular standards and protocols, the invention is not limited to such standards and protocols. For example, standards for Internet and other packet switched network transmission (such as TCP\/IP, UDP\/IP, HTML, HTTP) represent examples of the state of the art. Such standards are periodically superseded by faster or more efficient equivalents having essentially the same functions. Accordingly, replacement standards and protocols having the same or similar functions as those disclosed herein are considered equivalents thereof.","Many different aspects and embodiments are possible. Some of those aspects and embodiments are described below. After reading this specification, skilled artisans will appreciate that those aspects and embodiments are only illustrative and do not limit the scope of the present invention.","According to a first aspect, a method of managing a policy related to a network-based service can include receiving a policy request at a policy creation system from a service creation and development (SCD) system, the request identifying a network-based service. The method can also include developing a policy template related to the network-based service based on requirements of a service level agreement associated with the network-based service. The method can also include sending the policy template to the SCD system after verifying that the policy template meets the requirements of the service level agreement.","In an embodiment of the first aspect, the method can include sending the policy template to a policy library or master policy repository. In another embodiment of the first aspect, developing the policy template includes prompting a user via a user terminal to create the policy template and receiving the policy template via the user terminal. In a further embodiment of the first aspect, developing the policy template includes automatically creating the policy template at the policy creation system via a rules engine.","In another embodiment of the first aspect, the method can include receiving operational information from an operations support system\/business support system (OSS\/BSS) server and developing rules based on the operational information. The policy template can be developed based on the rules.","In another embodiment of the first aspect, the method can include receiving network performance information from a network performance data store and developing rules based on the network performance information. The policy template can be developed based on the rules.","In another embodiment of the first aspect, the method can include receiving a pre-existing policy template from a policy library, a master policy repository, or a combination thereof, wherein the policy template includes the pre-existing policy template. In another embodiment of the first aspect, the method can include populating the pre-existing policy template, modifying the pre-existing policy template, or a combination thereof.","In another embodiment of the first aspect, the method can include, before receiving the policy request, retrieving a pre-existing policy from a policy decision function, a policy execution function, or any combination thereof, and storing the pre-existing policy as a pre-existing policy template at the policy library, the master policy repository, or a combination thereof.","In another embodiment of the first aspect, the method can include providing the pre-existing policy template to a user terminal; receiving a modification, an abstract, a link, a relationship, another version, or any combination thereof, related to the pre-existing policy template; and storing the pre-existing policy as the pre-existing policy template.","According to a second aspect, a system to manage a policy related to a network-based service can include a policy creation system adapted to receive a policy request at a policy creation system from a service creation and development (SCD) system, the request identifying a network-based service. The system can also be adapted to develop a policy template related to the network-based service based on requirements of a service level agreement associated with the network-based service. The system can also be adapted to send the policy template to the SCD system after verifying that the policy template meets the requirements of the service level agreement.","In an embodiment of the second aspect, the policy request can include an identifier of the network-based service, information indicating whether the network-based service has previously been offered, a portion of a service level agreement related to the network-based service, cost information, or any combination thereof.","In another embodiment of the second aspect, the policy creation system can be adapted to receive the policy request from the SCD system via an application programming interface (API), wherein the API automatically triggers creation of the policy template at the policy creation system.","In another embodiment of the second aspect, the policy template can be based on operational information received from an OSS\/BSS server via an API.","In another embodiment of the second aspect, the operational information can include marketing information, ordering information, billing information, business rule information, or any combination thereof.","According to a third aspect, a computer-readable medium including processor-readable instructions that are executable by a processor to perform a method. The method can include receiving a policy request at a policy creation system from a service creation and development (SCD) system, the request identifying a network-based service. The method can include developing a policy template related to the network-based service based on requirements of a service level agreement associated with the network-based service. The method can include testing the policy template. The method can include sending the policy template to the SCD system after verifying that the policy template meets the requirements of the service level agreement.","In an embodiment of the third aspect, testing the policy template can include converting the policy template to a configuration profile and sending the configuration profile to a policy execution function (PEF).","In another embodiment of the third aspect, the method can include, before sending the configuration profile to the PEF, sending the configuration profile to a user terminal and adding information received via the user terminal to the configuration profile.","In another embodiment of the third aspect, the method can include generating a test case related to the policy template; sending the configuration file to a policy testing environment; receiving test results; and comparing the test results to the requirements of the service level agreement.","In an embodiment of the third aspect, the method can include determining that a plurality of PEFs have received configuration files before sending the configuration file to the testing environment.","The illustrations of the embodiments described herein are intended to provide a general understanding of the structure of the various embodiments. The illustrations are not intended to serve as a complete description of all of the elements and features of apparatus and systems that utilize the structures or methods described herein. Many other embodiments may be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reviewing the disclosure. Other embodiments may be utilized and derived from the disclosure, such that structural and logical substitutions and changes may be made without departing from the scope of the disclosure. Additionally, the illustrations are merely representational and may not be drawn to scale. Certain proportions within the illustrations may be exaggerated, while other proportions may be minimized. Accordingly, the disclosure and the FIGs. are to be regarded as illustrative rather than restrictive.","The foregoing Detailed Description of the Drawings, various features may be grouped together or described in a single embodiment for the purpose of streamlining the disclosure. This disclosure is not to be interpreted as reflecting an intention that the claimed embodiments require more features than are expressly recited in each claim. Rather, as the following claims reflect, inventive subject matter may be directed to less than all of the features of any of the disclosed embodiments. Thus, the following claims are incorporated into the Detailed Description of the Drawings, with each claim standing on its own as defining separately claimed subject matter.","The above disclosed subject matter is to be considered illustrative, and not restrictive, and the appended claims are intended to cover all such modifications, enhancements, and other embodiments which fall within the true spirit and scope of the present disclosed subject matter. Thus, to the maximum extent allowed by law, the scope of the present disclosed subject matter is to be determined by the broadest permissible interpretation of the following claims and their equivalents, and shall not be restricted or limited by the foregoing detailed description."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["It will be appreciated that for simplicity and clarity of illustration, elements illustrated in the Figures have not necessarily been drawn to scale. For example, the dimensions of some of the elements are exaggerated relative to other elements. Embodiments incorporating teachings of the present disclosure are shown and described with respect to the drawings presented herein, in which:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0005","num":"0004"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0006","num":"0005"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0007","num":"0006"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0008","num":"0007"},"figref":"FIG. 4"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
