---
title: Multigame multiplayer party session
abstract: A computing device for executing multiplayer game software applications playable with one or more remote peers, the computing device may include a multigame party module that is configured to create a party session that is joinable by the one or more remote peers, the party session may be hosted by the multigame party module. The multigame party module may be configured to establish a peer-to-peer connection between the computing device and a peer computing device of a remote peer in response to a request from a remote peer to join the party session, and place one or more selected party session members into a first game session of a first multiplayer game software application.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08195809&OS=08195809&RS=08195809
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 08195809
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20090302
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["Multiplayer computer gaming allows people who are physically separated to interact with each other in a virtual environment. A multiplayer game may be played by a group of people that enter a game session. The same group of people may play multiple game sessions for the multiplayer game. After a period of playing the current multiplayer game, the group of people may desire to play a different multiplayer game. However, using current technologies, it can be a frustrating and time consuming task to migrate the same group of people from the current multiplayer game to a new multiplayer game.","For example, the group of people would have to agree upon a different multiplayer game before ending the current game session, since the group of players would lose communication capabilities upon ending the current game session. Next, each person would have to insert the game disc or launch the new multiplayer game. One person would have to navigate to the multiplayer menu and start a new game session. Furthermore, that person would have to invite each person of the group to play the new game session, which can be a challenge where the identity of members is difficult to determine. For example, the initiating person might have to traverse a friends list of his own, or a friends list of a friend, to find and invite each member. In some cases, the initiating person may have to remember and manually input the gamer identification of a player who is not on such friend lists. This process can be time consuming and may result in some people of the group losing interest and turning off the multiplayer game in favor of doing something else. By the time everyone is invited to the new game session only some of the group of people may continue to play the multiplayer game resulting in an unsuccessful transition of the group one multiplayer game to another multiplayer game.","Accordingly, various embodiments related to forming a party of people that can move from one game to another game in an efficient manner while keeping the party intact are disclosed herein. For example, one disclosed embodiment provides a computing device for executing multiplayer game software applications playable by one or more people. The computing device may include a multigame party module that creates a party session. The party session may be joinable by one or more remote peers. The multigame party module may establish a peer-to-peer connection between the computing device and a peer computing device of a remote peer in response to a request from a remote peer to join the party session. Furthermore, the multigame party module places one or more selected party session members into a first game session of a first multiplayer game software application.","This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter, nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter. Furthermore, the claimed subject matter is not limited to implementations that solve any or all disadvantages noted in any part of this disclosure.","The present disclosure is directed to a computing system in which peer-to-peer (p2p) connections may be established between a plurality of peer computing devices in order for users to play various multiplayer game software applications. Each peer computing device may include software services configured to create a party session that allows a group of peers to move from one multiplayer game software application to another multiplayer game software application while keeping the group intact in order to continue to play together.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":["FIG. 1","FIG. 1"],"b":["100","102","1","126","128","102","100","102","104","106","100","108"]},"Logic subsystem  may include one or more physical devices configured to execute one or more instructions. For example, the logic subsystem may be configured to execute one or more instructions that are part of one or more programs, routines, objects, components, data structures, or other logical constructs. Such instructions may be implemented to perform a task, implement a data type, transform the state of one or more devices, or otherwise arrive at a desired result. The logic subsystem may include one or more processors that are configured to execute software instructions. Additionally or alternatively, the logic subsystem may include one or more hardware or firmware logic machines configured to execute hardware or firmware instructions. The logic subsystem may optionally include individual components that are distributed throughout two or more devices, which may be remotely located in some embodiments.","Data-holding subsystem  may include one or more physical devices configured to hold data and\/or instructions executable by the logic subsystem to implement the herein described methods and processes. When such methods and processes are implemented, the state of data-holding subsystem  may be transformed (e.g., to hold different data). Data-holding subsystem  may include removable media and\/or built-in devices. Data-holding subsystem  may include optical memory devices, semiconductor memory devices, and\/or magnetic memory devices, among others. Data-holding subsystem  may include devices with one or more of the following characteristics: volatile, nonvolatile, dynamic, static, read\/write, read-only, random access, sequential access, location addressable, file addressable, and content addressable. In some embodiments, logic subsystem  and data-holding subsystem  may be integrated into one or more common devices, such as an application specific integrated circuit.","When included, display subsystem  may be used to present a visual representation of data held by data-holding subsystem . As the herein described methods and processes change the data held by the data-holding subsystem, and thus transform the state of the data-holding subsystem, the state of display subsystem  may likewise be transformed to visually represent changes in the underlying data. Display subsystem  may include one or more display devices utilizing virtually any type of technology. Such display devices may be combined with logic subsystem  and\/or data-holding subsystem  in a shared enclosure, or such display devices may be peripheral display devices.","Continuing with , data-holding subsystem  may include game software  and system software . Game software  may include one or more game software applications that may be executable by logic subsystem  to generate a user interface with which one or more users may interact with and be provided with a game experience that includes audio, visual, and\/or haptic feedback. In some cases, one or more game software applications of game software  may be stored on computer-readable removable media (e.g., optical disk) included in data-holding subsystem . Further, in some cases, one or more game software applications of game software  may be stored in data storage (e.g., a hard drive) included in data-holding subsystem .","One or more of the game software applications may be multiplayer games that may be played by a plurality of peers. One or more of the plurality of peers may play the multiplayer game locally on computing device . Further, one or more of the plurality of peers may be remote peers that play the multiplayer game remotely on one or more of the plurality of peer computing devices . The system software  may be configured to establish a p2p connection with a peer computing device of each of the plurality of peers via network  in response to the user of computing device  joining a game session of the multiplayer game. Network  may include local communication technologies (e.g., local area network (LAN), intranet, etc.) and\/or remote communication technologies (e.g., wide area network (WAN), Internet, etc.)","Furthermore, system software  may be configured to provide functionality associated with operation of computing device  and interaction with game software . For example, system software  may be configured to launch a game software application, adjust computing device settings, establish a connection with an online community, play media content, download media content or perform virtually any other suitable computing task, etc.","As discussed above, a plurality of peers may play one or more of a variety of different multiplayer games. When the plurality of peers transition from a first multiplayer game to a second multiplayer game, it may be time consuming for the plurality of peers to agree upon a selected game and then migrate to that game in such a way that they can continue to play together, as discussed above.","Accordingly, system software  may include a multigame party module  that may be configured to manage a multiplayer experience for a plurality of peers. In particular, multigame party module  may be configured to create a party session  for a plurality of peers that may exist even when the plurality of peers switch between different types of media content such as different multiplayer game software applications. The party session  may be created by a party session leader. During creation of party session , the party leader may select peers to be sent a request to join the party session . In some cases, the party leader may search for peers to invite to the party session on an online community. In some cases, the party leader may select peers from a list of friends to invite to the party session. The party session  may include as little as two members and may grow to a predetermined capacity (e.g., 64 members, or more).","In some cases, a party session may not be filled to capacity with members. Accordingly, multigame party module  may be configured to send an announcement  for party session  to an online community server . The announcement may include an indication of whether or not the party session is filled to a predetermined capacity of members. When the party session is not full, the announcement may be displayed by the online community server to invite peers to join the party session. When the party session is full, the online community server may be updated to indicate that the party session is full. Further, the announcement may include the identification of each member of the party session. The identification of each party session member may be displayed by the online community server even when the party session is full so that peers may track other peers and view the party sessions that they have joined.","The online community server  may include a user interface (UI) that displays a variety of channels  that facilitate media content and\/or peer interaction. One of channels  may be a party channel  that may display a list of friend's party sessions  and a list of available party sessions . The party channel UI  will be discussed in further detail below with reference to . The list of available party sessions  may be viewed by peers interested in joining a party session. The party session announcement  may be posted in the list of available party sessions  to invite peers to join the party session. The announcement may be posted in the list of available party sessions until the party session reaches capacity (or the party leader marks the party session as unavailable).","The multigame party module  may be configured to establish a p2p connection between computing device  and a peer computing device (e.g., peer computing device ) of a remote peer in response to receiving a request from the remote peer to join the party session. Correspondingly, a p2p connection may be established between each computing device of each member of the party session. Note, multigame party module  may be configured to enable two or more peers to join a party session via the same computing device. That is, a party session may include a plurality of members, some of whom are local and others of whom are remote.","The party session  may be hosted by multigame party module  and may exist outside of any given multiplayer game software application. As such, the p2p connection may selectively include a game connection  for one or more members of the party session that are playing in game session. In a case where no members of the party session are currently playing in a game session, no members of the party session may have a game connection. In a case where all members of the party session are playing in the same game session, all member of the party session may have a game connection.","In some embodiments, the p2p connection may include a voice connection  that may be established between the computing device and a peer computing device of a remote peer in response to receiving a request from the remote peer to join the party session. The voice connection  may allow the members of party session  to communicate with each other regardless of the media content they are interacting with. For example, a party session member that is playing a first multiplayer game may chat with other party session members that are playing the first multiplayer game as well as party session members that are interacting with a different type of media content, such as watching a video.","The multigame party module  may be configured to place one or more selected party session members into a first game session of a first multiplayer game software application. In some embodiments, a game session may be initiated by the leader of the party session. In such embodiments, the multigame party module may be configured to send and invitation for the first game session to every other party session member. In some embodiments, the members of the party session may vote to play a particular multiplayer game, and the results of the vote may dictate the multiplayer game for which a game session is to be initiated. In some embodiments, the multigame party module  may be configured to enable one or more party session members that are not selected members to interact with media content different than the first multiplayer game software application. For example, party session members that are not selected for a game session may listen to music or watch a video while waiting for availability in a game session. This feature may cause a party session member to be engaged in the party session for a longer period of time than the party session member would otherwise be engaged in the party session.","Further, in some embodiments, the party session members selected for the game session may include party session members that opt-in to an invitation to join the game session. In some embodiments, where a game may allow a number of players to play in the game session that is less than the number of party session members, the selected members may be selected using heuristics to assign different game session priority levels to party session members. For example, members who sat out the previous game session may be assigned a higher priority over members that have played more recently. As another example, member may be selected in the order in which they respond to an invitation to join the game session. Further still, in some embodiments, the party session members selected for the game session may include one or more party session members selected by the party session leader.","Upon initiation of a second game session for a second multiplayer game software application, the multigame party module  may be configured migrate one or more selected party session members into the second game session. In some cases, selected party session members may be migrated from the first game session of the first multiplayer game software application. In some cases, selected part session members may be migrated from interacting with other media content. This feature permits party session members to move to different multiplayer games sessions in an automated fashion without having to manually gather the party session member each time a new game session is created for a different multiplayer game software application. Such a feature may save time and effort which may keep party session members engaged for longer periods of time.","In some embodiments, an invitation application programming interface (API)  may permit an invitation for a game session to be sent to the one or more selected members by a party session leader (or another party session member) from within the multiplayer game software application. In particular, the multigame party module may receive an invitation notice for a game session from a multiplayer game software application via the invitation API. In response to receiving the invitation notice, the multigame party module may send an invitation for the game session to one or more selected members of the party session. This may permit party session members to switch game sessions quickly. In some cases, invitation API  may enable an invitation to be sent responsive to control of an in game button for an even easier transition between game sessions.","The multigame party module  may be configured to generate a party session management user interface (UI)  that includes party session leader controls that adjust party session settings and party session member controls that adjust personal settings. The party session management UI  will be discussed in further detail below with reference to .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":["122","122","108","100","122","122","202","202","122","204","204"]},"Furthermore, party session management UI  may include a list of party session member user identifications (e.g., gamer tags) . The list of party session member user identifications  may include communication indicators to indicate which party session members are currently chatting. The party session management UI  may include a list of current media titles  that each party session member is currently interacting with. The party session management UI  may include a list of current media types  that correspond to each title. These lists may enable a party session member to view what titles are being interacted with so that the party session member may decide to join a given game session when applicable.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":["134","134","134","134","140","134"]},"Furthermore, party channel UI  may display a list of friend's party sessions . The party channel UI  may be configured for a particular peer so that each peer may view his or her list of friends. This may enable a peer to join a party session of a particular friend that they want to play a game session with. This feature may permit peers to easily connect with friends when it may otherwise be tedious to find them and play in the same game session.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 1"],"b":["400","402","114","114","122","114","122","114"]},"At , the method may include receiving a request to join the party session from a remote peer. In particular, the multigame party module of the peer computing device may send the request to the multigame party module of the computing device of the party leader. The request may be sent in response to receiving an invitation to join the party session from the multigame party module of the party leader computing device.","At , the method may include establishing a p2p connection between the computing device and a peer computing device of a remote peer in response to receiving a request from the remote peer to join the party session. The multigame party module of the party leader computing device may establish a p2p connection between the party leader computing device and the peer computing device via a p2p connection process. As part (or all) of establishing the p2p connection, the multigame party module may establish a voice connection between the party leader computing device and the peer computing device.","At , the method may include initiating a first game session for a first multiplayer game software application. The multigame party module may receive an indication that the first game session has been initiated from the first multiplayer game software application.","At , the method may include placing one or more selected party session members in the first game session of the first multiplayer game software application. The multigame party module may establish a game connection for the first game session between the party leader computing device and each peer computing device of the selected party session members. The party session members selected for the first game session may be referred to as a first set of selected party session members. The first set may include one or more party session members. In some cases, the first set may include every party session member.","In some cases, the multigame party module may establish the game connection between the party leader computing device and the peer computing device based on user input by the party leader indicating selection of the selected party session member. In other words, a party session leader may select party members to play in the game session. This case may arise in multiplayer games where the number of players permitted in a game session is less than the number of members in a party session. Further, the multigame party module may be configured to initiate another game session for the first multiplayer game software application to accommodate party session members that were not selected by the party session leader to play in the first game session so that all members of the party session may have the opportunity to play the first multiplayer game software application.","In some cases, the multigame party module may establish the game connection between the party leader computing device and the peer computing device in response to receiving a notice indicating that the selected party session member has opted-in to joining the game session. In other words, a party session member may choose to join the game session instead of being selected by the party leader to join the game session. The game connection for the first game session may permit the selected members of the party session that have opted into the first game session to be collectively placed in the first game session.","At , the method may include initiating a second game session for a second multiplayer game software application. For example, the leader of the party session (or another member) may leave the first game session and execute the second multiplayer game software application and start the second game session. The multigame party module may receive an indication that the second game session has been initiated from the second multiplayer game software application.","At , the method may include, in response to initiation of the second game session for the second multiplayer game software application, migrating one or more selected party session members to the second game session. The multigame party module may establish a game connection for the second game session between the party leader computing device and each peer computing device of the selected party session members. The game connection for the second game session may permit the selected members of the party session to be collectively placed in the second game session.","The party session members selected for the second game session may be referred to as a second set of selected party session members. In some cases, the first set may include the same party session members as the second set. For example, every member of the multigame party session may play in the first session and then be collectively migrated to the second session by the multigame party module. In some cases, the second set may include different party session members than the first set. For example, one or more members of the party session that did not play the first multiplayer game may choose to play the second multiplayer game. In some cases, one or more party session members may be included in neither the first set nor the second set. For example, a particular party session member may elect to not player the first multiplayer game or the second multiplayer game, but the particular party session member may still choose to be a member of the party session in order to chat with the other party session members via the voice connection.","The above described method may be performed to enable peers to be collectively placed in a games session of a multiplayer game software application as well as migrate between games sessions of different multiplayer game software applications in an efficient, automated manner that is less tedious than prior approaches, and which promotes the proper migration of peers between the game sessions.","It will be appreciated that the above described methods and processes may be executed on a computing system, such as computing system , or other suitable computing system. It will also be appreciated that the above described methods may be embodied as instructions stored in data-holding subsystem  and executable by logic subsystem  of a computing system , as illustrated in .","It will be appreciated that the computing devices described herein may be any suitable computing device configured to execute the programs described herein. For example, the computing devices may be a game console, personal computer, laptop computer, portable data assistant (PDA), computer-enabled wireless telephone, networked computing device, or other suitable computing device, and may be connected to each other via computer networks, such as the Internet. These computing devices typically include a processor and associated volatile and non-volatile memory, and are configured to execute programs stored in non-volatile memory using portions of volatile memory and the processor. As used herein, the term \u201cprogram\u201d refers to software or firmware components that may be executed by, or utilized by, one or more computing devices described herein, and is meant to encompass individual or groups of executable files, data files, libraries, drivers, scripts, database records, etc. It will be appreciated that computer-readable media may be provided having program instructions stored thereon, which upon execution by a computing device, cause the computing device to execute the methods described above and cause operation of the systems described above.","It should be understood that the embodiments herein are illustrative and not restrictive, since the scope of the invention is defined by the appended claims rather than by the description preceding them, and all changes that fall within metes and bounds of the claims, or equivalence of such metes and bounds thereof are therefore intended to be embraced by the claims."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0006","num":"0005"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0007","num":"0006"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0008","num":"0007"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":"FIG. 4"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
