---
title: Medical stent
abstract: In an embodiment, a stent is provided for use in blood vessels with blockage near or in a bifurcation. The stent includes a side aperture. The stent is inserted into one of the daughter branches of the bifurcation and positioned with the use of markers. The stent is then expanded so as to support the wall of the blood vessel while allowing the blood to continue to flow to both daughter branches.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09233012&OS=09233012&RS=09233012
owner: RBKPARK, LLC
number: 09233012
owner_city: St. Charles
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20091106
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS","FIELD OF THE INVENTION","DESCRIPTION OF RELATED ART","BRIEF SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION"],"p":["This application is a continuation-in-part application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11\/221,242, filed Sep. 7, 2005, the disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.","The present invention relates to the field of medical devices, more specifically to the field of implantable stents.","As is known, the human heart circulates blood throughout the body. Depending on the individual, the heart beats between 80,000 and 140,000 times per day. During normal function of the heart, the left and right atria and the left and right ventricles contract, causing blood to flow. The blood flows from the heart, passes through a set of blood vessels known as arteries that feed the organs and tissue in the body and then returns to the heart through a set of blood vessels known as veins. This circulation provides nutrients and oxygen to the body so that it can continue to function.","As the heart is basically a continuously functioning muscle, it also needs a steady supply of nutrients in order to function. For example, a coronary artery supplies blood (and the associated oxygen and nutrients) to the cardiac muscle. In order for the heart to continue to function, it is crucial that this artery continue to function properly.","Unfortunately, the coronary artery can become partially or completely blocked. One cause is left main coronary artery disease (\u201cLMCD\u201d). LMCD may be caused, for example, by the accumulation of fatty tissue on the wall of the left main artery. LMCD is generally defined as a greater than 50% reduction in the left main, which results in insufficient blood flow to the heart tissue and eventually causes damage to the heart tissue.","While partial blockage can result in permanent damage to the heart muscle, sudden complete blockage of the left main will result in the death of the individual. Therefore, maintaining blood flow through the left main is crucial to an individual's ability to exist. Any symptomatic blockage must be immediately treated.","Two methods of treatment of a partially or completely blocked left main are 1) percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (\u201cPTCA\u201d), also referred to as percutaneous coronary intervention (\u201cPCI\u201d), and commonly referred to as balloon angioplasty or angioplasty, and 2) coronary artery bypass graft (\u201cCABG\u201d), commonly referred to as bypass surgery. Due to a number of factors, the most common procedure to treat LMCD has been bypass surgery.","In essence, bypass surgery uses section of veins or arteries sections from other parts of the body to connect the aorta to a point downstream of the blockage. This allows blood to flow around the blockage point through a separate passageway. Depending on the severity and location of the blockage, as many as four to five grafts are necessary.","One downside to bypass surgery is that it takes a substantial time to perform. For a patient with a totally occlusion or a severely blocked left main, the time it takes to perform bypass surgery may be too long. Therefore, in emergencies, balloon angioplasty has been performed on patients suffering from sudden LMCD.","Another problem is that bypass surgery is only effective for about 8-10 years, at which point a patient generally requires additional treatment that is generally less effective. Given the potential long-term health problems, it is desirable to delay bypass surgery if possible.","Furthermore, certain patients' medical conditions are incompatible with the rigors of bypass surgery. For example, some patients have severe co-morbid conditions precluding open-heart surgery, such as malignancy with limited life-expectancy, no longer are a candidate for bypass surgery. Thus, while bypass surgery is a useful medical procedure that has saved many lives, it is best saved for situations where less complex procedures cannot be used effectively.","In addition, some interventional cardiac catheterization labs are not backed up by surgical programs. This is problematic in situations where the LMCD must be treated immediately (e.g. iatrogenic dissection of the left main).","Compared to bypass surgery, angioplasty can be done relatively quickly and is generally less traumatic to the patient. Basically, during angioplasty a wire is inserted into the artery. A flexible catheter is then guided along the wire. A balloon attached to the catheter is positioned in the left main at the point of blockage and the balloon is inflated to open the artery. To keep the artery open, a stent may be placed in the left main. One common method of delivering the stent is to wrap it around the balloon. Thus, the inflation of the balloon causes the stent to expand into position. The stent acts as a scaffolding to support the wall of the artery and, when coated with anti-restenotic agents, can be an alternative means of treating certain types of LMCD.","While the expansion of blocked portions of arteries with angioplasty can be effective, certain areas of the left main have proven difficult to treat with balloon angioplasty. Sometimes the blockage occurs at a point of junction between the left main and the left anterior descending artery and the left circumflex artery. In such a situation, expansion and insertion of a stent into one of the secondary branches has the tendency to jeopardize the other branch.","Attempts have been made to provide a customized stent that can be used in a junction to support the main branch and the two secondary branches but such an approach has limitations. For one thing, the secondary branches and angles between the different branches are varied from person to person as well as from junction to junction, making it difficult to design a single stent that can work with all the potential variations. Furthermore, such a design is difficult to install, thus making it less attractive to locations such as the junction in the left main. Another major limitation is that much higher operator skill is required to position such a stent quickly, thus making it more likely that such a stent will be improperly installed. Therefore, often the only choice is to attempt bypass surgery. However, in the face of complete blockage it is possible that a patient will not survive the procedure. Clearly, something more is needed to address such a life-threatening emergency. In addition, it would be beneficial to provide a stent that could be used in and near the left main junction during more routine medical situations as an alternative to bypass surgery. Further, other medical fields would greatly benefit from improved stents and methods for implanting stents.","Furthermore, in certain medical procedures, two or more stents are often implanted in close proximity to each other. In certain instances, it is highly desirable to join two stents in a parallel-like fashion. Because of individual variation and other factors, it is often too difficult to precisely join two or more stents. Problems associated with this are described in more detail below in relation to . Reducing or eliminating problems often associated with joining two or more stents would be beneficial to several medical fields.","Aspects of the invention relate to medical stents and methods for implanting medical stents. One aspect relates to novel stents that include at least one extension extending in a substantially continuous form from the stent. In one embodiment, the extension extends from a portion of an aperture on a side of the stent. The extension may be present over the perimeter of the aperture, for example, forming a hood-like protrusion that arches over the perimeter. In one embodiment, the extension extends at least about 25-30% around the perimeter. In other embodiment, the extension extends less than about 50% of the perimeter. In one embodiment, the extension extends about 100% around the perimeter, however, has a shorter length on one side extending from the aperture than another side extending from the aperture.","The extension may be configured to be in a collapsed state and, upon expansion of the stent, may be configured to flex outward from the main body of the stent. In certain embodiments, one or more markers may be positioned on a cylindrical body of the stent and\/or the extension. In one embodiment, a first marker may be positioned in-line with and directly extending from the location where the distance of the aperture along the latitudinal direction is the greatest. The first marker may be configured to provide a rotation orientation of the stent in a dimensional image. In another embodiment, a marker may be positioned on the extension. In one embodiment, the marker arches in a latitudinal direction over the perimeter of the aperture in a direction that is substantially perpendicular to a longitudinal axis of the stent so as to provide a rotation orientation of the extension in a dimensional image. One such marker may create an arch across the furthest point away from the aperture. The marker may be directly aligned with a centerline of the side aperture. One marker may be positioned parallel with the longitudinal axis of the cylinder wall of the stent. In embodiments with two or more markers, a first marker and a second marker may be configured so as to appear substantially perpendicular to each other in a two dimensional image and the second marker is positioned adjacent the side aperture and extends a distance at least equal to a greatest longitudinal distance of the side aperture.","Certain aspects of the invention relate to methods relating to medical stents. In one embodiment, an exemplary method is directed towards supporting a wall in a junction, such as of a blood vessel. A method according to certain embodiments may be implemented in a junction having a main branch that extends to a first branch and a second branch, although additional branches are within the scope of further embodiments. In one embodiment, a stent with a side aperture may be positioned in the junction. In one method, a stent is implanted in which the extension arches in a latitudinal direction over the perimeter of the aperture in a direction that is substantially perpendicular to a longitudinal axis. Yet, in further embodiments, the extension may arch along any direction.","Certain methods may utilize a stent with one or more markers. In one embodiment, the stent may have a marker aligned with the side aperture at a location where a distance of the aperture along the latitudinal direction is the greatest. The marker may extend along a circumference of the stent a distance substantially perpendicular to a longitudinal axis of the stent as to, in accordance with certain embodiments, provide a rotational orientation of the stent in a dimensional image. In one embodiment, the method is configured to allow the implantation of a stent with a marker that creates an arch across the furthest point away from the aperture. In another embodiment, two or more markers may configured so as to appear substantially perpendicular to each other in a two dimensional image. The marker may be positioned adjacent to the side aperture and extends a distance at least equal to a greatest longitudinal distance of the side aperture.","Certain methods may expand the stent so as to support the wall of the main branch and the first branch, whereby the side aperture allows the main branch to continue to feed both the first and the second branch. The stent may include an extension, which in accordance with one or more embodiments, be expanded to extend in a substantially continuous form from a portion of the side aperture's perimeter. In one embodiment, the extension may flex outward from the cylinder wall form a protrusion that arches in a latitudinal direction over the perimeter and extends into the second branch. The expansion of the stent may be a result of the expansion of the stent. In one embodiment, the expansion of the extension occurs after the expansion of the stent.","Further embodiments may include the insertion of a guide wire. In such embodiments, a balloon may be positioned over the guide wire and into a bifurcation of the branch with the stent positioned on the outside of the balloon. In one embodiment, a portion of a stent may be inserted into a first branch and a marker may be aligning the marker with the second branch. In one embodiment, the stent with a side aperture is inserted into a junction of a left main coronary artery that includes a main branch and two secondary branches so that the side aperture aligns with one of the secondary branches while the stent extends into the other secondary branch. In one embodiment, a stent may be expanded so as to support a wall of the left main coronary artery while allowing blood to flow through the side aperture into one of the secondary branches. In certain embodiment, the stent (including the extension) may be coated with a pharmaceutical agent.","The description below will discuss various medical conditions and how a stent may be used to aid in the treatment these medical conditions. It is noted that the methods and apparatus disclosed are not limited to the treatment of the medical conditions disclosed but may be used to treat other medical conditions where appropriate.","Looking first at , an embodiment of a heart  is depicted. The heart  is fed by a right coronary artery  that branches out and provides blood to a portion of the heart. A left coronary artery  is also shown and also branches out and provides blood to a portion of the heart. As can be appreciated, a blockage at the beginning or proximal end  of the left coronary artery  would affect the flow of blood to all points downstream while a blockage at the distal end  of the left coronary artery  might have little or no discernable effect on the viability of the heart .","Turning to , the left coronary artery  is shown in an enlarged view that includes the left main artery or main branch  that feeds a first branch  (which as depicted is the left anterior descending artery) and a second branch  (which as depicted is the left circumflex artery).","As depicted in , the first branch  shows a further enlarged view of the left coronary artery . The main branch  forms a junction  where it bifurcates into the first branch  and the second branch . As can be further appreciated, the main branch  includes a wall . In order for blood to flow through the left coronary artery , the wall  forms a tube-like shape that preferably is free from blockage.","Unfortunately, as shown in , a blockage  may be formed by, for example, deposits of fatty tissue on the wall  in the junction . In , the blockage  partially occludes the flow of blood into the second branch .  depicts a similar situation except that the blockage  partially occludes the first branch .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0062","num":"0061"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 6","FIGS. 4-6"],"i":["a ","b ","b"],"b":["66","50","44","46","68","50","44","46","50","44","46","50"]},"Turning to , an illustration of the left coronary artery  without any blockage depicted is provided, the blockage being omitted for the sake of clarity. In an embodiment a guide wire  may be inserted into the left coronary artery  in a known manner. As depicted, the guide wire  is inserted into the junction  and extends into the first branch . As can be appreciated, the distance the guide wire  extends into the junction  may be adjusted depending on the location of the blockage.","Turning to , after the guide wire is inserted, the next step is to guide a catheter  connected to an angioplasty balloon (\u201cballoon\u201d)  along the guide wire into the desired position. Once the balloon  is correctly positioned, the balloon  is inflated so as to open up the portion of the left coronary artery  that was stenosed by the blockage. To help keep the left main open, the balloon  includes a stent  (not shown in ) mounted on the exterior of the balloon . When the balloon  is expanded to open up the passageway, the stent  is also expanded. Once the passageway is opened, the pressure inflating the balloon  is removed and the balloon  contracts. However, the stent  remains in position so as to provide support for the wall  of the left coronary artery .","It should be noted that the balloon  may be compliant or non-compliant, depending on the intended use. Generally speaking, balloons that are non-complaint have a fixed amount of expansion and do not effectively increase in diameter in response to increases in internal pressure. In contrast, balloons that are compliant do effectively increase in diameter in response to increases in internal pressure. The balloon  may also be semi-compliant and thus provide some minimal amount of expansion in response to greater pressure. While different levels of compliance may be suitable for different situations, a non-compliant balloon may be useful to prevent the balloon  from expanding in the area where the side aperture is provided.","One concern regarding the use of angioplasty is restenosis. Restenosis, or the re-narrowing of the arteries, affects a percentage of patients receiving angioplasty. While the use of a stent in combination with the angioplasty has significantly reduced the occurrence, restenosis is still an issue. To address this potential problem it may be desirable to coat the stent with a pharmaceutical agent. While different pharmaceutical agents work differently, in an embodiment, the drug coating may be configured to provide an anti-restenotic or anti-neointimal proliferation effect. In an embodiment, the coating may be RAPAMYCIN or SIROLIMUS.","As can be appreciated from , using a standard stent in the junction  would be problematic. For example, in  if a standard stent was used, when the stent was expanded the passageway to the second branch  would be as least partially blocked.","Looking at , an alternative to the normal stent is depicted as stent . The stent  has a proximal end , a distal end  and includes a side aperture , a first marker  and a second marker . The use of the markers will be discussed below.  illustrates a side view of the stent . As can be appreciated from , the side aperture  is circular.","In an embodiment it may be desirable to provide a side aperture that is elongated on one side.  illustrates an embodiment of a side aperture  that includes a center line  and is elongated on one side of the center line .","Looking ahead to , an alternative embodiment of a stent  is depicted. The stent  includes a proximal end  and a distal end . A cylinder wall  that opens at the proximal end  and the distal end  includes a side aperture . It should be noted that the cylinder wall  of the stent  is configured to allow the stent  to expand. Thus, the cylinder wall  may comprise any of the known wall designs used for expanding stents. As can be appreciated, the side aperture  is shown with a center line . It is noted that in practice the center line  would not be visible and is thus being provided as a reference for purpose of discussion. As depicted, the side aperture  is elongated on one side of the center line , thus making it more difficult to define the true center. For purpose of discussion, however, the center line  as used herein refers to an imaginary reference line on the side aperture  that the operator should attempt to align with the center of the second branch  (). As can be appreciated, as the center line  is an imaginary reference line that is not visible to the operator, the markers that may be provided on the stent  can aid the operator in performing the alignment process. Thus, the markers may aid the operator in effectively aligning the center line  with the side branch . It is noted that in an embodiment the first marker  may be aligned with the center line .","It should be noted that as depicted the side aperture  provides a relatively smooth edge  in the cylinder wall . While not required, this allows a second stent to be inserted through the side aperture  with less likelihood of snagging the stent  and moving it out of location or breaking off a piece of the stent . As can be appreciated, the occurrence of such events is difficult to detect but generally requires emergency surgery if detected in time, and therefore is undesirable. It should be noted that in an embodiment the size of the side aperture  may be substantially the same as the openings in the stent  at the proximal and distal ends ,  so as to provide substantially the same effective lumen for each branch.","Referring to , a first marker , partially provided in dotted line, extends around a portion of the circumference of the stent . As can be appreciated, this configuration, while not required, is helpful in positioning the stent. As can be further appreciated, the stent includes a second marker  that has a first half on one side of top of the stent and a second half on the bottom of the stent . This allows the second marker  to effectively extend the length of the stent  while providing additional information to the operator during implantation of the stent. For example, if the viewing angle is properly aligned, the second marker  will appear to be a continuous line. Of course, in an alternative embodiment the second marker  may be a continuous line.","In an embodiment, the second marker  may be aligned with the longitudinal axis of the stent . In an alternative embodiment, the second marker  may be aligned parallel to the longitudinal axis of the stent . As can be appreciated, a parallel configuration may provide more precise feedback to the operator during implantation but requires additional manufacturing precision.","It should be noted that the first marker  may be positioned so as to be perpendicular to the second marker . While such a position is not required, if the second marker  is parallel to the longitudinal axis and the first marker  is perpendicular to the second marker , the position of the stent  can be more accurately determined prior to expansion of the stent .","In this regard, it should be noted that when the stent  is in the non-expanded state it is difficult to discern the location of the side aperture . Thus, the use of one or more markers that are visible while the stent  is still in the compressed state will tend to prevent the stent  from being expanded in an incorrect position. For example, as depicted in , a non-expanded stent  is shown in two views and at least one of the first marker  and the second marker  is\/are visible on the compressed stent  in either view.","Returning to , a left coronary artery  is depicted with the stent  supporting the wall  from the main branch  to the first branch . However, to avoid blocking the second branch , the side aperture  is aligned so as to allow blood to flow through the stent  into the second branch . As can be appreciated, when installed the wall  will be in contact with most of the stent ; thus, the stent  will act as a support structure to help ensure that blood flow to the branches ,  remains non-obstructed.","While in many situations it may be sufficient to implant the stent , in other circumstances, such as depicted in , it may be beneficial to provide additional support for the wall . One way of doing so is to install a second stent. For example, a second stent extending from the side aperture  would provide a \u201cY\u201d shaped support structure () that could help ensure the blood continues to flow from the main branch  to the branches , .","To provide the \u201cY\u201d shaped structure, first, as depicted in , a guide wire  is inserted into the left coronary artery  and guided through the side aperture . This may be a different guide wire than the guide wire  or it may be the same guide wire. One potential issue with inserting a guide wire into the left coronary artery  after the stent  is implanted is that the guide wire  has a limited ability to bend and go around tight curves and could possibly catch on the stent . As previously discussed, in an embodiment the side aperture  may be elongated on one side. While not required, the elongated side aperture allows the guide wire  to be inserted into the second branch  while reducing the possibility that the guide wire might catch on the stent . In an alternative embodiment the side aperture  could simply be made larger.","Once the guide wire  is inserted, a catheter  is inserted along the guide wire  until the balloon  is positioned as desired. In an embodiment, as depicted in , the balloon  extends out of the side aperture  and includes a stent  mounted to the outside of the balloon . In an embodiment the side aperture is elongated so that the balloon  and stent  pass through the side aperture  without catching on the stent . In an embodiment, when the stent  is expanded the stent  and stent  will have some overlap. In an alternative embodiment, the stent  will not overlap with the stent  but will be positioned via the side aperture . In another alternative embodiment, the stent  may be positioned first and then the stent  may be positioned so that the side aperture  aligns with the stent . To provide maximum support, however, it may be beneficial to have some overlap between the stent  and the stent .","In an alternative embodiment, as depicted in , a guide wire  will be inserted past the proximal end  of the stent  and a catheter  with a balloon  will be inserted so that a portion of a stent  overlaps with the stent . The balloon  may then be inflated so that the stent  and stent  provide a more complex support structure. It should be noted that it may be useful to use a balloon  with a lesser degree of compliance so that the stent  is expanded in a uniform manner.","As illustrated in , the stents ,  are positioned and expanded to form a \u201cY\u201d shaped support structure or an expanded tubular shaped support structure, respectively. In an embodiment, both the stent  and the stent  may be added to the stent  to maximize support of the left coronary artery . As can be appreciated, combinations of one or more stents ,  and  may be used in an overlapping fashion; thus, a complex support structure is possible. It is expected, however, that one or two stents will typically be sufficient.","It should be noted that in an alternative embodiment the stent  may be a self-expanding stent. In such an embodiment, the stent  would be positioned and then allowed to expand. In an embodiment the self-expanding stent  would include one or more markers to allow the operator to more accurately determine where the proximal and\/or distal ends are located.","As can be appreciated, the size of stent  may be adjusted as desired and used in other junction locations in different blood vessels. For example, the distance between the distal end  and the side aperture  may vary as desired. In addition, different locations may require an outer diameter  of the stent  () to be adjusted so as to provide proper support for the wall of the blood vessel.","It should be noted that in an embodiment a stent  may be inserted after the balloon is expanded a first time. In such an embodiment, a first balloon would be expanded and then contracted. The first balloon would then be removed. Next the stent  would be installed. In such a scenario the stent  could be a self-expanding stent or a balloon expanded stent as discussed above. Thus, expanding a stent includes using a balloon to expand the stent or allowing the stent to self-expand. As the general procedure for inserting and expanding a stent in an artery is known to persons of skill in the art, additional details are not provided herein.","As can be appreciated, care must be used when positioning the stent  and the side aperture  and the optional stents ,  or the support structure will not work as intended. For example, it is beneficial to align the side aperture  with the second branch  so as to avoid occlusion of the second branch .","In an embodiment, the stent may be made of a stainless steel alloy, although other materials may be used. It is noted that the type of stent is not crucial; thus, for example but without limitation, a coiled spring design, a slotted tube design or mesh design may be used. However, one potential issue with the insertion of stents is that under certain known viewing methodologies the stent will not be visible (e.g. the stent will be radiolucent). Even if the stent is not radiolucent, seeing the stent without being able to determine its orientation can make aligning the side aperture more difficult.","To allow for improved orientation of the stent, radio-opaque markers may be included on the stent. In an embodiment the markers may include a gold coating; however, other coatings may also be used. Looking at , a stent  includes a first marker , a second marker , a third marker  and a fourth marker . In an embodiment, as depicted, the first marker  and the second marker  may be perpendicular in orientation. The third and fourth markers ,  may be positioned on proximal end  and distal end  of the stent . In an embodiment, a stent may have one or more of the markers as is appropriate. As can be appreciated, other shapes of markers other than lines may also be used.","It should also be noted the first marker  may include several distinct symbols that together form the first marker . Thus, the term marker refers to a set of one or more symbols, and may be, for example and without limitation, a set of dots, a geometric shape or some other configurations that allows the operator to determine aspects of the orientation of the stent . An advantage of using a line, however, is the ease of viewing such a marker during implantation of the stent.","In an embodiment, the first marker  may extend around a radial portion of the stent  as depicted in . In an embodiment, the first marker  may extend around about half of the stent . While not required, the advantage of having the first marker  extend around about half of the stent  can be appreciated in light of . If the orientation of the stent is aligned with the angle of viewing, the first marker  will look like a straight line, as illustrated in . If the orientation of the stent  is not aligned with the viewing angle, the first marker  will resemble the appearance of the first marker  in . As can be appreciated, this allows the operator positioning the stent  in the blood vessel to determine and\/or verify the angular orientation of the stent .","In addition to allowing the determination of angular orientation, configuring the stent  to include the first marker  with the first marker  being \u201cC\u201d shaped can also allow the operator to determine whether the rotational orientation of the stent is correct as illustrated by . Thus, the angular and rotational orientation may be determined with the first marker  so that the stent  is properly positioned before being expanded.","In an embodiment, the first marker  may be directly aligned with the centerline  () of the side aperture . Thus, the operator positioning the stent  can line up the first marker  with the middle of the second branch  () so as to maximize blood flow to the second branch . As can be appreciated, however, the first marker  may also be aligned with some other part of the side aperture .","In an embodiment, the first marker  may extend the length of the stent . While not required, such a configuration aids in the implantation of additional stents. For example, in an embodiment a support structure as depicted in  may be desired. To provide the depicted support, first the stent  with the side aperture  may be installed. The first and second markers ,  allow the stent  to be properly orientated with respect to the second branch  before the stent  is expanded (). In an embodiment the stent  may include the third and fourth markers , , which may be aligned with the proximal and distal ends of the stent , thus allowing the stent  to be aligned with respect to first and second markers , . Therefore, a stent  with the third and fourth markers ,  may be positioned so as to partially extend from the side aperture  ().","If the support structure as depicted in  is desired, in an embodiment where the first marker  extended the length of the stent , the fourth marker  on the stent  could be positioned with respect to the first marker  on the stent . Thus, in an embodiment it could be determined when there was an overlap because the two markers ,  would cross in a two-dimensional view. It should be noted that the same stent  may be used in either configurations shown in . In an alternative embodiment, however, a different stent may be used. The advantage of using the same stent to obtain either the structure in  or  is a reduced number of parts, thus reducing the chance that the wrong stent will be used. However, having a variety of different sized stents may allow for a more precise fit if such a fit is found to be useful for a particular patient. For example, the secondary branch might be much smaller than the main branch and thus would benefit from a stent with a smaller outer diameter.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0094","num":"0093"},"figref":["FIGS. 25A and 25B","FIG. 25A","FIG. 25B","FIGS. 25A and 25B"],"b":["100","100","100","100","101","102","104","101","102","105","105","105","104","100","100","104"]},"As shown in , the side aperture  is shown with a center line . It is noted that in practice the center line  would not be visible and is thus being provided as a reference for purpose of discussion. In certain embodiments, the side aperture  may be elongated on one side of the center line , thus making it more difficult to define the true center. For purpose of discussion, however, the center line  as used herein refers to an imaginary reference line on the side aperture  that the operator should attempt to align substantially with the center of a second branch  ().","Side aperture  is defined by perimeter . It should be noted that as depicted, aperture  provides a relatively smooth edge in the cylinder wall . While not required, this may assist, in some embodiments, the insertion of a second stent through the side aperture  with less likelihood of snagging the stent  and moving it out of location or breaking off a piece of the stent . As can be appreciated, the occurrence of such events is difficult to detect but generally requires emergency surgery, and therefore is undesirable. It should be noted that in an embodiment, the size of the side aperture  may be substantially the same as the openings in the stent  at the proximal and distal ends ,  so as to provide substantially the same effective lumen for each branch.","Further aspects of the invention relate to stents having an extension and methods for using novel stents with an extension. As shown in both , stent  comprises an extension  that extends from a portion of the perimeter  of the aperture . Extension  may comprise one or more biocompatible substances and\/or pharmaceutical agents. In one embodiment, extension  is substantially the same composition as stent . As shown best in , extension  extends from the perimeter  in a substantially continuous form. For example, exemplary extension  extends around perimeter  between points  and . As used herein, \u201csubstantially continuous\u201d means without any substantial breakage. For example, extension  may have perforations and\/or areas of decreased thickness to assist in expansion and\/or flexing of the extension , however, any such areas are configured to minimize or prevent any flow of fluids through those areas rather than through the pathway created by the aperture .","As shown in , points  and  are located at about a midline of the perimeter, thus in the illustrated embodiment, extension  extends around approximately 50% of the perimeter. In yet other embodiments, extension  may extend less than about 50%. In certain embodiments, the extension  extends approximately 30-40% of the perimeter . In certain embodiments, the extension may extend at least about 25% of the perimeter . In certain embodiments, the extension  extends approximately 20-75% of the perimeter . In other embodiments, extension  may extend more than about 95% of the perimeter. For example, on one side, extension  may extend a first distance away from the stent's cylinder wall , while on a second side, extension  may extend a second distance away from the stents cylinder wall , in which the first distance is visually shorter than the second distance, when viewed during the implantation procedure using conventional imaging equipment. Further, as shown in , the extension  may be shaped as to have a longitudinal axis that is neither directly parallel nor perpendicular with the longitudinal axis of the cylinder wall.","In certain embodiments, extension  is configured to extend outward from the cylinder wall  and form a hood-like protrusion that arches over the perimeter . As used herein, \u201chood-like\u201d refers to an extension that, if viewed from directly over and aligned with the center of the perimeter  (i.e., perpendicular to the center of midline  shown in ), the extension  would appear to cover at least a portion of the area within perimeter . In one embodiment, the extension may extend cover about 10% of area within perimeter . In certain embodiments, the extension may extend at least about 25% of area within perimeter . In certain embodiments, the extension  may cover approximately 30-40% of the area within perimeter . In certain embodiments, the extension  may cover approximately 20-75% of the area within perimeter .","Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the extent to which the extension  extends over (and thus cover the area within) perimeter  depends on one or more factors, including for example, the intended implantation site of stent . Furthermore, in certain embodiments, the stent is configured to be flexible, such that without pressure from, for example, being implanted in a branch, it is designed to flex to a certain position, however, upon being implanted, may flex to a second position. Thus, in one embodiment, extension  may be configured to cover about 10% of the area within perimeter , however, upon implantation, flexes to cover more than 10% of the area within perimeter .","In the exemplary embodiment shown in , edge  of extension  arches over the perimeter in a latitudinal direction that is perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of the cylinder wall . Specifically, edge  of extension  is shown to extend in a substantially latitudinal direction at the location where the distance of the aperture along the latitudinal direction is the greatest. (e.g., midline , shown in ). Those skilled in the art will readily appreciate, however, that the arch is not required to be located in a substantially latitudinal direction. In certain embodiments, edge  may arch is a substantially longitudinal direction (e.g. if extension  was rotated about 90 degrees to the right or to the left). In other embodiments, extension  may be off-axis with respect to the latitudinal and longitudinal directions as shown in . Moreover, as discussed above, edge  is not required to extend over the perimeter  at about midline .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0102","num":"0101"},"figref":["FIG. 26A","FIG. 26B","FIGS. 25A and 25B","FIGS. 26A and 26B","FIGS. 26A and 26B","FIGS. 26A and 26B"],"b":["100","100","122","104","120","128","128","124","126","106","106","122","130","122","120","105","128"]},"While the exemplary embodiment of  shows point  as being substantially directly over midline , those skilled in the art will appreciate that this is just one embodiment, and point , while over a portion of the perimeter , is not required to be positioned at about a midline . Moreover, those skilled in the art will also appreciate that there are several other shapes and\/or configurations for the arching behavior of edge , including but not limited to: adjusting flexibility\/rigidity, tools and\/processes used to implant the stent , specific conditions of the patient the stent may be implanted within, and others. (Exemplary methods for implantation were discussed above and additional methods are discussed below).","In one embodiment, extension  may be flexible to expand from a first position to a second position.  shows a perspective side view of an exemplary stent  according to one embodiment of the invention. Looking to , stent  comprises an extension  in a first position. As seen, extension  is substantially within perimeter  of aperture . As used herein, substantially within means that extension  does not extend out of aperture  in a manner that would aversely affect insertion and\/or implantation of the stent  into a patient. Extension  may expand to a second state upon an event or under predefined criteria. In certain embodiments, extension  may be configured to flex outward from the cylinder wall  upon expansion of the stent . For example, upon being expanded to the second state, the extension  may form a form a hood-like protrusion that over the perimeter  (e.g. as shown in , B, A and\/or B).","In one embodiment, a partially-compliant balloon may be utilized to expand cylinder wall  and extension . In one embodiment, a partially-complaint balloon is positioned within a stent with a compliant portion of the balloon being positioned about the extension . Upon expanding the balloon, a non-compliant portion of the balloon may expand the cylinder body , however, a compliant portion of the balloon may expand further than the non-compliant portion of the balloon and, therefore, expand extension  from the first state to the second state. In other embodiments, expansion of the stent , alone, may not automatically trigger expansion of the extension  to a second state. Other events that may trigger the expansion of the extension  from the first state the second state, include but may not be limited to: using the same or another balloon to expand extension  to the second state after the cylinder body  has been expanded.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0106","num":"0105"},"figref":["FIG. 28","FIG. 27","FIG. 28"],"b":["100","122","100","40","42","44","46","42","43","40","43"]},"In one embodiment, a method may be employed that positions stent  to have aperture  in the junction of the first branch  and the second branch . As seen, aperture  extends along a longitudinal direction and along a latitudinal direction to form a perimeter . In one embodiment, stent  may include marker  which may be aligned with the side aperture  at a location the first marker is in-line with and directly extends from the location where the distance of the aperture along the latitudinal direction is the greatest, the first marker extending along a circumference of the stent a distance substantially perpendicular to a longitudinal axis of the stent so as to provide a rotational orientation of the stent in a two dimensional image.","Those skilled in the art will readily appreciate that marker , and\/or other markers, may not be apparent or properly viewed in a collapsed stent, such as before the stent  is expanded in those embodiments where stent  is expandable from a first state to a second state. In this regard, embodiments of the invention relate to an expanding stent (i.e., so as to support the wall of the main branch and the first branch), whereby the side aperture allows the main branch  to continue to feed both the first branch  and the second branch . In further embodiments, the extension  may be flexible as to be expandable from a first state (e.g., as shown in ) to a second state (e.g., shown in  and\/or ). In one embodiment, extension  may be extended to be in a substantially continuous form from a portion of the side aperture's  perimeter  that flexes outward from the cylinder wall  to form a protrusion that arches in a direction over the perimeter  and extending into the second branch . As shown, extension  extends in a direction that is substantially aligned with the longitudinal axis (shown as dotted lines ) of the second branch . In the exemplary embodiment, edge  of extension  is substantially parallel to the longitudinal axis  of the second branch . As discussed above, however, there is no requirement that edge  be directly parallel to any axis, but rather may include one or more curving structures.","In one embodiment, the extension  expands as a result of the expansion of the stent . As discussed above, one or more other events, actions, and\/or predefined criteria may have to be met for the expansion of an extension from a first state to a second state. In one embodiment, the expansion of the extension  may occur after the expansion of the stent .","Use of the novel stent  may overcome one or more shortcoming in the art. As one example, various procedures require the implantation of multiple stents in a single location. Often two or more stents are joined together. Looking to , stent  is generally in the shape of a cylindrical body. Stent  is connected to stent . As seen in , stent  is connected to stent  at an angle, and thus, a portion of stent  (which is represented by the dotted lines) is within stent . For example, point  is located at about the junction where stents  and  meet. At point  any insertion of stent  within  is minimal, however, looking to point , it is within stent , and as such may slow the passage of any fluids within stent . Those skilled in the art will readily appreciate that blocking bodily fluids, whether blood or waste products, can lead to dangerous and lethal consequences.","Conversely,  shows an embodiment where stent  is not substantially within stent . For example, point  is located at about the junction where stents  and  meet. In this instance, however, point  is no longer at the junction. Rather gap  is created between the stents , . This may result in undesired growth or collection of matter between the two stents. Further, it may lead to inadequate support at the juncture. In accordance with certain aspects of the invention, implementing extension  on either stent  and\/or stent , may minimize or negate the problems associated with the arrangement of  and . In this regard, certain embodiments of extension  may be configured to receive a second stent. Alternatively, in other embodiments, extension  may be configured to be received a by a second stent.","Further aspects relate to one or more markers being located on the extension .  show exemplary stents having one or more markers on an extension in accordance with various embodiments. Looking first to , stent  comprises extension . As shown, marker  on the extension  arches substantially in a latitudinal direction over the perimeter in a direction that is substantially perpendicular to a longitudinal axis of the cylinder wall  of the stent . As shown, marker  is approximately located on edge . In one embodiment, marker  extends a distance to permit the capture of a rotation orientation of the extension in a dimensional image. In certain embodiments, marker  may not be entirely or even partially perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of the cylinder wall . For example, in embodiments, for example as shown in , edge  may not be straight, and as such in such embodiments in which marker  marks the edge , the marker  may not follow a straight path.","As appreciated by those skilled in the art, if extension  was rotated approximately 90 degrees to the right or to the left, marker  would be substantially parallel with (and in some embodiments, directly in line with) the longitudinal axis of the cylinder wall  of stent . Thus, in this illustrated embodiment and in others, marker  may be in line with either the longitudinal axis or the latitudinal axis of the cylinder wall . In this regard, marker  may have more than two components, and thus be parallel with (and possibly also inline with) the longitudinal and\/or the latitudinal axis of the cylinder wall . Looking to , for example, marker  is substantially parallel with the longitudinal axis of cylinder wall . In this illustrated embodiment, marker  is also directly inline with the longitudinal axis of the cylinder wall  (best seen in ). In one embodiment, marker  and\/or marker  may be positioned to traverse the location at which the extension  is furthest away from the aperture . In one embodiment, marker  may comprise an arch across the furthest point away from the side aperture .","In certain embodiments, one or more markers are configured so as to appear substantially perpendicular to each other in a two dimensional image. In certain embodiments, extension  may comprise a marker and the cylinder wall  of the stent  may comprise a marker. Looking again to , cylinder wall  may also comprise one or more markers. Marker , for example, is positioned adjacent the side aperture . In certain embodiments, marker  may extend a distance at least equal to a greatest longitudinal distance (as referenced from the cylinder wall ) of the side aperture . In other embodiments, marker  may be shorter than the distance of the aperture, however, marks the location where the extension  meets the cylinder body , point  (shown in ) and\/or any other location on the extension .","Looking again to , stent  may comprise a marker (such as marker ) that is positioned in-line with and directly extending from the location where the distance of the aperture  along the latitudinal direction (as referenced from the cylinder wall ) is the greatest. In one embodiment, marker  may extend a portion of a distance around the circumference of the cylinder wall  in a direction extending away from the side aperture  and substantially perpendicular to a longitudinal axis of the cylinder wall  so as to provide a rotation orientation of the stent in a two-dimensional image. In one embodiment, marker  is directly aligned with a centerline of the side aperture . In one embodiment, marker  may extend entirely around the cylinder wall  and terminate at about the other side of the aperture . In one embodiment, marker  may creates an arch across the furthest point away from the aperture .","The present invention has been described in terms of preferred and exemplary embodiments thereof. Numerous other embodiments, modifications and variations within the scope and spirit of the appended claims will occur to persons of ordinary skill in the art from a review of this disclosure."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The present invention is illustrated by way of example and not limited in the accompanying figures in which like reference numerals indicate similar elements and in which:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 2"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":"FIG. 6","i":"a "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":"FIG. 6","i":"b "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"figref":"FIG. 9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0034"},"figref":["FIG. 10","FIG. 9"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"figref":"FIG. 11"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0037","num":"0036"},"figref":"FIG. 12"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0037"},"figref":"FIG. 13"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0039","num":"0038"},"figref":"FIG. 14"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0040","num":"0039"},"figref":"FIG. 15"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0041","num":"0040"},"figref":"FIG. 16"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0042","num":"0041"},"figref":"FIG. 17"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0043","num":"0042"},"figref":"FIG. 18"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0044","num":"0043"},"figref":"FIG. 19"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0045","num":"0044"},"figref":["FIG. 20","FIG. 19"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0046","num":"0045"},"figref":["FIG. 21","FIG. 19"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0047","num":"0046"},"figref":"FIG. 22"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0048","num":"0047"},"figref":["FIG. 23","FIG. 22"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0049","num":"0048"},"figref":"FIG. 24"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0050","num":"0049"},"figref":["FIG. 25","FIG. 25A","FIG. 25B"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0051","num":"0050"},"figref":["FIG. 26","FIG. 26A","FIG. 26B"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0052","num":"0051"},"figref":"FIG. 27"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0053","num":"0052"},"figref":"FIG. 28"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0054","num":"0053"},"figref":["FIG. 29","FIG. 29A","FIG. 29B"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0055","num":"0054"},"figref":["FIG. 30","FIG. 30A","FIG. 30B"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0056","num":"0055"},"figref":["FIG. 31","FIG. 31A","FIG. 31B"]}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
