---
title: Routing mobile users to secure locations based on transaction type
abstract: Systems and methods are disclosed for routing mobile users to safe, or secure, locations. In one embodiment, based on threat information obtained from one or more source, a threat level is determined for a location of a user of a mobile device. The threat level is indicative of physical safety and/or network safety at the location of the user of the mobile device. The threat level may be a function of a transaction type of a transaction being performed or desired to be performed by the user of the mobile device. If the location is unsafe, a safe location is identified, and the user of the mobile device is routed to the safe location.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08116732&OS=08116732&RS=08116732
owner: Oto Technologies, LLC
number: 08116732
owner_city: Raleigh
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20090805
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["FIELD OF THE DISCLOSURE","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["The present disclosure relates to routing a mobile user to a safe location for a desired transaction type.","Mobile devices, such as mobile smart phones, have become prolific in today's digital society. Further, people are using their mobile devices to conduct all types of transactions from personal banking to e-mail. One issue with mobile devices is that users do not always know if they are in a safe environment when conducting transactions. As such, there is a need for a system and method for ensuring that a user is in a safe environment before conducting a transaction on a mobile device.","Systems and methods are disclosed for routing mobile users to safe, or secure, locations. In one embodiment, based on threat information obtained from one or more sources, a threat level is determined for a location of a user of a mobile device. The threat level is indicative of physical safety and\/or network safety at the location of the user of the mobile device. The threat level may be a function of a transaction type of a transaction being performed or desired to be performed by the user of the mobile device. If the location is unsafe, a safe location is identified, and the user of the mobile device is routed to the safe location.","Those skilled in the art will appreciate the scope of the present invention and realize additional aspects thereof after reading the following detailed description in association with the accompanying drawings.","The embodiments set forth below represent the necessary information to enable those skilled in the art to practice the invention and illustrate the best mode of practicing the invention. Upon reading the following description in light of the accompanying drawings, those skilled in the art will understand the concepts of the invention and will recognize applications of these concepts not particularly addressed herein. It should be understood that these concepts and applications fall within the scope of the disclosure and the accompanying claims.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["10","10","12","14","16","18","18","18","18"]},"The central system  is a physical system. In the preferred embodiment, the central system  is implemented as a physical server or a number of physical servers operating in a collaborative manner for redundancy and\/or load sharing. Note that, in an alternative embodiment, the functionality of the central system  may be distributed among one or more mobile devices  operating in a peer-to-peer network. As illustrated, the central system  hosts a threat server  and a threat database . The threat server  is preferably implemented in software, but may be implemented in software, hardware, or a combination thereof. As discussed below in detail, the threat server  operates to obtain threat information from one or more threat information sources - through -N and store the threat information in the threat database  according to location. Thus, for each of a number of known locations, the threat database  stores threat information for that known location. The known locations are expressed as known geographic locations, known network locations, or both. The threat information obtained from the threat information sources - through -N and stored in the threat database  is generally any type of information indicative of a physical safety or network safety at a location. However, as will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art upon reading this disclosure, the specifics of the threat information may vary depending on the types of threat information sources - through -N from which the threat information is obtained.","In one embodiment, the threat information sources - through -N include one or more of the following: mobile devices such as the mobile device , mobile operators such as operators of mobile telecommunications networks, Internet Service Providers (ISPs), Internet services, law enforcement, commerce services, or the like. More specifically, mobile devices, such as the mobile device , may record threat information such as hack attempts and\/or intrusions detected at the mobile devices and corresponding locations at which the hack attempts and\/or intrusions occurred. The time and\/or date of these events may also be recorded as part of the threat information. In addition or alternatively, mobile devices may record threat information manually input by their users. For example, a user of a mobile device may provide input to the mobile device indicating that a particular geographic location is well lit, has heavy foot traffic, or the like. In addition or alternatively, a user may apply an appropriate safety level (e.g., safe, moderately safe, or unsafe) to a particular location and optionally for an identified transaction type. The mobile devices report this threat information to the threat server  either automatically or upon request. Alternatively, this threat information may be reported to a mobile operator (e.g., a mobile telecommunications service provider), where the mobile operator provides this threat information to the threat server  automatically or upon request.","Mobile operators may store information such as hack attempts, intrusion activities, or other illegal electronic activities. These activities are recorded with respect to the geographic locations, cellular communications tower, and\/or femtocell at which the activities occurred. In addition, the time and\/or date of these activities may be recorded. The mobile operator reports this threat information to the threat server  automatically or upon request. Similarly, ISPs may record threat information such as malicious activity and corresponding geographic locations and\/or access points at which those activities occurred. In addition, the time and\/or date of these activities may be recorded. The ISPs may report this threat information to the threat server  automatically or upon request.","One or more Internet services may operate to collect and aggregate information identifying malicious activities and geographic locations and\/or access points at which malicious activities have occurred. In addition, the time and\/or date of these activities may be recorded. The Internet services may collect this information from, for example, ISPs, network administers or operators, or the like. The Internet services may provide this threat information to the threat server  automatically or upon request. Similarly, commerce services may collect and report threat information to the threat server . The commerce services may be electronic commerce (e-commerce) services, brick-and-mortar commerce service such as retail locations, or both. For example, an e-commerce service such as Amazon.com may record fraudulent credit card usages and the locations at which those fraudulent credit card usages occurred. In addition, the time and\/or date of these activities may be recorded. As another example, a physical retail location may provide Wi-Fi access to patrons and record hack attempts and\/or intrusions at that physical retail location. Again, the time and\/or date of these activities may be recorded. The commerce services report this threat information to the threat server  automatically or upon request.","Lastly, law enforcement agencies record criminal activities and the geographic locations at which the criminal activities occurred. These law enforcement agencies may report the criminal activities and the geographic locations at which the criminal activities occurred or just the geographic locations at which the criminal activities occurred to the threat server  automatically or upon request. It should be noted that the types of threat information, and therefore threat information sources, described above are exemplary and are not intended to limit the scope of this disclosure. Other types of threat information and corresponding threat information sources will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art upon reading this disclosure and are to be considered within the scope of this disclosure. For example, the threat information may additionally or alternatively include demographic information, home values, distance from designated safe spots such as police stations, or the like.","In addition to obtaining the threat information from the threat information sources - through -N, the threat server  operates to receive and process threat requests from mobile devices, such as the mobile device . As discussed below in detail, in one embodiment, upon receiving a threat request from the mobile device , the threat server  determines a threat level for a desired transaction type for the location of the user  based on the threat information stored in the threat database  and returns the threat level to the mobile device . Still further, if desired, the threat server  routes the user  of the mobile device  to a safe location.","The mobile device  includes a transaction application  and a threat client . The transaction application  is preferably implemented in software, but may be implemented in software, hardware, or a combination thereof. The transaction application  is generally any type of application used to perform a transaction over the network  or via local communication (e.g., a WiFi, Bluetooth, or infrared communication link) or used by the user  to identify a desired type of transaction desired to be performed. Some exemplary transaction types are mobile or personal banking, e-commerce, social network updates, voice communication, text messaging, e-mail, and digital media consumption. For example, the transaction application  may be an Internet browser, where a transaction type to be completed by the transaction application  may be a personal banking transaction to be completed via the Internet browser. As another example, the transaction application  may be an e-mail or messaging application where a transaction type is based on a type of content to be communicated via the e-mail or messaging application. For instance, the transaction type for a message communicating confidential or private data such as a social security number or credit card number is preferably different than the transaction type for a message communicating a general message such as \u201cHow are you doing?\u201d As a final example, the transaction application  may enable the user  to enter a desired type of manual transaction to be performed such as, for instance, obtaining money from an Automatic Teller Machine (ATM).","The threat client  is preferably implemented in software, but may be implemented in software, hardware, or a combination thereof. Further, while illustrated separately in this exemplary embodiment, the transaction application  and the threat client  may alternatively be implemented as a single application or component. As discussed below in detail, in one embodiment, upon initiation by the transaction application , the threat client  sends a threat request to the threat server . In response, the threat client  receives a threat level and, if needed, a route to a safe location to perform a desired transaction.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1"],"b":["20","20","24","1","24","100","20","22","20","28","14","102","16","14","16","14","14","16"]},"In response to the threat request, the threat server  uses the threat information stored in the threat database  for the location of the user  of the mobile device  to determine a threat level for the transaction type (step ). The threat level is indicative of a physical safety of the location of the user  of the mobile device  and\/or a network safety of the location of the user  of the mobile device . For example, the physical safety of the location of the user  of the mobile device  may be a function of the desired type of transaction along with crime rate and\/or types of crimes committed at or near the location of the user  of the mobile device , information regarding users of mobile devices located near the user  of the mobile device , demographic information, distance from a designated safe spot such as a police station, information regarding the physical safety of the location submitted by other users, date, time of day, or the like, or any combination thereof. The network safety may be a function of, for example, the transaction type as well as the number of and type of malicious network activities occurring at or near the location of the user  of the mobile device  such as the number of hack attempts or intrusions on mobile devices while at or near the location of the user  of the mobile device , the number and type of malicious network activities occurring on the access points accessible to the mobile device  of the user , or the like, or any combination thereof. Note that the manner in which the threat level is determined may vary depending on the types of threat information obtained by the threat server . Further, additional system-defined or user-defined criteria may be used. For example, the user  may indicate that only threat information within a defined time period (e.g., the last 30 days, after 7 pm, or the like) is to be used when determining the threat level. As another example, the user  may configure the types of events and\/or activities to be included or excluded when determining threat levels for the user . For instance, the user  may wish to exclude shop-lifting events and\/or include murder and rape events. This may be particularly beneficial because, for example, different users may have different concepts of what types of events are or are not threatening.","In this embodiment, the threat server  then returns the threat level to the threat client  of the mobile device  (step ). The threat level may be expressed as either approval or denial for the desired transaction type or a rating on a scale which represents the threat associated with the desired transaction type at the location of the user . For example, the threat level determined in step  may be safe, moderate, or unsafe, and this threat level is returned to the threat client  of the mobile device .","In addition, if the threat server  determines that the user  of the mobile device  is in an unsafe location for the desired transaction type, the threat server  routes the user  of the mobile device  to a safe location for the desired transaction type (step ). More specifically, based on the threat information stored in the threat database , the threat server  identifies one or more safe locations for the desired transaction type to which the user  of the mobile device  can be routed. The one or more safe locations are locations having low or minimal threat levels and that are near the current location of the user  of the mobile device .","In one embodiment, when identifying the one or more safe locations, the threat server  may also consider context. For example, the threat server  may determine whether the user  is walking or riding in an automobile. If the user  is riding in an automobile, the threat server  may search a larger area surrounding the user  for safe locations than if the user  were walking. As another example of the use of context, the threat server  may also consider characteristics of the current location of the user  when identifying the one or more safe locations such that the user  is routed to a safe location that is similar to the current location at which the user  is located. For example, if the user  is currently at a fast-food restaurant (e.g., McDonald's), the threat server  may attempt to identify other nearby fast-food restaurants having low threat levels as safe locations to which the user  can be routed. Other characteristics of the current location of the user  that may be considered by the threat server  include demographics or other information regarding other users that are located near the user , landmarks that are located near the user , Internet access type at the location of the user , or the like","Once the threat server  identifies the one or more safe locations to which the user  can be routed for the desired transaction type, the manner in which the user  is routed to one of the safe locations varies depending on the particular implementation. While discussed in detail below, in general, either the threat server  or the user  selects one of the safe locations, and the user  is then routed to the selected safe location. The user  may be routed to the safe location using text-based directions, map-based directions, or a combination thereof. It should be noted that when generating the route to the safe location, the threat server  may route the user  such that unsafe locations are avoided, or at least substantially avoided, if possible.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 1"],"b":["10","20","12","24","1","24","200","28","14","202","16","26","26","28","28","204","16","14","28","14","12","206"]},"Upon receiving the threat request, the central system , and more particularly the threat server , determines a threat level for the location of the user  of the mobile device  for the desired transaction type (step ). More specifically, as discussed above, using the threat information obtained for the location of the user , the threat server  determines a threat level that is indicative of physical safety and\/or network safety for the location of the user  for the desired transaction type.","In this example, the threat level for the location of the user  indicates that the location of the user  is unsafe for the desired transaction type. As such, the threat server  of the central system  also operates to identify a safe location for the desired transaction type to which the user  of the mobile device  can be routed (step ). As described above, the safe location may be identified using the threat information for other locations that are near the location of the user  and, optionally, context. Once the safe location is identified, the threat server  generates a route from the location of the user  to the safe location identified by the threat server  at which the user  can safely perform a transaction of the desired transaction type (step ). The threat server  may generate the route using an internal routing algorithm or by accessing a third-party routing service such as Google Maps via associated Application Programming Interfaces (APIs) or the like. In one embodiment, the route is generated such that the user  is routed to avoid, or at least substantially avoid, unsafe locations, if possible.","In this embodiment, once the route is generated, the threat server  of the central system  sends the threat level and the route to the safe location to the mobile device  (step ). The threat level may be expressed as either approval or denial for the desired transaction type or a rating on a scale which represents the threat associated with the desired transaction type at the location of the user . The threat level may be used to automatically allow or prevent the transaction from occurring or may be presented to the user  such that the user  is enabled to choose whether to proceed with the transaction. The route to the safe location may be text-based directions to the safe location, map-based directions to the safe location, or a combination thereof. The threat client  presents the route to the safe location to the user  at the mobile device  (step ).","Note that  illustrates an embodiment where the threat server  generates the route internally or by accessing a third-party service. However, in an alternative embodiment, the threat server  may provide information identifying the safe location to the mobile device  (e.g., a street address of the safe location, Global Positioning System (GPS) coordinates of the safe location, or the like). The threat client  may then use an internal routing algorithm to generate the route to the safe location, use a separate routing or mapping application on the mobile device  to generate the route to the safe location, or access a web-based routing or mapping service via an Internet connection to obtain the route to the safe location. If the threat server  desires to route the user  to avoid, or at least substantially avoid, unsafe locations, in addition to providing the information identifying the safe location to the mobile device , the threat server  may also provide one or more intermediate locations corresponding to safe or moderately safe locations through which the user  is to be routed to get to the safe location to the mobile device , one or more unsafe locations to avoid, or both.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0037"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 1"],"b":["10","20","12","24","1","24","300","28","14","302","16","26","26","28","28","304","16","14","28","14","12","306"]},"Upon receiving the threat request, the central system , and more particularly the threat server , determines a threat level for the location of the user  of the mobile device  for the desired transaction type (step ). More specifically, as discussed above, using the threat information obtained for the location of the user , the threat server  determines a threat level that is indicative of physical safety and\/or network safety for the location of the user  for the desired transaction type.","In this embodiment, the threat server  then sends the threat level from the central system  to the mobile device  (step ). The threat level may be expressed as either approval or denial for the desired transaction type or a rating on a scale which represents the threat associated with the desired transaction type at the location of the user . The threat level may be used by the threat client  to automatically allow or prevent the transaction from occurring or may be presented to the user  such that the user  is enabled to choose whether to proceed with the transaction.","In this example, the threat level indicates that the location of the user  is unsafe for the desired transaction type, and the threat client  receives a request from the user  to be routed to a safe location for the desired transaction type (step ). In response, the threat client  sends a route request to the central system  (step ). Upon receiving the route request, the threat server  of the central system  identifies a safe location to which the user  can be routed to perform the desired transaction type (step ). As described above, the safe location may be identified using the threat information for other locations that are near the location of the user  and, optionally, context. Once the safe location is identified, the threat server  generates a route from the location of the user  to the safe location identified by the threat server  at which the user  can safely perform a transaction of the desired transaction type and returns the route to the mobile device  (steps  and ). The threat server  may generate the route using an internal routing algorithm or by accessing a third-party routing service such as Google Maps via associated APIs or the like. In one embodiment, the route is generated such that the user  is routed to avoid, or at least substantially avoid, unsafe locations, if possible. The route to the safe location may be text-based directions to the safe location, map-based directions to the safe location, or a combination thereof. The threat client  presents the route to the safe location to the user  at the mobile device  (step ).","Note that  illustrates an embodiment where the threat server  generates the route internally or by accessing a third-party service. However, in an alternative embodiment, the threat server  may provide information identifying the safe location to the mobile device  (e.g., a street address of the safe location, GPS coordinates of the safe location, or the like). The threat client  may then use an internal routing algorithm to generate the route to the safe location, use a separate routing or mapping application on the mobile device  to generate the route to the safe location, or access a web-based routing or mapping service via an Internet connection to obtain the route to the safe location. If the threat server  desires to route the user  to avoid, or at least substantially avoid, unsafe locations, in addition to providing the information identifying the safe location to the mobile device , the threat server  may also provide one or more intermediate locations corresponding to safe or moderately safe locations through which the user  is to be routed to get to the safe location to the mobile device , one or more unsafe locations to avoid, or both.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0043","num":"0042"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 1"],"b":["10","20","12","24","1","24","400","28","14","402","16","26","26","28","28","404","16","14","28","14","12","406"]},"Upon receiving the threat request, the central system , and more particularly the threat server , determines a threat level for the location of the user  of the mobile device  for the desired transaction type (step ). More specifically, as discussed above, using the threat information obtained for the location of the user , the threat server  determines a threat level that is indicative of physical safety and\/or network safety for the location of the user  for the desired transaction type. In addition, in this example, the threat level indicates that the location of the user  is unsafe for the desired transaction type. As such, in this embodiment, the threat server  identifies one or more safe locations for the desired transaction type to which the user  can be routed (step ). As described above, the one or more safe locations may be identified using the threat information for other locations that are near the location of the user  and, optionally, context.","The threat server  then sends the threat level and information identifying the one or more safe locations to the mobile device  (step ). The threat level may be expressed as either approval or denial for the desired transaction type or a rating on a scale which represents the threat associated with the desired transaction type at the location of the user . The threat level may be used by the threat client  to automatically allow or prevent the transaction from occurring or may be presented to the user  such that the user  is enabled to choose whether to proceed with the transaction. The information identifying the one or more safe locations may be, for example, a list of the one or more safe locations, a map illustrating the one or more safe locations, or the like.","In this example, the threat level indicates that the location of the user  is unsafe for the desired transaction type, and the threat client  receives a request from the user  to be routed to one of the safe locations identified by the threat server  and selected by the user  (step ). In response, the threat client  sends a route request to the central system  (step ). Upon receiving the route request, the threat server  of the central system  generates a route from the location of the user  to the safe location selected by the user  and returns the route to the mobile device  (steps  and ). The threat server  may generate the route using an internal routing algorithm or by accessing a third-party routing service such as Google Maps via associated APIs or the like. In one embodiment, the route is generated such that the user  is routed to avoid, or at least substantially avoid, unsafe locations, if possible. The route to the safe location may be text-based directions to the safe location, map-based directions to the safe location, or a combination thereof. The threat client  presents the route to the safe location to the user  at the mobile device  (step ).","Again, note that  illustrates an embodiment where the threat server  generates the route internally or by accessing a third-party service. However, in an alternative embodiment, the threat server  may provide information identifying the safe location to the mobile device  (e.g., a street address of the safe location, GPS coordinates of the safe location, or the like). The threat client  may then use an internal routing algorithm to generate the route to the safe location, use a separate routing or mapping application on the mobile device  to generate the route to the safe location, or access a web-based routing or mapping service via an Internet connection to obtain the route to the safe location. If the threat server  desires to route the user  to avoid, or at least substantially avoid, unsafe locations, in addition to providing the information identifying the safe location to the mobile device , the threat server  may also provide one or more intermediate locations corresponding to safe or moderately safe locations through which the user  is to be routed to get to the safe location to the mobile device , one or more unsafe locations to avoid, or both.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0048","num":"0047"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 1"],"b":["10","16","20","12","24","1","24","500","28","14","502","28","16","28","28","504","16","14","28","14","12","506"]},"Upon receiving the threat request, the central system , and more particularly the threat server , generates mapping information including threat levels for a number of geographic areas for each of a number of transaction types (step ). More specifically, for each transaction type, using the threat information in the threat database , the threat server  determines a threat level for a sufficient number of locations surrounding the location of the user  to generate mapping information illustrating geographic areas and the corresponding threat levels for those geographic areas for the transaction type. Note that the geographic areas may be different for each transaction type.","In one embodiment, the mapping information generated by the threat server  is a map, such as an interactive map, showing threat levels for geographic areas for each of a number of transaction types. In one alternative embodiment, the mapping information is information to be utilized by the mobile device  to generate a map, such as an interactive map, showing threat levels for geographic areas for each of a number of transaction types. For example, the mapping information may include information defining an overall map area (e.g., the city of Chicago), information defining a number of geographic areas within the map area for each transaction type, and information defining or otherwise representing the threat levels of the geographic areas within the map area for each transaction type. The transaction types represented in the map may be all transaction types or one or more transaction types of interest identified in the threat request.","Once the mapping information is generated, the threat server  sends the mapping information to the mobile device  (step ). The threat client  of the mobile device  then presents the map showing the geographic areas and their corresponding threat levels for each of the number of transaction types to the user  at the mobile device  (step ). In the embodiment where the mapping information is the map, the threat client  presents the mapping information to the user . In the embodiment where the mapping information is the information to be used to generate the map, the threat client  may use an internal mapping component to generate and present the map using the mapping information, provide the mapping information to a separate mapping application on the mobile device  for generation and presentation of the map, or use the mapping information in conjunction with a web-based mapping service to obtain and present the map.","In this embodiment, the threat client  enables the user  to select a desired location, which is preferably a desired location that is safe for a transaction type desired to be performed by the user , from the map (step ). In response, the threat client  sends the desired location from the mobile device  to the central system  as a route request (step ). The threat server  of the central system  then generates a route from the location of the user  to the desired location selected by the user  and returns the route to the mobile device  (steps  and ). The threat server  may generate the route using an internal routing algorithm or by accessing a third-party routing service such as Google Maps via associated APIs or the like. In one embodiment, the route is generated such that the user  is routed to avoid, or at least substantially avoid, unsafe locations, if possible. The route to the desired location may be text-based directions to the desired location, map-based directions to the desired location, or a combination thereof. The threat client  presents the route to the desired location to the user  at the mobile device  (step ).","Again, note that  illustrates an embodiment where the threat server  generates the route internally or by accessing a third-party service. However, in an alternative embodiment, the threat client  may then use an internal routing algorithm to generate the route to the desired location, use a separate routing or mapping application on the mobile device  to generate the route to the desired location, or access a web-based routing or mapping service via an Internet connection to obtain the route to the desired location. If the threat server  desires to route the user  to avoid, or at least substantially avoid, unsafe locations, the threat server  may provide one or more intermediate locations corresponding to safe or moderately safe locations through which the user  is to be routed to get to the desired location to the mobile device , one or more unsafe locations to avoid, or both.","In the embodiment above, the user  selects a desired location to which the user  desires to be routed. In one alternative embodiment, the user  may select a desired safe geographic area for a desired transaction type. The user  may then be routed to a safe location within the selected geographic area such as, for example, a nearest safe location in the selected geographic area, a safe location in the selected geographic area having characteristics similar to those of the current location of the user  or satisfying one or more criteria defined by the user , or the like.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0055","num":"0054"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 6"],"b":["22","20","16","16","16"]},"Thus far, the description has focused on the embodiment illustrated in  wherein the threat server  is hosted by a central system .  illustrates another embodiment wherein the mobile device  includes a threat function , rather than the threat client . The threat function  is preferably implemented in software, but may be implemented in software, hardware, or a combination thereof. In general, the threat function  operates to perform most, if not all, of the functions of the threat server  and the threat client  described above. More specifically, the threat function  obtains threat information from one or more threat information sources (not shown) such as, for example, nearby mobile devices, one or more mobile operators, one or more ISPs, law enforcement, one or more commerce services, or the like, or any combination thereof. Alternatively, the central system  () may obtain threat information in the manner described above and push all threat information or threat information relevant to the mobile device  to the mobile device . The threat information relevant to the mobile device  may be threat information regarding the current location of the user  of the mobile device , threat information regarding one or more anticipated locations of the user  of the mobile device, or both. In addition, particularly for routing to safe locations, the threat information relevant to the mobile device  may include threat information for locations near to or surrounding the current location and\/or anticipated locations of the user  of the mobile device .","Based on the threat information, in a manner similar to that described above with respect to , the threat function  is enabled to determine threat levels for desired transaction types at the current location or anticipated locations of the user  of the mobile device  and route the user  to a safe location if desired. In addition or alternatively, in a manner similar to that described above with respect to , the threat function  may generate a map illustrating threat levels for a number of geographic areas for each of a number of transaction types and, if desired, route the user  to a safe location to perform a desired transaction.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0058","num":"0057"},"figref":["FIG. 9","FIG. 1","FIG. 1","FIG. 1"],"b":["12","12","32","34","36","38","40","32","32","20","34","32","22","36","38","12","18","38"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0059","num":"0058"},"figref":["FIG. 10","FIGS. 1 and 8","FIG. 1","FIG. 8"],"b":["14","14","42","44","46","48","50","42","42","28","30","44","42","46","48"]},"Those skilled in the art will recognize improvements and modifications to the embodiments of the present invention. All such improvements and modifications are considered within the scope of the concepts disclosed herein and the claims that follow."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The accompanying drawings incorporated in and forming a part of this specification illustrate several aspects of the invention, and together with the description serve to explain the principles of the invention.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0007","num":"0006"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0008","num":"0007"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 6"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":["FIG. 9","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":["FIG. 10","FIGS. 1 and 8"]}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
