---
title: Converter channelized uniform power distribution system
abstract: A channelized uniform distribution power system controls individual channels of power converters with each channel of power converters having uniform output power as the channels are controlled by voltage control signals from respective controllers that are interconnected by a shared current signal and a shared voltage signal for controlling the channels to provide uniform power, with conventional current limiting and voltage regulation functions. Each channel may have a number of converters being parallel-input parallel-output connected converters, series input parallel-output connected converters, and parallel-input series output connected converters.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07964991&OS=07964991&RS=07964991
owner: The Aerospace Corporation
number: 07964991
owner_city: El Segundo
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20090220
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"GOVINT":[{},{}],"heading":["STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENT INTEREST","REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATION","FIELD OF THE INVENTION","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENT"],"p":["The invention was made with Government support under contract No. FA8802-04-C-0001 by the Department of the Air Force. The Government has certain rights in the invention.","The present application is related to applicant's copending application entitled Uniform Converter Input Voltage Distribution Power System Ser. No. 11\/713,826, filed Feb. 21, 2007, publication number 20080197825 published Aug. 21, 2008, by the same inventor.","The invention relates to the field of power system. More particularly the present invention relates to a power system for uniform power distribution among multiple channels each having a plurality of power converters.","U.S. Pat. No. 6,009,000 issued Dec. 28, 1999 to Kasemsan Siri, referred to as Siri000, entitled Shared-Bus Current Sharing Parallel Connected Current-Mode DC to DC Converters, here incorporated by reference, teaches a power system consisting of parallel connected current-mode power converters combined with a voltage error signal on a shared-bus used in common for controlling all of the power stages for improved consistency, reliability, and performance in both transient and steady states. Near uniform current sharing is achievable without sacrificing the voltage regulation performance. The improved system offers faster settling time under step loads, consistent small signal characteristics, and large signal responses regardless of mismatches of component values such as reference voltages, and reduced output impedance variations in magnitude and phase even during various modes of operation.","Referring to FIGS. 3 and 5 of prior art Siri000, the current error amplifier or can be used for current limiting operation, including a current reference IREF (or ), a current sensing signal ISense using a current sensing resistor , and a pull down diode (or ) for pulling down (or pushing up) a voltage control signal VC. The voltage error amplifier (or ) can be used for voltage regulation using the output voltage VLoad to a load and using a reference voltage VREF (or ) and a pull down diode (or a push up diode ) for pulling down (or pushing up) the voltage control signal VC. Current limiting and voltage regulation are well known functions that have been integrated into multiple converter power systems.","U.S. Pat. No. 7,151,362 issued Dec. 19, 2006 to Kasemsan Siri, referred to as Siri362, entitled Uniform Converter Output Voltage Distribution Power System, here incorporated by reference, teaches a uniform converter output voltage distribution power system evenly controls the individual output voltages of DC-to-DC parallel-input series-output connected converters using a uniform output voltage distribution controller including a generator for generating respective error signals from the converter output voltages using a common distribution reference signal for providing respective converter control signals connected to the converters through respective shared-bus controls for evenly distributing the power delivered by the converters that are shared-bus current-mode converters for preferably providing high output voltages. Employing a common regulation control signal, the controller can also provide system output voltage regulation, system input current limiting, proportional-voltage control, relaxed voltage uniformity, and fault-tolerant power control.","Referring to prior art FIG. 1 herein, as an example of the power system shown in FIG. 1 of Siri362, a parallel-input connected serial-output connected converter power system has an input voltage Vin that is fed through line impedance ZinSI for providing input currents Ii, Ii, and Ii respectively to first, second, and third DC to DC power converters having three voltage outputs Vo, Vo, and Vo that are serially connected together providing three serial-output voltages V, V, and V where the first serial-output voltage V serves as the output voltage V that is applied across a bus stabilizer BS and a load capacitor C. A power-return node of the system output voltage can be designated as an ISEN signal, which is the voltage sensed across a current-sense resistor being inserted between the load ground and the power-return node of the power system output voltage. The power system include three diodes D, D, and D for respectively connecting three voltage controls VC, VC, and VC to share bus inputs SB, SB, and SB of the first, second, and third DC to DC power converters for providing distributed power sharing among the first, second, and third DC to DC power converters.","The parallel-input connected serial-output connected converter power system of Siri362 uses a generalized uniform output voltage distribution controller shown in FIGS. 1 and 2A of Siri362. The uniform output voltage distribution controller includes a uniform voltage distribution controller  providing N named error voltages Vd, Vd, through VdN for any N number of converters. N summers , , through  respectively sum a control voltage VC with the N named error voltages Vd, Vd, through VdN for providing N respective voltage control signals Vc, Vc, through VcN. The control voltages Vc, Vc, through VcN or particularly Vc for N=3, are connected through respective diodes and to share bus input SB, SB, and SB of the three DC to DC power converters #, #, and #. The use of a uniform output voltage distribution controller for controlling respective converters to achieve a uniform output voltage distribution is known.","Related U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11\/713,826, filed Feb. 21, 2007, publication number 20080197825, referred to as Siri825, published Aug. 21, 2008, entitled \u201cUniform Converter Input Voltage Distribution Power System\u201d, being prior art to the present application, teaches a uniform converter input voltage distribution power system evenly controls the individual input voltages of DC-to-DC series-input parallel-output connected converters using a uniform input voltage distribution controller including a generator for generating respective error signals from the converter input voltages using a common distribution reference signal for providing respective converter control signals connected to the converters through respective shared-bus controls for evenly distributing the power delivered by the converters that are shared-bus current-mode converters for preferably providing a low output voltage. Employing a common regulation control signal, the controller can also provide system output voltage regulation, system input current limiting, proportional-voltage control, relaxed voltage uniformity, and fault-tolerant power control.","Referring to prior art FIG. 2 herein, as an example of the power system shown in FIG. 1 of Siri825, a serial-input connected parallel-output converter power system including three DC to DC converters having a parallel connected output provide an output voltage V driving a bus stabilizer BS, and output capacitance C. An input voltage Vin is communicated through line impedance ZinP. The input voltage is realized by serially connecting serial-input voltages V, V, and V respectively with respect to ground using series-connected input capacitors Cin, Cin, Cin having respective converter input voltages of Vi, Vi, and Vi. The converter input voltages are fed to the three converters #, #, and #, respectively. Three voltage control signals VC, VC, and VC are respectively fed through resistors R, R, and R through three respective optocouplers that are respectively coupled to share bus inputs SB, SB, and SB of the three converters #, #, and #, for controlling the power output of the converters #, #, and #. The optocouplers have their optoinput circuits being biased in common by a bias voltage VCC with respect to ground GND whereas their two-terminal optocontrolled isolated outputs being connected to their respective share bus inputs and their respective converter-input power-returns. This converter power system enables uniform power distribution between the converters #, #, and # as they are respectively controlled by the voltage control signals VC, VC, and VC.","The prior art teaches voltage regulation, current limiting, and share bus input control of a bank of converters for uniform power distribution between the converters in a uniform power distribution system. These systems teach expanding the number of converters within the same bank to provide sufficient power to a load. Contrary to the teachings of the prior art, these uniform-power distribution power systems could be replicated to provide an increased amount of power to a load as desired through use of two or more banks of converters, each of which having its own dedicated input power source for an independently-sourced converter power system or sharing a common input power source for a single-source converter power system. Each of the banks of converters could be considered a power channel.","As such, a hypothecated nonprior art channelized power system could have a plurality of converter channels with power distribution perfected, according to the teachings of the prior art, within each of the channels. Such a channelized power system would lack active current-sharing among the existing channel output currents, leading to far from uniform current-sharing among nearly identical paralleled channels of the series-connected converters with their channel outputs being shared by a common load. Such a hypothecated nonprior art channelized power system would have unreliable output voltage regulation, during both in steady state and transient conditions, because there exist inherent control conflicts among the individual output voltage regulation circuits individually distributed within each the hypothecated channels of the series-connected converters. Such a hypothecated nonprior art channelized power system would have nonuniform power flows among multiple channels of series connected converters leading to unequal utilization, consequently degrading the system reliability. Such a hypothecated nonprior art channelized power system would have undesirable interactions among series connected converters, because of a natural tendency toward nonuniform distribution of series-connected converter voltages, leading to complicated stability design and analysis due to different modes of operation among series connected converters, each of which is not properly controlled under dedicated voltage regulation control. These and other disadvantages are solved or reduced by using the invention.","An object of the invention is to provide a channelized power system having channels, each of which having power converters.","Another object of the invention is to provide a channelized uniform power distribution power system having channels, each of which having power converters, where power is uniform among the channels.","Yet another object of the invention is to provide channelized uniform power distribution power system having channels, each of which having power converters, where power is uniformly distributed among the channels and among the converters within each channel.","Still another object of the invention is to provide a channelized uniform power distribution power system having channels, each of which having power converters, where power is uniformly distributed among the channels and among the converters within each channel, with the channels being controlled by controllers having an interconnecting share bus signal.","A further object of the invention is to provide a channelized uniform power distribution power system having channels, each of which having power converters, where power is uniformly distributed among the channels and among the converters within each channel, with the channels being controlled by controllers having an interconnecting share bus voltage signal and an interconnecting share bus current signal.","The present invention is characterized by a channelized power system having a plurality of channels, with each of the channels containing power converters and respective channel controllers for controlling the power provided by the channels. The controllers are interconnected so that the controllers uniformly control the channels and the converters within each channel. Each channel includes a bank of converters. A shared bus voltage signal and a shared bus current signal interconnect the controllers together for uniform control of the channels for providing uniform power distribution. The channelized power system has controls that are expandable for one or more input power sources and for adding channels as desired. The channelized power system also distributes power sources that independently supply input voltages to respective channels of series connected converters.","The controllers serve several control purposes perfected by using the shared bus signals for uniform channel output current sharing and uniform series voltage distribution while providing system controls such as current limiting and voltage regulation of either the output or input voltages. The channelized power system offers modularity of DC to DC converters facilitating higher power expansion, with lower or higher output voltages. The controllers stabilize interactions among interconnected channels and converters because the channels and converters are controlled by the common shared bus signals for reducing imbalance in power flows among either parallel connected or independently sourced power channels of series connected converters that share the same load. The channelized power system offers fault tolerance among series connected converters that actively sustain uniform series connected voltages among the remaining converters that still function even though one converter or more may fail to function by inability of building up their serial voltages in any of multiple power channels of series connected converters that share the same common load. These and other advantages will become more apparent from the following detailed description of the preferred embodiment.","An embodiment of the invention is described with reference to the figures using reference designations as shown in the figures. Referring to , a series connected converter uniform output current sharing channelized uniform power distribution system includes channels, such as, a first series connected converter power system channel and a second series connected converter power system channel, that are respectively connected to a first serial system controller and a second serial system controller. An input power is sourced by a power supply PS having an input voltage Vin that is connected to the first and the second serial channels. The power supply PS can be respective power supplies such as PS and PS respectively providing input currents and sensors Iin and Iin to the serial channels. Input current sense signals Iin and Iin are respectively communicated to the first and second serial system controllers. The serial channels include converters, not shown, that are preferably serial-input connected and serial-output connected converters respectively providing output voltages, such as V, V, and V for the first serial channel and V, V, and V for the second serial channel. The first and second serial channels have a common output voltage V that drives a load connected to ground GND. The output voltage V is communicated to the first and second serial system controllers. Each of the serial channels may contain converters being configured as a series-connected input parallel-connected output converter bank or a parallel-connected input series-connected output converter bank.","As an example of a two-channel power system with three series-connected converters in each channel, the first serial channel converter output voltages V, V, and V are communicated to the first serial system controller. The second serial channel converter output voltages V, V, and V are communicated to the second serial system controller. Output current of the first serial channel is sensed by a first sense resistor RS providing a first current sense signal ISEN to the first serial system controller. Output current of the second serial channel is likewise sensed by a second sense resistor RS providing a second current sense signal ISEN to the second serial system controller.","The first serial system controller includes a first uniform voltage distribution controller, a first output voltage regulator OVR, a first current limiter CL, and a first current sharing controller. The second serial system controller includes a second uniform voltage distribution controller, a second output voltage regulator OVR, a second current limiter CL, and a second current sharing controller. As such, the first and second serial system controllers receive a common output voltage V, input current sense signals Iin and Iin, or a common Iin current signal, receive output current sense signals ISEN and ISEN, and receive the converter serial voltages, V, V, V, V, V, and V while providing respective voltage control signals VC, VC, VC to the converters of the first serial channel and voltage control signals VC, VC, VC to the converters of the second serial channel. The first and second serial system controllers have an interconnecting shared bus voltage signal SBV and an interconnecting shared bus current signal SBI. The first and second serial system controllers receive the serial voltages V, V, V, V, V, and V, receive the input currents Iin and Iin, receive output current sense signals ISEN and ISEN, and receive the output voltage V for providing voltage control signals VC, VC, VC, VC, VC, and VC for controlling the converters of the serial channels for uniformly distributing power among the serial channels and among the converters within each channel.","Referring to , a parallel connected current mode converter uniform output current sharing channelized uniform power distribution system includes first and second parallel channels that are preferably first N-PIPO and second M-PIPO parallel-input connected and parallel-output connected current mode system channels, comprising N and M converters, respectively. Each of the parallel channels are independently connected to respective power sources PS and PS providing Iin and Iin currents to the first and second parallel channels connected to respective first and second parallel system controllers.","Input power is sourced by power supplies PS and PS having an input voltage Vin and Vin that are respectively connected to the first and the second parallel channels. The respective power supplies PS and PS respectively provide input current sense signals Iin and Iin to the first and second parallel channels. Input current sense signals Iin and Iin are respectively communicated to the first and second parallel system controllers. The first and second parallel channels include converters, not shown, that are preferably parallel-input connected and parallel-output connected converters respectively providing the output voltage V. The first and second parallel channels have a common output voltage V that drives a load connected to ground GND. The output voltage V is communicated to the first and second parallel system controllers. Each of the first and second parallel channels have a common shared bus signal for concurrently controlling all of the converters concurrently with a signal voltage control signal VCON and VCON.","Output current of the first parallel channel is sensed by a first sense resistor RS providing a first current sense signal ISEN to the first parallel system controller. Output current of the second parallel channel is likewise sensed by a second sense resistor RS providing a second current sense signal ISEN to the second parallel system controller. The first parallel system controller includes a first output voltage regulator OVR, a first current limiter CL, and a first current sharing controller. The second parallel system controller includes a second output voltage regulator OVR, a second current limiter CL, and a second current sharing controller. As such, the first and second parallel system controllers receive a common output voltage V, input current sense signals Iin and Iin, or a common Iin current signal, and receive output current sense signals ISEN and ISEN, while providing respective voltage control signal VCON to the first parallel channels and voltage control signal VCON to the converters of the second parallel channel. The parallel system controllers have an interconnecting shared bus voltage signal SBV and an interconnecting shared bus current signal SBI. The parallel system controllers receive the output voltage V, receive the input currents Iin and Iin, receive output current sense signals ISEN and ISEN, and receive the output voltage V for providing voltage control signals VCON and VCON for controlling the converters of the first and second parallel channels for uniformly distributing power among the parallel channels and among the converters within each channel.","Referring all of the Figures, and more particularly to , a serial system controller includes an output voltage regulator OVR, a current sharing controller, a current limiter CL, and a uniform voltage distribution controller. The output voltage regulator OVR is conventional having a reference voltage VREF that is compared to the output voltage V using an output voltage regulation controller providing a voltage error signal to a blocking diode D with a voltage resistor RV connected between its cathode and the ground for providing the share bus voltage signal SBV. Of course, an alternative configuration would have the blocking diode placed in a reversed direction with the resistor RV connected between its anode and a +VCC power supply. The current limiter CL is conventional having a reference current IREF that is compared to the sensed input current Iin for providing a current error signal through a blocking diode D that is connected to a master voltage control signal VCON.","For each serial channel, such as the first serial channel shown in , the uniform voltage distribution controller includes a conventional uniform voltage distribution error controller that receives serial converter voltages V, V, and V for providing distribution voltage signals VD, VD, and VD, which are in turn respectively fed to summers AS, AS, and AS, which further receive the master voltage control signal VCON for providing the control voltages VC, VC, and VC. For a parallel-input parallel-output converter channel, it is connected to and controlled by a parallel system controller, which is preferably the same as the serial system controller, but without the uniform voltage distribution controller just providing the master voltage control signal VCON. The system controller further includes a current sharing controller that includes a scalar K for scaling the output current sense signal ISEN into a scaled output current signal to a current sharing error amplifier also receiving the shared bus current signal SBI for providing a current error signal IER. An ideal diode D that can be implemented by interconnecting at least an OP-AMP, a diode, and a resistor together provides a dominant signal being selected among scaled output current signals of all channels and broadcasts the dominant signal onto the current shared bus node SBI. The current error signal IER is summed by a current and voltage summer IVS for providing a shared error signal through a current sharing resistor RC to the master voltage control signal VCON. In this way, the system controller can utilize the shared bus voltage signal SBV and the shared bus current signal SBI to provide a stiff regulation of the load voltage while maintaining uniform distribution among the output currents of all the paralleled channels.","Depending on the orientation of the ideal diode D, the dominant signal being broadcasted at SBI node can be either the maximum or the minimum voltage that belongs to a scaled output current signal of a channel. For the maximum voltage of a scaled current signal to be broadcasted on the SBI signal node, the cathode of the ideal diode is connected to SBI with a current-share resistor R terminated between SBI node and ground. For the minimum voltage of a scaled current signal to be broadcasted on the SBI signal, the anode of the ideal diode is connected to SBI with a current-share resistor R terminated between SBI signal and a positive bias voltage +Vss. Furthermore, the ideal diode D can be replaced with a resistor with the current-share resistor R being removed from and not connected to the SBI signal, providing an alternative current share bus signal as a central-limit voltage at the SBI node. The central-limit voltage at the SBI node is simply the mean value of all the scaled current signals of all paralleled channels.","The system output voltage VO is actively regulated by a dominant output voltage regulation feedback control loop for each channel. The output current sensing resistors RS and RS provide two respective channel output current sensed signals ISEN and ISEN allowing active current sharing control. The current sharing control is fully active when the system output voltage is regulated. When at least one power channel detects an input over current condition, the respective current limiter CL provides an active pull down to the channel control signal VCON for the first power channel or VCON for the second power channel and subsequently takes over the normal current sharing control that is active during typical output voltage regulation. For N power channels, when one series connected channel operates in a current limiting mode, the remaining non-current-limiting power channels may operate in an output voltage regulation mode with active current sharing. Under an output overload condition happening to a two-channel series-connected converter power system, it is possible that both serial channels operate in current limiting mode for controlling the power component stresses within an acceptable range.","Each channel of the series connected converters may be connected in either a series input parallel-output (SIPO) configuration, or a parallel-input series output (PISO) configuration. The SIPO and PISO systems are not limited to only three series connected converters but also applicable to more than three series connected converters as well. More than two channels of series connected converters are also applicable for providing uniform channel output current sharing among those paralleled power channels that are supplied by either a single power source or more than two distributed power sources.","The output rectification in the output voltage regulator OVR accommodates the highest control voltage at the shared bus voltage terminal SBV when more than one of the channels are connected to the same output load. This causes the voltage at the SBV terminal to be a dominant control voltage naturally selected from one of the OVR controllers that has the highest internal reference voltage VREF. Consequently, only one regulator OVR actively regulates the system output voltage V thereby avoiding control conflicts created by other remaining output voltage regulators OVRs that may have different internal reference voltages VREF.","This dominant shared bus control voltage SBV ensures that the frequency response of the regulator loop gain has much less variation from light load to full load because only one dominant feedback path always exists. The current sharing among different output currents utilizes the shared bus current signal at SBI terminal, at which the voltage serves as the commanding current-sharing reference for controlling output currents of all channels to achieve uniform distribution. Each PIPO parallel channel that has paralleled converters achieves uniform sharing of the converter output currents within the same channel. The uniform output current sharing among multiple channels of PIPO converters requires extra current sharing control. Because there is no series connected voltages to be controlled in the PIPO channel, all the necessary control features are still applicable except the voltage distribution controller that is not used for this simpler configuration.","Typically, the main output voltage regulation controller regulates the system output voltage V to a fixed value. During normal loading, the main output voltage regulation controller produces the signal VCON to regulate the output voltage. During overload, the system input current IIN is clamped to a value corresponding to the current limiting threshold reference IREF within the current limiting controller. The output of the current limiting controller, when active, seizes control over system output voltage regulation by suppressing the primary control signal VC through the pull down diode D. During both the output voltage regulation and the input current limiting mode of operation, the serial controller produces secondary control signals VD, VD, and VD. For the SIPO channel configuration, the secondary control signals are subtracted from the primary control voltage VCON to create the control voltages VC, VC, and VC that regulates the respective converters to accomplish uniform input voltage distribution. For the PISO converter configuration, the secondary control signals are added to the primary control voltage instead to achieve uniform output voltage distribution.","The channelized power system can be used in telecommunication power systems, computer power systems, satellite power systems having different voltage requirements, stacked converters for lower voltages, terrestrial energy renewable power systems, expandable battery chargers, recycled energy power supplies for energy efficient burn-in testing facilities, battery discharger power supplies for uniform voltage equalization among series connected battery cells, and solar array voltage equalizer among series connected solar array panels that have nearly the same peak power voltage but different peak power ratings. Those skilled in the art can make enhancements, improvements, and modifications to the invention, and these enhancements, improvements, and modifications may nonetheless fall within the spirit and scope of the following claims."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 3A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 3B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 4"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
