---
title: Localized silence area for mobile devices
abstract: A system and method for creating a localized silence area. A mobile device may be registered with an access point base station. Any direct communication links from the mobile device to any other base stations may be removed. An indication may be given to the mobile device that the mobile device is in a localized silence zone. The indication may include a request that the mobile device operate in a silent mode, information about making outgoing calls, information about receiving incoming calls, or a combination of these. Procedures for incoming voice calls to the mobile device may be different for different priority levels.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08744493&OS=08744493&RS=08744493
owner: Via Telecom, Inc.
number: 08744493
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20090526
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["PRIORITY INFORMATION","FIELD OF THE INVENTION","DESCRIPTION OF THE RELATED ART","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE EMBODIMENTS"],"p":["This application claims benefit of priority of U.S. provisional application Ser. No. 61\/056,451 titled \u201cFEMTO-CELL WITH LOCALIZED SILENCE CODE\u201d filed May 28, 2008 whose inventors are Stanislaw Czaja and Mark Davis which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety as though fully and completely set forth herein.","The present invention relates to wireless communication, and more specifically to a system and method for an access point base station to create a localized silence area for mobile devices.","Wireless communication has become increasingly widespread in recent times. In particular, use of mobile devices such as cellular telephones has become ubiquitous. Typical cellular networks include macro base stations or cellular towers for facilitating communication between mobile devices. More recently, use of \u201cfemto-cells\u201d or access point base stations in cellular networks has also been increasing. Femto-cells provide a way of extending or improving cellular network coverage into homes, public places, and commercial spaces, typically by making use of data plan services (e.g., DSL, fiberoptic, cable, WiMAX, etc.) which may not require a nearby macro cell of the cellular network.","Such widespread use of mobile devices does present some problems. For example, in public spaces such as theatres (movie or live), concert and convention halls, airplanes, churches, etc, where many people are gathered for an event, the ringing of a telephone can cause a disturbance and interrupt the event.","It is possible to use a jamming transmitter which prevents mobile devices from communicating altogether. The use of such a device could successfully prevent such disturbances at an event where audio disturbance from mobile devices is undesirable. However, as such a jamming transmitter prevents all communication indiscriminately, it also prevents emergency communications using mobile devices, which is generally considered unacceptable at least for safety reasons, and is therefore illegal in most countries.","Proprietors or organizers of such events are thus forced to rely on requesting that event participants to avoid audio uses of mobile devices (e.g., switching from ring mode to vibrate or silent mode, and not placing\/receiving audio phone calls in the event area, or turning the mobile device off) during the event. However, people can forget or deliberately ignore such requests, and audio disturbances are likely to still occur. Thus, improvements in the field are desirable.","Embodiments are presented of a method for an access point base station to create a localized silence area and an access point base station configured to perform the method.","The method may include receiving a mode and a list of mobile device from an access network and registering a mobile device according to the mode and the list. Any direct communication links from the mobile device to any other base stations may be removed via the access network. An indication may be provided to the mobile device that the mobile device is in a localized silence area. The indication may include sending a request to the mobile device to operate in a silent mode. The indication may include sending service priority information to the mobile device, for example, including information about making outgoing calls of different priority levels. The indication may include sending information to the mobile device about receiving voice calls. The indication may include providing a substantially silent indication of an incoming voice call, regardless of the ring setting of the mobile device. Then information may be sent to the mobile device about receiving voice call. The method may be performed for a plurality of mobile devices, e.g., for each mobile device within the service area or the designated localized silence area of the access point base station.","The method may include receiving an incoming voice call to a mobile device from a caller; in this case, a message may be provided to the caller, informing the caller that the user of the mobile device is in a localized silence area. Information may also or alternatively be provided to the caller about procedures for voice calls of each of a plurality of priority levels. In one embodiment, the plurality of priority levels may include emergency voice calls, high-priority non-emergency voice calls, and low-priority non-emergency voice calls. The access point base station may receive input from the caller indicating a priority level of the voice call. The access point base station may perform a procedure corresponding to the priority level of the voice call based on the input. The procedure for an emergency voice call may include immediately paging the mobile device, i.e., allowing the voice call through to the mobile device. The procedure for a high-priority non-emergency voice call may include receiving a first voice message from the caller, performing a voice-to-text translation of the first voice message, and immediately sending a first textual message (e.g., the textual translation of the first voice message) to the mobile device. The procedure for a low-priority non-emergency voice call may include receiving and storing a second voice message from the caller and sending a second textual message to the mobile device at a designated time. The second textual message may indicate the presence of the second voice message to the user of the mobile device.","The method may be performed by an access point base station. The access point base station may include at least one wireless port, which may provide bi-directional communication with one or more mobile devices. The wireless port may enable the access point base station to provide wireless communication in a local area. The access point base station may also include a port for providing bi-directional communication with a service provider (e.g., a cellular service provider) over an IP network. The service provider may also provide wireless communication in a macro area, e.g., via one or more macro base stations. The access point base station may also include a processor (coupled to the port and the wireless port) and a memory medium coupled to the processor. The memory medium may include program instructions executable by the processor to perform the method for creating a localized silence area, as described above according to various embodiments.","One aspect of the invention provides a method for creating a localized silence area for wireless mobile devices which is performed by an access point base station and a mobile device. The method comprises deciding a mode and a list of mobile device, registering a mobile device by an access point base station according to the mode and the list; and removing, by the access point base station, audio communication links from the mobile device to all other macro base stations, wherein said removing prevents the mobile device from performing audio communications with any of the macro base stations independently of the access point base station, sending service priority information to the mobile device, wherein the service priority information comprises a plurality of bits about making outgoing calls of different priority levels.","Creating a localized silence area in this way may substantially reduce or eliminate undesirable audio disturbances within the localized silence area, while still allowing all emergency communications. Embodiments of this method may further provide an advantage of prior art systems by providing silent mechanisms (e.g., voice-to-text translation and corresponding textual messages) for conveying attempted non-emergency audio communications, rather than preventing such attempts altogether.","While the invention is susceptible to various modifications and alternative forms, specific embodiments thereof are shown by way of example in the drawings and will herein be described in detail. It should be understood, however, that the drawings and description thereto are not intended to limit the invention to the particular form disclosed, but, on the contrary, the invention is to cover all modifications, equivalents, and alternatives falling with the spirit and scope of the present invention as defined by the appended claims.","Terms","The following is a glossary of terms used in the present application:","Memory Medium\u2014Any of various types of memory devices or storage devices. The term \u201cmemory medium\u201d is intended to include an installation medium, e.g., a CD-ROM, floppy disks , or tape device; a computer system memory or random access memory such as DRAM, DDR RAM, SRAM, EDO RAM, Rambus RAM, etc.; or a non-volatile memory such as a magnetic media, e.g., a hard drive, or optical storage. The memory medium may comprise other types of memory as well, or combinations thereof. In addition, the memory medium may be located in a first computer in which the programs are executed, or may be located in a second different computer which connects to the first computer over a network, such as the Internet. In the latter instance, the second computer may provide program instructions to the first computer for execution. The term \u201cmemory medium\u201d may include two or more memory mediums which may reside in different locations, e.g., in different computers that are connected over a network.","Computer System\u2014any of various types of computing or processing systems, including a personal computer system (PC), mainframe computer system, workstation, network appliance, Internet appliance, personal digital assistant (PDA), television system, grid computing system, or other device or combinations of devices. In general, the term \u201ccomputer system\u201d can be broadly defined to encompass any device (or combination of devices) having at least one processor that executes instructions from a memory medium.","FIG. \u2014Exemplary Communications System",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["100","105","170","175","150"]},"The term \u201caccess point base station\u201d is intended to include typical definitions (as known by those of skill in the art) of femto-cells, home base stations, personal access points (PAPs), and personal 2G-3G (or nG) base stations, among others. Similarly, the term \u201cmacro base station\u201d is intended to include typical definitions (as known by those of skill in the art) of cell phone towers and base stations which provide service in a macro area. The term \u201cbase station\u201d is intended to include both access point base stations and macro base stations among other types of base stations, as desired.","The mobile devices (also referred to as \u201caccess terminals\u201d)  may include any type of device which may be used in a cellular network, e.g., for RF communication. The mobile devices may include cellular (or cell) phones (including smart phones), personal digital assistants (PDAs) with mobile communication capabilities, laptops or computer systems with mobile communication components, and\/or any device that is operable to communicate with a cellular network. The mobile devices may use various different protocols, e.g., CDMA2000 (1xRTT and EV-DO), UMB, UMTS, LTE, WiMAX, or others). Correspondingly, the base stations  and  may support any or at least a subset of the protocols used by the mobile devices, e.g., without modification to the standards or protocols for supporting existing mobile devices.","As shown, an access point base station  may typically provide wireless communication for mobile devices  within a service area  which is smaller than the service area  of a macro base station . The service area  within which an access point base station  provides wireless communication may be entirely within or overlapping with the service areas  of one or more macro base stations  and\/or the service areas  of one or more other access point (or other) base stations . A mobile device  may thus be registered with more than one base station at any given time, and may, under most circumstances, wirelessly communicate through the base station which provides the best signal to the mobile device at any given time.","FIG. \u2014Exemplary Communications System",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 2"],"b":["170","175","110","130"]},"The access point base station  may operate to receive wireless communication (e.g., radio frequency (RF) communication) from the one or more mobile devices  and provide corresponding signals or communication with mobile operator(s) (or cellular service providers) corresponding to the service providers of the mobile devices . More specifically, the access point base station  may operate to provide communication for the mobile devices  using the broadband communications device  over an IP wide area network  (e.g., the Internet, via the user's internet service provider (ISP)). The broadband device  may thus communicate with the cellular service provider  via the Internet.","Moreover, the IP wide area network  may be private or dedicated to the user using various technologies, for example, lease line, frame relay, digital subscriber line (DSL), or dial-up service. The IP communication may be encrypted or IP tunneling may be used if supported by the IP wide area network . The cellular service provider  may also be coupled to macro base stations  which may operate to provide service to the mobile devices , and to the mobile devices  when outside of range of the access point base station  and\/or when the access point base station  is disabled or non-operational. Thus, the access point base station  may provide bi-directional communication for the mobile devices via an IP network such as the Internet. Stated another way, users in the service area  may use their cell phones which communicate with the access point base station, wherein the user's voice communications may be transmitted\/received to\/from the cellular service provider over an IP network.","The broadband device  may include a router and\/or cable\/DSL modem for connecting to the ISP . In one embodiment, the broadband device  may include a wireless router (or one or more wireless hubs) which may provide wireless communication (e.g., using 802.11x communication technology) for the access point base station . Additionally, the broadband device  may be connected to the wide area network  via wired (e.g., cable, DSL, fiberoptic, power lines, etc.) or wireless means (e.g., WiMAX or other wireless communication methods), as desired. Alternatively, or additionally, the broadband device  may be coupled to the access point base station  remotely, e.g., via a WiMAX wireless connection. Furthermore, in one embodiment, the access point base station  may include the broadband device  (e.g., in an all-in-one solution for the user).","Thus, the access point base station  may provide access to the cellular network via the wide area network  (e.g., the Internet) using the broadband device  (wired or wirelessly).","The access point base station  may initially be provisioned (i.e., set up) with various parameters and operating settings. Provisioning may be automatic; for example, the macro base station  and\/or the service provider  may communicate (via the wide area network ) with the access point base station  during installation of the access point base station  to perform set up operations automatically. Alternatively, the access point may be provisioned manually, e.g., by a user or technician on site, or by a combination of automatic and manual provisioning, as desired. The provisioning of the access point base station  may also in some embodiments be modified or adjusted at a later time, including, in some embodiments, at regular intervals.","Provisioning of the access point base station  may include setting various parameters. For example, one or more of the parameters could be used to set the access point base station  to create a localized silence area. For example, in a preferred embodiment, there may be an Admission Policy Mode parameter, with settings defined as follows:\n\n","There may also be a MODE_EXTENSION for one or more of these settings; for example, in one embodiment, a localized silence area may be specified with APM=RESTRICTED and MODE_EXTENSION=SILENT. In this embodiment, the APM parameter and its mode extension (if any) may be specified in four bits:\n\n",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0042"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00001","num":"00001"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"77pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"98pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"Bits [3:2]","00 = OPEN"]},{"entry":[{},{},"01 = RESTRICTED"]},{"entry":[{},{},"10 = PRIVATE"]},{"entry":[{},{},"11 = RESERVED"]},{"entry":[{},"Bits [1:0]","00 = SILENT"]},{"entry":[{},{},"01 = RESERVED"]},{"entry":[{},{},"10 = RESERVED"]},{"entry":[{},{},"11 = RESERVED"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}}}}},"Thus, if the access point base station  is provisioned with the appropriate parameters, it may be configured (or may configure itself) accordingly to provide a localized silence area. As one of skill in the art will understand, this is only one exemplary embodiment of how an access point base station could be configured to create a localized silence area, and any number of other ways may alternatively be used to configure an access point base station to create a localized silence area, including similarly by means of provisioning parameters; by means of a switch, e.g., in or on the access point base station (e.g., in hardware); or by any appropriate means.","Thus, in one embodiment, the access point base station  could be configured to maintain a localized silence area within the service area . This may be desirable, for example, if the service area  is a movie theater. In this case the localized silence area may substantially prevent audio disturbances via the mobile devices  for the duration of the movie. A localized silence area could be similarly desirable in a range of settings and\/or locations, such as, for example, churches, concert halls, airplanes and\/or airports, convention halls, stage theaters, and private settings. A localized silence area may be suitable for either indoor or outdoor settings in various embodiments. In some embodiments, the access point base station may still allow emergency audio communications via the mobile devices  while otherwise maintaining a localized silence area. In some embodiments, localized silence areas may be further supported by \u201cintra-femto traffic routing\u201d, which may allow a micro-coverage area within the service area of an access point base station, enabling areas with different service priorities. Thus, in some embodiments, an access point base station may be able to create localized silence area within part, but not all, of its service area . Various embodiments of a method for an access point base station to create such a localized silence area are described further with reference to .","FIG. \u2014Block Diagram of an Access Point Base Station",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0039","num":"0045"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":["170","310","320","330","340"]},"In various embodiments, the access point base station  may include a power supply for providing power to the components of the access point base station . The access point base station may also include one or more ports for coupling to other devices or communications devices. For example, in one embodiment, the housing may include a universal serial bus (USB) port (or other type of port, such as firewire, among others) for attaching devices (e.g., printers, personal music players, personal digital assistants, cell phones, external hard drives, testing devices, media controllers, etc.). Additionally, or alternatively, the one or more ports may include Ethernet ports (e.g., for coupling to a router or a communications device, among others), fiber ports, cable ports, etc.","FIG. \u2014Method for Creating a Localized Silence Area",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0041","num":"0047"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIGS. 1-3","FIG. 2"],"b":"170"},"In , a mobile device is registered with an access point base station. The mobile device may be within the service area of the access point base station; for example, the mobile device may have just entered the service area, or may have previously been powered off and may be powered on while within the service area. In either case, the mobile device may register with the access point base station, as it is within range for the access point base station to provide wireless communication for the mobile device. In some embodiments, the mobile device may be within range of more than one base station, e.g., a macro base station, or another access point base station. In this case, the mobile device may be registered with multiple base stations. The access point base station may be the primary provider of wireless communication to the mobile device while the mobile device is in the service area of the access point base station. Alternatively, the access point base station may not be the primary provider of wireless communication to the mobile device, e.g., if the access point base station cannot provide sufficient quality of service (QoS) and\/or another base station can provide a stronger signal.","In the preferred embodiment, the access point base station may be operating in RESTRICTED\/SILENT mode, as noted above. In this case, any mobile devices not listed in the preferred users list may be required to register with the access point base station each time they enter the service area. Once the QoS for a given mobile device from the access point base station is sufficient, the access point base station may receive hand-off (HO) from the base station which was previously servicing the mobile device. The base station may then be removed from the mobile device's \u201cActive Set\u201d (e.g., the mobile device's registry of base stations within range to provide service). A radio access network (RAN) for the cellular service provider may also store the location of the mobile device in order to direct all pages (e.g., voice calls and other communications) and messages intended for the mobile device. In some embodiments, this may limit the bandwidth requirements and interference in the macro base station control channels (such as, e.g., a paging channel).","In some embodiments, it may be beneficial (e.g., in order to guarantee that all mobile devices receive any communications regardless of their location) to require registration of a mobile device each time the mobile device moves into or out of the access point base station's service coverage area. Although this may achieved in any number of possible ways, in one embodiment the following steps may be taken to achieve this:\n\n","In , any direct communication links from the mobile device to any other base stations may be removed. In other words, all communication to or from the mobile device will go through the access point base station. This may be accomplished by removing any other base stations from the \u201cActive Set\u201d of the mobile device. In this way, a mobile device may be prevented from \u201caccidentally\u201d receiving or placing a voice call while in the localized silence area by way of a different base station.","In , the access point base station may indicate to the mobile device that the mobile device is in a localized silence area. This may include sending a textual message (such as an SMS message) to the mobile device with information indicating that the mobile device is in a localized silence area. For example, the message may include a request that the mobile device change to profile configuration related to ring setting, such as switching to a silent (or vibrate) mode, e.g., instead of a ring mode. The message may include information about incoming and\/or outgoing calls. For example, in one embodiment, there may be no restriction on outgoing emergency call (e.g., 911). Non-emergency calls may require dialing a prefix (e.g., 999, or any number), and\/or there may be a designated area for making outgoing calls, in which case the message may indicate the location of the designated area. Similarly, there may be an area designated for receiving incoming calls, e.g., a lobby or foyer. The message may also or alternatively provide information on procedures for incoming calls, which will be described below according to various embodiments. While a textual (e.g., SMS) message is one possible way of indicating to the mobile device that it is in a localized silence area, other ways are also possible. For example, in one embodiment, the access point base station may automatically bypass the ringer of a mobile device and instead stimulate its vibrator if the mobile device receives an incoming call, by way of indication. Any of various other ways of indicating to the mobile device that the mobile device is in a localized silence area are also possible, as will be apparent to one of skill in the art.","FIG. \u2014Method for Receiving an Incoming Voice Call in a Localized Silence Area",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0047","num":"0058"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 4"]},"In , an access point base station may receive an incoming voice call from a caller to a mobile device within the localized silence area. The access point base station may not immediately page the mobile device. The access point base station may instead indicate to the caller that the mobile device is in a localized silence area, e.g., in step .","In , the access point base station may provide information to the caller about procedures for each of a plurality of priority levels. It should be noted that any number of priority levels with various accompanying procedures are possible; thus, the example below is primarily exemplary, and is not intended to be limiting. In one embodiment, the access point base station may send the caller a pre-recorded message indicating that the target user (i.e., the user of the mobile device for which the incoming voice call is intended) is in a localized silence area, and\/or what the procedures are for various priority level calls. In one exemplary embodiment, there may be three priority levels for voice calls, e.g., emergency voice calls, high-priority non-emergency voice calls, and low-priority non-emergency voice calls. The caller may further be informed how to indicate the priority level of their call; for example, the caller may be informed to press 9 for an emergency, to press 99 for high-priority non-emergency voice calls, and to leave a message after a beep for low-priority non-emergency voice calls. In some embodiments the caller may be informed of the expected duration of the localized silence area, e.g., a time at which there will be an intermission, or a time at which a performance or event ends. The caller may further be informed what the procedures are for each priority level; alternatively, the caller may simply be informed of the priority level choices and be asked for input on the priority level of their call.","In , input from the caller may be received, indicating the priority level of the voice call. The input may be an input into a number-pad, e.g., of a touch-tone telephone or a mobile telephone. Alternatively, the input may be an audio input, for example, the caller may be asked to say \u201cemergency\u201d, \u201chigh priority\u201d, or \u201clow priority\u201d. In one embodiment, the caller may simply wait (e.g., not provide an input) and the access point base station may accept this as an indication, e.g., of a low priority voice call. In short, the input indicating the priority level of the incoming voice may be received in any of various ways, as desired.","In , the access point base station may perform a procedure corresponding to the priority level of the voice call based on the input. Thus, in the exemplary embodiment described above, i.e., with emergency, high priority, and low priority voice calls, the access point base station may perform the procedure corresponding to the priority level indicated by the caller. An exemplary procedure for an emergency call may simply be to allow the call (e.g., page the mobile device) regardless of the ring setting (silent, vibrate, ring, etc.). This may cause a disturbance in the localized silence area; however, for safety purposes, it may be desirable to allow for the possibility of such a disturbance in case of an emergency. An exemplary procedure for a high-priority non-emergency voice call could include providing a voice-to-text translation of a message from the caller to the mobile device, and delivering the message (in textual form, e.g., in an SMS message) to the mobile device. An exemplary procedure for a low-priority non-emergency voice call could include recording a voice message from the caller, and sending a textual message to the mobile device, either immediately or at a later time (such as an intermission, or the end of a performance or show), informing the user of the mobile device of the message. It should be noted that other procedures for these priority levels, or other procedures for other possible priority levels, are also possible, as will be apparent to one of skill in the art.","In various embodiments, it is also be possible that a mobile device may be the intended recipient of a non-voice message (e.g., a textual message, such as SMS) while in a localized silence area. In this case, the message may be buffered by the access point base station and sent to the mobile device when the localized silence area is removed (e.g., an intermission or the end of a performance or show) or when the mobile device leaves the localized silence area; alternatively, non-voice (e.g., silent) messages may be allowed by the localized silence area, and therefore may be provided to the intended mobile device immediately.","Although the embodiments above have been described in considerable detail, numerous variations and modifications will become apparent to those skilled in the art once the above disclosure is fully appreciated. It is intended that the following claims be interpreted to embrace all such variations and modifications."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["A better understanding of the present invention can be obtained when the following detailed description of the preferred embodiment is considered in conjunction with the following drawings, in which:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 5"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
