---
title: Binary interest vector for better audience targeting
abstract: A binary interest vector is herein described, which represents information in a string of bits about user interest in a set of topics. The binary interest vector may represent the interests of a particular user, or the interests of users associated with a particular client machine. Such a binary interest vector can store a large amount of information in a very small space by assigning bit subsets of the string of bits to represent interest in respective topics of the set of topics based on the positions of the bits in the subsets. Additionally, the bits of a particular binary interest vector may include a version indicator identifying the pattern of topics assigned to the bits of the particular vector. The user interest information in a particular binary interest vector may be utilized in selecting content to display to the user that is associated with the particular vector.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08214390&OS=08214390&RS=08214390
owner: Yahoo! Inc.
number: 08214390
owner_city: Sunnyvale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20090603
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["FIELD OF THE INVENTION","BACKGROUND","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["The present invention relates to recording user interest, and more specifically, to recording such interest with a compact and dynamic data structure.","The most widely used part of the Internet is the World Wide Web, often abbreviated \u201cWWW\u201d or simply referred to as just \u201cthe Web.\u201d The Web is an Internet service that organizes information through the use of hypermedia. Hypermedia documents that are accessible over the Web, or Web pages, present information on a myriad of topics.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0004","num":"0003"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["100","100","102","104","106","110","110","120","122","122","124"]},"To access Web page , a user of client device  directs Web browser  to request Web page . Web browser  sends a request to view Web page  via network  to Web server  on server device . Web server  receives the request and sends the information for Web page  to client device . Web browser  interprets the information for Web page  and then causes Web page  to be displayed on display device . The user may browse for additional Web pages by selecting links that are embedded in Web page . Selecting such links causes Web browser  to issue requests for information corresponding to the links from appropriate Web servers.","According to established Internet custom, users may access many Web pages without charge. One way that Web page providers (\u201cproviders\u201d) make money from Web pages that users view without charge is by including paid advertisements in the pages. Such advertisements generally include links to Web pages containing information on advertised products or services. If a provider has more than one advertisement available to display on a particular Web page, the provider may attempt to select an advertisement for display that is in line with the viewing user's interests. Tailoring the content of advertisements to user interests increases the probability that the user will select the advertised links.","Providers can determine the interests of users in many ways, e.g., through information provided by the user in a user profile, by observing the browsing history of the user, by observing search queries performed by the user, etc. A provider may record such interest information and refine the information over time to tailor content presentation to the interests of the users more accurately.","One way that Web page providers record the interests of users is through Internet \u201ccookies\u201d. A cookie is a string that a Web server may cause to be stored on a client device. Through a cookie, the Web server may store information on the client machine. The client device automatically returns the cookie to the Web server when the client requests information from the server. For example, when a user on client device  views Web page , Web server  may provide a cookie to client device  along with the requested data. Web browser  returns the cookie with future requests to Web server . Web server  may include, in a cookie on client device , the Web pages that a particular user of client device  views. The interests of the user may be inferred from this list of Web pages.","Thus, a Web server may track various indicia of user interest through cookies. However, because cookies are stored on client machines, a Web server cannot access cookie information about a particular user stored at one client machine when that particular user views Web pages from a second client machine. Also, users have the option of clearing all stored cookies from a client machine, which reduces the effectiveness of storing user interest data in cookies.","Furthermore, the content of a cookie may become increasingly large as data is gathered about the user and stored in the cookie. Client machines that are capable of accessing the Internet are becoming smaller with more limited resources, i.e., smart phones, personal digital assistants (PDAs), etc. Transferring and storing bulky cookies on such small devices can reduce the speed with which these devices can process Web pages.","Another way to tailor the presentation of content to the interests of a particular user is to maintain a history of user interest in a database. For example, a provider of Web content that is interested in tailoring presented content to the interests of a user may request that the user create and fill out a user profile. Then, the provider may track information about the user through the user profile and employ that information in selecting content to provide to the user. For example, the provider may record the Web pages that the user views when the user is logged into the user profile, infer the interests of the user from the Web pages that the user views, and select content based on those inferred interests.","Additionally, a provider may analyze trends in information gathered through a multitude of user profiles, or other information sources, to determine rules to govern the determination of user interest in particular topics. For example, a provider may perceive a trend that indicates that people who view Web pages about cars are generally also interested in soft drinks. Providers may use the information gathered through the user profiles as well as the rules based on information trends to tailor the presentation of content to individual users.","However, databases that store such information are generally large and complex, and it may be expensive to extract and analyze the information. Also, if a user fails to log into her corresponding user profile when the user browses the Internet, the provider cannot connect the user with the user's profile. Thus, the utility of gathering information about the user through profiles is limited. Furthermore, tracking user interest in this manner can cause a large amount of data to be transferred between client machines and servers, which can cause performance problems on small devices such as smart phones and PDAs, as described above.","The approaches described in this section are approaches that could be pursued, but not necessarily approaches that have been previously conceived or pursued. Therefore, unless otherwise indicated, it should not be assumed that any of the approaches described in this section qualify as prior art merely by virtue of their inclusion in this section.","In the following description, for the purposes of explanation, numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention. It will be apparent, however, that the present invention may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances, well-known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the present invention. Various aspects of the invention are described hereinafter in the following sections:","I. GENERAL OVERVIEW","II. STRUCTURE","III. ASSOCIATED ENTITIES","IV. DISPLAYING CONTENT","V. STORAGE\n\n","VI. UPDATING USER INTEREST","VII. ALTERNATIVE IMPLEMENTATIONS","VIII. HARDWARE OVERVIEW","I. General Overview","A binary interest vector is herein described, which represents information in a string of bits about user interest in a set of topics. The binary interest vector may represent the interests of a particular user, or the interests of users associated with a particular client machine. Thus, the binary interest vector may be stored in connection with a user profile, or in connection with a client machine, etc. Such a binary interest vector can store a large amount of information in a very small space by assigning bit subsets of the string of bits to represent interest in respective topics of the set of topics based on the positions of the bits in the subsets. Additionally, the bits of a particular binary interest vector may include a version indicator identifying the pattern of topics assigned to the bits of the particular vector.","The user interest information in a particular binary interest vector may be utilized in selecting content, tailored to a user's interest, to display to the user that is associated with the particular vector.  illustrates an example Web page  with a spot for tailored content . In the context of example Web page , a provider may select content to display at the spot for tailored content  based on a binary interest vector. Such tailored content may be an advertisement, or any other kind of content. Tailored content may also be displayed with internet content other than Web pages, such as emails, etc. Furthermore, when selecting content to display to the user, the values represented by a binary interest vector may be assigned weights to adjust the significance of user interest in certain topics represented by the vector.","II. Structure","A binary interest vector is a compact and dynamic record of user interest in a set of topics using a sequence of bits, including any quantity of bits. A subset of bits in the binary interest vector is assigned to each topic of the set of topics based on the positions of the bits in the subset.","An example binary interest vector  is illustrated in . For the purposes of explanation, binary interest vector  is composed of a set of eight bits -. According to one embodiment of the invention, subsets of bits - are associated with respective topics based on the position of each respective bit. The values of the bits corresponding to a particular topic indicate a level of interest in the particular topic.","If only one bit is assigned to a particular topic, then a value of 1 indicates interest in the particular topic, and a value of 0 indicates no interest in the particular topic. If two or more bits are used to indicate interest in a particular topic, then the values of the bits are combined in any number of ways to determine a level of interest in the particular topic. For example, bits may be concatenated in linear order and the resulting binary number may be interpreted as the interest level in the particular topic, or the bits may be added together to determine a decimal interest level in the topic, etc. Thus, the level of interest in the topic manifest by two or more bits may take on values that range wider than 0 and 1.","In the example of binary interest vector , the vector contains only 8 bits. The first two bits are dedicated to the topic \u201csports\u201d, the next three bits are dedicated to \u201cfood\u201d, the next bit is dedicated to \u201ccars\u201d, and the final two bits are dedicated to \u201ctravel\u201d. For convenience, it is said that binary interest vector  conforms to the following template: 8 bits: sports\u20142 bits; food\u20143 bits; cars\u20141 bit; travel\u20142 bits. While the bits corresponding to a particular topic in binary interest vector  are adjacent bits, bits from any location in a binary interest vector may represent a particular topic within the embodiments of the invention.","In this example, the bits of binary interest vector  are concatenated linearly and are interpreted as representing a numerical interest level for purposes of illustration. In binary interest vector , bits  and  are associated with \u201csports\u201d. When concatenated in linear order, bits  and  form the binary number 10. As is well known in the art, the binary number 10 is equivalent to the decimal number 2. Thus, bits  and  may indicate an interest level of 2 in sports. Further, bits - are associated with \u201cfood\u201d, and represent a binary interest level of 011 in food, which translates to a decimal interest level of 3. The value, 0, of bit  associated with \u201ccars\u201d represents no interest in cars. The concatenated value, 01, of bits  and  also represent a decimal interest level of 1 in \u201ctravel\u201d.","Topics may be assigned to the bits of a binary interest vector as desired by a provider. Also, the bits of a binary interest vector may convey information other than information on topics in which a user has manifested interest, such as attributes or preferences of the user, attributes of the client machine, or other information.","III. Associated Entities","In one embodiment of the invention, a binary interest vector describes the interests of users associated with a particular entity, such as a user profile or a client machine.  illustrates an example configuration  of binary interest vectors associated with various entities. Personal digital assistant (PDA)  is associated with binary interest vector , personal computer (PC)  is associated with binary interest vector , and user profile  is associated with binary interest vector . A binary interest vector may be associated with a device using a unique identifier for the device, such as a Media Access Control (MAC) address or an Internet Protocol (IP) address associated with the device. Each of binary interest vectors - represents the interests of users associated with PDA , PC , and user profile , respectively. Binary interest vector  generally reflects interest information for only the user associated with user profile . In contrast, binary interest vectors associated with devices, such as binary interest vectors  and , may represent interest information for all of the users that access the internet through the associated device.","When a particular user uses the Internet through PDA , the user may express interest in a particular topic by browsing to a particular Web page, or by entering a particular search query, etc., as described in more detail below. A provider may update binary interest vector  to reflect the interests manifest by users of PDA . Further, the provider may select content to display to users of the PDA based on binary interest vector . When a particular user uses the Internet through PC , the provider may utilize binary interest vector  in a similar manner.","Because many different users may have access to PDA  or PC , binary interest vectors  and  may reflect the interests of these multiple users. Therefore, in one embodiment of the invention, if a binary interest vector associated with a user profile is available, then the information in that binary interest vector is used before information in a binary interest vector associated with a device. Information from a binary interest vector for a user profile is preferred because when the provider selects content to display to the particular user based on such information, the content is more likely to be suited to the particular user's interests. However, if a binary interest vector associated with a user profile is not available, either because the user is not logged into a profile, or the activated user profile does not have an associated binary interest vector, then a binary interest vector associated with the client device is utilized, if available.","IV. Displaying Content","A provider of Web content may base the presentation of content on the information represented in a binary interest vector. For purposes of explanation, certain embodiments of this invention are described with respect to selecting advertising content to present to users. However, any kind of content may be selected based on the information in a binary interest vector, as described in further detail below.","When a user requests Web page  of , the Web content provider selects content to display in the spot for tailored content . For example, a provider may have two or more content items available to display as a part of Web page . User interests recorded in a binary interest vector associated with the user profile or client device of the user aids the provider in selecting content to display as tailored content  that is likely to be interesting to the user.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0051","num":"0054"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 2","FIG. 3"],"b":["500","502","200","300"]},"At step , all of the values for the topics in the binary interest vector are determined. For example, as previously indicated, binary interest vector  conforms to the template: 8 bits: sports\u20142 bits; food\u20143 bits; cars\u20141 bit; travel\u20142 bits. Thus, sports has a binary value of 10 and a decimal value of 2, food has a binary value of 011 and a decimal value of 3, cars has a value of 0, and travel has a value of 01 and a decimal value of 1.","At step , the weights for each of the topics in the binary interest vector are determined. A provider may provide weights for each topic in a binary interest vector to adjust the influence each topic has on the final selection of content. Such weights may be the same across all pages and users, or may be customized for various pages and\/or users. Weights may be adjusted based on information known about the user, the client machine, or based on the other content in the Web page in which the tailored content will be displayed. For example, when selecting content for the spot for tailored content  in Web page , a provider may weight the value of \u201ctravel\u201d more heavily than other topics because Web page  is closely related to travel. Weights may also be adjusted based on the viewing history of the user, etc. Thus, the weights applied to the binary interest vector values may be dynamically adjusted by a provider without adjusting the structure of the binary interest vector itself. In the context of the previous example of binary interest vector , \u201csports\u201d and \u201ccars\u201d are associated with a weight of 1, \u201cfood\u201d is associated with a weight of 1.5, and \u201ctravel\u201d is associated with a weight of 3.","At step , the value for each topic is modified based on the weight for the topic. In one embodiment of the invention, values represented in a binary interest vector are modified by multiplying the values by their corresponding weights. However, other methods of modifying binary interest vector values based on weights may be employed within the embodiments of the invention. Continuing with the previous example, the modified values of binary interest vector  are as follows: sports, 2*1=2; food, 3*1.5=4.5; cars, 0*1=0; and travel, 1*3=3.","In another embodiment of the invention, a provider may also normalize the modified interest values to allow for varying ranges of values possible for the topics. For example, because two bits are available to represent an interest value in sports and three bits are available to represent food, an interest value of 1 in sports is not necessarily equivalent to an interest value of 1 in food. A value for a particular topic may be normalized according to the following Eq. 1:\n\n(x+1)\/R\u2003\u2003Eq. 1\n\nwhere xdenotes the value associate with topic t in a binary interest vector, and Rdenotes the range of values that can be represented by the bits associated with topic t.\n","For example, if sports is represented by two bits, then the range of the bits for sports is four because two bits can represent exactly four distinct values: 0, 1, 2, and 3. Therefore, because the initial modified value for sports in binary interest vector  is 2, then the normalized modified value for sports in binary interest vector  is (2+1)\/4, which equals 0.75. Using the same normalization technique, the normalized modified value of food for binary interest vector , which is represented by three bits with a range of 8, is (4.5+1)\/8, which equals approximately 0.69. The normalized modified value for travel is (3+1)\/4, which equals 1.0. The normalized modified values for cars continues to be 0. Preferably, the modified values are not saved to the binary interest vector, to allow different weights to be applied in the future. Furthermore, a provider may normalize or weight topics corresponding to only one bit in a different manner than topics corresponding to two or more bits. Depending on the weight applied to a particular value, the corresponding modified and normalized value may exceed 1. For purposes of this explanation, normalization is considered part of modifying the values.","At step , one or more content items are selected to display to the user based on the modified values. For example, if there is only one spot for content, then the topic with the highest modified value may determine which content item is selected for the spot. In the example of binary interest vector , a provider may select an advertisement relating to the topic with the highest modified value, which is \u201ctravel\u201d, with a modified normalized score of 1.0. More than one modified value may also be considered in selecting content. Furthermore, other information in addition to a binary interest vector may also be considered in selecting content, such as the browsing history for the user in the particular session.","A provider may also order the topics of a binary interest vector such that the topic that is most important to the provider is represented by the first bits of the vector, and the topic that is second-most important to the provider is represented by the second bits of the vector, and so on. Thus, a provider may encode weights into the binary interest vector.","V. Storage","A binary interest vector may be stored at a client device such as PDA  or PC  (), or may be stored remotely from a client device, such as on a server.  is a block diagram that illustrates an example network arrangement  on which embodiments of the invention may be implemented. Network arrangement  includes a client device , and a server device , communicatively coupled via network .","Client device  may be implemented by any type of client device. Example implementations of client device  include, without limitation, workstations, personal computers, laptop computers, personal digital assistants (PDAs), cellular telephony devices, and any type of mobile devices. In example network arrangement , client device  is configured with a Web browser , a display device , and storage . Web browser  may be any type of Web browsing application that interprets Web page information. Display device  may be implemented by any type of device that is capable of visually displaying data from client device . Storage  may be implemented by any type of storage, including volatile and non-volatile storage. Examples of storage  include, without limitation, random access memory (RAM) and one or more disks. Client device  may be configured with other mechanisms, processes, and functionality, depending upon a particular implementation.","Server device  may be implemented by any type of device that is capable of communicating with client device  over network . In example network arrangement , server device  includes Web server , which has access to information for Web page . Web server  may be implemented by any application able to serve information for Web pages, such as Web page , over network  in response to a client request, such as from client device . Server device  may be configured with other mechanisms, processes and functionality, depending upon a particular implementation, and the approach described herein","Server device  has access to storage , which may be implemented by any type of storage, including volatile and non-volatile storage. Examples of storage  include, without limitation, random access memory (RAM) and one or more disks. Storage  may be implemented in a device distinct from server device , or may be integrated with server device .","In example network arrangement , storage  may include binary interest vector , and storage  may include binary interest vector , according to certain embodiments of the invention. Specifically, binary interest vectors that are associated with a client device or a user profile may be stored either at a client device, e.g., as a cookie, or at a server device, or at both places, depending on the implementation of the embodiments of the invention.","Server device  also has access to content targeting system , either directly, or through network . Parts of content targeting system , or the whole of content targeting system , may be integrated with server device , or may be implemented independently of server device . For example, content targeting system  may be implemented by one or more processes running on server device . Alternatively, all or part of content targeting system  may be implemented by one or more processes running on another device that is accessible to server device , either directly, or over network .","Network  may be implemented with any type of medium and\/or mechanism that facilitates the exchange of information between client device  and server device . Furthermore, network  may use any type of communications protocol and may be secured or unsecured, depending upon the requirements of a particular application. The embodiments of the invention are not limited to any particular type of device or network configuration. Any number of devices, including client devices, and other devices, may be included in a network implementing an embodiment of the invention.","A. Binary Interest Vector Retrieval","Retrieval of an appropriate binary interest vector may be implemented in a number of ways within the embodiments of this invention.  illustrates an example method  of retrieving a binary interest vector in response to a user request to view Web page information. At step , a request for Web page information is received from a client device. In the example network arrangement  of , a user of client device  requests information for Web page  from server device  through Web browser .","At step , retrieval of a binary interest vector associated with a user profile is attempted. For example, server device  causes content targeting system  to locate a binary interest vector associated with a user profile. Content targeting system  first determines whether the user of client device  is logged onto a user profile. If the user is logged onto a user profile, then content targeting system  determines whether client device  has a binary interest vector, such as binary interest vector , in storage  that is associated with the user profile or whether storage  associated with server device  has a binary interest vector, such as binary interest vector , associated with the user profile.","In the context of the above example, if the user is not logged onto a user profile, or if content targeting system  does not locate a binary interest vector associated with the user profile that the user is logged into, then, at step , retrieval of a binary interest vector associated with the client device is attempted. For example, server device  causes content targeting system  to locate a binary interest vector associated with client device . Content targeting system  determines a unique identifier of client device , such as the IP address and\/or the MAC address of client device , and determines if binary interest vector  or binary interest vector  are associated with the unique identifier of client device .","In the context of the above example, if content targeting system  does not locate a binary interest vector associated with client device , then, at step , a binary interest vector is created to associate with the user profile or client device. In one embodiment of the invention, if the user is logged into a user profile and no binary interest vector was found associated with that user profile, then the server creates a binary interest vector to associate with the user profile. If the user is not logged into a user profile, then the server creates a binary interest vector associated with a unique identifier of the client device. The created binary interest vector is saved to the appropriate location on a client machine, such as at storage , or on a server, such as at storage .","In this embodiment of the invention, creating a binary interest vector associated with a user profile is preferred to creating a binary interest vector associated with a client device because the former records information about a particular user, and is more helpful in selecting content tailored to the particular user. However, the server may create a binary interest vector for a client device with or without an applicable user profile within certain embodiments of the invention.","At step , selection of a particular content item to provide to the user is based on other indicators of user interest. Selection of the particular content item is based on other indicators of user interest, such as the content of pages that the user has viewed recently, because the newly created binary interest vector does not contain any information about user interest. Updating a binary vector to indicate user interest is described in further detail below.","If a binary interest vector that is associated with a user profile of the user or the client device of the user is located, then at step , a particular content item to provide to the user is selected based on the obtained binary interest vector.","B. Updating the Structure","If there is an update to the structure of a binary interest vector, a server may update the structure of the existing binary interest vector stored at a client or at a server without losing the information stored in the binary interest vector. In one embodiment of the invention, if the binary interest vector is stored at the server, e.g., binary interest vector  at storage , then the server may update the structure of binary interest vector  at any time.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0074","num":"0077"},"figref":["FIG. 8A","FIG. 8B"],"b":["800","810","840","820","820","822","800"]},"At step , the topics and corresponding values of the outdated binary interest vector are determined. For example, binary interest vector  has the following topics and corresponding values: topic A has the binary value 10; topic B has the binary value 101; and topic C has the binary value 011. In this example, the values of the topics are determined based on linear concatenation. However, any method of valuing the bits corresponding to a particular topic may be used within the embodiments of this invention, including normalization.","At step , the topics of the outdated binary interest vector are mapped to corresponding topics in an updated template. For example, template  is an example of a template that may be used to represent a binary interest vector. Template  includes eight bits. The first four bits are dedicated to topic A, the next two bits are dedicated to topic B, and the last two bits are dedicated to topic C. Topics A, B, and C in template  correspond directly to topics A, B, and C in binary interest vector , respectively.","At step , a new binary interest vector is created based on the updated template. For example, binary interest vector  is created, which conforms to template . At step , values are assigned to the bits of the new binary interest vector based on the values of the corresponding topics in the outdated binary interest vector to produce an updated binary interest vector. For example, the values for the bits of binary interest vector  are based on the values of the bits of binary interest vector . In this example, the value of topic A in binary interest vector , \u201c1101\u201d, is proportional to the value of topic A in binary interest vector , \u201c10\u201d, etc. Values for the bits in the updated binary interest vector may be assigned in any number of ways within the embodiments of the invention.","At step , the outdated binary interest vector is replaced with the updated binary interest vector. In the preceding example, binary interest vector  is replaced with binary interest vector  on the server and\/or the client.","For ease of illustration, binary interest vectors  and  have the same number of bits and the same topics: A, B, and C. However, a particular binary interest vector may be updated to include more or less bits, and more or less topics, in any combination.","C. Versioning","In another embodiment of the invention, different versions of binary interest vectors are indicated by version identifiers. For example, a portion of the bits of a binary interest vector may be used to represent a version number. As another example, a binary interest vector may be associated with a version identifier in a database, or at a user profile, etc. In this embodiment of the invention, the template to which a binary interest vector conforms is determined based on the version identifier.","Versions of binary interest vectors may be used to further tailor the information in a binary interest vector to user interest.  is a block diagram that illustrates example versions of binary interest vectors. To illustrate, binary interest vector  is associated with the user profile of a particular user. In this example, binary interest vector  is a general version of a bar code, indicated by version value 00, and conforms to the following format: 10 bits: version\u20142 bits; topic A\u20142 bits; topic B\u20143 bits; topic C\u20143 bits. As indicated by example binary interest vector , the particular user is very interested in topic A, which has a binary value of 11, and significantly less interested in topics B and C, with the binary values of 0, and 1, respectively.","A provider may replace binary interest vector  with a different version of a binary interest vector, such as binary interest vector , according to certain embodiments of the invention. The provider may make such a replacement based on the levels of interest denoted by the original binary interest vector, or because of market factors or changing information needs, etc.","Binary interest vector  has a version value of 01, which indicates that the vector conforms to the following format: 10 bits: version\u20142 bits; topic A\u20141 bit; topic A\u20141 bit; topic A\u20141 bit; topic A\u20141 bit; topic B\u20142 bits; topic C\u20142 bits. Thus, binary interest vector  has more information about sub-topics A-Aof topic A and less information about topics B and C, about which the particular user has little interest. Binary interest vector  indicates that the particular user is interested in all of the sub-topics of A, i.e., topics A-A. This information is adjusted based on user activity, as discussed in further detail below. A provider may alternatively set the initial value of topics that were not in a previous version of a binary interest vector for a particular user with other initial values, such as zero.","Alternate versions of binary interest vectors may include sub-categories of topics that are also represented in the binary interest vector. For example, binary interest vector  has a version identifier , which includes information on topic A as well as sub-topics of topic A, i.e., topics A-A.","D. Overwrites and Privacy","If a provider or a user wants to ensure that a particular topic represented in a binary interest vector receives a particular kind of treatment, then the provider or the user may cause the value for the topic to be overwritten in the binary interest vector. For example, a particular user is known to be underage and a provider has a policy of never displaying advertisements for tobacco to users that are underage. If one of the topics included in a binary interest vector associated with the particular underage user is \u201ctobacco\u201d, then the provider may cause that the value in the binary interest vector for \u201ctobacco\u201d is set to zero each time the particular user logs in. Therefore, even if the particular user expresses interest in tobacco, the binary interest vector will not reflect that interest, and tobacco content will not be selected for that particular user. A provider may also update the binary interest vector template for an underage user to a template that excludes \u201ctobacco\u201d from the interest topics, or which includes a bit that indicates that the user is underage.","A provider may overwrite values of a binary interest vector at any time and to any value within certain embodiments of the invention. For example, a provider may determine that every user within a certain age range is interested in car insurance. To reflect this determination, the provider may overwrite values associated with the topic \u201ccar insurance\u201d to be non-zero for users within the age range. Such overwrites may occur only once, or may occur every time a binary interest vector is retrieved or stored, etc.","Also, a user may indicate, i.e., through a user profile, that the user does not wish to view advertisements about television. In response, the provider may cause that the value associated with the topic \u201ctelevision\u201d in a binary interest vector associated with the user be set to zero. Additionally, the provider may replace a binary interest vector, associated with the user, with a binary interest vector that has a structure that reflects the user's desire to not view advertisements about television.","Furthermore, if a user sets a privacy setting to high, or indicates to a provider that the user does not want information about the user to be tracked, then the provider may periodically overwrite all values of a binary interest vector associated with the user with zero. For example, the provider may overwrite the values of a binary interest vector associated with a user with a high privacy setting every time the user logs out of her corresponding user profile, etc.","VI. Updating User Interests","Binary interest vectors are updated based on information on user interest. Such information may be: (a) a user requesting or viewing Web pages or other documents; (b) query terms submitted by the user; (c) the inclusion of information on a particular topic in a list viewed by the user; (d) information provided by the user, i.e., in a user profile; etc. User interest may be inferred from these kinds of information.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0090","num":"0093"},"figref":["FIG. 10","FIG. 2"],"b":["1000","1002","200"]},"At step , in response to detecting the activity, the value of a particular subset of bits in a binary interest vector, associated with the user, is modified to reflect the activity.  is a block diagram that illustrates further example versions of binary interest vectors. For example, binary interest vector  of  is determined to be associated with the particular user. In binary interest vector , bits - represent interest in travel. Specifically, bit  represents a general interest in travel, and bits - represent sub-categories of travel, i.e., travel to California, travel to Hawaii, travel to New York, and travel to Texas, respectively. Therefore, bits  and  may be modified to reflect the interest in travel evidenced by the particular user viewing Web page  featuring the Ritz Carlton at Half Moon Bay, Calif. As such, bit  is modified with a value of \u201c1\u201d to represent a general interest in travel, and bit  is modified with a value of \u201c1\u201d to represent an interest in traveling to California.","As a further example, a binary interest vector  is associated with a particular user's profile, which conforms to the following template: 8 bits: sports in general\u20141 bit; baseball\u20141 bit; basketball\u20141 bit; soccer\u20141 bit; tennis\u20141 bit; water sports\u20141 bit; football\u20141 bit; rugby\u20141 bit. In this example, all of bits of the particular binary interest vector are initially set to zero. If the particular user places a bid on a soccer jersey through ebay.com, then it may be surmised that the user is interested in sports, and specifically interested in soccer. As a result, the bits corresponding to sports in general, bit , and soccer, bit , may be set to \u201c1\u201d. Furthermore, a provider may have determined through analysis of user interest data that if a particular user is interested in soccer, the user is likely also interested in rugby. Based on this determination, bit  corresponding to rugby may also be set to \u201c1\u201d, as illustrated in binary interest vector . If the user then logs into an anti-rugby blog, bit  may then be set to \u201c0\u201d to reflect the user activity.","If the user views Web content through client device  (), then information on user activity may be gathered by server device , by content targeting system , by an application running on client device , or by any other appropriate information-gathering system.","If a binary interest vector is stored at storage  on client device , i.e., binary interest vector , then binary interest vector  may be updated at the end of a session with Web browser , periodically while the user browses the Internet, such as every X minutes, or every time the user visits a new page. However, as mentioned previously, a binary interest vector may be stored and managed remote from client device , such as at server device .","At step , a particular content item from a plurality of available content items is selected based at least in part on the binary interest vector. Continuing with the previous travel example, binary interest vector  indicates that the user associated therewith has an interest in food and an interest in travel, especially to California. As such, a content item relating to food or travel would probably be selected to fill the spot for tailored content  in Web page , if available. At step , the particular content item is displayed to the user.","VII. Alternative Implementations","Binary interest vectors may be useful in many applications in addition to presenting targeted advertisements to users. Specifically, the information in binary interest vectors may be utilized to help a user find movies or music in which the user might be interested. A binary interest vector may also be used in social networking, e.g., to help the user find groups that discuss topics in which the user may be interested, etc.","VIII. Hardware Overview","According to one embodiment, the techniques described herein are implemented by one or more special-purpose computing devices. The special-purpose computing devices may be hard-wired to perform the techniques, or may include digital electronic devices such as one or more application-specific integrated circuits (ASICs) or field programmable gate arrays (FPGAs) that are persistently programmed to perform the techniques, or may include one or more general purpose hardware processors programmed to perform the techniques pursuant to program instructions in firmware, memory, other storage, or a combination. Such special-purpose computing devices may also combine custom hard-wired logic, ASICs, or FPGAs with custom programming to accomplish the techniques. The special-purpose computing devices may be desktop computer systems, portable computer systems, handheld devices, networking devices or any other device that incorporates hard-wired and\/or program logic to implement the techniques.","For example,  is a block diagram that illustrates a computer system  upon which an embodiment of the invention may be implemented. Computer system  includes a bus  or other communication mechanism for communicating information, and a hardware processor  coupled with bus  for processing information. Hardware processor  may be, for example, a general purpose microprocessor.","Computer system  also includes a main memory , such as a random access memory (RAM) or other dynamic storage device, coupled to bus  for storing information and instructions to be executed by processor . Main memory  also may be used for storing temporary variables or other intermediate information during execution of instructions to be executed by processor . Such instructions, when stored in storage media accessible to processor , render computer system  into a special-purpose machine that is customized to perform the operations specified in the instructions.","Computer system  further includes a read only memory (ROM)  or other static storage device coupled to bus  for storing static information and instructions for processor . A storage device , such as a magnetic disk or optical disk, is provided and coupled to bus  for storing information and instructions.","Computer system  may be coupled via bus  to a display , such as a cathode ray tube (CRT), for displaying information to a computer user. An input device , including alphanumeric and other keys, is coupled to bus  for communicating information and command selections to processor . Another type of user input device is cursor control , such as a mouse, a trackball, or cursor direction keys for communicating direction information and command selections to processor  and for controlling cursor movement on display . This input device typically has two degrees of freedom in two axes, a first axis (e.g., x) and a second axis (e.g., y), that allows the device to specify positions in a plane.","Computer system  may implement the techniques described herein using customized hard-wired logic, one or more ASICs or FPGAs, firmware and\/or program logic which in combination with the computer system causes or programs computer system  to be a special-purpose machine. According to one embodiment, the techniques herein are performed by computer system  in response to processor  executing one or more sequences of one or more instructions contained in main memory . Such instructions may be read into main memory  from another storage medium, such as storage device . Execution of the sequences of instructions contained in main memory  causes processor  to perform the process steps described herein. In alternative embodiments, hard-wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions.","The term \u201cstorage media\u201d as used herein refers to any media that store data and\/or instructions that cause a machine to operation in a specific fashion. Such storage media may comprise non-volatile media and\/or volatile media. Non-volatile media includes, for example, optical or magnetic disks, such as storage device . Volatile media includes dynamic memory, such as main memory . Common forms of storage media include, for example, a floppy disk, a flexible disk, hard disk, solid state drive, magnetic tape, or any other magnetic data storage medium, a CD-ROM, any other optical data storage medium, any physical medium with patterns of holes, a RAM, a PROM, and EPROM, a FLASH-EPROM, NVRAM, any other memory chip or cartridge.","Storage media is distinct from but may be used in conjunction with transmission media. Transmission media participates in transferring information between storage media. For example, transmission media includes coaxial cables, copper wire and fiber optics, including the wires that comprise bus . Transmission media can also take the form of acoustic or light waves, such as those generated during radio-wave and infra-red data communications.","Various forms of media may be involved in carrying one or more sequences of one or more instructions to processor  for execution. For example, the instructions may initially be carried on a magnetic disk or solid state drive of a remote computer. The remote computer can load the instructions into its dynamic memory and send the instructions over a telephone line using a modem. A modem local to computer system  can receive the data on the telephone line and use an infra-red transmitter to convert the data to an infra-red signal. An infra-red detector can receive the data carried in the infra-red signal and appropriate circuitry can place the data on bus . Bus  carries the data to main memory , from which processor  retrieves and executes the instructions. The instructions received by main memory  may optionally be stored on storage device  either before or after execution by processor .","Computer system  also includes a communication interface  coupled to bus . Communication interface  provides a two-way data communication coupling to a network link  that is connected to a local network . For example, communication interface  may be an integrated services digital network (ISDN) card, cable modem, satellite modem, or a modem to provide a data communication connection to a corresponding type of telephone line. As another example, communication interface  may be a local area network (LAN) card to provide a data communication connection to a compatible LAN. Wireless links may also be implemented. In any such implementation, communication interface  sends and receives electrical, electromagnetic or optical signals that carry digital data streams representing various types of information.","Network link  typically provides data communication through one or more networks to other data devices. For example, network link  may provide a connection through local network  to a host computer  or to data equipment operated by an Internet Service Provider (ISP) . ISP  in turn provides data communication services through the world wide packet data communication network now commonly referred to as the \u201cInternet\u201d . Local network  and Internet  both use electrical, electromagnetic or optical signals that carry digital data streams. The signals through the various networks and the signals on network link  and through communication interface , which carry the digital data to and from computer system , are example forms of transmission media.","Computer system  can send messages and receive data, including program code, through the network(s), network link  and communication interface . In the Internet example, a server  might transmit a requested code for an application program through Internet , ISP , local network  and communication interface .","The received code may be executed by processor  as it is received, and\/or stored in storage device , or other non-volatile storage for later execution.","In the foregoing specification, embodiments of the invention have been described with reference to numerous specific details that may vary from implementation to implementation. Thus, the sole and exclusive indicator of what is the invention, and is intended by the applicants to be the invention, is the set of claims that issue from this application, in the specific form in which such claims issue, including any subsequent correction. Any definitions expressly set forth herein for terms contained in such claims shall govern the meaning of such terms as used in the claims. Hence, no limitation, element, property, feature, advantage or attribute that is not expressly recited in a claim should limit the scope of such claim in any way. The specification and drawings are, accordingly, to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The present invention is illustrated by way of example, and not by way of limitation, in the figures of the accompanying drawings and in which like reference numerals refer to similar elements and in which:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 8A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 8B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":"FIG. 10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":"FIG. 11"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIG. 12"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
