---
title: Hybrid playlist
abstract: Methods, systems, and computer-readable medium for playing media files of a playlist on a mobile device. The media files of the playlist include one or more audio files and one or more video files. Playing a first video file of the playlist on the mobile device includes playing an audio component and a video component of the first video file.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08155505&OS=08155505&RS=08155505
owner: Apple Inc.
number: 08155505
owner_city: Cupertino
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20090115
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS","TECHNICAL FIELD","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["This application claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. \u00a7119(e) of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61\/059,741, filed on Jun. 6, 2008.","The subject matter of this patent application is generally related to playing media files.","Conventional mobile devices can include applications that provide various services, such as audio services and video services. Typically, an audio application can only play audio files. If an audio application is able to play a video file, the audio application can generally only play an audio component of the video file. An example video file is a music video that includes an audio track that is separate from a video track.","A user who wishes to play a music video included in a hybrid playlist of media files using an audio application of a mobile device is typically limited to listening to the audio track of the music video and viewing a still image associated with the music video. In order to view the video component of the music video, the user must generally exit the audio application and launch a video application on the mobile device to play both the audio component and the video component of the music video.","A technique, method, apparatus, and system are described to play media files of a hybrid playlist on a mobile device.","In general, one aspect of the subject matter described in this specification can be embodied in methods that include the actions of playing a first video file of a playlist on a mobile device, the playlist including one or more audio files and one or more video files, where playing the first video file includes playing on the mobile device an audio component and a video component of the first video file. Other embodiments of this aspect include corresponding systems, apparatus, and computer program products.","These and other embodiments can optionally include one or more of the following features. The method can further include playing an audio file of the playlist on the mobile device, where playing the audio file includes displaying on the mobile device an image associated with the audio file and playing on the mobile device an audio component of the audio file. The video file can be played with a landscape orientation before the audio file is played and the audio file is played in a presentation mode with a landscape orientation. The video file can be played after the audio file is played and the audio file is played in a presentation mode with a portrait orientation or a coverflow mode with a landscape orientation. The one or more video files can include at least one of a movie, a television show, a music video, or a video podcast. The playlist can be determined by a user of the mobile device. The mobile device includes a multi-touch-sensitive display.","The details of one or more embodiments of the invention are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other features, aspects, and advantages of the invention will become apparent from the description, the drawings, and the claims.","Example Mobile Device",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 1A","b":["100","100"]},"Mobile Device Overview","In some implementations, the mobile device  includes a touch-sensitive display . The touch-sensitive display  can implement liquid crystal display (LCD) technology, light emitting polymer display (LPD) technology, or some other display technology. The touch-sensitive display  can be sensitive to haptic and\/or tactile contact with a user.","In some implementations, the touch-sensitive display  can comprise a multi-touch-sensitive display . A multi-touch-sensitive display  can, for example, process multiple simultaneous touch points, including processing data related to the pressure, degree, and\/or position of each touch point. Such processing facilitates gestures and interactions with multiple fingers, chording, and other interactions. Other touch-sensitive display technologies can also be used, e.g., a display in which contact is made using a stylus or other pointing device. Some examples of multi-touch-sensitive display technology are described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6,323,846, 6,570,557, 6,677,932, and 6,888,536, each of which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.","In some implementations, the mobile device  can display one or more graphical user interfaces on the touch-sensitive display  for providing the user access to various system objects and for conveying information to the user. In some implementations, the graphical user interface can include one or more display objects , . In the example shown, the display objects ,  are graphic representations of system objects. Some examples of system objects include device functions, applications, windows, files, alerts, events, or other identifiable system objects.","Example Mobile Device Functionality","In some implementations, the mobile device  can implement multiple device functionalities, such as a telephony device, as indicated by a phone object ; an e-mail device, as indicated by the e-mail object ; a network data communication device, as indicated by the Web object ; a Wi-Fi base station device (not shown); and a media processing device, as indicated by the media player object . In some implementations, particular display objects , e.g., the phone object , the e-mail object , the Web object , and the media player object , can be displayed in a menu bar . In some implementations, device functionalities can be accessed from a top-level graphical user interface, such as the graphical user interface illustrated in . Touching one of the objects , , , or  can, for example, invoke corresponding functionality.","In some implementations, the mobile device  can implement network distribution functionality. For example, the functionality can enable the user to take the mobile device  and provide access to its associated network while traveling. In particular, the mobile device  can extend Internet access (e.g., Wi-Fi) to other wireless devices in the vicinity. For example, mobile device  can be configured as a base station for one or more devices. As such, mobile device  can grant or deny network access to other wireless devices.","In some implementations, upon invocation of device functionality, the graphical user interface of the mobile device  changes, or is augmented or replaced with another user interface or user interface elements, to facilitate user access to particular functions associated with the corresponding device functionality. For example, in response to a user touching the phone object , the graphical user interface of the touch-sensitive display  may present display objects related to various phone functions; likewise, touching of the email object  may cause the graphical user interface to present display objects related to various e-mail functions; touching the Web object  may cause the graphical user interface to present display objects related to various Web-surfing functions; and touching the media player object  may cause the graphical user interface to present display objects related to various media processing functions.","In some implementations, the top-level graphical user interface environment or state of  can be restored by pressing a button  located near the bottom of the mobile device . In some implementations, each corresponding device functionality may have corresponding \u201chome\u201d display objects displayed on the touch-sensitive display , and the graphical user interface environment of  can be restored by pressing the \u201chome\u201d display object.","In some implementations, the top-level graphical user interface can include additional display objects , such as a short messaging service (SMS) object , a calendar object , a photos object , a camera object , a calculator object , a stocks object , a weather object , a maps object , a notes object , a clock object , an address book object , and a settings object . Touching the SMS display object  can, for example, invoke an SMS messaging environment and supporting functionality; likewise, each selection of a display object , , , , , , , , , , and  can invoke a corresponding object environment and functionality.","Additional and\/or different display objects can also be displayed in the graphical user interface of . For example, if the device  is functioning as a base station for other devices, one or more \u201cconnection\u201d objects may appear in the graphical user interface to indicate the connection. In some implementations, the display objects  can be configured by a user, e.g., a user may specify which display objects  are displayed, and\/or may download additional applications or other software that provides other functionalities and corresponding display objects.","In some implementations, the mobile device  can include one or more input\/output (I\/O) devices and\/or sensor devices. For example, a speaker  and a microphone  can be included to facilitate voice-enabled functionalities, such as phone and voice mail functions. In some implementations, an up\/down button  for volume control of the speaker  and the microphone  can be included. The mobile device  can also include an on\/off button  for a ring indicator of incoming phone calls. In some implementations, a loud speaker  can be included to facilitate hands-free voice functionalities, such as speaker phone functions. An audio jack  can also be included for use of headphones and\/or a microphone.","In some implementations, a proximity sensor  can be included to facilitate the detection of the user positioning the mobile device  proximate to the user's ear and, in response, to disengage the touch-sensitive display  to prevent accidental function invocations. In some implementations, the touch-sensitive display  can be turned off to conserve additional power when the mobile device  is proximate to the user's ear.","Other sensors can also be used. For example, in some implementations, an ambient light sensor  can be utilized to facilitate adjusting the brightness of the touch-sensitive display . In some implementations, an accelerometer  can be utilized to detect movement of the mobile device , as indicated by the directional arrow . Accordingly, display objects and\/or media can be presented according to a detected orientation, e.g., portrait or landscape. In some implementations, the mobile device  may include circuitry and sensors for supporting a location determining capability, such as that provided by the global positioning system (GPS) or other positioning systems (e.g., systems using Wi-Fi access points, television signals, cellular grids, Uniform Resource Locators (URLs)). In some implementations, a positioning system (e.g., a GPS receiver) can be integrated into the mobile device  or provided as a separate device that can be coupled to the mobile device  through an interface (e.g., port device ) to provide access to location-based services.","In some implementations, a port device , e.g., a Universal Serial Bus (USB) port, or a docking port, or some other wired port connection, can be included. The port device  can, for example, be utilized to establish a wired connection to other computing devices, such as other communication devices , network access devices, a personal computer, a printer, a display screen, or other processing devices capable of receiving and\/or transmitting data. In some implementations, the port device  allows the mobile device  to synchronize with a host device using one or more protocols, such as, for example, the TCP\/IP, HTTP, UDP and any other known protocol. In some implementations, a TCP\/IP over USB protocol can be used, as described in U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60\/945,904, filed Jun. 22, 2007, for \u201cMultiplexed Data Stream Protocol,\u201d which provisional patent application is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.","The mobile device  can also include a camera lens and sensor . In some implementations, the camera lens and sensor  can be located on the back surface of the mobile device . The camera can capture still images and\/or video.","The mobile device  can also include one or more wireless communication subsystems, such as an 802.11b\/g communication device , and\/or a Bluetooth\u2122 communication device . Other communication protocols can also be supported, including other 802.x communication protocols (e.g., WiMax, Wi-Fi, 3G), code division multiple access (CDMA), global system for mobile communications (GSM), Enhanced Data GSM Environment (EDGE), etc.","Example Mobile Device",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0037"},"figref":["FIG. 1B","FIG. 1B","FIG. 1A"],"b":["101","101","101","100","101","100","100"]},"Mobile Device Overview","In some implementations, the mobile device  includes a touch-sensitive display , which can be sensitive to haptic and\/or tactile contact with a user. In some implementations, the mobile device  can display one or more graphical user interfaces on the touch-sensitive display  for providing the user access to various system objects and for conveying information to the user.","Mobile Device Functionality","In some implementations, the mobile device  can implement multiple device functionalities, such as a music processing device, as indicated by the music player object , a video processing device, as indicated by the video player object , a digital photo album device, as indicated by the photos object , and a network data communication device for online shopping, as indicated by the store object . In some implementations, particular display objects , e.g., the music player object , the video player object , the photos object , and store object , can be displayed in a menu bar . In some implementations, device functionalities can be accessed from a top-level graphical user interface, such as the graphical user interface illustrated in . Touching one of the objects , , , or  can, for example, invoke corresponding functionality.","In some implementations, the top-level graphical user interface of mobile device  can include additional display objects , such as the Web object , the calendar object , the address book object , the clock object , the calculator object , and the settings object  described above with reference to mobile device  of . In some implementations, the top-level graphical user interface can include other display objects, such as a Web video object  that provides functionality for uploading and playing videos on the Web. Each selection of a display object , , , , , , and  can invoke a corresponding object environment and functionality.","Additional and\/or different display objects can also be displayed in the graphical user interface of . In some implementations, the display objects  can be configured by a user. In some implementations, upon invocation of device functionality, the graphical user interface of the mobile device  changes, or is augmented or replaced with another user interface or user interface elements, to facilitate user access to particular functions associated with the corresponding device functionality.","In some implementations, the mobile device  can include one or more input\/output (I\/O) devices , , , and , a volume control device , sensor devices , , , and , wireless communication subsystems  and , and a port device  or some other wired port connection described above with reference to mobile device  of .","Network Operating Environment",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0044","num":"0043"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 2"],"b":["200","202","202","100","101","202","202","210","212","214","216","218","214","212","218","202","212","216","214","202","218","214","202","202","218","218","202","202"],"i":["a ","b ","a ","b ","a ","b ","a ","b ","a ","b "]},"The mobile devices and can also establish communications by other means. For example, the wireless device can communicate with other wireless devices, e.g., other mobile devices or , cell phones, etc., over the wireless network . Likewise, the mobile devices and can establish peer-to-peer communications , e.g., a personal area network, by use of one or more communication subsystems, such as the Bluetooth\u2122 communication devices  shown in . Other communication protocols and topologies can also be implemented.","The mobile device or can, for example, communicate with one or more services , , , , and  over the one or more wired and\/or wireless networks . For example, a navigation service  can provide navigation information, e.g., map information, location information, route information, and other information, to the mobile device or . A user of the mobile device can invoke a map functionality, e.g., by pressing the maps object  on the top-level graphical user interface shown in , and can request and receive a map for a particular location.","A messaging service  can, for example, provide e-mail and\/or other messaging services. A media service  can, for example, provide access to media files, such as song files, audio books, movie files, video clips, and other media data. In some implementations, separate audio and video services (not shown) can provide access to the respective types of media files. A syncing service  can, for example, perform syncing services (e.g., sync files). An activation service  can, for example, perform an activation process for activating the mobile device or . Other services can also be provided, including a software update service that automatically determines whether software updates exist for software on the mobile device or , then downloads the software updates to the mobile device or where the software updates can be manually or automatically unpacked and\/or installed.","The mobile device or can also access other data and content over the one or more wired and\/or wireless networks . For example, content publishers, such as news sites, RSS feeds, web sites, blogs, social networking sites, developer networks, etc., can be accessed by the mobile device or . Such access can be provided by invocation of a web browsing function or application (e.g., a browser) in response to a user touching the Web object .","Example Mobile Device Architecture",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0049","num":"0048"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIGS. 1A-1B"],"b":["300","100","101","100","101","302","304","306","302","304","306","100","101"]},"Sensors, devices, and subsystems can be coupled to the peripherals interface  to facilitate multiple functionalities. For example, a motion sensor , a light sensor , and a proximity sensor  can be coupled to the peripherals interface  to facilitate the orientation, lighting, and proximity functions described with respect to . Other sensors  can also be connected to the peripherals interface , such as a positioning system (e.g., GPS receiver), a temperature sensor, a biometric sensor, or other sensing device, to facilitate related functionalities.","A camera subsystem  and an optical sensor , e.g., a charged coupled device (CCD) or a complementary metal-oxide semiconductor (CMOS) optical sensor, can be utilized to facilitate camera functions, such as recording photographs and video clips.","Communication functions can be facilitated through one or more wireless communication subsystems , which can include radio frequency receivers and transmitters and\/or optical (e.g., infrared) receivers and transmitters. The specific design and implementation of the communication subsystem  can depend on the communication network(s) over which the mobile device  or  is intended to operate. For example, a mobile device  or  may include communication subsystems  designed to operate over a GSM network, a GPRS network, an EDGE network, a Wi-Fi or WiMax network, and a Bluetooth\u2122 network. In particular, the wireless communication subsystems  may include hosting protocols such that the device  or  may be configured as a base station for other wireless devices.","An audio subsystem  can be coupled to a speaker  and a microphone  to facilitate voice-enabled functions, such as voice recognition, voice replication, digital recording, and telephony functions.","The I\/O subsystem  can include a touch screen controller  and\/or other input controller(s) . The touch-screen controller  can be coupled to a touch screen . The touch screen  and touch screen controller  can, for example, detect contact and movement or break thereof using any of a plurality of touch sensitivity technologies, including but not limited to capacitive, resistive, infrared, and surface acoustic wave technologies, as well as other proximity sensor arrays or other elements for determining one or more points of contact with the touch screen .","The other input controller(s)  can be coupled to other input\/control devices , such as one or more buttons, rocker switches, thumb-wheel, infrared port, USB port, and\/or a pointer device such as a stylus. The one or more buttons (not shown) can include an up\/down button for volume control of the speaker  and\/or the microphone .","In one implementation, a pressing of the button for a first duration may disengage a lock of the touch screen ; and a pressing of the button for a second duration that is longer than the first duration may turn power to the mobile device  or  on or off. The user may be able to customize a functionality of one or more of the buttons. The touch screen  can, for example, also be used to implement virtual or soft buttons and\/or a keyboard.","In some implementations, the mobile device  or  can present recorded audio and\/or video files, such as MP3, AAC, and MPEG files. In some implementations, the mobile device  or  can include the functionality of an MP3 player, such as an iPod\u2122. The mobile device  or  may, therefore, include a 36-pin connector that is compatible with the iPod. Other input\/output and control devices can also be used.","The memory interface  can be coupled to memory . The memory  can include high-speed random access memory and\/or non-volatile memory, such as one or more magnetic disk storage devices, one or more optical storage devices, and\/or flash memory (e.g., NAND, NOR). The memory  can store an operating system , such as Darwin, RTXC, LINUX, UNIX, OS X, WINDOWS, or an embedded operating system such as VxWorks. The operating system  may include instructions for handling basic system services and for performing hardware dependent tasks. In some implementations, the operating system  can be a kernel (e.g., UNIX kernel), as described in reference to .","The memory  may also store communication instructions  to facilitate communicating with one or more additional devices, one or more computers and\/or one or more servers. The memory  may include graphical user interface instructions  to facilitate graphic user interface processing; sensor processing instructions  to facilitate sensor-related processing and functions; phone instructions  to facilitate phone-related processes and functions; electronic messaging instructions  to facilitate electronic-messaging related processes and functions; web browsing instructions  to facilitate web browsing-related processes and functions; media processing instructions  to facilitate media processing-related processes and functions; GPS\/Navigation instructions  to facilitate GPS and navigation-related processes and instructions; camera instructions  to facilitate camera-related processes and functions; and\/or other software instructions  to facilitate other processes and functions, e.g., security processes and functions as described in reference to . The memory  may also store other software instructions (not shown), such as web video instructions to facilitate web video-related processes and functions; and\/or web shopping instructions to facilitate web shopping-related processes and functions. In some implementations, the media processing instructions  are divided into audio processing instructions and video processing instructions to facilitate audio processing-related processes and functions and video processing-related processes and functions, respectively. An activation record and International Mobile Equipment Identity (IMEI)  or similar hardware identifier can also be stored in memory .","Each of the above identified instructions and applications can correspond to a set of instructions for performing one or more functions described above. These instructions need not be implemented as separate software programs, procedures, or modules. The memory  can include additional instructions or fewer instructions. Furthermore, various functions of the mobile device  or  may be implemented in hardware and\/or in software, including in one or more signal processing and\/or application specific integrated circuits.","Software Stack and Security Process",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0061","num":"0060"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIGS. 1A-1B"],"b":["400","400","402","404","406","408"]},"The OS kernel  manages the resources of the mobile device  or  and allows other programs to run and use these resources. Some examples of resources include a processor, memory, and I\/O. For example, the kernel  can determine which running processes should be allocated to a processor, processors or processor cores, allocates memory to the processes and allocates requests from applications and remote services to perform I\/O operations. In some implementations, the kernel  provides methods for synchronization and inter-process communications with other devices.","In some implementations, the kernel  can be stored in non-volatile memory of the mobile device  or . When the mobile device  or  is turned on, a boot loader starts executing the kernel  in supervisor mode. The kernel then initializes itself and starts one or more processes for the mobile device  or , including a security process for remote access management.","The library system  provides various services for applications running in the application layer . Such services can include audio services, video services, database services, image processing services, graphics services, etc.","The application framework  provides an object-oriented application environment including classes and Application Programming Interfaces (APIs) that can be used by developers to build applications using well-known programming languages (e.g., Objective-C, Java).","The applications layer  is where various applications exist in the software stack . Developers can use the APIs and environment provided by the application framework  to build applications, such as the applications represented by the display objects , , shown in  (e.g., email, media player, Web browser, phone, music player, video player, photos, and store).","Hybrid Playlist Interface",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0067","num":"0066"},"figref":"FIG. 5","b":["500","500","502","501","500","116","124","100","101","500","120","100","101"]},"The hybrid playlist interface  displays the list of media files  included in the hybrid playlist , which can be labeled (e.g., by playlist label ) in the interface . The media files  of the hybrid playlist  include one or more audio files and one or more video files. The hybrid playlist  can be determined by a user (e.g., the owner) of the mobile device. Examples of audio files include songs, audio books, and audio podcasts. Examples of video files include movies, television shows, music videos, and video podcasts. In some implementations, a video symbol or icon  can indicate to a user which media files  of the hybrid playlist  are video files. In some implementations, the hybrid playlist  can include other forms of media files, e.g., images or slideshows. The media files  can be stored in the memory of device  or .","Each of the media files  can be associated with an interface element (e.g., arrows ) of the hybrid playlist interface . The interface element allows the associated media file to be selected by a user for execution (e.g., playback) on the mobile device. For example, user gesture input selecting the arrow  associated with Song 1 of the hybrid playlist  can cause an audio application to play Song 1 on the mobile device. Examples of playing an audio file (e.g., Song 1) on the mobile device are illustrated in .","In some implementations, while an audio file is playing on the mobile device and an audio interface is displayed on the mobile device, the user can return to the hybrid playlist interface  by selecting an interface element, e.g., an arrow or a back button, included in the audio interface. In these implementations, a presently playing symbol or icon  of the hybrid playlist interface  can indicate to the user which of the media files  of the hybrid playlist  is presently being played.","Playing Media Files",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0071","num":"0070"},"figref":["FIG. 6A","FIGS. 1A and 1B"],"b":["602","172","100","101"]},"The coverflow mode  can be a display mode of an audio application. When an audio file (e.g., Song 1 of the hybrid playlist  of ) is played on the mobile device, the mobile device plays an audio component of the audio file. Additionally, when the audio file is played in a coverflow mode  on the mobile device, the display of the mobile device includes representations  of multiple media files. The representations  can be, for example, images associated with the media files  included in the hybrid playlist . As an example, if a media file included in the hybrid playlist  is a song (e.g., Song 1), the representation  for the song can be an image (e.g., image ) of the cover art of the album or compact disc which includes the song. As another example, if the media file included in the hybrid playlist  is a movie (e.g., Movie 1 of the hybrid playlist  of ), the representation  for the movie in the coverflow mode  can be an image associated with the movie (e.g., a theatrical poster for the movie).","In some implementations, the representations  displayed in coverflow mode  are images associated with only media files that are of the same type (e.g., audio or video) as the media file that is presently being played on the mobile device. For example, if Song 1 of the hybrid playlist  of  is playing on the mobile device, the representations  displayed in coverflow mode  can be images associated with only audio files stored on the mobile device.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0074","num":"0073"},"figref":"FIG. 6B","b":"652"},"The presentation mode  can be a display mode of an audio application. In addition to playing an audio component of the audio file (e.g., Song 1) on the mobile device, when the audio file is played in a presentation mode  on the mobile device, the display of the mobile device includes an image associated with the audio file that is presently being played. For example, if Song 1 of the hybrid playlist  is playing on the mobile device, the mobile device can display an image (e.g., image ) of the cover art of the album or compact disc which includes Song 1. In some implementations, the presentation mode  does not include display of an image associated with any media file that is not presently being played. That is, in these implementations, the only image displayed in the presentation mode  is the image associated with the audio file that is presently being played.","In some implementations, an audio interface is displayed on the mobile device and includes information about the presently playing audio file (e.g., the audio file running time or the title of the audio file) and\/or one or more controls (e.g., a backward, a pause, or a forward button) for changing the playing of the audio file.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0077","num":"0076"},"figref":"FIG. 7A"},"Playing a video file of a hybrid playlist on a mobile device includes playing on the mobile device both an audio component of the video file and a video component of the video file. The example of  illustrates playing the video file while the mobile device is in portrait orientation. In some implementations, a video interface is displayed on the mobile device and includes information about the presently playing video file (e.g., the video file running time or the title of the video file) and\/or one or more controls (e.g., a backward, a pause, or a forward button) for changing the playing of the video file.","In some implementations, the mobile device plays the video file in response to user selection of the video file. For example, the mobile device can receive user gesture input selecting, from the hybrid playlist interface  of , an arrow  associated with Movie 1 of the hybrid playlist . Receipt of the user input can cause a video application to play Movie 1 on the mobile device. For example, the mobile device can automatically launch a video application in response to the received user gesture input selecting the video file. The video application can be launched automatically without requiring further input from the user, e.g., user input closing or exiting the hybrid playlist interface  and user input selecting a video player object (e.g., the video player object  of the mobile device  of ) to launch a video player on the mobile device.","In some implementations, the mobile device automatically plays the video file without user selection of the video file. If the mobile device is playing the media files  of the hybrid playlist  in order (e.g., a random or shuffle order or a sequential order), the mobile device can play a particular media file of the playlist when that media file's position in the order is reached. For example, if the media files  are played in the sequential order illustrated in , the mobile device can automatically play Movie 1 after the mobile device completes playing Song 1.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0081","num":"0080"},"figref":["FIG. 7B","FIG. 5"],"b":"501"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0082","num":"0081"},"figref":"FIG. 8","b":"852"},"The presentation mode  can be a display mode of an audio application. Similar to the presentation mode  of , when the audio file is played in the presentation mode  on the mobile device, the display of the mobile device includes an image associated with the audio file that is presently being played. For example, if Song 2 of the hybrid playlist  is playing on the mobile device, the mobile device can display an image (e.g., image ) of the cover art of the album or compact disc which includes Song 2. In some implementations, the presentation mode  does not include display of an image associated with any media file that is not presently being played.","In some implementations, if a video file (e.g., Movie 1) of a hybrid playlist is played in a landscape orientation on the mobile device and an audio file (e.g., Song 2) of the hybrid playlist is played just after completion of the playing of the video file in landscape orientation, the mobile device will play the audio file in the presentation mode  if the mobile device is still in landscape orientation. That is, if the audio file is played with a landscape orientation substantially immediately following the playing of a video file in landscape orientation, the mobile device can play the audio file in the presentation mode  instead of in a coverflow mode (e.g., the coverflow mode  of ).","Media File Playing Process",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0085","num":"0084"},"figref":["FIG. 9","FIGS. 1A and 1B"],"b":["900","900","100","101"]},"A video file of a playlist is played on a mobile device (). Playing the video file includes playing on the mobile device an audio component (e.g., a sound track) of the video file and playing on the mobile device a video component (e.g., a video track) of the video file. The playlist (e.g., a hybrid playlist) includes one or more audio files and one or more video files. In some implementations, the video file is played using a video application on the mobile device. In some implementations, the video file is played using the video application without requiring the user to launch the video application.","An audio file of the playlist is played on the mobile device (). Playing the audio file includes displaying on the mobile device an image (e.g., cover art) associated with the audio file and playing on the mobile device an audio component of the audio file. In some implementations, the audio file is played using an audio application on the mobile device.","The media files can be played in a landscape orientation or a portrait orientation of the mobile device. A media file (e.g., a video file or an audio file) can be played automatically, e.g., during sequential or random play of the media files of a hybrid playlist. Alternatively, a media file (e.g., a video file or an audio file) can be played in response to user selection of the media file, e.g., from a hybrid playlist of media files.","The audio file can be played in a presentation mode with a portrait orientation of the mobile device or a coverflow mode with a landscape orientation of the mobile device. In some implementations, if the video file is played with a landscape orientation before the audio file is played, the audio file can be played in a presentation mode with a landscape orientation of the mobile device.","In some implementations, any type of media content can be included in a hybrid playlist. For example, in addition to audio files (e.g., songs, audio books, or audio podcasts), a user can add any type of video files (e.g., movies, television shows, music videos, or video podcasts) or other types of files (e.g., images and slideshows) to a hybrid playlist. In some implementations, the hybrid playlist is an on-the-go playlist, e.g., a playlist that is generated by a user on the mobile device when the mobile device is not physically connected (e.g., by one or more cables) or wirelessly connected to an access device (e.g., the access device  of ), such as a personal computer.","The described features can be implemented advantageously in one or more computer programs that are executable on a programmable system including at least one programmable processor coupled to receive data and instructions from, and to transmit data and instructions to, a data storage system, at least one input device, and at least one output device. A computer program is a set of instructions that can be used, directly or indirectly, in a computer to perform a certain activity or bring about a certain result. A computer program can be written in any form of programming language (e.g., Objective-C, Java), including compiled or interpreted languages, and it can be deployed in any form, including as a stand-alone program or as a module, component, subroutine, or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment.","Suitable processors for the execution of a program of instructions include, by way of example, both general and special purpose microprocessors, and the sole processor or one of multiple processors or cores, of any kind of computer. Generally, a processor will receive instructions and data from a read-only memory or a random access memory or both. The essential elements of a computer are a processor for executing instructions and one or more memories for storing instructions and data. Generally, a computer will also include, or be operatively coupled to communicate with, one or more mass storage devices for storing data files; such devices include magnetic disks, such as internal hard disks and removable disks; magneto-optical disks; and optical disks. Storage devices suitable for tangibly embodying computer program instructions and data include all forms of non-volatile memory, including by way of example semiconductor memory devices, such as EPROM, EEPROM, and flash memory devices; magnetic disks such as internal hard disks and removable disks; magneto-optical disks; and CD-ROM and DVD-ROM disks. The processor and the memory can be supplemented by, or incorporated in, ASICs (application-specific integrated circuits).","To provide for interaction with a user, the features can be implemented on a computer having a display device such as a CRT (cathode ray tube) or LCD (liquid crystal display) monitor for displaying information to the user and a keyboard and a pointing device such as a mouse or a trackball by which the user can provide input to the computer.","The features can be implemented in a computer system that includes a back-end component, such as a data server, or that includes a middleware component, such as an application server or an Internet server, or that includes a front-end component, such as a client computer having a graphical user interface or an Internet browser, or any combination of them. The components of the system can be connected by any form or medium of digital data communication such as a communication network. Examples of communication networks include, e.g., a LAN, a WAN, and the computers and networks forming the Internet.","The computer system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a network. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client-server relationship to each other.","A number of implementations have been described. Nevertheless, it will be understood that various modifications may be made. For example, elements of one or more implementations may be combined, deleted, modified, or supplemented to form further implementations. As yet another example, the logic flows depicted in the figures do not require the particular order shown, or sequential order, to achieve desirable results. In addition, other steps may be provided, or steps may be eliminated, from the described flows, and other components may be added to, or removed from, the described systems. Accordingly, other implementations are within the scope of the following claims."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 1A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 1B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIGS. 1A-1B"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIGS. 1A-1B"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIGS. 1A-1B"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 6A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 6B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 7A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 7B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 9"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
