---
title: Systems, methods, and apparatus for automated mapping and integrated workflow of a controlled medical vocabulary
abstract: Systems, methods, and apparatus provide clinical terminology services including a controlled medical vocabulary supplemented by local clinical content. An example method includes accessing an initial controlled medical vocabulary including at least one external terminology via a vocabulary management server; processing local clinical content including unstructured local clinical content provided via an importer framework; analyzing and extracting the unstructured local clinical content using a text analyzer and extraction tool to generate one or more proposed terms; identifying one or more synonyms for the one or more proposed terms and placing the one or more synonyms into a queue to be added to the controlled medical vocabulary; reviewing the one or more synonyms; and adding one or more synonyms to the controlled medical vocabulary with placement and relationship based on analyzing unstructured local clinical content to automatically map between the at least one external terminology and the local clinical content.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08260779&OS=08260779&RS=08260779
owner: General Electric Company
number: 08260779
owner_city: Schenectady
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20090917
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["RELATED APPLICATIONS","FEDERALLY SPONSORED RESEARCH OR DEVELOPMENT","MICROFICHE\/COPYRIGHT REFERENCE","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","BRIEF SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION"],"p":["[Not Applicable]","[Not Applicable]","[Not Applicable]","The present invention generally relates to building and maintaining medical vocabularies. In particular, the present invention relates to systems, methods, and apparatus for supplementing a controlled medical vocabulary with localized clinical content.","Medical text plays an important role in the delivery of healthcare. Using medical text, medical concepts and information can be exchanged using a variety of documents including progress notes, discharge summaries, prescriptions, procedure reports, etc. Medical terminology is voluminous, fragmented, and complex. Multiple standards bodies (e.g., Health Level Seven (HL7), World Health Organization (WHO), etc.) make contributions to categorizing and publishing medical vocabularies (e.g. Systematized Nomenclature of Human and Veterinary Medicine (SNOMED), International Classification of Diseases (ICD), Logical Observation Identifier Names and Codes (LOINC), etc.) across multiple healthcare domains (e.g., medical procedures, problem lists, laboratory, etc.). In developing clinical information systems, data collection can be driven via a controlled medical vocabulary (CMV) that spans multiple organizations and source terminologies. The CMV can be continuously updated and is able to grow and evolve with the growing list of codes and terms.","In many cases, mapping between terminologies has been accomplished for common terminologies that have overlapping information domains. These mappings are made available by government agencies, healthcare providers, and third party content providers. Most approaches to managing a CMV rely on mapping rules and use of human intervention of terminology engineers or medical coders to understand differences across source vocabularies, to rationalize the organization of data (via hierarchies and relationships), to identify differences in granularity, and to map between codes and synonyms where there is overlap. This process requires a large amount of manpower to maintain an updated vocabulary and is especially burdensome when implementing new systems in an established healthcare organization with an abundance of systems and proprietary codes and synonyms. Combined with internationalization and a desire to share data across healthcare organizations, the problem quickly becomes unmanageable. For this reason, many healthcare IT providers have created their own proprietary codes, relationships, terms, and picklists which remain unintegrated with our systems and terminologies.","Certain examples provide systems, methods, and apparatus to provide clinical terminology services. Certain examples provide a controlled medical vocabulary supplemented by local clinical content.","An example provides a computer-implemented method to provide clinical terminology services. The method includes accessing an initial controlled medical vocabulary including at least one external terminology via a vocabulary management server. The method also includes processing local clinical content including unstructured local clinical content provided via an importer framework. The method further includes analyzing and extracting the unstructured local clinical content using a text analyzer and extraction tool to generate one or more proposed terms. Additionally, the method includes identifying one or more synonyms for the one or more proposed terms and placing the one or more synonyms into a queue to be added to the controlled medical vocabulary. The method includes reviewing the one or more synonyms placed into the queue. The method additionally includes adding the one or more synonyms to the controlled medical vocabulary with placement and relationship based on analyzing and extracting unstructured local clinical content to automatically map between the at least one external terminology and the local clinical content to supplement the controlled medical vocabulary with the local clinical content and provide the controlled medical vocabulary to one or more vocabulary consumers.","An example provides a clinical terminology services system providing a controlled medical vocabulary. The system includes an importer framework accessing an initial controlled medical vocabulary including at least one external terminology. The system also includes a vocabulary management server including terminology modeler and mapper to process local clinical content represented by one or more clinical models including unstructured local clinical content. The terminology modeler and mapper include a text analyzer and extraction tool to extract and analyze the unstructured local clinical content using a text analyzer and extraction tool to generate one or more proposed terms. The vocabulary management server facilitates identifying one or more synonyms for the one or more proposed terms, placing the one or more synonyms into a queue to be added to the controlled medical vocabulary, and reviewing the one or more synonyms placed into the queue. The vocabulary management server adding the one or more synonyms to the controlled medical vocabulary with placement and relationship based on analyzing and extracting unstructured local clinical content to automatically map between the at least one external terminology and the local clinical content to supplement the controlled medical vocabulary with the local clinical content.","An example provides an article of manufacture including a computer readable storage medium and executable program instructions embodied in the computer readable storage medium that, when executed by a computer processor, cause the computer to implement a method to provide clinical terminology services. The method includes accessing an initial controlled medical vocabulary including at least one external terminology. The method also includes processing local clinical content including unstructured local clinical content. The method further includes analyzing and extracting the unstructured local clinical content using a text analyzer and extraction tool to generate one or more proposed terms. Additionally, the method includes identifying one or more synonyms for the one or more proposed terms and placing the one or more synonyms into a queue to be added to the controlled medical vocabulary. The method includes reviewing the one or more synonyms placed into the queue and adding the one or more synonyms to the controlled medical vocabulary with placement and relationship based on analyzing and extracting unstructured local clinical content to automatically map between the at least one external terminology and the local clinical content to supplement the controlled medical vocabulary with the local clinical content.","The foregoing summary, as well as the following detailed description of certain embodiments of the present invention, will be better understood when read in conjunction with the appended drawings. For the purpose of illustrating the invention, certain embodiments are shown in the drawings. It should be understood, however, that the present invention is not limited to the arrangements and instrumentality shown in the attached drawings.","Although the following discloses example methods, systems, articles of manufacture, and apparatus including, among other components, software executed on hardware, it should be noted that such methods and apparatus are merely illustrative and should not be considered as limiting. For example, it is contemplated that any or all of these hardware and software components could be embodied exclusively in hardware, exclusively in software, exclusively in firmware, or in any combination of hardware, software, and\/or firmware. Accordingly, while the following describes example methods, systems, articles of manufacture, and apparatus, the examples provided are not the only way to implement such methods, systems, articles of manufacture, and apparatus.","When any of the appended claims are read to cover a purely software and\/or firmware implementation, in an embodiment, at least one of the elements is hereby expressly defined to include a tangible medium such as a memory, DVD, CD, etc. storing the software and\/or firmware.","A clinical system that is driven by standardized, coded data can help advance analytics, real-time decision support, and business intelligence for healthcare practitioners. In an example, an approach is provided for automating a mapping between external terminologies and use of text-based analysis to provide additional information and presentation of medical codes and terms by supplementing the data with localized clinical content from healthcare providers implementing the clinical system.","In an example, healthcare terminology provider data is analyzed using an algorithm that ranks criteria including the granularity of a medical term (e.g., simpler words have a smaller number of letters), the popularity of a term (e.g., how often is the term used by the organization), and the relationship to similar terms (informed by semantic proximity, other medical publications, and external dictionaries, for example). This analysis results in one or more proposals of where to place the provider's data and representations of data in a controlled medical vocabulary that spans organizations. Since the provider data is mapped to standards, interoperability and the use of localized terms are both possible.","Medical terminology vocabularies often include overlapping information. In an example, similarities and overlapping elements between vocabularies are identified. A confidence level of the similarity between the elements can then be provided. Rather than requiring a significant amount of human resources to review each term, often without regard to applicable standards, some review can be automated to reduce the amount of analysis left for manual human review.","In an example, a controlled medical vocabulary (CMV) is created for a clinical system and\/or clinical application that covers a variety of terms (e.g., everything from problem lists to allergies to drugs). The terminology is transferred to an \u201cinbox\u201d with one or more proposed mappings using SNOMED, ICD9, ICD10, LOINC, Digital Imaging and Communications in Medicine (DICOM), American College of Radiology (ACR) Index of Radiological Diagnoses, American National Standards Institute (ANSI) identifiers, etc., and\/or into a visual mapping tool where a user can see those mappings in more of a visual way to help a person developing a CMV.","A CMV is a capability of a computer-based patient record (CPR) system. Other CPR core capabilities include clinical documentation and data capture, clinical display including a clinical dashboard, a clinical workflow, order management including physician order entry, a clinical data repository (CDR), clinical decision support (CDS), privacy support, and interoperability connectivity. A CMV supports medically relevant concepts, terms, codes and relationships.","CMV services can be delivered using a vocabulary server that provides access to a set of CMV functions as a series of application programming interfaces (APIs). This approach makes the CMV accessible to any software component in the CPR or its environment that uses such services. In many cases, a set of terminologies such as SNOMED, ICD-9, ICD-10, and Current Procedural Terminology-Fourth Edition (CPT-4), including cross maps between their respective terms, is included. Using the CMV and vocabulary server, vocabulary services can be provided to subsystems of a core CPR system as well as other subsystems in the CPR environment. The CMV and vocabulary server can provide information concerning a medical term or concept to an executing application and can also accept terminology updates.","Using a CMV, CPR systems can understand and more intelligently process medical information while continuing to store that information in a form (e.g., medical terms) that permits humans to interact with the same data. In an example, a user may enter a query against information in a data warehouse (which has received its data from the CDR) asking to retrieve cases corresponding to certain search terms. If the CMV has been used to classify the information in the data warehouse, then the query should successfully retrieve all relevant cases including cases using equivalent terminology. The CMV can provide a comprehensive answer by using a search algorithm to explore its semantic network, for example.","In an example, limited CMV capabilities exist in a CPR system. For example, CMV capabilities allow mapping terms into canonical terms, generating billing codes, etc. These mappings can be hard-coded into applications, for example. In such environments, a CPR system supports generation of standard code sets such as ICD-9 and CPT-4.","In an example, the CMV exists as an architecturally separate component in the CPR. The CMV can be used to explicitly manage concepts, terms, and relationships, as well as cross-mapping these concepts, terms, and relationships to standardized encoding schemes. Applications such as clinical decision support and clinical workflow can have a significant degree of CMV interaction. An API for a vocabulary server supports the vocabulary needs of the clinical decision support and clinical workflow as well as related applications and\/or components. The CMV\/vocabulary server combination can support tools to enable terminologies to be updated and to resolve resulting conflicts. Proposed CMV content can be compared to current CMV content, establish semantic consistency in the new content, and track changes made to the CMV.","In an example, a vocabulary server supports interacting vocabulary needs of the CPR environment. The vocabulary server permits users to interactively explore the vocabulary's semantic network, maintain local vocabulary variations, incorporate new content, handle versioning issues, and provide real-time (or substantially real-time) responses to queries for vocabulary services. To support a full spectrum of CPR functions, the CMV provides \u201cdecompositional completeness\u201d. That is, the CMV contains atomic representations of pre-coordinated terms contained in the CMV. Thus, if the CMV includes a pre-coordinated term or phrase including multiple elements, then the CMV includes primitive terms for each of those elements. The CMV also includes a convention or rule that describes how to use the primitive terms for each of the elements to create a post-coordinated term having the identical semantic content as the pre-coordinated term. A CMV that provides decompositional completeness enables applications, such as medical natural language processing applications, to function properly despite the existence of pre-coordinated terms that differ in form from the specific terms that may be created by a CPR system user (e.g., \u201cmyocardial infarction\u201d versus \u201cheart attack\u201d). The CMV can also support the clinical workflow and clinical decision support capabilities of the CPR system. CMV can be used to support evidence-based medicine (EBM) functions such as automated care guideline protocols. The CMV also includes support for manual vocabulary updates and resolution of vocabulary semantic conflicts.","In an example, the CMV and vocabulary server support a full range of real-time vocabulary services, as well as being able to receive automated updates from vocabulary authorities. The CMV supports many industry-standard coding systems. The vocabulary server management system supports automated integrity checking of the CMV's semantic network and can provide automated support for EBM functions. The CMV can be combined with capabilities such as clinical workflow, CDS, EBM, natural language processing, and continuous speech recognition to provide an environment where a variety of clinical input (e.g., typing, speech, menu picks, and external documents) are incorporated into the CPR system's functions. The CMV can work in conjunction with clinical workflow and CDS to help provide knowledge management within the CPR system.","In an example, a mapping between external terminologies and use of text-based analysis to provide additional meaning and presentations of medical codes and terms by supplementing the data with localized clinical content is automated. The example process can include the following: 1) An initial CMV is created by cloning sections of external terminologies based on healthcare data domain (e.g., LOINC for laboratory terminology, CPT for medical procedures, etc). The structures (e.g., relationships, concepts, and terms) of the standard terminologies are retained where applicable. Mappings between the CMV and publicly available mappings (e.g., ICD-9 to ICD-10, SNOMED to CPT, etc.) are then used to create a web of related data. The web of data includes both direct (e.g., equivalent) and indirect mappings (e.g., is broader than, is narrower than). 2) Rules are created based on the mappings to determine how to handle changes to the source terminology. For example, when a new term is added by a third party organization, then the mapping for sister terms may specify to automatically propagate \u2018additions\u2019 or put them into proposed status for review. 3) In addition to creating a CMV based on standard vocabularies, customer presentations and mappings can also be included. To create such a CMV, a healthcare organization aggregates its clinical content including nursing, physician, and administrative documents, for example. Much of this data is currently collected in an unstructured mechanism via comment and note fields and thus very difficult to maintain in a structured terminology system. 4) This unstructured clinical content is then run through a text analyzer and extraction tool to organize the information based on synonyms, abbreviations, and relevance to existing source terminologies, for example. 5) Source terminologies and medical dictionaries are used to augment the intelligence of the text analyzer. 6) Proposed terms and synonyms are extracted based on linguistic and probabilistic algorithms. Proposals are put into a queue for a terminology engineer to validate and promote to the controlled medical vocabulary, for example. 7) Local synonyms and presentations based on the unstructured data analysis can be automatically put into a proposed queue to be added to the CMV.","In an example, controlled medical terminology services and modeling and management tools are used to provide advanced analytics, real-time decision support, and business intelligence through use of structured, coded data. CMV systems store high quality, computationally comparable, reliable, and reusable data to support such services. Additionally, internal and external interoperability of systems, processes, and data can be provided to reduce costs incurred due to redundant and disparate data definition, storage, and maintenance and to promote national and international interoperability by sharing terminology with the healthcare community at large, for example.","As shown in , for example, a controlled medical vocabulary (CMV) system  includes a terminology foundation subsystem , a common vocabulary , one or more external vocabularies , and one or more vocabulary consumers .","The terminology foundation subsystem  includes modeling and management tools and common terminology services for code mapping, browsing, and querying services. For example, the terminology foundation subsystem  includes terminology modeling, mapping, and management tools , a vocabulary management server , a consolidated vocabulary storage , a code system registry , and consolidated vocabulary translation maps . The terminology foundation subsystem  also includes one or more system importer plug-ins . The system importer plug-ins  can include one or more of a SNOMED importer , an ICD-9 importer , an ICD-10 importer , a LOINC importer , a Unified Medical Language System (UMLS) importer , a CPT importer , a First Data Bank (FDB) importer , and a common vocabulary importer .","External vocabulary(ies)  can include a SNOMED-CT vocabulary , an ICD-9 vocabulary , and ICD-10 vocabulary , a LOINC vocabulary , a UMLS vocabulary , a CPT vocabulary , an FDB vocabulary , etc.","Vocabulary consumer(s)  can include one or more applications -. Vocabulary consumers  communicate with the terminology foundation subsystem  using technology services, such as HL7 Common Technology Services (CTS) .","Using the system importer  of the terminology foundation subsystem , external code systems (e.g., SNOMED, LOINC, CPT, ICD-9, ICD-10, etc.) can be loaded into a consolidated repository. Modeling tools  allow informaticists to create, modify, map, and\/or manage vocabulary concepts. Data storage and services  are used to store and retrieve external code systems , translation maps , and a controlled medical vocabulary . Browsing, code mapping, and runtime services based on the HL7's Common Terminology Services  specification support a standards-based controlled medical vocabulary. Versioning, life cycle management, dependency resolution, and packaging services support publishing of terminology across environments.","As illustrated, for example, in , terminology mapping tools load controlled vocabulary content (e.g., LOINC, SNOMED, ICD-10, etc.) from standards organizations and allow informaticists to create, modify, map, and\/or manage vocabulary concepts. Using a knowledge management interface , shown, for example, in , a search input  returns one or more resulting vocabulary concepts . The search input  can be executed or cleared using buttons , , respectively. Search results  can be filtered and\/or sorted by one or more additional criteria such as concept type , status , namespace\/owner , etc. Selecting a concept in the search results  displays information regarding that concept in a display area such as the picklist  shown in . Within the picklist , information relating to the selected concept , such as domain , picklist concept , domain enterprise concept identifier (ECID) , and picklist ECID , is displayed for user review, input, and\/or modification. Designations  within the selected concept  are provided, including designation name , order , type , and universally unique identifier (UUID) , for example. Additionally, one or more candidate symptoms  are provided including detail regarding each symptom. These symptoms are also displayed in an outline .","A set of selected concepts  is also provided at the bottom of the interface . The set  summarizes the description , ECID , status , concept type , owner\/namespace , effective date , concept type , and expiration date  for each concept. The interface  also provides notes  regarding a selected concept.","For example, as depicted in the interface  of , a user can search  for vocabulary concept(s) involving words starting with \u201cblood.\u201d A user can select a concept type , such as a picklist, a status , such as active, and a namespace , such as GE Healthcare, to refine the search results. A returned concept  can be selected to populate the domain , picklist concept , domain ECID , and picklist ECID , for example. For the selected concept picklist, designation information  including designation name  (e.g., blood pressure panel), order number  (e.g., 1 through 6), designation type  (e.g., clinical element display, default display, etc.), and UUID  can be provided. One or more candidate symptoms , such as dizziness, lightheadedness, nausea, etc., can be selected and also provided in outline  form. A set  of selected concepts , such as one or more blood pressure concepts, provides a summary of ECID , status , concept type , owner\/namespace , effective date , concept type , and\/or expiration date .","Concepts from a controlled terminology may not be sufficiently meaningful without a clinical structure to provide context. With a large number of equally correct ways to say the same thing, understanding a desired meaning becomes unreasonably burdensome. Clinical Element Models (CEMs) can be utilized as the basis to model, store, and\/or retrieve dynamically changing clinical concepts and information.","A CEM is a data structure that represents a unit of medical information, including its interrelated components. CEMs enable content-driven systems development so that healthcare delivery can be documented consistently, measured reliably, and improved continuously over time and across patients, providers, care settings, and applications.","A controlled medical vocabulary and clinical models form the basis for a content driven system that supports dynamic data, workflows, and\/or decision support. As illustrated, for example, in , a terminology  provides a coded, controlled medical vocabulary that can serve as a basis for understanding clinical data. One or more clinical models  provide detailed clinical element models (CEMs) representing information models bound to the terminology . One or more form templates, business rules, and\/or domain services  provide reusable elements that add context regarding how an application would utilize content. The form templates, business rules, and\/or domain services  are consumers of the clinical models  and terminology . One or more applications  provide content-driven applications whose behavior is driven by dynamic templates and rules based on the form templates, rules, and\/or services , clinical models , and terminology .","As used herein, several components provide information and functionality for terminology management. Example definitions of these components are provided below.","A code system is a resource that makes assertions about a collection of concepts, where the concepts are uniquely identified by concept identifiers and represented by designations. Code systems are often referred to as terminologies, vocabularies, coding schemes, and\/or code sets. A code system can be a terminology (e.g., LOINC), a vocabulary (e.g., SNOMED), a classification (e.g., ICD-9 CM), a thesaurus (e.g., MeSH), an ontology (e.g., FMA), or just a list of codes (e.g., HL7 code systems). A code system may include concept relations where concepts are related by certain relationships, or a code system may just contain a flat list of codes with their designations, for example. A given code resolves to one meaning within the code system.","A concept is description of a unit of knowledge created by a combination of concept properties and concept relations within the context of a code system. A concept identifier is a numeric or alphabetic symbol that identifies a concept within the context of a code system. A concept identifier is often referred to as an entryCode (e.g., in Mayo Clinic's Lexical Grid or LexGrid framework for representing, storing, and querying biomedical terminologies) and concept code (e.g., in HL7, CTS II), or just a code. The concept identifier can be meaningful when it is related to the concept properties of the concept, such as mnemonic codes, hierarchical codes, etc. The concept identifier can be non-meaningful when it is not related the concept properties, such as sequential id, UUID, etc.","A qualified concept code is a combination of a code system identifier and a concept identifier. A qualified concept code provides a globally unique name for the description and, by proxy, the referenced \u201cunit of knowledge\u201d. HL7 uses ISO Object Identifiers (OIDs) as code system identifiers. LexGrid uses Universal Resource Identifiers (URIs). The current KTMI system uses DCE UUIDs for both code system identifiers and locally authored concept identifiers. Note that both OIDs and UUIDs can be transformed into URI's by prefixing them with \u201curn:oid:\u201d and \u201curn:uuid:\u201d respectively.","A concept property is an abstraction of a characteristic of a concept for defining and identifying the concept. A designation is a textual concept property that can be used to represent the intended meaning of a concept in certain usage context. A designation is often referred to as presentation (LexGrid), representation, term (ISO 17115), name (HL7), etc. A definition is a concept property that provides a textual definition of the concept.","A relationship type is a binary predicate that, when asserted to be true between two concepts, asserts that a corresponding external relationship applies between the classes and\/or instances described by the concepts. A relationship type is referred to as an association in LexGrid, although the LexGrid model confuses the type (association as entity) and the set of assertions (association container for associationSource).","A relationship is an assertion of an association that pertains between two or more concepts through hierarchical, associative, sequential, temporal or causal relationship types. Concept relation is often referred to as association (e.g., LexGrid), relation, concept relationship (e.g., CTS II), relationship, hierarchy. Association in LexGrid allows the source and target concepts to be from different code systems.","A usage context is a set of conditions that need to be fulfilled before a terminological component (includes concept property, designation, relationship, picklist, concept map) is eligible for usage. Usage context is often referred to as context of use, context, and\/or application context. Usage context includes application contexts, clinical contexts, user contexts, patient contexts, etc. The set of conditions can be pre-coordinated into a description of an environment, or stays as multi-parameter conditions. The HL7 usage context is limited to the conditions in which a Value Set (See Value Set section) may be used.","A picklist is an ordered list of designations where the concepts represented by the designations are drawn from the same value set. Since the value sets in LexGrid, HL7 and CTS II are independent of specific code system, a picklist can also be generated with values from multiple code systems, for example.","A concept map is a set of rules for transforming a concept from one code system to a concept in another code system. A concept map is often referred to as concept mapping, or just mapping, association (e.g., LexGrid).","A value set definition is a set of rules that, when applied to a code system version, results in a list of qualified concept codes. A value set definition may represented by a simple list of one or more concept codes or by a formula such as \u201call concept codes in a specific namespace\u201d, \u201call concept codes that are the target or source of a concept relationship\u201d, \u201call concept codes referenced by another value domain definition\u201d, etc.","A value set is a combination of a set of qualified concept codes resolved from value set definition and the corresponding values that represent the qualified concept codes in the context of a specific message or database. Value sets are frequently created algorithmically. Common value set algorithms include the specification that the concept identifier will represent the qualified concept code, that the preferred designation will represent the qualified concept, and\/or that the value of a particular property will represent the value, for example.","In an example, concepts are automatically mapped. For example, as depicted in , a direct concept-to-concept mapping rule  can be applied between a clinical information system CMV  (e.g., GE Enterprise Clinical Information System (ECIS) controlled medical vocabulary) and an external vocabulary  (e.g., RxNorm, Snomed CT, LOINC, ICD-9, etc.). In the example of , a concept  is equivalent to a concept . As illustrated in the example of , each concept can be related to one or more concepts  by relationships . Since the concept  is automatically identified as equivalent to the concept , by rule, changes to concept  in subsequent versions of the external vocabulary  are identified and automatically proposed in the CIS CMV .","Alternatively and\/or in addition, an inferred mapping rule can be applied to concepts. As illustrated, for example, in , an inferred mapping  is applied to an ECIS CMV  and a standard vocabulary  to generate an updated, inferred ECIS CMV mapping . In the example of , a concept  is equivalent to a concept . Using the inferred mapping rule , sister and child concepts, relationships, and mappings are proposed based on the standard vocabulary . By rule , sister and child concepts in the ECIS CMV ,  are automatically proposed based on the standard vocabulary .","As illustrated in example , relationships between concepts can be inferred. Using an automated matching of mappings and relationships , an ECIS CMV  and a standard vocabulary  can generate an updated ECIS CMV . Matching algorithms  can be applied to the ECIS CMV  based on the standard vocabulary . Then relationships and mappings for the updated CMV  can be proposed  based on the standard vocabulary .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0073","num":"0072"},"figref":"FIG. 7","b":["700","701","702","703","704","705","706","707","702","725"]},"Alternatively or in addition, a terminology request can be submitted at  for terminologist review. At , the request is initiated. At , a copy is created and, at , feedback is requested. At , the request is queued to await feedback. When a reviewer provides feedback, the answer is provided at . At , a rejected terminology request is provided to a rejected request queue , where the request can be resubmitted  or signed off .","At , a request can be triaged and sent to a quality assurance representative for approval . If the quality assurance representative rejects the request , then the request is routed to the rejected request queue . If the quality assurance representative approves the request , the request is submitted to a request queue . A copy of the approved request  can be sent back to the initiated request queue , for example. The request is then scheduled  in the scheduled queue  along with proposed mappings from the automated workflow . If applicable, a scheduled request can e rescheduled  based on terminologist and\/other resource availability, for example.","A request is taken from the scheduled queue  and modeling begins . The request being modeled is placed in an actively modeling queue . The modeled request can be rescheduled  in the actively modeling queue . During modeling, feedback can be requested . The request awaits feedback in a feedback request queue , and an answer is returned  to the actively modeling queue . At , the modeled request is submitted for approval. After waiting for approval , the request is returned to the terminologist . At , content is completed and placed in a content completed queue .","Alternatively, at , development content is finished in the development content completion queue . After development content is finished, a complete request  is sent to the content completed queue . A peer review  can be requested and review results  communicated for the development content .","Similarly, content in the content completed queue  can be peer reviewed  with review results provided . A request can also be appealed . Appeals requests  are reviewed. If a request for appeal is granted , modeling  is reworked from the appeal. If a request for appeal is denied , then the submitter is notified at the content completed queue . At , a request is signed off. At , a request is closed.","As depicted, for example, in , an integrated message inbox  provides messages and\/or updates to facilitate both a human workflow  and an automated machine workflow . For example, the terminology management  includes a plurality of messages - and provides information and action functionality regarding each of the messages - including a sender , a subject , a received date\/time , and an action . An executable action  can include approve , reject , and\/or view details , for example.","As shown, for example, in , matching parameters can be defined via one or more templates . Using the template , one or more parameters  can be assigned a value  for use in terminology services, for example. For example, parameters  such as matching states, matching results, stop words, special characters, stage mappings, exclusions, inclusions, limits, match percentages, match selection maximum, matching method, etc. can be specified with a value , as shown, for example, in . Additionally, an explanation  can be provided to explain the parameter  and\/or provide guidance as to specifying a value  for the parameter , for example.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0081","num":"0080"},"figref":"FIG. 10","b":["1000","1000","1001","1020","1030","1000"]},"Briefly, CVM services (CVMS)  is responsible for storage of and access to internally and externally (imported) authored terminology data. The AVM services (AVMS)  is responsible for the storage of and access to vocabulary actually used in the clinical information system product. This provides decoupling from external code systems, installation management, maintenance, and performance optimizations, for example. The RVM services (RVMS)  is responsible for acting as a cache layer on top of the AVMS  in order to provide performance enhancement for runtime applications, for example.","Common Terminology Services (CTS) provide a common set of terminology or vocabulary services such as those defined by the HL7 healthcare standards body. The HL7 CTS specification, for example, includes detailed requirements and design for a CTS implementation. Vocabulary services can be further divided into two sections: Runtime and Browser operations. Runtime operations are services for performance of dynamic vocabulary lookup. Browser operations are designed for browsing and searching use cases.","Consolidated Vocabulary Management Services (CVMS)  permits authoring, browsing, and interaction with all of the terminology authored by terminology engineers, along with importing and browsing other reference terminologies such as SNOMED CT. The CVMS  also contains mappings between terminologies. Mappings can include mapping ECIS concepts (e.g., the ECIS Code System) to external terminologies if the ECIS concepts were created from external terminologies. However, the CVMS  can permit mappings between any two terminologies, including those that are not created or maintained internally. For example, the system represents mapping between an internally created procedure concept derived from CPT and the CPT concept from which the concept originated. If a mapping exists between the CPT concept and a related SNOMED-CT concept, the system can represent and provide information about that mapping.","The ECIS Code System includes the concepts to be used in the ECIS system. These concepts include those created by the authoring features of the CVMS  and those cloned from external vocabularies. Cloning concepts from external vocabularies provides a layer of protection from changes to the external vocabularies allowing terminology engineers the ability to control and otherwise maintain the system's medical vocabulary.","In an example, the CVMS  includes both terminology intended for ECIS and reference terminologies. In an example, ECIS terminology is distinct from the reference terminologies to allow external applications to access the reference terminologies. Some applications, such as billing and data warehousing, may require access to complete sets of reference terminology that do not have ECIS terms associated with them to support reporting, analysis, and other functionality, for example. In an example, a logical \u201cwall\u201d can be formed between the Active Terminology store and the Consolidated Terminology store. The wall helps to restrict access since authoring terminology, which are all the concept versions in the consolidated store that have not been activated and have been created by the authoring tools rather than imported into the CVMS  as external vocabularies, should be inaccessible from running applications for controlled terminology maintenance, staging, and development, for example. Alternatively or additionally, a system design permits application access to the reference terminologies for a fully featured system. In an example, the two terminology sets can exist in the same logical instance or be logically separated, with authoring terminology isolated from access while the reference terminologies are externally accessible.","In an example, the system permits loading of external terminologies through a defined import process. These imports can be handled through separate importers, for example, sharing the same core functionality with customization for each terminology handled through a configurable extension layer. This layer can be specified in some configuration format, such as XML, permitting adjustments as the external terminology representation evolves. This evolution of format may happen more frequently than expected in terminologies, usually with early notification from the terminology provider. Where possible, such an importer can connect to an external feed from a file transfer protocol\/hypertext transfer protocol (FTP\/HTTP) provider as its input. Additionally, auto-scheduling can be provided for such import jobs, for example.","In an example, CVMS  supports various authoring metadata for internal authoring purposes and\/or for external vocabularies that are in flux. This includes an overall status of a concept in its lifecycle (e.g., whether the concept is newly proposed, in process, awaiting review, rejected, approved for usage, etc.). Additionally, CVMS  includes auditing information indicating when concepts were moved from the system into the Active Terminology system. Two example models are described for moving data from CVMS  to the Active Terminology Storage. The first example model is a temporal-delta model, where any change from a previous version in the correct status is moved to Active Terminology when its publishing metadata is within a defined date range. The second example model is a manufacturing model, where content is given a target \u201cdrop\u201d version, and where those concepts and changes in the desired version are bundled and moved together as a single job. For a model used, CVMS  can represent the appropriate metadata and either provide services for pushing data to Active Terminology according to temporal-delta rules, or provide packaging and export services for manufacturing-style drops. In either case, CVMS  can provide validation and metric reporting on data movement between systems.","In an example, CVMS  can provide a repository storage scheme for registering which applications and peripheral individuals and systems are using a concept. Thus, a content element from the AVMS  can register its usage of a concept to enable automated notifications as the concept evolves from version to version. The services can allow for both the registering and deregistering of applications and other \u201cconcerns,\u201d as well as specifying the level of alerts desired by the subscriber, for example. Such a concept registry involves an event framework for the notifications, and calls in response to changes of content and movement of data from CVMS  to AVMS , for example. This event framework can also be used to integrate CVMS  with a content workflow system employed by requesters and fulfillers of terminology projects. That is, the event framework enables the automated progression of terminology workflow elements from state to state, firing the element's appropriate transition through web services, for example.","As shown in , the CVMS  includes an importer framework  and an importer plug-in  to import terminology\/vocabulary. The importer plug-in  is connected to a vocabulary reader , a vocabulary validator , and a vocabulary writer  which act upon the imported vocabulary. The importer plug-in  provides information to an external code system . The importer framework communicates with a coding system registry API  and a CVMS authoring API , which communicates with life cycle management . The life cycle manager  interacts with a vocabulary event manager  to coordinate vocabulary lifecycle. The life cycle management  and vocabulary event manager  receive input from a terminology authoring tool , one or more external event \u201cconsumers\u201d , content authoring tools , and\/or content deployment , for example. The terminology authoring tool  transmits information to the coding system registry API  and the CMVS authoring API . The terminology authoring tool  also interacts with a CVMS CTS vocabulary browsing operations  via browser operations  and with a CVMS CTS vocabulary code mapping  via code mapping operations .","Active Vocabulary refers to a portion of all the vocabulary data from authoring (whether created or cloned from external vocabularies) that has been selected for use in the ECIS system. Vocabulary becomes part of the Active Vocabulary Management Services (AVMS)  when the Life Cycle Manager moves it into the Active space, making it available for use by the runtime system. The AVMS  data store may or may not be the same as the CVMS  data store. Boundaries between the data stores can be logical and\/or physical, for example.","Active Vocabulary services include, for example, implementations of HL7 Common Terminology Services 1.2 (CTS) for Browsing (AVMS CTS vocabulary browser operations  and browser operations  interacting with content authoring tools ) and potentially an API for more advanced querying (e.g., a CVMS authoring API accessible by certain content tools having proper permissions, such as a clinical element model (CEM) tool). When terminology is moved for the first time (e.g., first version Activated) from the CVMS  to the AVMS , the ECIS globally unique identifier (ECID) is created, if it does not already exist. When new version(s) of the same terminology entities are moved to the AVMS  (e.g., an update), the same ECIDs will be used. The ECID follows a format that is globally unique, for example. In an example, an \u201cabstract\u201d ECID identifies all versions of a concept, and \u201cprecise\u201d ECIDs identify each version individually\u2014such that services can default to the latest version when given the abstract ECID, and that services can retrieve the precise version of a concept when given the precise ECID.","In an example, \u201cauthoring vocabulary\u201d is not in the AVMS . The AVMS  includes the portion of the ECIS code system that has been activated at least once. The portion of the code system is the part of the ECIS code system that has been released for production use in the system. The CVMS  has the imported code systems and the work-in-progress ECIS code system. \u201cAuthoring vocabulary\u201d refers to the work-in-progress ECIS code system, for example.","The life cycle of a concept is as displayed in . While in an authoring state , there may be multiple other states a concept passes through, such as Draft, Proposed, In Review, Approved, etc. (state may be configurable, for example). As illustrated for example in , there is a difference between state(s) \u201cIn Authoring\u201d  and state \u201cInactive\u201d . A concept \u201cIn Authoring\u201d  is not available to a system runtime, for example.","As shown in , a concept in Authoring  can be deleted . A concept can also be activated  from Authoring  and stored as Active . When a concept is activated , the concept is available to be used by the system runtime. Depending upon use, for example, the concept can be cached in the Runtime Vocabulary Management Services and served to consuming applications.","When a concept is deactivated , the concept in the Inactive state  remains in an Active Data Store available to the system runtime for historical purposes only\u2014remaining accessible only by the precise ECID that identifies the specific concept version, for example. An Inactive concept can be reactivated  to be placed back in the Active state .","Runtime Vocabulary Management Services (RVMS)  refers to a portion of vocabulary data that is cached to provide a repository of data from the AVMS  to improve performance for runtime applications . The RVMS  provides an in-memory cache  to allow quick lookup access to terminology. The cache  can be persisted in a persistent data store  (i.e. Database) and can re-load the in-memory cache  when the application is re-started. Data can be pulled into the Runtime  from the AVMS  on demand, for example.","In an example, components defined in the logical group of Runtime Vocabulary Management Services  include CTS (e.g., CTS 1.2) Vocabulary Runtime services  (with runtime operations ), plus other involved services, and a caching layer (implemented by a cache manager  communicating with caches on demand , an in memory cache , and a persistent cache ) which resides on top of the Active Vocabulary Data Store. The RVMS CTS vocabulary runtime  can interface with content deployment , interoperability HL7 messaging , and\/or applications  via runtime operations . The vocabulary runtime  can also receive input from RVMS CTS extensions . Applications  and\/or interoperability messaging  can communicate with the cache manager  via RVMS code mapping  and code mapping operations , for example.","Core consumers of the RVMS  include content deployment and packaging, Interoperability Foundation (HL7 messaging translation), and clinical applications in general, for example. Content Deployment and Packaging use the RVMS sub-system  in order to pre-resolve terminology references (ECIDs) in the content, and in order to prepare the cache for terminology dependencies of newly deployed content, for example. Interoperability can use this sub-system to translate ECIDs from HL7 messages to text, and\/or translate external codes to ECIDs and then ECIDs to text, for example. The translation from external code to ECID can occur in the CTS Vocabulary Runtime Operations  implementation to help make the API seamless.","Terminology Repositories can be modeled and stored using Mayo Clinic's LexGrid, for example. A set of biomedical informatics grid (BIG) enterprise vocabulary services (EVS) adapters can be used to store and\/or retrieve terminology metadata. For example, a collection of programmable interfaces provided by LexBIG\/LexEVS (further referred to as LexEVS) from the Mayo Clinic can be used as the software API, including a relational database management system (RDBMS) implementation, used to access data in the Terminology Repositories. Compliant CTS interfaces are created and maintained as part of an ECIS Terminology Services Foundation to fulfill CTS compliance requirements and to abstract and maintain loose coupling with LexEVS API.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0101","num":"0100"},"figref":["FIG. 12","FIG. 10","FIG. 10","FIG. 10"],"b":["1200","1210","1240","1230","1220","1227","1220","1010","1017","1022","1221","1012","1039","1222","1032","1223","1224","1225","1226","1227","1224","1227","1230","1249"]},"As illustrated, for example, in , the CVMS  can be used to import external code systems, author codes for use in ECIS, and\/or manage concept lifecycle. The data flow  depicts an example high level importing sequence to import an external vocabulary into the CVMS . At , a terminology code import is scheduled via an importer framework  (such as the importer framework  of ). At , the import job is stored, and, at , the import job is executed via the importer framework .","At , an instruction to read a vocabulary is transmitted from the importer framework  to an importer plugin  (such as the importer plugin  of ). At , a retrieved vocabulary file is read using the importer plugin . At , the vocabulary is validated between the importer plugin  and the importer framework . At , plugin-specific rules are validated. At , model rules are validated. Then, at , the vocabulary is written at the importer framework .","At , a concept is created using the vocabulary and passed to the authoring service  (such as the authoring service  of ). At , a coding system registry is updated via a coding system registry API  (such as the code system registry API  of ). At , statistics are updated at the importer framework . Then, at , a report is displayed to a user via the importer framework .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0105","num":"0104"},"figref":["FIG. 14","FIG. 10","FIG. 10","FIG. 10","FIG. 10","FIG. 10"],"b":["1400","1402","1405","1015","1425","1009","1010","1404","1415","1008","1406","1455","1014","1465","1016","1408"]},"At , a supported mapping is retrieved from code mapping operations  (such as code mapping operations  and\/or  of ). At , the authoring tool  creates mapped code. At , the vocabulary event manager  is notified of the mapping by the CVMS authoring API . Upon mapping, at , the mapping is provided by the vocabulary event manager  to the consumer .","At , a proposed concept is submitted via the authoring tool . At , the vocabulary event manager  is notified of the proposal via the authoring tool . At , the proposal is communicated from the vocabulary event manager  to the consumer .","At , the proposal is approved via the authoring tool . At , notification of the concept approval is sent from the authoring tool  to the vocabulary event manager . Upon approval , notice is sent to the consumer .","At , the approved concept is marked for deployment  (such as the content deployment  of ). At , the concept is activated. For example, the concept is moved into an active data store from the CVMS and an ECID can be created.","In an example, using Mayo Clinic's LexEVS product, a persistence layer used by the importers is a combination of LexEVS code reuse and extensions to override and extend functionality. Model object(s) used can include Eclipse Modeling Framework (EMF) object, for example. In an example, parts of the model to be persisted at a time, rather than requiring the entire model to be populated and persisted.","In an example, the HL7 Importer reads from the HL7 Model Interchange Format (MIF) in XML, using a Streaming API for XML (StAX) to stream the input XML file, removing a need to hold the entire vocabulary in memory at once when extracting.","The AVMS stores and provides access to browse the Active set of terminology authored for and used within ECIS, for example.  illustrates an example sequence  to browse a consolidated vocabulary store and activate desired concept(s) and\/or concept update(s). For example, when content authoring tool(s) are unable to find vocabulary data in the Active set, then authorized user(s) can browse the consolidated store and activate (or propose activation based on workflow) the desired concept(s) and\/or concept update(s). A system configuration could limit this to just being able to query the active store, for example.","As illustrated, for example, in , at , one or more content authoring tools  (such as content authoring tools  of ) are used to query one or more concepts via AVMS browser operations  (such as AVMS browser operations  of ). At , If nothing is found or if none of the available results meet user criteria, then the content authoring tool(s)  can be used to query CVMS browser operations  (such as CVMS browser operations  and\/or  of ) at . At , results are returned from the CVMS browser operations  to the content authoring tool(s) . In an example, checking of the CVMS can be disallowed by configuration.","At , one or more concepts are activated via a lifecycle manager  (such as the lifecycle manager  of ). An acknowledgement and\/or other result can be communicated back to the content authoring tool(s) at , for example.","The RVMS serves as an entry point to access Active terminology at runtime, for example. The RVMS can serve as a caching manager, for example. As shown, for example, in , an HL7 message is translated with an external code for which the system has mapped a corresponding ECIS code.","At , a message to be translated is provided to an interoperability module  (such as the interoperability module  of ). At , supported mappings are retrieved by the interoperability module  from a code mapping module  (such as the code mapping module  of ), and a result is returned to interoperability . At , the interoperability module  determines whether a mapping is supported. If so, at , concept code is mapped and returned to the interoperability module .","At , interoperability  looks up designations from vocabulary runtime operations  (such as vocabulary runtime operations  and\/or  of ). At , the vocabulary runtime operations  queries a cache manager  (such as cache manager  of ). At , the cache manager  checks memory in an in memory cache  (such as in memory cache  of ) for the designation(s). If information is found, it is returned to the cache manager . At , the cache manager  checks a persistent cache  (such as persistent cache  of ) and received query results (if any) from the persistent cache .","At , the cache manager  queries the active data store. If the information is not found, then an exception can be triggered. If the queried information is found, then, at , the results are placed in the persistent cache . At , the information is also placed in the in memory cache . Results can then be passed to the vocabulary runtime operations , code mapping , and\/or interoperability , as well as a user (e.g., a human and\/or electronic user), for example.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0119","num":"0118"},"figref":["FIG. 17","FIG. 10","FIG. 10"],"b":["1700","1702","1705","1040","1704","1705","1715","1033"]},"At , a query is formed and sent by runtime operations extensions  to a cache manager  (such as the cache manager  of ). At , the cache manager  checks memory at an in memory cache  (such as the in memory cache  of ) in relation to the query, and applicable results are returned to the cache manager . At , the cache manager  checks a persistent cache  (such as the persistent cache  of ), and applicable results are returned to the cache manager .","At , the cache manager  queries the active data store. At , query results are place in the persistent cache . At , query results are placed in the in memory cache . At , results are provided to the cache manager , and, at , results are provided to content deployment . At , results are provided to a user (e.g., a human and\/or electronic user).","In an example, vocabulary content events, such as updates, activations, etc., are managed for external entities as well as other components of the system. For example, when terminology that is being consumed by content (such as CEMs) is changed, the change is communicated to content administrator(s)\/author(s) using one or more event managers.","In another example, dependency notification can be supported by searching for and identifying dependencies and checking content changes. For example, a CEM editor can search, as part of validation, the concept(s) it uses, check for changes, and then provide a warning to the author if there are changes (including a link to a view of the new changes, for example). Alternatively and\/or in addition, a terminology author can search for one or more CEMs with references to a certain concept, a package, and\/or other grouping of concepts, for example.","In an example, to be able to easily add importers for more code systems and versions\/formats that can change over time, a framework is provided for importer plugability. For example, CVMS can provide a pluggable framework for importing external vocabularies. Compatibility of an importer plug-in can be validated by the framework. Compatibility can be defined by the version of the framework and the versions of any significant dependencies (e.g., services, data store, etc), for example.","In an example, an importer can provide a view of changes between one version of a coding system and another version of the same coding system (e.g., a \u201cdiff\u201d).","In an example, some content authoring tools, such as for CEM, can be fully integrated with the authoring of Terminology. When creating a CEM, a concept can be automatically created along with the CEM. There also may be additional terminology needed for a CEM that a modeler can add based on privileges, etc.","Clinicians at different sites of the healthcare system often prefer different synonyms than those provided for various concepts, and want to be able to quickly add them without a controlled workflow. In an example, the system can distinguish between controlled vocabulary and local preference vocabulary. Additionally, properties that are specific to process, etc., for a site can be defined. In an example, an ability to create new concepts precedes a controlled process via a feature to request new terminology. In an example, local terminology can be made distinct from released controlled terminology.","In an example, CEM models are created to define certain types of concepts. For example, a CEM model can be created for a lab concept to specify what types and how many designations the concept will have, etc. The CEM model can then be used to facilitate cloning, authoring tool data entry forms, validation on import, etc. Furthermore, models can be placed in \u201cgroups\u201d that are commonly created together.","In an example, modeling and management of concept designations includes support of internationalization or language variation.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0130","num":"0129"},"figref":"FIG. 18","b":["1800","1805"]},"At , mapping rules are created to accommodate changes. For example, when a new term is added by a third party organization, the mapping for sister terms may specify to automatically propagate \u201cadditions\u201d or put them into proposed status.","At , alternatively or in addition to , customer presentations and\/or mappings are processed. For example, this is first accomplished by a healthcare organization aggregating its clinical content, including nursing, physician, and administrative documents.","At , unstructured clinical content is passed through a text analyzer and extraction tool. For example, the text analyzer and extraction tool can organize the information based on synonym, abbreviation, relevance to existing source terminology, etc. At , the text analyzer is augmented using one or more source terminologies and medical dictionaries. At , proposed terms and synonyms are extracted. Proposals are put into a queue for a terminology engineer to validate and promote to the controlled medical vocabulary, for example. At , local synonyms and presentations are placed into a queue to be added to the CMV. At , local synonyms and presentations are reviewed and added to the local CMV.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0134","num":"0133"},"figref":["FIG. 19","FIG. 19","FIG. 19"],"b":["1910","1910","1912","1914","1912","1910","1912","1914"]},"The processor  of  is coupled to a chipset , which includes a memory controller  and an input\/output (\u201cI\/O\u201d) controller . As is well known, a chipset typically provides I\/O and memory management functions as well as a plurality of general purpose and\/or special purpose registers, timers, etc. that are accessible or used by one or more processors coupled to the chipset . The memory controller  performs functions that enable the processor  (or processors if there are multiple processors) to access a system memory  and a mass storage memory .","The system memory  may include any desired type of volatile and\/or non-volatile memory such as, for example, static random access memory (SRAM), dynamic random access memory (DRAM), flash memory, read-only memory (ROM), etc. The mass storage memory  may include any desired type of mass storage device including hard disk drives, optical drives, tape storage devices, etc.","The I\/O controller  performs functions that enable the processor  to communicate with peripheral input\/output (\u201cI\/O\u201d) devices  and  and a network interface  via an I\/O bus . The I\/O devices  and  may be any desired type of I\/O device such as, for example, a keyboard, a video display or monitor, a mouse, etc. The network interface  may be, for example, an Ethernet device, an asynchronous transfer mode (\u201cATM\u201d) device, an 802.11 device, a DSL modem, a cable modem, a cellular modem, etc. that enables the processor system  to communicate with another processor system.","While the memory controller  and the I\/O controller  are depicted in  as separate blocks within the chipset , the functions performed by these blocks may be integrated within a single semiconductor circuit or may be implemented using two or more separate integrated circuits.","Certain embodiments contemplate methods, systems and computer program products on any machine-readable media to implement functionality described above. Certain embodiments may be implemented using an existing computer processor, or by a special purpose computer processor incorporated for this or another purpose or by a hardwired and\/or firmware system, for example.","Some or all of the system, apparatus, and\/or article of manufacture components described above, or parts thereof, can be implemented using instructions, code, and\/or other software and\/or firmware, etc. stored on a machine accessible or readable medium and executable by, for example, a processor system (e.g., the example processor system  of ). When any of the appended claims are read to cover a purely software and\/or firmware implementation, at least one of the components is hereby expressly defined to include a tangible medium such as a memory, DVD, CD, etc. storing the software and\/or firmware.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0141","num":"0140"},"figref":["FIGS. 4-7","FIGS. 4-7","FIGS. 4-7","FIG. 19","FIGS. 4-7","FIGS. 4-7","FIGS. 4-7","FIGS. 4-7","FIGS. 4-7","FIGS. 4-7"],"b":["13","18","13","18","13","18","1912","13","18","13","18","13","18","13","18","13","18","13","18"]},"One or more of the components of the systems and\/or steps of the methods described above may be implemented alone or in combination in hardware, firmware, and\/or as a set of instructions in software, for example. Certain embodiments may be provided as a set of instructions residing on a computer-readable medium, such as a memory, hard disk, DVD, or CD, for execution on a general purpose computer or other processing device. Certain embodiments of the present invention may omit one or more of the method steps and\/or perform the steps in a different order than the order listed. For example, some steps may not be performed in certain embodiments of the present invention. As a further example, certain steps may be performed in a different temporal order, including simultaneously, than listed above.","Thus, certain examples described herein facilitate use of reduced manpower associated with manually maintaining the CMV, as well as helping to provide faster product installation time. Certain examples eliminate a need to purchase content from a third party content provider or consultancy (e.g., 3M, Apelon, Health Language, etc.). Certain examples provide an ability for customers to be able to contribute to a centrally managed CMV. Certain examples provide technical effects of advanced analytics, real-time decision support, and business intelligence through use of structured, coded data. Certain examples store high quality, computationally comparable, reliable, and reusable data and improve internal and external interoperability of systems, processes, and data. Certain examples help reduce costs incurred due to redundant and disparate data definition, storage, and maintenance and help promote national and international interoperability by sharing terminology with the healthcare community at large.","Certain examples described herein take advantage of text based analysis and linguistics to map a customer's vocabulary to a backbone code system. Conversely, vendors currently force a terminology onto their customers or disregard the standards. Certain examples provide a technical effect by analyzing healthcare terminology providers' data using an algorithm to rank the granularity of a medical term (e.g., simpler words have smaller number of letters), the popularity of a term (how often is the term used by the organization), and the relationship to similar terms (informed by semantic proximity, other medical publications and external dictionaries, etc.). This analysis results in proposals of where to place the provider's data in the CMV.","Certain examples can be used in a management and visualization tool to create local extensions\/presentations to a CMV. In addition to the tool, certain examples include a series of vocabulary importers, text based algorithms, workflow engine, data store, translation tables, and terminology services. Certain examples provide automated mapping and workflow facilitation\/management, etc. Certain examples provide a repository or message inbox for user review of terminology as well.","Certain embodiments contemplate methods, systems and computer program products on any machine-readable media to implement functionality described above. Certain embodiments may be implemented using an existing computer processor, or by a special purpose computer processor incorporated for this or another purpose or by a hardwired and\/or firmware system, for example.","One or more of the components of the systems and\/or steps of the methods described above may be implemented alone or in combination in hardware, firmware, and\/or as a set of instructions in software, for example. Certain embodiments may be provided as a set of instructions residing on a computer-readable medium, such as a memory, hard disk, DVD, or CD, for execution on a general purpose computer or other processing device. Certain embodiments of the present invention may omit one or more of the method steps and\/or perform the steps in a different order than the order listed. For example, some steps may not be performed in certain embodiments of the present invention. As a further example, certain steps may be performed in a different temporal order, including simultaneously, than listed above.","Certain embodiments include computer-readable media for carrying or having computer-executable instructions or data structures stored thereon. Such computer-readable media may be any available media that may be accessed by a general purpose or special purpose computer or other machine with a processor. By way of example, such computer-readable media may comprise RAM, ROM, PROM, EPROM, EEPROM, Flash, CD-ROM or other optical disk storage, magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices, or any other medium which can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of computer-executable instructions or data structures and which can be accessed by a general purpose or special purpose computer or other machine with a processor. Combinations of the above are also included within the scope of computer-readable media. Computer-executable instructions comprise, for example, instructions and data which cause a general purpose computer, special purpose computer, or special purpose processing machines to perform a certain function or group of functions.","Generally, computer-executable instructions include routines, programs, objects, components, data structures, etc., that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Computer-executable instructions, associated data structures, and program modules represent examples of program code for executing steps of certain methods and systems disclosed herein. The particular sequence of such executable instructions or associated data structures represent examples of corresponding acts for implementing the functions described in such steps.","Embodiments of the present invention may be practiced in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers having processors. Logical connections may include a local area network (LAN) and a wide area network (WAN) that are presented here by way of example and not limitation. Such networking environments are commonplace in office-wide or enterprise-wide computer networks, intranets and the Internet and may use a wide variety of different communication protocols. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that such network computing environments will typically encompass many types of computer system configurations, including personal computers, hand-held devices, multi-processor systems, microprocessor-based or programmable consumer electronics, network PCs, minicomputers, mainframe computers, and the like. Embodiments of the invention may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by local and remote processing devices that are linked (either by hardwired links, wireless links, or by a combination of hardwired or wireless links) through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment, program modules may be located in both local and remote memory storage devices.","An exemplary system for implementing the overall system or portions of embodiments of the invention might include a general purpose computing device in the form of a computer, including a processing unit, a system memory, and a system bus that couples various system components including the system memory to the processing unit. The system memory may include read only memory (ROM) and random access memory (RAM). The computer may also include a magnetic hard disk drive for reading from and writing to a magnetic hard disk, a magnetic disk drive for reading from or writing to a removable magnetic disk, and an optical disk drive for reading from or writing to a removable optical disk such as a CD ROM or other optical media. The drives and their associated computer-readable media provide nonvolatile storage of computer-executable instructions, data structures, program modules and other data for the computer.","While the invention has been described with reference to certain embodiments, it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes may be made and equivalents may be substituted without departing from the scope of the invention. In addition, many modifications may be made to adapt a particular situation or material to the teachings of the invention without departing from its scope. Therefore, it is intended that the invention not be limited to the particular embodiment disclosed, but that the invention will include all embodiments falling within the scope of the appended claims."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF SEVERAL VIEWS OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 11"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 12"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 13"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 14"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":"FIG. 15"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":"FIG. 16"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIG. 17"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":"FIG. 18"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":"FIG. 19"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
