---
title: Maintaining application operations within a suboptimal grid environment
abstract: A system for maintaining application operations within a suboptimal grid environment includes a grid management system. The grid management system submits an application from among multiple applications to at least one resource node of a grid environment, wherein separate jobs each request at least one of the multiple applications. The grid management system monitors a performance status of the at least one resource node running the application according to a profile for the application. The grid management system compares the performance status with an operational requirement specified in the profile for when the application is operating at the at least one resource node. The grid management system, responsive to the performance status not meeting the operational requirement, adjusts the use by the application of resource nodes in the grid environment according to the profile, such that the application continues to operate when suboptimal conditions arise in the grid environment.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08136118&OS=08136118&RS=08136118
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 08136118
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20090521
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENT"],"p":["The present application is related to the following co-pending applications:","This application is a continuation of commonly assigned Ser. No. 10\/757,282, now U.S. Pat. No. 7,552,437, filed Jan. 14, 2004, which is hereby incorporated herein by reference.","1. Technical Field","The present invention relates in general to grid environments and in particular to managing application operation in a grid environment. Still more particularly, the present invention relates to maintaining application operation within a suboptimal grid environment by reconfiguring the application according to an application profile which expresses the operational requirements of an application in a grid environment.","2. Description of the Related Art","Ever since the first connection was made between two computer systems, new ways of transferring data, resources, and other information between two computer systems via a connection continue to develop. In a typical network architecture, when two computer systems are exchanging data via a connection, one of the computer systems is considered a client sending requests and the other is considered a server processing the requests and returning results. In an effort to increase the speed at which requests are handled, server systems continue to expand in size and speed. Further, in an effort to handle peak periods when multiple requests are arriving every second, server systems are often joined together as a group and requests are distributed among the grouped servers. Multiple methods of grouping servers have developed such as clustering, multi-system shared data (sysplex) environments, and enterprise systems. With a cluster of servers, one server is typically designated to manage distribution of incoming requests and outgoing responses. The other servers typically operate in parallel to handle the distributed requests from clients. Thus, one of multiple servers in a cluster may service a client request without the client detecting that a cluster of servers is processing the request.","Typically, servers or groups of servers operate on a particular network platform, such as Unix or some variation of Unix, and provide a hosting environment for running applications. Each network platform may provide functions ranging from database integration, clustering services, and security to workload management and problem determination. Each network platform typically offers different implementations, semantic behaviors, and application programming interfaces (APIs).","Merely grouping servers together to expand processing power, however, is a limited method of improving efficiency of response times in a network. Thus, increasingly, within a company network, rather than just grouping servers, servers and groups of server systems are organized as distributed resources. There is an increased effort to collaborate, share data, share cycles, and improve other modes of interaction among servers within a company network and outside the company network. Further, there is an increased effort to outsource nonessential elements from one company network to that of a service provider network. Moreover, there is a movement to coordinate resource sharing between resources that are not subject to the same management system, but still address issues of security, policy, payment, and membership. For example, resources on an individual's desktop are not typically subject to the same management system as resources of a company server cluster. Even different administrative groups within a company network may implement distinct management systems.","The problems with decentralizing the resources available from servers and other computing systems operating on different network platforms, located in different regions, with different security protocols and each controlled by a different management system, have led to the development of Grid technologies using open standards for operating a grid environment. Grid environments support the sharing and coordinated use of diverse resources in dynamic, distributed, virtual organizations. A virtual organization is created within a grid environment when a selection of resources from geographically distributed systems operated by different organizations with differing policies and management systems is organized to handle a job request.","An important attribute of a grid environment that distinguishes a grid environment from merely that of another management system is quality of service maintained across multiple diverse sets of resources. A grid environment preferably does more than just provide resources; a grid environment provides resources with a particular level of service including response time, throughput, availability, security, and the co-allocation of multiple resource types to meet complex user demands. In an effort to provide quality of service, however, the issue in a grid environment is how to meet performance requirements when the reality of network systems is that optimal performance is not always available.","First, a reality of network systems is that applications are typically written to execute on specific platforms with specific operational requirements. In particular, the operational requirements of applications are often specified from measurements run under optimal conditions on the particular platform. Thus, application behavior differs extensively when run on a non-native platform or resources. Therefore, when multiple heterogeneous systems are linked together in a grid environment, there is an issue of how to maintain quality of service when applications are executing on non-native platforms. In particular, there is currently no means to express each application's operational requirements for execution in a grid environment where the available resources with which to execute a job may change rapidly over an interval of time.","Further a reality of network systems, is that applications are typically written where modules of the application are written to execute on specific platforms with relatively static resource pools. Thus, when an application written for a relatively static resource pool is encounters suboptimal operating conditions, the entire application shuts down.","Moreover, within a grid environment, applications are just one level of the functionality of a grid architecture. In addition to the application level, multiple levels and types of services are available to be implemented by an application. The same issues for maintaining quality of service for applications apply when these service layers run on multiple heterogeneous platforms within a grid environment.","Therefore, in view of the foregoing, there is a need for a method, system, and program to manage the software layers of functionality within a grid environment and in particular, to change an application or service behavior to maintain quality of service. Thus, there is a need for a method, system, and program to express an application or service's operational requirements for use in a grid environment, such that when suboptimal performance is detected in the grid environment, the operational behavior of an application or service can be reconfigured based on the operational requirements of the application.","In view of the foregoing, the invention relates is general to grid environments and provides a system and program for managing applications in a grid environment. The invention relates to maintaining application performance within a suboptimal grid environment by reconfiguring the application according to an application profile which expresses the operational requirements of an application in a grid environment.","In one embodiment, a system for maintaining application operations within a suboptimal grid environment includes one or more processors and includes a grid management system, for execution by at least one of the one or more processors. The grid management system receives a plurality of separate jobs from a plurality of client systems over a network. The grid management system manages at least one grid environment resource from a grid environment including a plurality of computing systems each including at least one resource including at least one operating system, at least one processor, at least one file system, at least one database manager, and at least one memory manager and communicatively connected over the network through the grid management system to share each of the at least one resource through a plurality of web services including simple object access protocol, web services description language, and extensible mark-up language interfaces implemented within at least one web service layer atop at least one grid service layer. The grid management system accesses a profile stored as a document type definition of an extensible markup language expression for an application from among a plurality of applications triggered by a particular job from a grid application profiles database specifying a selection of at least one web service from among the plurality of web services and at least one grid service within the grid services layer required by the application. The grid management system queries a plurality of separate business grid management systems to determine which of the separate business grid management systems manages at least one resource node from among a plurality of resource nodes of the grid environment including the at least one resource, wherein the at least one resource node also includes the at least one grid service required for the application in the profile and returns a price for each of the at least one resource node. The grid management system manages distribution of each of the separate jobs to a separate selection of the at least one resource with the particular job submitted to at least one resource node from among a selection of the plurality of resource nodes returning availability to handle the particular job at a selected price. The grid management system submits an application from among a plurality of applications to the at least one resource node, wherein each of the separate jobs requests at least one of the applications. The grid management system monitors a performance status of the at least one resource node running the application according to the profile. The grid management system compares the performance status with an operational requirement specified in a profile for the application for when the application is operating at the at least one resource node. The grid management system, responsive to the performance status not meeting the operational requirement, determines whether there is at least one other resource node from among the resource nodes within the grid environment that meets the operational requirement specified in the profile for the application for when the application is operating at the at least one other resource node. The grid management system, responsive to determining there is the at least one other resource node that meets the operational requirement specified in the profile, relocates the application to the at least one other resource node within the grid environment. The grid management system, responsive to determining there is not the at least one other resource node that meets the operational requirements specified in the profile, determines from the profile at least one module to first shutdown from among a plurality of modules of the application defined in the profile, wherein each of the modules is assigned a separate resource size requirement and a separate priority to be shut down in the profile. The grid management system, responsive to determining from the profile the at least one module to first shutdown, sends an extensible markup language message to the at least one resource node authorizing the at least one resource node to shutdown at least one module, such that the application continues to operate with a portion of the modules when the performance status fails to meet the operational requirement in the profile. The grid management system, responsive to determining there is not the at least one other resource node that meets the operation requirements specified in the profile, determines whether the application can continue to operate without the at least one module. The grid management system, responsive to a determination that the application cannot continue to operate without the at least one module, returns an error message for the application to a particular client system requesting the application from among the client systems. The grid management system, responsive to a determination that the application can continue to operate without the at least one module, determines whether a next module from among the plurality of modules should be identified to be shutdown if the performance status does not meet the operational requirement after shutting down the at least one module.","In another embodiment, a computer program product for maintaining application operations within a suboptimal grid environment includes one or more computer-readable tangible storage devices. The computer program product includes program instructions, stored on at least one of the one or more storage devices, to receive a plurality of separate jobs from a plurality of client systems over a network at a grid management system, where the grid management system manages at least one grid environment resource from a grid environment including a plurality of computing systems each including at least one resource including at least one operating system, at least one processor, at least one file system, at least one database manager, and at least one memory manager and communicatively connected over the network through the grid management system to share each of the at least one resource through a plurality of web services including simple object access protocol, web services description language, and extensible mark-up language interfaces implemented within at least one web service layer atop at least one grid service layer. The computer program product includes program instructions, stored on at least one of the one or more storage devices, to access a profile stored as a document type definition of an extensible markup language expression for an application from among a plurality of applications triggered by a particular job from a grid application profiles database specifying a selection of at least one web service from among the plurality of web services and at least one grid service within the grid services layer required by the application. The computer program product includes program instructions, stored on at least one of the one or more storage devices, to query a plurality of separate business grid management systems to determine which of the separate business grid management systems manages at least one resource node from among a plurality of resource nodes of the rid environment including the at least one resource, wherein the at least one resource node also includes the at least one grid service required for the application in the profile and returns a price for each of the at least one resource node. The computer program product includes program instructions, stored on at least one of the one or more storage devices, to manage distribution of each of the separate jobs to a separate selection of the at least one resource with the particular job submitted to at least one resource node from among a selection of the plurality of resource nodes returning availability to handle the particular job at a selected price. The computer program product includes program instructions, stored on at least one of the one or more storage devices, to submit an application from among a plurality of applications to the at least one resource node, wherein each of the separate jobs requests at least one of the applications. The computer program product includes program instructions, stored on at least one of the one or more storage devices, to monitor a performance status of the at least one resource node running the application according to the profile. The computer program product includes program instructions, stored on at least one of the one or more storage devices, to compare the performance status with an operational requirement specified in a profile for the application for when the application is operating at the at least one resource node. The computer program product includes program instructions, stored on at least one of the one or more storage devices, responsive to the performance status not meeting the operational requirement, to determine whether there is at least one other resource node from among the resource nodes within the grid environment that meets the operational requirement specified in the profile for the application for when the application is operating at the at least one other resource node. The computer program product includes program instructions, stored on at least one of the one or more storage devices, responsive to determining there is the at least one other resource node that meets the operational requirement specified in the profile, to relocate the application to the at least one other resource node within the rid environment. The computer program product includes program instructions, stored on at least one of the one or more storage devices, responsive to determining there is not the at least one other resource node that meets the operational requirements specified in the profile, to determine from the profile at least one module to first shutdown from among a plurality of modules of the application defined in the profile, wherein each of the modules is assigned a separate resource size requirement and a separate priority to be shut down in the profile. The computer program product includes program instructions, stored on at least one of the one or more storage devices, responsive to determining from the profile the at least one module to first shutdown, to send an extensible markup language message to the at least one resource node authorizing the at least one resource node to shutdown at least one module, such that the application continues to operate with a portion of the modules when the performance status fails to meet the operational requirement in the profile. The computer program product includes program instructions, stored on at least one of the one or more storage devices, responsive to determining there is not the at least one other resource node that meets the operation requirements specified in the profile, to determine whether the application can continue to operate without the at least one module. The computer program product includes program instructions, stored on at least one of the one or more storage devices, responsive to a determination that the application cannot continue to operate without the at least one module, to return an error message for the application to a particular client system requesting the application from among the client systems. The computer program product includes program instructions, stored on at least one of the one or more storage devices, responsive to a determination that the application can continue to operate without the at least one module, to determine whether a next module from among the plurality of modules should be identified to be shutdown if the performance status does not meet the operational requirement after shutting down the at least one module.","Referring now to the drawings and in particular to , there is depicted one embodiment of a computer system which may be implemented in a grid environment and in which the present invention may be implemented. As will be further described, the grid environment includes multiple computer systems managed to provide resources. Additionally, as will be further described, the present invention may be executed in a variety of computer systems, including a variety of computing systems, mobile systems, and electronic devices operating under a number of different operating systems managed within a grid environment.","In one embodiment, computer system  includes a bus  or other device for communicating information within computer system , and at least one processing device such as processor , coupled to bus  for processing information. Bus  preferably includes low-latency and higher latency paths that are connected by bridges and adapters and controlled within computer system  by multiple bus controllers. When implemented as a server system, computer system  typically includes multiple processors designed to improve network servicing power.","Processor  may be a general-purpose processor such as IBM's PowerPC\u2122 processor that, during normal operation, processes data under the control of operating system and application software accessible from a dynamic storage device such as random access memory (RAM)  and a static storage device such as Read Only Memory (ROM) . The operating system may provide a graphical user interface (GUI) to the user. In a preferred embodiment, application software contains machine executable instructions that when executed on processor  carry out the operations depicted in the flowcharts of , , and others described herein. Alternatively, the steps of the present invention might be performed by specific hardware components that contain hardwired logic for performing the steps, or by any combination of programmed computer components and custom hardware components.","The present invention may be provided as a computer program product, included on a machine-readable medium having stored thereon the machine executable instructions used to program computer system  to perform a process according to the present invention. The term \u201cmachine-readable medium\u201d as used herein refers to any data storage medium that participates in providing instructions to processor  or other components of computer system  for execution. Such a data storage medium may take many forms including, but not limited to, non-volatile media and volatile media. Common forms of non-volatile media include, for example, a floppy disk, a flexible disk, a hard disk, magnetic tape or any other magnetic medium, a compact disc ROM (CD-ROM) or any other optical medium, punch cards or any other physical medium with patterns of holes, a programmable ROM (PROM), an erasable PROM (EPROM), electrically EPROM (EEPROM), a flash memory, or any other memory chip or cartridge, or any other data storage medium from which computer system  can read and which is suitable for storing instructions. In the present embodiment, an example of a non-volatile medium is mass storage device  which as depicted is an internal component of computer system , but will be understood to be provided by an external device. Volatile media include dynamic memory such as RAM .","Moreover, the present invention may be downloaded as a computer program product, wherein the program instructions may be transferred from a remote virtual resource, such as a virtual resource , to requesting computer system  by way of data signals embodied in a carrier wave or other propagation medium via a network link  (e.g. a modem or network connection) to a communications interface  coupled to bus . Virtual resource  may include a virtual representation of the resources accessible from a single system or systems, wherein multiple systems may each be considered discrete sets of resources operating on independent platforms, but coordinated as a virtual resource by a grid manager. Communications interface  provides a two-way data communications coupling to network link  that may be connected, for example, to a local area network (LAN), wide area network (WAN), or an Internet Service Provider (ISP) that provide access to network . In particular, network link  may provide wired and\/or wireless network communications to one or more networks, such as network , through which use of virtual resources, such as virtual resource , is accessible as provided by a grid management system . Grid management system  may be part of multiple types of networks, including a peer-to-peer network, or may be part of a single computer system, such as computer system .","As one example, network  may refer to the worldwide collection of networks and gateways that use a particular protocol, such as Transmission Control Protocol (TCP) and Internet Protocol (IP), to communicate with one another. Network  uses electrical, electromagnetic, or optical signals that carry digital data streams. The signals through the various networks and the signals on network link  and through communication interface , which carry the digital data to and from computer system , are exemplary forms of carrier waves transporting the information. It will be understood that alternate types of networks, combinations of networks, and infrastructures of networks may be implemented.","When implemented as a server system, computer system  typically includes multiple communication interfaces accessible via multiple peripheral component interconnect (PCI) bus bridges connected to an input\/output controller. In this manner, computer system  allows connections to multiple network computers.","Additionally, although not depicted, multiple peripheral components and internal\/external devices may be added to computer system , connected to multiple controllers, adapters, and expansion slots coupled to one of the multiple levels of bus . For example, a display device, audio device, keyboard, or cursor control device may be added as a peripheral component.","Those of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that the hardware depicted in  may vary. Furthermore, those of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that the depicted example is not meant to imply architectural limitations with respect to the present invention.","With reference now to , a block diagram illustrates one embodiment of the general types of components within a grid environment. In the present example, the components of a grid environment  include a client system  interfacing with a grid management system  which interfaces with server clusters , servers , workstations and desktops , data storage systems , and networks . For purposes of illustration, the network locations and types of networks connecting the components within grid environment  are not depicted. It will be understood, however, that the components within grid environment  may reside atop a network infrastructure architecture that may be implemented with multiple types of networks overlapping one another. Network infrastructure may range from multiple large enterprise systems to a peer-to-peer system to a single computer system. Further, it will be understood that the components within grid environment  are merely representations of the types of components within a grid environment. A grid environment may simply be encompassed in a single computer system or may encompass multiple enterprises of systems.","The central goal of a grid environment, such as grid environment  is organization and delivery of resources from multiple discrete systems viewed as virtual resource . Client system , server clusters , servers , workstations and desktops , data storage systems , networks  and the systems creating grid management system  may be heterogeneous and regionally distributed with independent management systems, but enabled to exchange information, resources, and services through a grid infrastructure enabled by grid management system . Further, server clusters , servers , workstations and desktops , data storage systems , and networks  may be geographically distributed across countries and continents or locally accessible to one another.","In the example, client system  interfaces with grid management system . Client system  may represent any computing system sending requests to grid management system . In particular, client system  may send job requests and jobs to grid management system . Further, while in the present embodiment client system  is depicted as accessing grid environment  with a request, in alternate embodiments client system  may also operate within grid environment .","While the systems within virtual resource  are depicted in parallel, in reality, the systems may be part of a hierarchy of systems where some systems within virtual resource  may be local to client system , while other systems require access to external networks. Additionally, it is important to note, that systems depicted within virtual resources  may be physically encompassed within client system .","One function of grid management system  is to manage job requests and jobs from client system  and control distribution of each job to a selection of computing systems of virtual resource  for use of particular resources at the available computing systems within virtual resource . From the perspective of client system , however, virtual resource  handles the request and returns the result without differentiating between which computing system in virtual resource  actually performed the request.","To implement grid environment , grid management system  facilitates grid services. Grid services may be designed according to multiple architectures, including, but not limited to, the Open Grid Services Architecture (OGSA). In particular, grid management system  refers to the management environment which creates a grid by linking computing systems into a heterogeneous network environment characterized by sharing of resources through grid services.","Grid environment , as managed by grid management system , may provide a single type of service or multiple types of services. For example, computational grids, scavenging grids, and data grids are example categorizations of the types of services provided in a grid environment. Computational grids may manage computing resources of high-performance servers. Scavenging grids may scavenge for CPU resources and data storage resources across desktop computer systems. Data grids may manage data storage resources accessible, for example, to multiple organizations or enterprises. It will be understood that a grid environment is not limited to a single type of grid categorization.","Referring now to , a block diagram illustrates one example of an architecture that may be implemented in a grid environment. As depicted, an architecture  includes multiple layers of functionality. As will be further described, the present invention is a process which may be implemented in one or more layers of an architecture, such as architecture , which is implemented in a grid environment, such as the grid environment described in . It is important to note that architecture  is just one example of an architecture that may be implemented in a grid environment and in which the present invention may be implemented. Further, it is important to note that multiple architectures may be implemented within a grid environment.","Within architecture , first, a physical and logical resources layer  organizes the resources of the systems in the grid. Physical resources include, but are not limited to, servers, storage media, and networks. The logical resources virtualize and aggregate the physical layer into usable resources such as operating systems, processing power, memory, I\/O processing, file systems, database managers, directories, memory managers, and other resources.","Next, a web services layer  provides an interface between grid services  and physical and logical resources . Web services layer  implements service interfaces including, but not limited to, Web Services Description Language (WSDL), Simple Object Access Protocol (SOAP), and eXtensible mark-up language (XML), executing atop an Internet Protocol (IP) or other network transport layer. Further, the Open Grid Services Infrastructure (OSGI) standard  builds on top of current web services  by extending web services  to provide capabilities for dynamic and manageable Web services required to model the resources of the grid. In particular, by implementing OGSI standard  with web services , grid services  designed using OGSA are interoperable. In alternate embodiments, other infrastructures or additional infrastructures may be implemented a top web services layer .","Grid services layer  includes multiple services. For example, grid services layer  may include grid services designed using OGSA, such that a uniform standard is implemented in creating grid services. Alternatively, grid services may be designed under multiple architectures. Grid services can be grouped into four main functions. It will be understood, however, that other functions may be performed by grid services.","First, a resource management service  manages the use of the physical and logical resources. Resources may include, but are not limited to, processing resources, memory resources, and storage resources. Management of these resources includes receiving job requests, scheduling job requests, distributing jobs, and managing the retrieval of the results for jobs. Resource management service  preferably monitors resource loads and distributes jobs to less busy parts of the grid to balance resource loads and absorb unexpected peaks of activity. In particular, a user may specify preferred performance levels so that resource management service  distributes jobs to maintain the preferred performance levels within the grid.","Second, information services  manages the information transfer and communication between computing systems within the grid. Since multiple communication protocols may be implemented, information services  preferably manages communications across multiple networks utilizing multiple types of communication protocols.","Third, a data management service  manages data transfer and storage within the grid. In particular, data management service  may move data to nodes within the grid where a job requiring the data will execute. A particular type of transfer protocol, such as Grid File Transfer Protocol (GridFTP), may be implemented.","Finally, a security service  applies a security protocol for security at the connection layers of each of the systems operating within the grid. Security service  may implement security protocols, such as Open Secure Socket Layers (SSL), to provide secure transmissions. Further, security service  may provide a single sign-on mechanism, so that once a user is authenticated, a proxy certificate is created and used when performing actions within the grid for the user.","Multiple services may work together to provide several key functions of a grid computing system. In a first example, computational tasks are distributed within a grid. Data management service  may divide up a computation task into separate grid services requests of packets of data that are then distributed by and managed by resource management service . The results are collected and consolidated by data management system . In a second example, the storage resources across multiple computing systems in the grid are viewed as a single virtual data storage system managed by data management service  and monitored by resource management service .","An applications layer  includes applications that use one or more of the grid services available in grid services layer . Advantageously, applications interface with the physical and logical resources  via grid services layer  and web services , such that multiple heterogeneous systems can interact and interoperate. As an example, an application may be available at a web site \u201cwww.ibm.com\u201d. The web site provides an entry point for the user to send a job request to select from services, such as a catalog search engine or a business to business service. It is important to note that while an application and a grid service are positioned within different layers of the grid architecture , a reference to an application in general also encompasses grid services exposed through the application.","With reference now to , a block diagram of a system operating within the grid environment from the perspective of the grid management system is depicted in accordance with the method, system, and program of the present invention. As illustrated in , a computer system includes many hardware components. As part of a grid environment, however, these hardware components are viewed as resources. For example, a system  includes an application resource , two CPU resources  and , a memory resource , and a storage resource . The resources in system  are typical of the types of resources when viewed within the grid environment, however, in an alternate embodiment, other types of resources may be provided. Further, the resources in system  may be physically located within a single computer system or distributed across multiple computer systems connected by a network, for example.","As part of the grid management system described in , a grid manager and router (GM)  provides the interface between the resources of system  and client systems sending requests.","In particular, a resource monitor  within GM  monitors the working status of each of the resources available in system . GM  preferably sends status reports to other grid managers and routers within the grid environment to indicate the availability of the resources in system . Additionally, status reports may describe the computer hardware, operating system, and resources of system . Status reports may be generated, for example, when system  joins or leaves the grid environment, when a threshold is detected, at predetermined time intervals, and on specific predetermined events, including, but not limited to a hardware fault or a portion of an application or service failing.","Referring now to , an illustrative representation depicts one embodiment of the logical infrastructure of a grid environment in which the present invention may be implemented. While  depicts an example of general components of a grid environment, in the present figure, an example of how the general components are viewed logically within a grid environment is illustrated in a grid environment . In particular, the grid management system functions are logically dispersed into multiple GMs, such as GM , GM , and GM . Further, the virtual resource is logically dispersed into multiple resources (RSs), such as RS , RS , RS , RS , RS , and RS . It is important to note that a resource may not be a direct representation of a physical resource, but rather a logical representation of one or more physical resources and or groups of physical resources.","In the example, client system  sends a job request to GM . GM  searches for resources available to handle the job specified in the job request. In particular, GM  checks whether RS  and RS  can handle the job specified in the job request and may send queries to other GMs, such as GM  or GM . GMs  and  return reports on the availability of resources to handle the job request.","In particular, a job request preferably includes a request made through a particular application for a grid service. In general, an application is self-contained, but exposes the grid services layer. The resources necessary to handle the job request are those necessary to handle the request as specified by the application and services accessed.","For purposes of illustrations, RS  and RS  are considered local resources or resources within the same discrete set of resources to which jobs from client system  are submitted. In the examples following, when RS  and  are not meeting performance requirements for a job from client system , then additional resources may be allocated including other resources within the same discrete set of resources, capacity on demand resources, resources from internal grids and finally resources from external grids.","More specifically, in the example, GM , RS , and RS  are part of one grid infrastructure \u201cgrid A\u201d operated by a first business that provides a first specified number of grid services for a first specified price. Then, GM , RS , and RS  are part of another grid infrastructure \u201cgrid B\u201d operated by a second business that provides a second specified number of grid services for a second specified price. When GM  sends the job request to GM  and GM , the each GM preferably reports whether the job request can be handled and a price for handling the request. In relation to client system , grids A and B may be internal grids operating within the same enterprise system as client system  or external grids.","After receiving reports on the availability of resources, GM  collects the options for handling the job and returns the options to client system . Client system  may then decide to select a preferred option and send the job to have handled according to the selected option. GM  manages the return of the results of the job to client system .","The resources utilized in the option selected by client system  form a virtual organization for handling the job. For example, if client system  selects an option to handle the job based on the option returned from GM , then a virtual organization may be formed to process the job which would include GM , GM , RS , and RS .","According to an advantage of the present invention, a service availability management agent (SAMA)  is preferably accessible within grid environment . SAMA performs the functions of monitoring grid resources, policy coordination, application profile management, analytical processing, and problem dispatch for grid environment . SAMA  may be controlled by dynamic policies that manage its behavior while performing error management. In particular, errors may occur within grid environment  when suboptimal conditions occur that degrade applications and services to a minimal operational level or to the point of no service at all. Such suboptimal performance may occur as a result of a system failure, a network infrastructures dropping or becoming overloaded, or other failures that occur within grid environment .","In particular, when suboptimal conditions are detected within grid environment , SAMA  preferably manages use of grid resources to allow applications and services to continue to function. In particular, SAMA  may regulate the type and amount of resources provided to an application or service in an attempt keep the application or service running. For example, SAMA  may move an application or service to a new set of resource nodes. Additionally, for example, SAMA  may reconfigure an application's operation behavior to use less resources.","In particular, SAMA  may be incorporated within a single system or distributed across multiple systems. Further, within grid architecture  of , SAMA  may be implemented in multiple levels. For example, SAMA  may be implemented in part as a web service and in part as a resource management service.","It is important to note that while SAMA  may manage use of grid resources by both applications and services, for purposes of example, management of grid resources for applications will be described. Further, it will be understood that SAMA  may manage use of grid resources by other controllers and agents operating within grid environment .","With reference now to , there is a block diagram of one embodiment of a SAMA controller in accordance with the method, system, and program of the present invention. As depicted, SAMA  includes multiple controllers and a SAMA database .","First, a resource monitor  monitors the performance and availability of resources in a grid environment. More specifically, resource monitor  may monitor resource usage, capacity, and throughput, for example.","An inference analysis controller  preferably receives messages from systems operating in the grid environment and parses the messages to determine the specific request. In particular, a message may include a job request. A job request may invoke a particular service or services published for an application available from the grid. Each application preferably has a profile stored in profiles . For purposes of example, grid application profiles database  includes Document Type Definitions (DTDs) of an XML expression of the profile of each application. It is important to note that while the examples of the application of profiles to manage resource usage are focused on resource usage by applications, a profile may be specified for all layers of functionality within the grid architecture, including services.","An example schema of an application profile is illustrated in Table 1. In the example, a sample of the types of application attribute information that may be included in a application profile is illustrated. In particular, the name, version, description, developer name, owner name, and code size for an application may be specified. Next, in the example, a sample of the minimal performance and maximum performance requirements of an application are specified for each platform available for operating the application within the grid environment. Further, modules of the application and expected performance based on platforms are included. A module definition may include, for example, the module name, module data, amount of resources required and priority number. A platform definition may include, for example, a name of the platform, version and description of the platform, maximum and minimum memory size, maximum and minimum CPU requirements on a symmetrical multi-processor (SMP) system, maximum and minimum CPU clock speeds, and the operating name and version. In addition, as a security requirement, for any platform on which the application will operate, the application profile may specify a particular type of required platform certificate where the certificate indicates that the platform has under gone some level of assurances by a security standard, such as Common Criteria (CC). It will be understood that while the present example of the application profile is an XML expression, other types of profile expressions may be implemented. It will be understood that the example schema may also applied to services, agents, and other controllers within a grid environment. Further, as will be understood by those with skill in the art, other types of information may be included in an application profile in an implementation of the present invention.","Profile management controller  compares the maximum and minimum operating requirements of an application profile to the current operating conditions to determine if the grid is operating at optimal conditions. If the grid is not running at optimal conditions, then profile management controller  preferably determines whether the application can be scheduled to run at another resource node or nodes. In particular, profile management controller  compares the platform of the additional resource nodes with the platform requirements of the application as specified in the application profile. Further, if additional nodes are not available, then profile management controller  determines whether modules of the application can be degraded or shutdown, while still maintaining minimum operating conditions according to the application profile. In particular, profile management controller  may process the application profile to determine the modules identified for the application. In one example, each module is assigned a resource size requirement and priority to be pruned or shut down. Profile management controller  preferably shuts down modules according to each module's priority and resource size requirements.","Alternatively, a message received at SAMA  may include a status request for the availability of the grid environment to handle a job request before a client system sends a job. In particular, a service inventory database  maintains the current status of applications and services available from the grid. Service inventory database  is preferably updated whenever modules are shutdown, such that responses to status requests are efficiently returned based on the status in service inventory database .","Before profile management controller  adjusts the use of grid resources, inference analysis controller  may compare the application request or monitored suboptimal condition with grid policies in a policy database . In particular, a grid policies may specify overall operational requirements for the grid environment. Further, grid policies may specify the type and amount of resources that are available for a particular application when profile management controller  is adjusting the use of grid resources.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0077","num":"0076"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00001","num":"00001"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","pgwide":"1"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"280pt","align":"left"}},"thead":{"row":[{"entry":"TABLE 1"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":"<?xml version=\u201c1.0\u201d encoding=\u201cUTF-8\u201d?>"},{"entry":"<!--"},{"entry":"******************************************************************************"},{"entry":"Application Profile DTD - Version 1.0"},{"entry":"******************************************************************************"}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"266pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"+:One or more permitted"]},{"entry":[{},"*:Zero or more permitted"]},{"entry":[{},"?:Optional"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"280pt","align":"left"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":"******************************************************************************"},{"entry":"-->"},{"entry":"<!-- Application Profile Definition -->"},{"entry":"<!ELEMENT Application(ApplicationData, AppVital Security+)>"},{"entry":"<!-Application attribute information -->"},{"entry":"<!ELEMENT ApplicationData >"},{"entry":"<!ATTLIST ApplicationData"},{"entry":"Name CDATA # REQUIRED"},{"entry":"Version CDATA # REQUIRED"},{"entry":"Description CDATA #REQUIRED"},{"entry":"DeveloperName CDATA #REQUIRED"},{"entry":"OwnerName CDATA #REQUIRED"},{"entry":"codeSize CDATA #REQUIRED"},{"entry":">"},{"entry":"<!ELEMENT AppVital (PruneModule*, Platform+)>"},{"entry":"<!ATTLIST AppVital"},{"entry":"minimalPerformance CDATA #REQUIRED"},{"entry":"maximumPerformance CDATA #REQUIRED"},{"entry":"<!- Prune Module Definition -->"},{"entry":"<!ELEMENT PruneModlue EMPTY>"},{"entry":"<!ATTLIST PruneModule"},{"entry":"ModuleName CDATA #REQUIRED"},{"entry":"ModuleData CDATA #REQUIRED"},{"entry":"ResourceAmt CDATA #REQUIRED"},{"entry":"PriorityNumber CDATA #REQUIRED >"},{"entry":"<!- Platform supported Definition -->"},{"entry":"<!ELEMENT Platform EMPTY>"},{"entry":"<!ATTLIST Platform"},{"entry":"Name CDATA #REQUIRED"},{"entry":"Version CDATA #REQUIRED"},{"entry":"Description CDATA # REQUIRED"},{"entry":"MaxMemorySize CDATA #REQUIRED"},{"entry":"MinMemorySize CDATA #REQUIRED"},{"entry":"MaxCPU CDATA #REQUIRED"},{"entry":"MinCPU CDATA #REQUIRED"},{"entry":"MaxSpeed CDATA #REQUIRED"},{"entry":"Min CDATA #REQUIRED"},{"entry":"OSName CDATA #REQUIRED"},{"entry":"OSVersion CDATA #REQUIRED"},{"entry":"evalName CDATA #IMPLIED"},{"entry":"evalProvider CDATA #IMPLIED"},{"entry":"evalLevel CDATA #IMPLIED"},{"entry":"evalDateIssued CDATA #IMPLIED"},{"entry":">"},{"entry":"<!- Security Information Definition -->"},{"entry":"<!ELEMENT Security EMPTY>"},{"entry":"<!ATTLIST Security"},{"entry":"keyType (SYMMETRIC|ASYMMETRIC) CDATA # REQUIRED"},{"entry":"algorithmName CDATA # REQUIRED"},{"entry":"algorithmAttribute CDATA #IMPLIED"},{"entry":"keyLength CDATA #REQUIRED"},{"entry":"keyIdentifier CDATA #REQUIRED"},{"entry":"keyUsage (Authentication|Encryption|Signature) CDATA #REQURED"},{"entry":"eExportable (TRUE|FALSE) CDATA #REQUIRED"},{"entry":"certificateType (X509V1|X509V3|OTHER) CDATA #IMPLIED"},{"entry":"certificateName CDATA #IMPLIED"},{"entry":"certificateAttribute CDATA #IMPLIED"},{"entry":"cSProviderType (Software|Hardware) CDATA #REQUIRED"},{"entry":"ssmName CDATA #IMPLIED"},{"entry":"ssmVersion CDATA #IMPLIED"},{"entry":"ssmExtName CDATA #IMPLIED"},{"entry":"ssmExtVersion CDATA #IMPLIED"},{"entry":"hsmName CDATA #IMPLIED"},{"entry":"hsmVersion CDATA #IMPLIED"},{"entry":"hsmFirmName CDATA #IMPLIED"},{"entry":"hsmFirmVersion CDATA #IMPLIED"},{"entry":"hsmExtName CDATA #IMPLIED"},{"entry":"hsmExtVersion CDATA #IMPLIED"},{"entry":"evalName CDATA #IMPLIED"},{"entry":"evalProvider CDATA #IMPLIED"},{"entry":"evalLevel CDATA #IMPLIED"},{"entry":"evalDateIssued CDATA #IMPLIED"},{"entry":">"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}},"With reference now to , there is depicted a block diagram illustrating one method of adjusting use of resources by rerouting an application in accordance with the method, system, and program of the present invention. As depicted, an application  is initially run on a resource at node A operating on platform . The operational requirements for application  to run on platform  are preferably defined in a profile for application . If the performance of application  running on platform  is suboptimal according to the profile, then the SAMA may search for other resources available to meet the operational requirements of application . In the example, a node B running on platform  is available to meet the operational requirements specified for platform  by the application profile for application . Once a new node is located for application , the SAMA may direct a job router to redirect the application from resource node A to node B and begin monitoring the performance of node B. Although the present example is described with reference to an application moving from one node on one platform to another node on another platform, it will be understood that an application may move from one resource node to another within the same platform or may move from one cluster of resource nodes to another cluster of resource nodes.","Referring now to , there is depicted a block diagram illustrating another method of adjusting use of resources by reconfiguring an application's operational behavior in accordance with the method, system, and program of the present invention. As illustrated, application  includes multiple independent processing modules A-N. Modules A-N may be handled by a single resource or multiple resources. Further, a single module may be handled across multiple resources, depending on the size of resources required for the module.","In particular, in the profile for application , a shutdown priority is preferably specified for each module. In the example, modules A, B and N of application  are executing in the grid environment on one or more nodes. The grid environment is only able to provide suboptimal performance for application . Thus, the SAMA determines whether modules of application  can be shutdown so that portions of application  can continue to operate without the entire application shutting down. In the example, module B is assigned the highest shutdown priority. The SAMA may determine that this highest shutdown priority module consumes resources to the extent that the module should be shutdown. The SAMA may send an instruction to the node or nodes running module B to shutdown the module. If the performance remains suboptimal after shutting down module B, the SAMA may send instructions to shutdown additional modules.","With reference now to , there is illustrated a high level logic flowchart of a process and program for adjusting the use of grid resources by an application within a grid environment operating at suboptimal conditions. As illustrated, the process starts at block  and thereafter proceeds to block . Block  depicts a determination whether a job request is received. If a job request is not received, then the process iterates at block . If a job request is received, then the process passes to block . Block  depicts retrieving the application profile of at least one application invoked through the application from which the job request originated. Next, block  depicts scheduling resources according to the application profile and grid policies. Thereafter, block  depicts submitting the job to the selected grid resources, and the process passes to block .","Block  illustrates monitoring grid performance of the resources running an application. Thereafter, block  depicts a determination whether suboptimal conditions are detected for the application when compared with the application profile. If suboptimal conditions are not detected, then the process returns to block . If suboptimal conditions are detected, then the process passes to block .","Block  depicts searching for other nodes to relocate the application to meet the application operational requirements from the application profile for the particular platform(s) on which the application is executing. Next, block  depicts a determination whether relocation nodes are available. This determination may first require determining, based on grid policies, which resources are available for the application. Then, a determination may be made of which of the available resources meet the operational requirements of the application profile as specified for platforms supporting the available resources. If relocation nodes are available, then block  depicts relocating the application to the relocation nodes, and the process returns to block  while the application is invoked. If relocation nodes are not available, then the process passes to block . Block  depicts analyzing the application profile to determine a first priority module of the application. Next, block  depicts a determination whether SAMA should shut down the module. In particular, SAMA may determine if shutting down the module would free sufficient resources to increase overall performance of the application. Additionally, grid policies and additional application profile information may control whether the SAMA decides to shut down the module. If SAMA should not shut down the module, then the process passes to block , to be further described. If SAMA should shut down the module, then the process passes to block .","Block  depicts sending an XML message to the node running the application where the message includes authentication and authorization to reconfigure the application. It will be understood that other transaction protocols may be implemented. Next, block  depicts a determination whether an acknowledgment that the module was shut down is received. If the acknowledgement is not received, the process iterates at block  for a period of time. If the acknowledgement is received, then the process passes to block . Block  depicts reevaluating the grid status based on the resource performance. Next, block  depicts a determination whether additional steps are required to reconfigure the application. In particular, the application may need additional reconfiguration if after shutting down one module the application continues to operate under suboptimal conditions. If additional steps are required, then the process passes to block , to be further described. If additional steps are not required, then the process passes to block . Block  depicts allowing the application to run with degraded modules. Next, block  depicts updating the inventory of available applications with the degraded level, and the process ends.","As previously references, the process may passes to block . Block  depicts a determination whether the application can still function under a degraded state. If the application cannot still function, then the process passes to block . Block  depicts alerting the requester with an error message, and the process ends. Alternatively, if the application can still function, then the process passes to block . Block  depicts analyzing the application profile to determine a next priority module of the application, and the process passes to block .","Referring now to , there is depicted a high level logic flowchart of a process and program for handling status requests in a grid environment. As illustrated, the process starts at block  and thereafter proceeds to block . Block  depicts receiving a request to pre-determine the sufficiency of the resources for an application. Next, block  depicts checking the service inventory database for current sufficiency of resources. A monitor request may be sent to the potentially effected resources to determine the current availability of resources. Finally, block  depicts returning an XML status request response of the sufficiency of resources, and the process ends.","While the invention has been particularly shown and described with reference to a preferred embodiment, it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes in form and detail may be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. In particular, it is important to note that while the description of the present invention focuses on the invention operating in the context of grid applications, services, agents, and controllers, the present invention may also apply in the context of normal web services and in distributed architectures in general."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The novel features believed characteristic of the invention are set forth in the appended claims. The invention itself however, as well as a preferred mode of use, further objects and advantages thereof, will best be understood by reference to the following detailed description of an illustrative embodiment when read in conjunction with the accompanying drawings, wherein:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIGS. 9A-9B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":"FIG. 10"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
