---
title: Method and apparatus for aggregating and presenting data associated with geographic locations
abstract: Implementations relate to systems and methods for aggregating and presenting data related to geographic locations. Geotag data related to geographic locations and associated features or attributes can be collected to build a regional profile characterizing a set of locations within the region. Geotag data related to the constituent locations, such as user ratings or popularity ranks for restaurants, shops, parks, or other features, sites, or attractions, can be combined to generate a profile of characteristics of locations in the region. The platform can generate recommendations of locations to transmit to the user of a mobile device, based for instance on the location of the device in the region as reported by GPS or other location service and the regional profile. Geotag data can include audio data analyzed using region-specific terms, and user recommendations can be presented via dynamic menus based on regional profiles, user preferences or other criteria.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09646025&OS=09646025&RS=09646025
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 09646025
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20090521
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATION","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["The present application is related to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61\/056,406, filed May 27, 2008, entitled \u201cMethod and Apparatus for Aggregating and Presenting Data Associated with Geographic Locations,\u201d assigned or under obligation of assignment to the same entity as this application, from which provisional application priority is claimed, and which provisional application is incorporated by reference herein.","The present teachings relate generally to aggregation and presentation of data associated with geographic locations, and more particularly, to the analysis of geographic data tags generated by mobile devices or other sources to generate a regional profile characterizing features, attractions, and other points of interest for a given geographic area, which can be used to generate recommendations and other services for users.","In location-based services in cellular and other applications, a \u201ctag\u201d can be a keyword, text, or other attribute that is assigned to a piece of information to describe that information. One or more tags can be assigned to a piece of information by one or more users. A geographic data tag (\u201cgeotag\u201d) can be a type of tag that incorporates a geographic location, such as latitude\/longitude coordinates, along with associated attributes. A geotag can allow descriptive information to be associated with a physical location on Earth.","Presently, various Websites provide a capability to add geographic location information to items such as digital photos, tickets, blogs, and the like. Some digital cameras have the capability to add geographic location information to photos when taken, but do not provide the capability to automatically associate a piece of geotag information with the geographic location. Moreover, while mobile phones or digital cameras may be able to create geotags to attach to individual photographs or other objects, and share those geotagged objects directly with other users, no platform exists which can aggregate and analyze higher-order attributes reflected in geotagged data received from a number of users.","For instance, certain cellular phones may permit a user to store a map of visited locations in a given city and input geotagged ratings of individual restaurants they have frequented. However, no mechanism is available to upload that geotag information to a collective database that could then, for example, assemble and sort that information to make collective regional ratings of available restaurants to recommend to the user population, at large. Marketing and recommendation opportunities may therefore go unexploited, since the collective responses of users to various features and attractions in a given region are not organized or made available to other users in the vicinity. Even local residents in a region may not be aware of all the features and attractions available in their region, which information could be leveraged to create interest in new travel, vacation, recreational or other possibilities for those and other users.","Techniques and platforms may therefore be desirable that provide the capability to associate pieces of information with geographic locations in the form of geographic data tags, and aggregate and analyze the data contained in the geographic data tags to generate higher-level profiles of geographic regions, as well as produce associated recommendations derived from those regional profiles.","The following presents a simplified summary of one or more aspects in order to provide a basic understanding of such aspects. This summary is not an extensive overview of all contemplated aspects, and is intended to neither identify key or critical elements of all aspects nor delineate the scope of any or all aspects. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts of one or more aspects in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.","According to the present teachings in one or more aspects, systems and methods for aggregating and presenting data associated with geographic locations are provided, in which a regional profiling platform operates to receive a set of geotag data associated with geographic locations, and analyze that content to generate collective profiles of the surrounding regions. In one or more implementations of the present teachings, the regional profiling platform can receive multiple sets of geotag data, each associated with one or more geographic locations. In one or more implementations, each of the geotags can contain a geographic identifier that identifies the associated geographic location. In one or more implementations, the embedded geographic identifier can be automatically acquired simultaneously with receiving the geotag data, and any other encoded information.","According to one or more aspects, the regional profiling platform can identify, aggregate, organize, and store one or more attributes of the associated geographic locations based on the collective set of geotag data. The collective set of geotag data can be used to derive a regional profile for a block, tract, zip code area, city, state, country, or other geographic region.","The regional profile can include, for instance, a set of points of interest (POI) available in that area, such as local restaurants, parks, sporting venues, residential sections, commercial or retail centers, or other resources in the region. The regional profile in one regard can encode and summarize characteristic or prominent features, attractions, services, or other resources available in the subject region. In one or more aspects in further regards, the regional profiling platform can access the regional profile developed for a given location, and use that profile to develop higher-order data to serve to individual users in that area, or otherwise.","For instance, the regional profiling platform can extract features in the set of local points of interest, and generate recommendations or suggestions to users for restaurants, lodging, recreation, entertainment, or other features or resources available in that region, or subsection of that region. In one or more implementations, users can store a set of individual preferences that can be used to filter the recommendations or other information they wish to receive. In one or more aspects, user profiling data produced by platforms that track or generate user profiles or preferences can likewise be used to filter recommendation information. In one or more aspects, the preferences or behavior of the user's friends, such as members of a social networking service, can also be used to filter recommendation information. In one or more aspects, users can freely add additional geotag data for locations in a region including ratings, keywords, comments, and other annotations associated with an area, to populate and update the database used to generate the regional profile. In one or more aspects, the user-supplied geotag data can include voice clips or samples whose content can be decoded using customized training sets particular to a given region. In one or more aspects, recommendation information can be presented to the user in a dynamically ordered menu or other dialog or interface that is adapted to the user's preferences, current location, or based on other variables.","To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends, the one or more aspects comprise the features hereinafter fully described and particularly pointed out in the claims. The following description and the annexed drawings set forth in detail certain illustrative features of the one or more aspects. These features are indicative, however, of but a few of the various ways in which the principles of various aspects may be employed, and this description is intended to include all such aspects and their equivalents.","Various aspects are now described with reference to the drawings. In the following description, for purposes of explanation, numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of one or more aspects. It may be evident; however, that such aspect(s) may be practiced without these specific details.","In the subject description, the word \u201cexemplary\u201d is used to mean serving as an example, instance, or illustration. Any aspect or design described herein as \u201cexemplary\u201d is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other aspects or designs. Rather, use of the word exemplary is intended to present concepts in a concrete fashion.","Moreover, the term \u201cor\u201d is intended to mean an inclusive \u201cor\u201d rather than an exclusive \u201cor.\u201d That is, unless specified otherwise, or clear from the context, the phrase \u201cX employs A or B\u201d is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is, the phrase \u201cX employs A or B\u201d is satisfied by any of the following instances: X employs A; X employs B; or X employs both A and B. In addition, the articles \u201ca\u201d and \u201can\u201d as used in this application and the appended claims should generally be construed to mean \u201cone or more\u201d unless specified otherwise or clear from the context to be directed to a singular form.","Additionally, various aspects or features will be presented in terms of systems that may include a number of devices, components, modules, and the like. It is to be understood and appreciated that the various systems may include additional devices, components, modules, etc. and\/or may not include all of the devices, components, modules etc. discussed in connection with the figures. A combination of these approaches may also be used.","Aspects of the present teachings relate to methods and apparatus for aggregating and presenting data associated with geographic locations. More particularly, in one or more aspects, platforms and techniques are provided in which geographic data tags, or geotags, for specific sites or locations are generated by mobile devices or other sources, and aggregated and analyzed to develop a regional profile for a region that is associated with the locations. In one or more aspects, the set of geotag data can include user ratings, category tags, remarks, links, and\/or other data, attributes, or metadata that is stored and associated with specific locations. For instance, retail shops located on Hollywood Boulevard in Los Angeles, Calif., can be rated or described by mobile users or other consumers, and the ratings or other descriptive content or tags can be associated with a geographical position (for example, captured via a Global Positioning System, or GPS fix) for those locations.","According to one or more aspects, a profile module hosted in a profiling server or other resource or service can collect and combine the set of geotag data for a particular region, to generate the regional profile based on geotag data for the sites or locations within the region. The profile module can, for instance, organize and examine the set of geotag data and identify locations that represent or contain similar features, attractions, or resources. Thus for instance, a profiled region may contain a number of restaurants, hotels, bed and breakfast sites, or other locations associated with travel or hospitality industries. The profile module can identify sets of geotag data that identify a location as being for instance a restaurant, and further sort or organize locations identified as restaurants into different types, such as Mexican, Italian, Thai, or other categories or types. Other attributes or features of locations within a region can be identified, organized, and sorted to generate a regional profile characterizing the available features, attractions, locations, and other resources within the region.","In one or more implementations, the profiling server can receive multiple sets of geotag data from an entire population of users, and aggregate the geotag inputs from those diverse sources into an aggregate regional profile. The regional profile can be stored in a database associated with the profiling server, regional profile database, or other computing or data resources of the network. Based on the accumulated geotag information, the profiling server can extract, identify, and sort various higher-level attributes of the geographic locations in the region based on the geotags associated with specific geographic positions. For example, the profiling server can determine that an identified geographic location corresponds to an Italian restaurant. The profiling server can search the regional profile database and compile all ratings provided by users visiting and commenting upon that location, and determine that establishment serves highly rated pizza based on the attributes stored in the geotags associated with the subject geographic location. Implementations of the present teachings involve the profiling server aggregating the sets of geotag data based on the attributes of the geographic locations, and generating higher-level data sets from the aggregate information derived from the geotags. Those outputs and services can include data, outputs, or objects such as the region profile itself, a list of similar regions, a list of similar locations, a list of users having interests keyed to a location or region, and a list of hot spots and popular locations.","The regional profile and other data can then be used to produce recommendation information or other data related to points of interest in the region, and transmit that information to users of a mobile device, or other clients. For instance, the profile module can receive a request for a recommendation, or a search query, from the user of a mobile telephone or other device within, approaching, or outside a profiled region, and extract a set of recommended destination locations within the region for that user. The recommendation information can include locations filtered based on a user profile for the user of the mobile device, on a location history for that user, on a popularity rating for the potential destinations, or other criteria as well as the regional profile itself. For example, recommendation information can be generated to suggest additional or new locations that may be similar to a location at which the mobile user is currently located. In one or more aspects, the set of geotag data uploaded to the regional profile database and\/or transmitted to individual mobile devices can include audio data, which can be processed according to speech recognition training sets derived from collected user voice inputs or other attributes for the region. In one or more aspects, a set of category selections from which a user can choose recommendation information can be generated and dynamically ordered based on user profiles or preferences. Other delivery techniques to transmit recommendations, ratings, links, or other data related to the regional profile of a region of interest can be used.","As used in this patent application, the term \u201clocation,\u201d \u201cplace,\u201d or \u201csite\u201d can refer to a point of interest (POI) identified or defined by a latitude\/longitude reading, or other numerical or other geographic identifier, such as a street address. As used herein, the term \u201cregion\u201d or \u201cgeographic region\u201d can refer to a contained area containing one or more locations, and can mean any geographic boundary or area of various sizes, including a single address, building, or structure, a block, a tract, a county, a city, or other geographic area or unit. In one or more aspects, a \u201cregion\u201d can be contiguous, or can be made up of areas that are discrete or not necessarily contiguous. In one or more aspects, a \u201cregion\u201d can be defined by a bounded geometric shape, such as a circle, square, or polygon overlaying a map. In one or more aspects, a \u201cregion\u201d can be defined by numerical boundaries, such as latitude and longitude. In one or more implementations, a \u201cregion\u201d can be defined by other identifiers, such as a ZIP code.","Likewise, in general, as used herein a \u201cgeotag\u201d can refer to a set of information associated with a defined geographic location. The associated information in a \u201cgeotag\u201d can for instance be or include a keyword, tag, comment, text, video clips, images, audio samples, or other data. As used herein, the term \u201chotspot\u201d can refer to a place that has been automatically determined within a profiled region or community to be popular, using auto-tagging or other processing. As used herein, the term \u201cfavorite place\u201d can refer to a hotspot or other preferred location that is specific to a user (for instance, a home, office, or recreation site), or determined by frequency of visitation by a community of users. As used herein, the term \u201cfriend\u201d can refer to a person identified or enumerated as a friend by a user, which can be done via a social networking site or service.","In terms of regional profiling and related activity, as generally illustrated in , a mobile device  operating in a wireless network hosted or supported by a base station  and associated network resources can approach, travel to or within a profiled region. In one or more aspects, mobile device  can include a cellular telephone, a network-enabled media player, a network-enabled personal digital assistant (PDA), a WiFi\u2122-enabled communications device, a Global Positioning System (GPS) unit, or other wireless, mobile, or portable device, client, or hardware. In one or more aspects, mobile device  can incorporate a location module  to identify or capture the geographic location or position of mobile device . In one or more aspects, location module  can be or include various location-detection technology or services, such as Global Positioning System (GPS), base-station triangulation, and\/or trilateration, the Galileo (Global System Mobile) locator service, or other techniques to capture or detect a location of the mobile device .","While registered to base station , mobile device  can generate a set of device location data  via location module , and transmit or upload device location data  to base station  via a wireless interface, such as a cellular interface. Base station  can in turn communicate with a profiling server , such as a remotely hosted server or set of servers, along with associated resources. In one or more aspects, profiling server  can host a profile module  configured to receive device location data  for one or more mobile devices  registered to base station  and\/or associated regional profiling services. Profile module  can in one or more aspects identify a profiled region in which mobile device  is traveling, toward which mobile device  is approaching, or which lies outside the vicinity of mobile device . Profile module  can subsequently access a regional profile database  to locate a regional profile  for the region of interest, a user profile  for the user of mobile device , and generate a set of recommendation information  to transmit to the mobile device , as described herein. In one or more aspects, the user profile  for the user of mobile device  can be entered or configured by the user him or herself, including to specify categories or locations of interest, and\/or can be generated or modified by profile module  by analysis of the user's location history, rating history, transaction history, or other behavior related to profiled region .","Recommendation information  can be presented to the user in a recommendation selector  displayed via a user interface  of mobile device, such as a graphical user interface. In one or more implementations, profile module  can be or include a recommendation engine such as the Xiam\u00ae recommendation engine available from Xiam Technologies Limited, a subsidiary of Qualcomm Incorporated of San Diego, Calif. In one or more implementations, other recommendation engines or logic can also or instead be used to generate or modify recommendation information .","More particularly, and as for instance illustrated in , a profiled region  can contain or have associated with the region a set of points of interest , which can include, merely illustratively, locations or attractions such as Hollywood Boulevard 270, Redondo Beach 272, Rodeo Drive 274, which might be registered to regional profile database  in the case of a profiled region  representing or associated with Los Angeles, Calif. Each location, place, or site identified in the set of points of interest  can have associated with it a set of geotag data , which can for instance be stored in regional profile database  or other data stores. When mobile device  is located within profiled region , approaching profiled region , the user has requested information related to profiled region , or at other times, profile module  can generate set of recommendation information  to transmit to mobile device  to display to the user via user interface , such as a graphical user interface.","In one or more aspects, recommendation information  can be developed and filtered for a specific user of mobile device  using the user's own user profile , popularity, category tag, and other information contained in or related to regional profile  hosted in regional profile database . In one or more aspects, as shown, recommendation information  can be or include a set of selectable or linkable suggestions, identifications, or recommendations for a location to visit within profiled region . In one or more aspects, as shown, recommendation information  can be again presented via a recommendation selector  displayed on user interface , or other gadget, menu, dialog, or interface. In one or more aspects, the display of recommendation information  via recommendation selector  can include a dialog to permit the user of mobile device  to view further information regarding a recommended location, such as previous user ratings for that site or facility. Other attributes or information related to recommendation information  can be presented or made available to the user in recommendation selector , or other interface. In one or more aspects, tags located within the set of geotag data  for one or more locations in profiled region  or otherwise can be made directly linkable with each other, so that, for example, the user of mobile device  can traverse all tags containing the tag \u201cItalian restaurant,\u201d regardless of location.","In terms of the generation, organization, and nature of regional profile , and as for instance illustrated in , in one or more aspects, the collective characterization of a set of points of interest  in a profiled region  can be aggregated into a regional profile  reflecting the overall features of profiled region . The regional profile database  can, in general, profile or categorize a profiled region  on an aggregate level based on the total ensemble of sets of geotag data  collected for locations in the region. The regional profile  can include one or more classifications or categorizations of profiled region  based on the collective tags, ratings, comments, and\/or other attributes for all sets of geotag data  associated with the profiled region .","The boundary or area of profiled region  itself can be defined or identified based on a region parameter, which can for instance include a region identifier and\/or a region size. For example, the region parameter can include a radius and a longitude\/latitude coordinate acquired by the mobile device , and\/or calculated based on user input. Profiled region  can also be defined by a predefined region identifier or geographic code, such as a ZIP code, a municipality name, a city name, and the like. The profile module  can determine or identify a set of geographic locations located in profiled region , and retrieve one or more set of geotag data  associated with each of the geographic places or locations in the region. In one or more aspects, the profile module  can classify the geographic locations in the profiled region  region into groups of one or more similar locations, based on the attributes of the geographic locations stored in the set of geotag data  associated with the geographic locations. Profile module  can accordingly classify a profiled region  or subsections thereof into one or more different classes, such as school zones, residential, commercial, parkland or recreational, and others.","Thus profile module  or other logic can collect, identify, sort, organize, and categorize a set of points of interest  for a profiled region  to produce a collective or high-level characterization of the profiled region  to use to deliver recommendation, search, and other information to users of one or more mobile device , or other users. Generally speaking, the set of points of interest  for a given profiled region  can include any one or more of a variety of types, classes, or categories of features, locations, sites, attractions, or other resources located in profiled region . Those can include, as shown and merely illustratively, a first concert site  with an associated set of geotag data , a first school  (illustratively labeled as \u201cschool \u201d) with associated set of geotag data , a first restaurant  (illustratively labeled as \u201crestaurant \u201d) with associated set of geotag data , a first sports arena  (illustratively labeled as \u201csports arena \u201d) with associated set of geotag data , a first office site  (illustratively labeled as \u201coffice site \u201d) with associated set of geotag data , a second school  (illustratively labeled as \u201cschool \u201d) with associated set of geotag data , a first residential location  (illustratively labeled as \u201cresidential location \u201d) with associated set of geotag data , a second residential location  (illustratively labeled as \u201cresidential location \u201d) with associated set of geotag data , and the like. In one or more aspects, set of points of interest  can further include, again merely illustratively, natural and man-made features such as a lake  or other body of water, a highway  (illustratively labeled as \u201cHighway \u201d), or other features, locations, sites, attractions, or other resources.","According to one or more aspects, profile module  or other logic can compare the set of geotag data  for any of the locations in profiled region  registered to regional profile database  to develop recommendation information  to deliver to users of one or more mobile devices , to users of Web browsers connected to the Internet or other public or private networks, or to other users interested in receiving information regarding a region of interest, according to various criteria and discovery processes described herein. In one or more aspects, recommendation information  can comprise a set of recommended locations , such as and merely illustratively a sports arena  (labeled \u201csports arena \u201d) and a restaurant  (labeled \u201crestaurant \u201d) selected from the set of points of interest , as shown in . In one or more aspects, locations or places that do not qualify for selection based on user profile , regional profile , and\/or other filtering criteria can be excluded from set of recommended locations  or other recommendation information . In one or more aspects, locations or places located outside profiled region , such as the illustrated features of whitewater rapids  and ski resort , can be excluded from the regional profile  and\/or recommendation information , based on region parameters used to define or encompass profiled region .","In one or more aspects of the present teachings, and as for instance illustrated in , the exchange of various sets of geotag data  and associated information for a profiled region  can occur in both directions to and from mobile device , base station , and profiling server  with its associated resources. In one or more aspects, a user of mobile device  can therefore, in addition to receiving recommendation information  via recommendation selector  or other interface, likewise transmit or upload geotag information to base station  for inclusion in regional profile database . The set of geotag data  uploaded by the user of mobile device  can be registered and stored to regional profile database , incorporated in regional profile , and ultimately, in recommendation information  sent to the user him or herself as well as other users.","In one or more aspects as shown, a set of geotag inputs  received in or via mobile device  can include attributes or data be entered via a user dialog presented on user interface  of mobile device for a user traveling in, toward, or outside a profiled region. In one or more aspects as shown, a user can be prompted to add a new set of geotag inputs  to be incorporated in a set of geotag data , and ultimately uploaded to a base station  or other destination via a wireless interface, such as a cellular telephone or wireless data connection. In one or more aspects, the prompts can query or prompt the user to enter a new set of geotag data  (which can be referred as a tag, \u201cplacemark,\u201d or other term) associated with a location captured by location module  and reflected in device location data . Device location data , as noted, can be or include for instance latitude\/longitude coordinates reported by a Global Positioning System (GPS) fix, or other geographic or positional identifiers or data.","In one or more aspects as likewise shown in , set of geotag inputs  can include selectable category tags (illustratively shown as \u201crestaurant\u201d with a subcategory of \u201cMexican\u201d, or other categories\/subcategories), a user-entered name for the geotag data, a rating dialog, a new tag(s) dialog to enter new or additional tag descriptors, selected categories, user-entered comments (regarding, e.g., service, location, quality, value, etc), and\/or other attributes, fields or data. In one or more aspects, set of geotag inputs  can also or instead include other information than textual or numerical rating information, such as, for instance, audio data such as user voice annotations or audio samples from a location, video clips or data taken from a location, digital still images, or other content. Set of geotag inputs  can likewise include, for example, a link, comment, blog, or other information inputted by the user for the associated geographic location. Attributes included in set of geotag inputs  can also include the user's name, a time when the user visited the geographic location, and\/or a time duration of the user's visit to the associated geographic location. In one or more aspects, attributes of these types can be stored in or with the set of geotag inputs  and resulting set of geotag data  as searchable data fields. When the mobile device  receives an indication that the set of geotag inputs  are ready to be stored, such as when the user submits the set of geotag inputs  via a keypad of mobile device , the mobile device  can upload those inputs and any associated data as a set of geotag data  to base station  and then profiling server , or other destination. Those inputs can be entered into regional profile database  via profile module  of profiling server  for incorporation in regional profile . In one or more implementations, the mobile device  can also or instead store the generated set of geotag data  directly in local storage or memory locate in mobile device  itself, or in other locations.","It may be noted that in one or more implementations, in terms of sharing set of geotag inputs  and other data with profiling server  or other resources, the user can be provided with a set of privacy controls to permit the user to share their location history and related data with desired individuals, such as designated friends. A user may be presented with options to filter the visibility of other geotag data, such as to restrict the display to relative distances rather than actual location, to restrict the display to mobility or behavior patterns (e.g., work until 6:00 pm) rather than actual location, applying time-based access rules, or enforcing other privacy or access privileges or restrictions.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0054","num":"0053"},"figref":"FIG. 5","b":["190","144","504","190","110","116","506","110","114","110","508","190","110","114","116","510","110","510","516","110","190","512","510","512","512","110","516","110","190","514","512","514"]},"In , a determination can be made whether profiled region  matches any other known profile or template, using similar techniques. If the determination is yes, processing can proceed to  where profiled region  can be assigned a matched regional profile  indicating a corresponding further categorization, after which processing can proceed to . If the determination in  is no, processing can proceed directly to . In , profile module  can compute a set of match scores for each known profile against which the attributes of profiled region  is compared. For instance, matches can be rated on a scale of 0 to 1, or other ranges or confidence levels. In , a set of possible matches for regional profile types for profiled region  can be identified based on the match scores of . In one or more aspects, a match score threshold can be applied, for instance 90% confidence or other criteria, to assign a regional profile type to profiled region  and store that assignment to regional profile  in regional profile database . In , processing can repeat, return to a prior processing point, jump to a further processing point, or end. It may be noted that depending on match values or other factors, more than one overall type can be assigned to a profiled region .","In one or more aspects, once a regional profile  is developed and stored for a subject profiled region , in one or more aspects, profile module  can leverage the known characteristics of a given profiled region  to identify an additional region or regions that demonstrate a similar profile to the originally profiled region  of interest.  illustrates a flow diagram of processing for generating an identification of a similar region to a subject profiled region , according to one aspect. In , processing can begin. In , a regional profile  of a given profiled region  can be generated, for instance, using processing illustrated in  or otherwise. In , profile module  can compute the profile of one or more additional target regions to use to compare against the regional profile  of profiled region .","In , profile module  can locate one or more profiles within the one or more additional target regions to locate any regions that match the regional profile  of profiled region . In one or more aspects, matching can be performed by matching a minimum number of attributes or fields in the collective sets of geotag data  for locations in profiled region  against comparative regions in the set of identified additional target regions. For instance, two regions can be considered a high-level match if both are categorized as \u201cresidential\u201d at the highest level of classification. In , profile module  can further compare the additional target regions to determine the most similar region or regions to profiled region  available. For instance, two regions classified as \u201cresidential\u201d at the highest level can be further compared to identify the mutual presence of schools, libraries, parks, and\/or other locations, places, or features. In , the most similar target region or region based on the comparative results can be returned as the most similar region(s) to the subject profiled region  whose regional likeness is being sought. In one or more aspects, the next-most similar, or other rankings or numbers of matched target regions can be returned. In , processing can repeat, return to a prior processing point, jump to a further processing point, or end.","In one or more aspects of the present teachings in further regards, besides executing a discovery process to locate similar regions on a regional level, the user of mobile device  may wish to locate or identify individual locations that exhibit similarity to each other, within the boundaries of a destination region. In this regard, the regional profile  of the region of the user's immediate vicinity, or other destination region, can be accessed to determine whether other locations or places reflect a similar set of characteristics. For instance, if a user is experiencing a long wait at a pub in London, England, and would like to locate a similar establishment nearby, the user of mobile device  can request a list or map of \u201cplaces like here\u201d displaying similar attributes within the metropolitan area. The similar locations can be restricted to destination regions within next-nearest streets, blocks, towns, or other geographic distances or areas. The results for similar locations can be filtered by additional factors such as a user profile , profiles, or current locations of friends or members of other social groups, or other criteria.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0059","num":"0058"},"figref":"FIG. 7","b":["110","702","704","114","110","116","706","114","116","110"]},"In , profile module  can find or identify one or more location or place in the destination region that represent the closest match to the current location, based on tags, ratings, profiles, or other fields or data for each candidate location compared to the same or similar attributes for the current location. In one or more aspects, profile module  can transmit the most similar place to the current location to mobile device  or other client or destination as recommendation information . In , processing can repeat, return to a prior processing point, jump to a further processing point, or end. According to one or more aspects in some regards, a user who finds that they enjoy or appreciate a current location or site can thereby receive recommendation information  suggesting other locations of similar type within profiled region , among other outputs. It may be noted that in one or more aspects, initiation of similar-location processing can be initiated by request of user of mobile device , by profile module  on a predetermined or event-triggered basis, or based on other events or conditions.","In one or more aspects of the present teachings, in certain regards, a user of mobile device  may request a suggestion or recommendation of where to go within a profiled region  from profile module  of profiling server , or other logic.  illustrates a flow diagram of processing to identify a recommendation for a location to visit or frequent in profiled region . In , processing can begin. In , profile module  can access a set of data for discriminating a suggested location to visit, including a set of hotspots for friends in profiled region , and a set of hotspots for friends in profiled region  filtered based on time of day, hotspots for the overall community of profiled region , and hotspots for overall community of profiled region  filtered by time of day. The set of data can likewise include a user profile  for the user of mobile device  including designated favorite places, profiles of friends of the user of mobile device  including designated favorite places, and regional profile  for the subject profiled region . In one or more aspects, profiles or other data for friends or other associates of the user of mobile device  can be acquired via a social networking service, including ratings, recommendations, location histories, and other information for the user's friends or other social group.","In terms of generating hotspot data, one or more hotspots in a profiled region  can be generated by profile module  by identifying which locations within profiled region  have been visited or rated by users within a predetermined period of time, such as the last week, last month, or other period. In one or more aspects, it may be noted that profiling server  can maintain or serve a list or map of hotspots and popular locations, based on the regional profile database . In one or more implementations in this regard, the profile module  can determine a distribution of all user locations at a given time or interval. For example, the profile module  can determine that it is 6:00 pm, and the user is currently within a given profiled region , such as within ZIP code 95008. The profile module  can determine that at that time, the distribution of all users of mobile devices registered to the server network is 50% downtown, 20% at home, 10% at a public pavilion, 10% at a shopping mall, and 10% unknown. In one or more aspects, details can be zoomed at a particular location to determine a reason for a population of users congregating within a profiled region , for example a public concert in a park or other area. The distribution of locations can be filtered by or analyzed in terms of time-of-day or other scheduling bands, such as lunch time, dinner time, commute time, or other intervals of common activity. Day of week, month of year, holiday, or other information can also be used to inform the analysis of collective user positions. Again, social group profiles and personal preferences can also be used to filter hot spot or popular location hits.","Returning to the processing flow, in , profile module  can match or sort a set of locations or places in the regional profile  of the profiled region  using the profiles of the user's friends, hotspot ratings, or data, set of geotag data  for regional profile , and\/or user profile . For instance, profile module  can identify those locations in profiled region  whose overall relevance or potential level of interest to the user are the greatest, next-greatest, and so forth in order. Overall relevance can be determined, for example, by rating or weighting the number of matches in set of geotag data  for each candidate location against the profile, hotspot, or other comparative attributes. In , profile module  can generate a set of recommendation information , sorted by degree of relevance, to transmit to the user of mobile device . For instance, recommendation information  can include a list of Mexican restaurants most frequently visited and\/or most highly rated by the user's set of friends, by other users at large in the community, most visited by the user in the past, or based on other criteria. In 8120, processing can repeat, return to a prior processing point, jump to a further processing point, or end.","In terms of generating a user profile  for use in discovery or searching against the set of geotag data  stored in regional profile , as noted, a variety of user-supplied and\/or network-generated data can be used to develop a set of preferences, selections, histories, and\/or other data to build user profile  for a user of mobile device .  illustrates a variety of sets of user-related data that can be accessed or received as inputs by profile module  to generate and output user profile . Those inputs, as illustratively shown, can include a set of favorite places  associated with the user. Set of favorite places  can include places which the user explicitly enters or designates as favorite locations, and in addition or instead can include locations identified through analysis of the location history or other records of activity for that user. The inputs, as likewise illustratively shown, can include user tagging data  indicating tags or other inputs that the user has supplied as part of one or more set of geotag data  for locations in the past. For instance, a user who frequently inputs or uploads ratings of golf courses or pro shops can be inferred to have a greater than average interest in golf activities, and user profile  can include a category tag of \u201cgolf\u201d for potentially favorite locations.","The inputs to a user profile , as similarly shown in , can also include the regional profile  for any one or more profiled region  in which the user has designated a favorite location or place. The inputs to user profile , as likewise shown, can also include a set of friend user profiles  for a set of friends for the user. In one or more aspects, those profiles or other data can be imported or received form a social networking service. In one or more aspects, a set of other user attributes  can likewise be incorporated into the inputs to profile module  to generate user profile . It may be noted that In one or more aspects, different inputs accepted by profile module  to generate user profile  can be weighted or used differently, for instance, based on the differing predictive power of various inputs. Thus, in one or more aspects, prior location or transaction history for the user of mobile device  can be accorded greater weight than the same histories of users in set of friend user profiles . User profile  can, again, include data indicating favorite locations for the user, a location or transaction history for the user, category tags for areas or activities of interest to the user, and\/or other data. In one or more aspects, profile module  can update user profile  at various times, such as at predetermined intervals, or based on triggering events such as user entry of new geotag data. In one or more aspects again, user profile  can in addition or instead include data or preferences entered directly by the user.","In one or more aspects of the present teachings in further regards, the user of mobile device  can request and\/or profile module  can determine a set of recommendations for one or more new places for the user to visit in a profiled region . That is, the user can request and\/or the profiling server  on a predetermined basis can decide to generate a set of previously unvisited locations for the user to receive as potential sites of interest to the user.  illustrates a flow diagram of processing to identify potential new places of interest for a user to visit or frequent. In , processing can begin. In one or more aspects, processing to generate a recommendation of a new place for the user to visit can be initiated, for instance, via a user-initiated request and\/or initiation by the network. In , profile module  or other logic can access data sets to develop suggested new places. Those data sets as shown can include a list of locations or places in a profiled region , any designated user favorite places in profiled region  or elsewhere recorded in user profile  or other record, any identified hotspot(s) in profiled region  including friend-based or community-wide hotspots, any favorite locations designated by friends of the user such as social networking members and places tagged or recommended by them, and\/or other data associated with a profiled region .","In , profile module  can remove any locations or places which the user has already designated as a favorite place in user profile  or otherwise, to ensure any suggested locations represent new or previously unvisited places to the user. In , the set of remaining places can be sorted by profile module  or other logic based on selected priorities or weightings used to order the resulting set of potential new places. For instance, places displaying a higher hotspot rating by members of the user's social networking service can be given greater weight than community-wide hotspots. In one or more aspects, the sorting of potential new places can likewise be adapted based on time of day information. In , a set of new recommended places can be generated as part of a set of recommendation information  to be transmitted to mobile device  or otherwise. In , processing can repeat, return to a prior processing point, jump to a further processing point, or end.","In one or more aspects of the present teachings in still further regards, besides including potential new places in recommendation information , profile module  can leverage the information contained in regional profile  to develop user profiles to recommend or present to an existing user, business operator, marketing organization, or others, using linkages or similarities to attributes of recommended new locations for the user(s). One feature of this type of recommendation is that it permits an identification of users who may be more likely to visit a location.  illustrates a flow diagram of processing to develop recommendation information , including user profiles affiliated or linked with one or more profiled region . In , processing can begin. In , profile module  can identify one or more additional profiled region  having an associated regional profile  that matches, is similar to, or otherwise correlated with a recommended new location or place. In one or more aspects, a suggested new location in  can be identified using processing illustrated in , or other techniques. For instance, if the new location is an oceanside recreational area such as a beach or boardwalk, profile module  can locate one or more additional profiled region  that contains a tag \u201cocean\u201d in set of geotag data  or otherwise indicates oceanside sites in the respective points of interest .","In , profile module  can identify individual locations or sites within each additional profiled region  that contain similar attributes to the identified new location. In one or more aspects, profile module  can search the set of geotag data  for locations in each of the one or more additional profiled region  that matches attributes of the new location, such as a tag containing \u201csurf park.\u201d In , profile module  can identify one or more user profile  associated with the matching locations that correspond to or match the attributes of the new location. Thus for instance, user attributes, preferences, or other tags or data that indicate an interest in \u201csnorkeling,\u201d \u201csurfing,\u201d \u201csailing\u201d and so forth can be identified as matching or related to new location that is an oceanside recreational area. In , profile module  can identify a subset of the one or more user profiles  generated in this fashion that match or correspond to user profile  for the user to whom the new location was recommended. For instance, attributes that match in favorite locations, preferred interests, and the like can be used to identify one or more user profile  that is similar to that of the user of mobile device  receiving a recommendation of a new location. In one or more aspects, the one or more user profile  that is identified as similar can for instance be transmitted or presented to a business operator whose location relates to the matching attributes. In one or more aspects, the information can be transmitted to the user of mobile device , for instance to extend invitations to social networks or import favorite locations or other attributes related to set of geotag data . In , processing can repeat, return to a prior processing point, jump to a further processing point, or end.","According to one or more aspects in yet further regards, it may be noted that in general, set of geotag data  associated with a place or location, region, or other geographic area can be encoded in a variety of forms, including in the form of speech samples or annotations, or other audio data supplied by a user related to a location or region. In one or more implementations, the speech input can require the user to use a defined vocabulary of input words or terms. In one or more implementations, the mobile device and\/or the geotag server can also determine commonly used geotag vocabulary by the user or a group of users, to train and improve speech recognition capability. In one or more implementations, the speech processing used to extract geotag information can rely upon natural language processing to automatically extract intended tag or other information from unrestricted speech patterns. In one or more implementations, the speech pattern of a given user and\/or other users, as well as patterns in tags surrounding the subject location be tagged can be analyzed, to dynamically create a recognition grammar. In one or more implementations, these types of dynamically generated grammar can be generated for each recognition request.","For instance, a user visiting a national park may activate a voice recording feature on their mobile device , and speak into the device to record remarks, tags, or other data, such as \u201cclear ocean view\u201d or \u201clarge camping facilities.\u201d In one or more aspects in these regards, profile module , mobile device , and\/or other hardware or other resources can be equipped with speech processing circuitry and\/or logic to capture and analyze voice, speech, or audio content as part of set of geotag data . In one or more aspects (for example as shown in  described below), mobile device  can be equipped with a speech module  for these and other purposes. In one or more aspects (for example as shown in  described below), profiling server  can also or instead be equipped with a speech module  for these and other purposes.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0072","num":"0071"},"figref":"FIG. 12","b":["114","116","1202","1204","102","190","136","170","298","102","288","1206"]},"In , a voice recognition engine, audio codec, or other speech module can be created, accessed, and\/or reused with corresponding settings as those detected in  (e.g., sampling rate, number of channels, bit depth, and so forth). In , the voice recognition engine, audio codec, or other speech module can be invoked or instantiated, for instance, by initiating software programming in profiling server . In , the text result produced by executing speech recognition against audio clips or samples inputted in set of geotag data  can be parsed, for instance to extract tags, categories, comments, sentences, and\/or other linguistic or textual output. In , the place description of a location or place in a set of points of interest  in a profiled region  associated with the voice annotation can be augmented to reflect the decoded voice data. For instance, the set of geotag data  associated with a given place, location, or region can be augmented by data fields such as the user's name, any tags the user has assigned to the data, any user ratings contained in the speech input, comments identified in the speech input, and\/or other fields or data. In , the augmented place description containing the user-supplied spoken attributes can be submitted or transmitted to profiling server  as part of a set of geotag data , for instance for incorporation in regional profile . In one or more implementations, the voice or audio sample itself can be stored to regional profile database , for instance for potential replay, if desired. In , processing can repeat, return to a prior processing point, jump to a further processing point, or end.","In terms of performing speech recognition during processing shown in  or otherwise, in one or more aspects, speech module , speech module , profile module , or other logic can employ specialized speech recognition to more accurately or efficiently identify tags and other attributes in set of geotag data  supplied by a user of mobile device . More particularly, speech module  in mobile device , speech module  in profiling server , or other logic can access speech training sets that are associated with a profiled region  and\/or one of its constituent locations, to generate a customized training set  (as shown e.g. in  and  when hosted in mobile device  and profiling server , respectively) that allows greater recognition of potentially significant tags, words, or other terms or speech components.","In one or more aspects in these regards,  illustrates a flow diagram of processing that can be used to identify voice tag data using customized or specialized training sets for voice recognition. In , processing can begin. In , a voice recognition engine, audio codec, or other speech module, for instance in profiling server  and\/or in mobile device , can initiate speech recognition processing by identifying an initial frequency of speech unit sequences for use as a speech decoding dictionary, such as an ordered set of N-grams. In one or more aspects, the speech unit sequences can consist of an N-gram, or a set of words which appear in a given order, such as \u201cMexican restaurant within 10 miles.\u201d In , a frequency of speech unit sequences can be determined for all users around a location having a voice tag contained in set of geotag data . In , a frequency of speech unit sequences can be determined for speech samples ever spoken by the subject user. In , a frequency of tags in a surrounding area (or tag \u201ccloud\u201d) associated with a specific subject location can be determined. For example, a given location in profiled region  with defined latitude\/longitude coordinates (or, latitude\/longitude\/altitude coordinates) can have the term \u201cgolf\u201d appearing in the associated set of geotag data  with a frequency above a predetermined threshold.","In , a customized training set  can be generated reflecting the frequency of speech unit sequences to be used in a grammar for recognizing voice data elements supplied by the user at the subject location of interest, based on the frequencies calculated or identified in the speech unit sequences of -. In one or more aspects, the various speech unit sequences can be given different weights or values for speech recognition purposes. For instance, speech unit sequences extracted from the user him or herself can be given greater weight relative to any initial or default frequencies, and\/or relative to sequences of other users. The customized training set  can provide a more accurate and more efficient set of speech unit sequences and resulting word recognition, as a result. In , processing can repeat, return to a prior processing point, jump to a further processing point, or end. In one or more aspects, the customized training set  generated as described can be updated, for instance on a regular or event-triggered basis.","As described herein, one type of output produced by the regional profiling activity carried out by profile module  on set of geotag data  and other information can be or include a set of recommendation information , reflecting a matching of potential user interests and features or attractions in a profiled region . In one or more aspects of the present teachings in further regards, and as for instance illustrated in , profile module  can generate a dynamically ordered menu (e.g. shown as  and  in  in ), or other adaptive representation of recommendation information . Dynamically ordered menu  (or ) can present categories of recommendation information  based on the user profile  of the user of mobile device , and\/or other filters or criteria. In one or more aspects as shown, for instance, in , recommendation information  can be received in mobile device  of a first user and mobile device  of a second user, both located in the same location in a profiled region . In one or more aspects as shown, the recommendation information  generated for the respective users of the two devices can be presented to those users via user interface  and  in the form of a (first) dynamically ordered menu  and (second) dynamically ordered menu , respectively. In one or more aspects, profile module  or other logic can process recommendation information  to apply logic to the presentation order of recommended locations or other data for each user. The order of categories of other selections or data in (first) dynamically ordered menu  and (second) dynamically ordered menu  or other dialog can, for instance, be, based on their respective user profiles  or other data to generate the two separate lists appearing in dynamically ordered menu  and dynamically ordered menu  presented to each respective user.","In one or more aspects as shown, even though both users or located in the same or substantially same location or place (illustratively, the city of Miami, Fla.) having the same surrounding set of points of interest , the dynamically ordered menu  for the first user can present a different set of categories for selection compared to the dynamically ordered menu  for the second user. Again as illustratively shown, if the user profile  of the first user for instance indicates a preference for watersports or related sites or activities, the first category of recommended sites contained in dynamically ordered menu  can be watersports, which can include or expand into locations such as a sea park  and boat tour . The first or preferred category for that user can be followed by a second category, illustratively restaurants. Conversely, and as likewise shown, if the user profile  of the second user for instance indicates a preference for restaurants, the first category in dynamically ordered menu  for that user can include or expand into locations such as a Cuban restaurant  and seafood restaurant , followed by a category for watersports, and so forth.","In one or more aspects, the dynamically ordered menu  and dynamically ordered menu  can be adapted based on other factors in addition to or instead of user profile  coupled with regional profile , such as, for instance, the current location or presence of friends in a social networking group within profiled region , current or expected weather conditions that may affect preferred activities or sites, or other variables or criteria. For instance, In one or more aspects dynamically ordered menu  or dynamically ordered menu  can be sorted or reordered based on scheduling factors such as time of day, day of week, or month of year, with recreational recommendations for instance taking precedence or receiving greater weight during weekend or holiday periods as compared to business working days.","Likewise, and as shown for instance in , in one or more aspects, dynamically ordered menu  can be ordered in different ways for the same user of mobile device  as that user travels from a first profiled region  to an illustrative second profiled region . In one or more aspects as shown, while located in profiled region , illustratively indicated as the city of Charleston, S.C., the dynamically ordered menu  can list a first category of golf, which can include or expand into golf course  (illustratively labeled \u201cgolf course \u201d) and golf course  (illustratively labeled \u201cgolf course \u201d), followed by a second category of hotels. The dynamically ordered menu  for that location can be filtered by user profile  including, for instance, tag or preference data indicating an interest in golf sites and local accommodations. After traveling to a second profiled region , illustratively indicated as the city of Atlanta, Ga., the dynamically ordered menu  for the same user can list a set of categories for recommended places include a category of hotels which can include or expand into hotel  (illustratively labeled \u201chotel \u201d) and hotel  (illustratively labeled \u201chotel \u201d), followed by categories for local festivals, golf, and so forth. In one or more aspects, the categories of recommendation information presented in dynamically ordered menu  for the same user at the second location can indicate a different set, order, or sequence of recommendations, based on user profile  or other criteria. For instance, user profile  can indicate that a user preference for golf courses, but that the user ranks those of first interest only if the available courses exceed 5000 yards in length, or satisfy other criteria. Other variables can be used to generate categories or other user selections in dynamically ordered menu  for the same user in the same or different places, including, for example, time of day, day of week, month, or other time or other schedule-related information.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0081","num":"0080"},"figref":"FIG. 15","b":["102","102","702","704","702","718","702","130","702","704","706","708","102","710","708"]},"Processor  can analyze information received by antenna  and\/or a user interface  of the mobile device  and\/or generate information for transmission by a transmitter  via a modulator . Additionally, processor  can control and\/or access one or more resources or components (e.g., , , , , ) of the mobile device . Processor  can execute a runtime environment , such as BREW\u00ae available from Qualcomm Incorporated, as well as one or more set of applications  or other software, modules, applications, logic, code, or the like. Processor  can communicate with a location module , such as a Global Positioning System (GPS) module or chip, to receive and process location-related information, including device location data . Processor  can further communicate with a location API (Application Programming Interface)  to execute function calls to extract location information, regional profile data, and generate recommendation information according to the present teachings. In one or more implementations, mobile device  can optionally incorporate a speech module  such as a digital to analog (DAC) chip, digital signal processing chip, software applications, and\/or other resources to process speech input and other audio data. When present, processor  can also communicate with a speech module  to process audio samples and other data. Processor  can likewise couple with user interface , such as a graphical user interface or other graphical display, to display graphics, video, location-based information including recommendation information , and other information.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0083","num":"0082"},"figref":"FIG. 16","b":["170","170","810","102","806","822","102","808","810","806","812","814","812","814","816","818","814","136","146","144","170","298","814","298","814","822","814","170","106"]},"The foregoing description is illustrative, and variations in configuration and implementation may occur to persons skilled in the art. For instance, the various illustrative logics, logical blocks, modules, and circuits described in connection with the implementations disclosed herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor, a digital signal processor (DSP), an application specific integrated circuit (ASIC), a field programmable gate array (FPGA) or other programmable logic device, discrete gate or transistor logic, discrete hardware components, or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general-purpose processor may be a microprocessor, but, in the alternative, the processor may be any conventional processor, controller, microcontroller, or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices, e.g., a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor, a plurality of microprocessors, one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core, or any other such configuration. In one or more exemplary implementations, the functions described may be implemented in hardware, software, firmware, or any combination thereof. If implemented in software, the functions may be stored on or transmitted over as one or more instructions or code on a computer-readable medium. Computer-readable media includes both computer storage media and communication media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one place to another. A storage media may be any available media that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example, and not limitation, such computer-readable media can comprise RAM, ROM, EEPROM, CD-ROM or other optical disk storage, magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices, or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. Also, any connection is properly termed a computer-readable medium. For example, if the software is transmitted from a website, server, or other remote source using a coaxial cable, fiber optic cable, twisted pair, digital subscriber line (DSL), or wireless technologies such as infrared, radio, and microwave, then the coaxial cable, fiber optic cable, twisted pair, DSL, or wireless technologies such as infrared, radio, and microwave are included in the definition of medium. Disk and disc, as used herein, includes compact disc (CD), laser disc, optical disc, digital versatile disc (DVD), floppy disk, and blu-ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically, while discs reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer-readable media. The steps of a method or algorithm described in connection with the implementations disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware, in a software module executed by a processor, or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory, flash memory, ROM memory, EPROM memory, EEPROM memory, registers, a hard disk, a removable disk, a CD-ROM, or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium is coupled to the processor, such that the processor can read information from, and write information to, the storage medium. In the alternative, the storage medium may be integral to the processor. The processor and the storage medium may reside in an ASIC. The ASIC may reside in a user terminal. In the alternative, the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a user terminal.","The techniques described herein may be used for various wireless communication systems such as CDMA, TDMA, FDMA, OFDMA, SC-FDMA and other systems. The terms \u201csystem\u201d and \u201cnetwork\u201d are often used interchangeably. A CDMA system may implement a radio technology such as Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (UTRA), cdma2000, etc. UTRA includes Wideband-CDMA (W-CDMA) and other variants of CDMA. Further, cdma2000 covers IS-2000, IS-95, and IS-856 standards. A TDMA system may implement a radio technology such as Global System for Mobile Communications (GSM). An OFDMA system may implement a radio technology such as Evolved UTRA (E-UTRA), Ultra Mobile Broadband (UMB), IEEE 802.11 (Wi-Fi), IEEE 802.16 (WiMAX), IEEE 802.20, Flash-OFDM, etc. UTRA and E-UTRA are part of Universal Mobile Telecommunication System (UMTS). 3GPP Long Term Evolution (LTE) is a release of UMTS that uses E-UTRA, which employs OFDMA on the downlink and SC-FDMA on the uplink. UTRA, E-UTRA, UMTS, LTE, and GSM are described in documents from an organization named \u201c3rd Generation Partnership Project\u201d (3GPP). Additionally, cdma2000 and UMB are described in documents from an organization named \u201c3rd Generation Partnership Project 2\u201d (3GPP2). Further, such wireless communication systems may additionally include peer-to-peer (e.g., mobile-to-mobile) ad hoc network systems often using unpaired unlicensed spectrums, 802.xx wireless LAN, BLUETOOTH and any other short- or long-range, wireless communication techniques.","For further example, while aspects have been described in which profiling server  or other logic responds to sensed data including location device location information , user profile , and other data to generate recommendation information , in one or more implementations, the user of mobile device  can in addition or instead simply enter a set of search terms to view any locations or places which match the query terms in regional profile database , with or without other data. For further example, while implementations have been described in which a single user is tracked via a single mobile device , in one or more implementations the behavior and tagging information for one user can be aggregated from multiple mobile devices the user may use. Various other resources described as singular or integrated can In one or more implementations be plural or distributed, and resources described as multiple or distributed can In one or more implementations be combined. The scope of the present teachings is accordingly intended to be limited only by the following claims."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The accompanying drawings, which are incorporated in and constitute a part of this specification, illustrate aspects of the present teachings and together with the description, serve to explain principles of the present teachings. In the figures:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 11"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":"FIG. 12"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":"FIG. 13"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIGS. 14A and 14B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":"FIG. 15"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":"FIG. 16"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
