---
title: System and method for managing multiple content feeds
abstract: A system and method for enabling networked computer users to manage multiple content feeds is disclosed. A particular embodiment includes collecting digital content from a plurality of content feeds; receiving a subscriber-provided affinity indicator from a subscriber; filtering the digital content based on the subscriber-provided affinity indicator to produce filtered content; identifying portions of the filtered content not previously delivered to the subscriber; and notifying the subscriber of the filtered content not previously delivered using one of a plurality of subscriber-configured delivery mechanisms.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09317612&OS=09317612&RS=09317612
owner: D&B BUSINESS INFORMATION SOLUTIONS
number: 09317612
owner_city: Dublin
owner_country: IE
publication_date: 20091207
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["TECHNICAL FIELD","BACKGROUND","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["This application relates to a method and system for use with networked content sources, according to one embodiment, and more specifically, for enabling networked computer users to manage multiple content feeds.","The content available to networked computer users has increased significantly in recent years. Providers of such content include blogs, news sources, sports sources, weather sources, libraries, friends, universities, businesses, and the like. Many of these content providers provide new or changed content almost regularly.","Because of the large amount of changing content, users often seek mechanisms that help them manage access and use of the content sources that interest them. One such mechanism uses a Really Simple Syndication (RSS) feed. Generally, RSS provides web content or summaries of web content together with links to the full versions of the content, and other meta-data. This information is delivered as an Extensible Markup Language (XML) file typically called an RSS feed, web feed, RSS stream, or RSS channel. RSS feeds enable a user to subscribe to a content provider's website, or the like, and receive a content feed in a defined format. Other services can provide an alert indicating when a change to the content has occurred. However, as the number of RSS feeds available over a network increases, a subscriber may become increasingly overwhelmed. Also, managing large numbers of RSS feeds for potentially millions of subscribers has become a particularly cumbersome and difficult challenge.","Thus, a system and method enabling networked computer users to manage multiple content feeds is needed.","In the following description, for purposes of explanation, numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the various embodiments. It will be evident, however, to one of ordinary skill in the art that the various embodiments may be practiced without these specific details.","Referring to , in an example embodiment, a system and method for enabling networked computer users to manage multiple content feeds is disclosed. In various example embodiments, an application or service, typically operating on a host site (e.g., a website) , is provided to simplify and facilitate content feed management for a user at a subscriber platform  from the host site . Multiple content sources  provide a plurality of content feeds to which a user may become a subscriber. One or more of the content feeds can be provided by one or more content publishers operating at publisher platforms . It will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that content sources  can be any of a variety of networked content providers or aggregators as described in more detail below. The content management site , content sources , subscriber platforms , and publisher platforms  may communicate and transfer content and information via a wide area data network (e.g., the Internet) . Various components of the content management site  can also communicate internally via a conventional intranet or local area network (LAN) .","Networks  and  are configured to couple one computing device with another computing device. Networks  and  may be enabled to employ any form of computer readable media for communicating information from one electronic device to another. Network  can include the Internet in addition to LAN , wide area networks (WANs), direct connections, such as through a universal serial bus (USB) port, other forms of computer-readable media, or any combination thereof. On an interconnected set of LANs, including those based on differing architectures and protocols, a router acts as a link between LANs, enabling messages to be sent between computing devices. Also, communication links within LANs typically include twisted wire pair or coaxial cable, while communication links between networks may utilize analog telephone lines, full or fractional dedicated digital lines including T1, T2, T3, and T4, Integrated Services Digital Networks (ISDNs), Digital Subscriber Lines (DSLs), wireless links including satellite links, or other communication links known to those of ordinary skill in the art. Furthermore, remote computers and other related electronic devices can be remotely connected to either LANs or WANs via a modem and temporary telephone link.","Networks  and  may further include any of a variety of wireless sub-networks that may further overlay stand-alone ad-hoc networks, and the like, to provide an infrastructure-oriented connection. Such sub-networks may include mesh networks, Wireless LAN (WLAN) networks, cellular networks, and the like. Networks  and  may also include an autonomous system of terminals, gateways, routers, and the like connected by wireless radio links or wireless transceivers. These connectors may be configured to move freely and randomly and organize themselves arbitrarily, such that the topology of networks  and  may change rapidly.","Networks  and  may further employ a plurality of access technologies including 2nd (2G), 2.5, 3rd (3G), 4th (4G) generation radio access for cellular systems, WLAN, Wireless Router (WR) mesh, and the like. Access technologies such as 2G, 3G, 4G, and future access networks may enable wide area coverage for mobile devices, such as one or more of client devices , with various degrees of mobility. For example, networks  and  may enable a radio connection through a radio network access such as Global System for Mobile communication (GSM), General Packet Radio Services (GPRS), Enhanced Data GSM Environment (EDGE), Wideband Code Division Multiple Access (WCDMA), CDMA2000, and the like. Networks  and  may also be constructed for use with various other wired and wireless communication protocols, including TCP\/IP, UDP, SIP, SMS, RTP, WAP, CDMA, TDMA, EDGE, UMTS, GPRS, GSM, UWB, WiMax, IEEE 802.11x, and the like. In essence, networks  and  may include virtually any wired and\/or wireless communication mechanisms by which information may travel between one computing device and another computing device, network, and the like. In one embodiment, network  may represent a LAN that is configured behind a firewall (not shown), within a business data center, for example.","The content sources  may include any of a variety of providers of network transportable digital content, some of which may be RSS feeds. As used herein, the term RSS refers to any of a family of file formats and associated mechanisms usable to enable a user to subscribe to and receive network syndicated content from a content provider over a network. Typically, the file format that is employed is XML, however, the various embodiments are not so limited, and other file formats may be used. For example, feed formats other than HTML\/XML or formats other than open\/standard feed formats can be supported by various embodiments. Any electronic file format, such as Portable Document Format (PDF), audio (e.g., Motion Picture Experts Group Audio Layer 3-MP3, and the like), video (e.g., MP4, and the like), and any proprietary interchange format defined by specific content sites can be supported by the various embodiments described herein. Syndicated content includes, but is not limited to such content as news feeds, events listings, news stories, blog content, headlines, project updates, excerpts from discussion forums, business or government information, and the like. The abbreviation RSS as used herein includes at least the following: Rich Site Summary, RDF Site Summary, and Really Simple Syndication. Furthermore, although RSS is described, the various embodiments are not limited to RSS. For example, Atom, a syndication specification adopted by the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF) may also be employed. As used throughout this application, including the claims, RSS refers to RSS, Atom, and other syndication file formats derived therefrom. Moreover, as used herein, the terms \u201cfeed,\u201d and \u201cRSS feed,\u201d sometimes called a channel, refers to any mechanism that enables content access and\/or notification from a content source . Thus, as used herein, a feed mechanism may include a push mechanism, a pull mechanism, or a polling mechanism. In one embodiment, an RSS feed may represent a summary of content formatted in an RSS format and available for access. Moreover, a content source  may provide more than one feed.","In a particular embodiment, a subscriber platform  with one or more client devices  enables a user\/subscriber to access content and\/or alerts from the content sources  via the network . Client devices  may include virtually any computing device that is configured to send and receive information over a network, such as network . Such client devices  may include portable devices  or  such as, cellular telephones, smart phones, display pagers, radio frequency (RF) devices, infrared (IR) devices, global positioning devices (GPS), Personal Digital Assistants (PDAs), handheld computers, wearable computers, tablet computers, integrated devices combining one or more of the preceding devices, and the like. Client devices  may also include other computing devices, such as personal computers , multiprocessor systems, microprocessor-based or programmable consumer electronics, network PC's, and the like. As such, client devices  may range widely in terms of capabilities and features. For example, a client device configured as a cell phone may have a numeric keypad and a few lines of monochrome LCD display on which only text may be displayed. In another example, a web-enabled client device may have a touch sensitive screen, a stylus, and several lines of color LCD display in which both text and graphics may be displayed. Moreover, the web-enabled client device may include a browser application enabled to receive and to send wireless application protocol messages (WAP), and\/or wired application messages, and the like. In one embodiment, the browser application is enabled to employ HyperText Markup Language (HTML), Dynamic HTML, Handheld Device Markup Language (HDML), Wireless Markup Language (WML), WMLScript, JavaScript, EXtensible HTML (xHTML), Compact HTML (CHTML), and the like, to display and send a message.","Client devices  may also include at least one client application that is configured to receive content or messages from another computing device via a network transmission. The client application may include a capability to provide and receive textual content, graphical content, video content, audio content, alerts, messages, notifications, and the like. Moreover, client devices  may be further configured to communicate and\/or receive a message, such as through a Short Message Service (SMS), direct messaging (e.g., Twitter), email, Multimedia Message Service (MMS), instant messaging (IM), internet relay chat (IRC), mIRC, Jabber, Enhanced Messaging Service (EMS), text messaging, Smart Messaging, Over the Air (OTA) messaging, or the like, between another computing device, and the like.","Client devices  may also include a wireless application device  on which a client application is configured to enable a user of the device to subscribe to at least one RSS feed provided by a content source . Such subscription enables the user at subscriber platform  to receive through the client device  at least a portion of the content and\/or an alert (or notification) that updated content is available for access by the user. In another embodiment, the alert may include some or all of the updated content. Such content may include, but is not limited to, stock feeds, news articles, personal advertisements, shopping list prices, images, search results, blogs, sports, weather reports, or the like. Moreover, the content and\/or the alerts may be provided to client devices  using any of a variety of delivery mechanisms, including IM, SMS, Twitter, Facebook, MMS, IRC, EMS, audio messages, HTML, email, or another messaging application. In a particular embodiment, the application executable code used for content subscription as described herein can itself be downloaded to the wireless application device  via network .","In some cases, a user at subscriber platform  can subscribe to certain content and\/or alerts to be provided by all mechanisms available on the client device(s) , and another alert for other registered content to be provided by a single delivery mechanism. Additionally, some content and\/or alerts may be provided through an RSS delivery server with a push mechanism to provide a relatively immediate alert. In various embodiments described in more detail below, the host site  can employ stored subscriber profile information to deliver the alert and\/or content to the user using a variety of delivery mechanisms. For example, alerts and\/or content can be delivered to a user via email, Short Message Service (SMS), wireless applications, and direct messaging (e.g., Twitter) to name a few. Additionally, alerts and\/or content can be provided to a user in response to a request from the user. For example, in a particular embodiment described in more detail below, users can configure their subscription for web-based alerts, wherein a user can log into a website provided by host  to view alerts that have been posted to their user accounts. The delivery of content and\/or alerts can also be scheduled at predefined times to provide content and\/or alerts according to a pre-configured schedule.","The publisher platform  represents a particular content provider, which may be any one of the content sources . One or more of the content feeds provided by one or more content sources  can operate at publisher platform . In a manner described in more detail below, publisher platform  can augment an item of content to provide functionality with which a user at subscriber platform  can automatically subscribe to the item of content with a single-click user action. This beneficial functionality simplifies the content subscription process. As with any of the content sources , publisher platform  can include a data storage device or database of publisher content  and one or more servers  to serve that content to users at subscriber platforms  via network .","Referring still to , host site  of an example embodiment is shown to include a content management system , intranet , and content management database . Content management system  includes content dispatcher , message\/alert processing module , analytics module , subscriber services module , publisher services module , subscriber click tracking module , and targeted advertising module . Each of these modules can be implemented as software components executing within an executable environment of content management system  operating on host site . Each of these modules of an example embodiment is described in more detail below in connection with the figures provided herein.","U.S. Patent Application No. 2007\/0100960 describes a system, apparatus, and method for managing an alert to a subscriber based on a change of content at an RSS content source (RCS). A content collector identifies changes in content from various RCS's. In one embodiment, the RCS may notify the content collector of a change in content. In another embodiment, a crawler is used to identify an RCS with changed content based, in part, on a subscriber's request. Information about the RCS with changed content is provided to at least one of a plurality of matching engines using a load-balancing mechanism. Each of the matching engines manages a store that identifies subscribers that have requested an alert from a particular RCS. The matching engines further determine when the subscriber was last notified of a change in content from that RCS so that the subscriber is not notified multiple times of the same change.","Referring now to , a detail of the content dispatcher  in an example embodiment is illustrated. As shown, content dispatcher is in data communication with a plurality of content sources , one or more data storage devices , and the other processing modules - of the content management system . In general, the content dispatcher  is responsible for collecting and analyzing content feeds received from a variety of content sources . In a particular embodiment, these content sources  can include individual or clustered content sources  and\/or aggregated content sources . Individual or clustered content sources  can include any provider of content or content feeds, such as RSS feeds. In some cases, single websites or servers can provide one or more content feeds to consumers via wide area data network . In other cases, clusters of content sources can provide content feeds to consumers via wide area data network . In one example, a content source can use a conventional RSS Cloud protocol to notify subscribers that content is available for download. RSS Cloud is an extension to the RSS . specification. In another example, conventional content sources, such as Google's PubSubHubbub provide a protocol and content feeds to consumers via wide area data network . PubSubHubbub is a web-hook-based publish\/subscribe protocol as an extension to Atom and RSS.","Aggregated content sources  represent any of a variety of conventional sites or services that pull or receive content feeds from various sources (e.g., Sources A, B, and C) and collect the feeds in a local collector . The local collector  may then provide these content feeds to consumers via the wide area data network . The local collector  may also perform various operations on the received feeds, such as merging, filtering, or time-shifting prior to making the modified content feeds available via the wide area data network .","Content dispatcher  can be configured to interface with any of the content sources  via wide area data network . Because of the variety of content sources  providing content feeds to content dispatcher , the content dispatcher  needs to manage each feed. This feed management process includes retaining information on each feed, including an identifier or address of the corresponding content source, the timing associated with the feed, including the time when the latest feed update was received and the time when the next update is expected, and the like. This feed information can be stored in feed database .","The feed management process also includes determining: 1) which content feeds contain modified or new content (generally denoted a content update), 2) which subscribers have subscribed to a particular content feed, and 3) which subscribers need to be notified of a content update on a content feed to which they have subscribed. The content dispatcher  can use subscriber data  to determine the particular content feeds to which a particular subscriber has subscribed. When the content dispatcher  determines that a content update has been received on a content feed to which a particular subscriber has subscribed, the content dispatcher  can generate an alert or message to notify the subscriber of the content feed update. As will be described in more detail below, an alert or message (denoted generally herein as a notification) can be stored in an alert queue  or message queue  and forwarded when appropriate to a particular subscriber by various means. The content dispatcher  can use subscriber data  to determine the particular content feeds to which a particular subscriber has subscribed. In this manner, the content dispatcher  can receive content feeds from various content sources  and dispatch a notification to particular subscribers who are subscribers to one or more content feeds for which a content update has been received.","Referring to , a detail of the message\/alert processing module  of an example embodiment is illustrated. The message\/alert processing module  is responsible for forwarding a notification of a content feed update to a particular subscriber when a content feed to which the subscriber has changed. The message\/alert processing module  can access a message queue  and an alert queue  to determine which notifications are ready for output to a subscriber. As described above, the content dispatcher  can populate the message queue  and alert queue  with notifications as content feed updates are received. The message\/alert processing module  can use a message\/alert scheduler  to coordinate the delivery of notifications to subscribers using any of a variety of notification delivery mechanisms -. The message\/alert scheduler  can also provide load balancing to spread the delivery of particular notifications over a range of available time slots.","In a particular embodiment, subscribers can use a host site  provided user interface to optionally specify which of the variety of notification delivery mechanisms - the particular subscriber would like to use to receive content feed update notifications. This user interface is described in more detail below. In a particular embodiment, subscribers can select from several content feed update notification delivery mechanisms including: email, Short Message Service (SMS), wireless applications, and direct messaging (e.g., Twitter). It will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that these particular messaging mechanisms and any other mechanisms for sending a message or an alert to a computing device, communication device, or entertainment device can similarly be used. In the particular embodiment shown in , the message\/alert scheduler  can use information maintained in databases  for each notification stored therein to determine an identifier of a particular subscriber(s) to whom a particular notification should be delivered and by which delivery mechanism(s) the notification should be delivered. In the particular embodiment shown in , the message\/alert scheduler  can send a particular notification to an email dispatcher , an SMS message dispatcher , a wireless application dispatcher , or a direct messaging (e.g., Twitter) dispatcher . Dispatchers - can use the identifier of the particular subscriber(s) provided by the message\/alert scheduler  to configure the notification for delivery to the particular subscriber(s) using the particular delivery mechanism provided by the particular dispatcher -. Any subscriber can configure his\/her account preferences maintained in subscriber data  to specify the receipt of content feed update notifications by any or all of the notification delivery mechanisms provided by a particular embodiment. Any subscriber can also configure his\/her account preferences maintained in subscriber data  to specify the receipt of content feed update notifications at particular times and in conformity to specific frequency and interval constraints, and other delivery policy constraints. In a particular embodiment, notifications can also be bundled in groups and delivered to a subscriber in batch. In this manner, subscribers can receive content feed notifications using any of a variety of notification delivery mechanisms and in conformity to delivery policy constraints as pre-specified by the subscriber.","Referring now to , the subscriber services module  of a particular embodiment is illustrated. Subscriber services module  provides the functionality with which a networked computer user operating from a subscriber platform  can become a subscriber of a content management service of host site  and interact with the subscriber content management services provided by the subscriber services module . These subscriber content management services can be implemented by several functional components provided by the subscriber services module . In an example embodiment shown in , these functional components can include a subscriber account module , a payment module , a content filter module , a reporting module , a bookmark processing module , and a follow function processing module . The subscriber account module  can be used to create and maintain a subscriber account on the host site . The subscriber account module  can also be used to configure subscriber settings, create and maintain a user\/subscriber profile on host site , and otherwise manage subscriber data and operational parameters on host site . The subscriber data and operational parameters can be retained in database . The payment module  can be used to submit payment for a subscriber account and subscriber services. The content filter module , a reporting module , a bookmark processing module , and the follow function processing module  provide an ability for a subscriber to manage content feeds. These modules and the services they provide are described in more detail next.","As described above, the subscriber platform  with one or more client devices  enables a user\/subscriber to access host site  via the network . Client devices  on the subscriber platform  may include virtually any computing device that is configured to send and receive information over a network, such as network . In addition to managing subscriber data and operational parameters on host site , subscriber services module  via subscriber platform  enables a user\/subscriber to access content feeds from the content sources  and to receive client feed update notifications provided by message\/alert processing module . As described in more detail below, the content filter module  enables a subscriber to configure a set of content feed filters that are used to define the content that is of most interest to a particular subscriber. Additionally, the reporting module  of subscriber services module  can provide a content feed subscription management page that lists each of the content feed filters to which a subscriber has subscribed along with status information and a parameter set for each content feed filter. As described in more detail below, the content feed subscription management page provides a convenient way for a user to view and control each of his\/her subscribed content feed filters.","In a particular embodiment, the content filter module  of subscriber services module  can provide a content feed filter function that allows a subscriber to specify parameters associated with a content feed filter. Once specified by the subscriber, the content feed filter can be retained in database  and used by the content dispatcher  to constrain the content feed aggregation and content feed update notifications for a particular user to only those content feeds and\/or content feed update notifications that conform to the subscriber specified content feed filter. For example, using a user interface provided by subscriber services module , the subscriber can be prompted to enter a keyword, a topic of interest, a website address, a content feed identifier, a content source or publisher identifier, an email address, an SMS code, a Twitter tag, or the like (denoted generally herein as a topic or a content feed filter). For example, see data entry area  as shown in the example of . The subscriber-entered data (e.g., topic or content feed filter) is retained in subscriber data  and a record is created in the subscriber's content feed subscription management page also shown in the example of . In this manner, a subscriber can specify a set of user-defined content feeds in which the subscriber is interested. The subscriber's content feed subscription management page can include a plurality of user-defined content feeds as specified by a plurality of different content feed filters. In the example shown in , a subscriber has used the user interface provided by subscriber services module  to set up four content feed filters  (e.g., Twitter tag: @fliptop, keyword: \u2018content subscription\u2019, keyword: \u2018global warming\u2019, and website: www.fliptop.com). As a result of this sample configuration of content feed filters, the subscriber can receive content feeds that contain or are related to the topics specified in the content feed filters. In another embodiment, the subscriber can also specify additional qualifiers to further specify the content of interest. The subscriber can set up threshold qualifiers that define conditions that must be met before an alert is sent to the subscriber, For example, a subscriber can subscribe to content from a ski resort website and further specify that content update alerts should be sent to the subscriber only when the content on the website indicates that the base snow depth at the ski resort has exceeded 50 inches. In another example, a subscriber can subscribe to travel-related content sources and further specify that content update alerts should be sent to the subscriber only when the content on the website indicates that a particular flight has been canceled or the flight is due to arrive in less than two hours. It will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that a variety of other conditional threshold qualifiers can be used to filter the content and to specifically define the particular content of interest. In other words, by configuring the content feed filters as described herein, the subscriber can subscribe to one or more content feeds related to topics and\/or content feed categories of interest. Further, the subscriber can receive notifications when any content feed updates are received for any of the content feeds that contain or are related to the topics specified in the content feed filters. Each content feed filter can be listed on the content feed subscription management page with status information, update timing information, and notification status information associated with each content feed filter. This additional information for each content feed filter  is also shown in the example of .","The topics or content feed filters specified by a subscriber can represent user-provided affinity indicators that describe the types or categories of content of interest to a particular subscriber. As described herein, these user-provided affinity indicators can be used by the content dispatcher  to filter the received content feeds and provide a subscriber with a summary of each content feed that matches a particular content feed filter. In this manner, a subscriber can quickly scan through a set of content summaries that match a particular user-specified topic. The received content feeds can be matched to a particular user-specified topic based on exact or partial matches of the content feed filter (e.g., keywords, URLs, Twitter tags, etc.) with content from the content feed or using conventional relevancy processors that match search terms with webpage content. Once matching content feeds are identified, a summary or extract of the matching content feed can be generated and displayed on the subscriber's content feed subscription management page. Additionally, user affinity for specific content may be aggregated to generate one or more global relevancy scores. These relevancy scores can be maintained for a particular subscriber and maintained for groups of subscribers. The relevancy scores can be used to train a learning algorithm for establishing automatic filtering thresholds for filtering future content updates for a particular subscriber or groups of subscribers.","For example,  illustrates a sample listing of content feed summaries  that were matched to the content feed filter keyword, \u2018global warming\u2019  shown in . Each of the matching content feed summaries includes an identifier of the content source  and timing information  that specifies the time frame when the content feed was most recently updated. Each of the matching content feed summaries also includes a summary or extract  of the particular content feed. In a particular embodiment, the list of matching content feed summaries can be sorted by the update time frame. In the example shown in , the summary of the most recently updated content feed that matches the content feed filter affinity indicators is displayed in the topmost location  of the allocated portion of the page followed by the next most recently updated content feed summary that matches the content feed filter affinity indicators in the next lower display location  and so on. In this manner, the subscriber is provided with a time-based view of the most relevant and recent content. The reporting module  can be used to provide this time-based view. The subscriber can thereby conveniently view the most recent content feed summaries for the topics in which the subscriber is most interested.","Once the subscriber configures a set of content feed filters using the content filter module  as described above, the subscriber can also configure the messaging and alerting functionality provided by the message\/alert processing module  through the user interface of the subscriber services module . Referring again to the example of , a subscriber can select from a plurality of notification delivery options  (e.g., web, email, or text). The subscriber can also specify a temporal option  that defines a frequency or interval at which content feed update notifications can be delivered to the subscriber. Thus, using the user interface controls provided by a particular embodiment and shown by example in , a subscriber can specify a content feed filter affinity indicator (e.g., keywords, URLs, Twitter tags, etc.) with an associated notification delivery mode and delivery timing. Subsequently, when a content feed update is received that matches the subscriber-defined content feed filter, the subscriber is automatically notified of the content feed update using the subscriber-defined delivery mode and delivery timing. If the subscriber chooses a web delivery mode, a content feed update notification is delivered to the subscriber via a message when the subscriber visits the host site . If the subscriber chooses an email delivery mode, a content feed update notification is delivered to the subscriber via an email to a pre-defined email address. If the subscriber chooses a text delivery mode, a content feed update notification is delivered to the subscriber via an SMS text message, Twitter tweet, pager message, wireless application device message, and\/or the like. The subscriber-configured content feed update notification delivery mode is also shown adjacent  to each content feed summary of the sorted list of content feed summaries shown in the example of . As described above, these content feed parameters or affinity indicators can be readily configured or modified by a subscriber using the user interface provided by the subscriber services module  of an example embodiment.","Thus, filtered content feed subscription and alerting based on relevance to user-provided affinity indicators (e.g., keywords, URLs, Twitter tags, etc.) across multiple content sources is provided by various embodiments. Further, filtered content feed subscription and alerting based on relevance to user-provided affinity indicators enables messages\/alerts to be configurably delivered to a subscriber via a webpage, email, SMS, Twitter, or other delivery mode as provided by various embodiments. The delivery of messages\/alerts to the subscriber can also be configured according to temporal parameters. As described herein, particular embodiments also provide a content feed filter-by-category\/topic option and present relevant filtered content summaries in a time-based view at a host site.","Referring still to , the subscriber services module  provides a bookmark processing module  and a follow function processing module . The bookmark processing performed by bookmark processing module  enables a user to insert a user-selectable button, icon, softkey, tab, or other user-selectable object (denoted herein as a bookmark button) into a browser bar of a conventional web browser. The bookmark button includes a link to the host site . The bookmark button enables the user to subscribe to content from any website and to receive content update alerts based on the content of any website. If the website has not previously been subscribed by a user, the host site  can communicate with the website to determine if the site is RSS-enabled. This can be determined by parsing the HTML code on the site. If the site is determined to be RSS-enabled, host site  can further determine which protocol can be used to get content updates from the site (e.g., PubSubHubbub, RSS Cloud, or other protocol). If the site is determined to be not RSS-enabled, host site  can configure the periodic scheduling of content gathering from the site using a crawler or screen scraper. The content gathered from the site can be used to determine if the content on the site has been updated. The website address, any related protocol information, and any content update information is added to the feed database  on the host site . An example of a bookmark button  is illustrated in . A user can activate the bookmark button  using a cursor control device or mouse and a select key or using other conventional means. Upon activation of the bookmark button  by a visitor to a webpage, the user is prompted with a series of dialog prompts, with which a user can readily subscribe to the content on the webpage. An example of these bookmark button  dialog prompts - are shown in . As illustrated, the first dialog prompt  enables the user to specify one or more keywords or affinity indicators through which the content of the website can be filtered. In this manner, the user can specifically identify the topics or categories of content on the particular website that is of interest to the user. The user can thereby become a subscriber to the content on the website. Once the user is a subscriber to the content on the website, the user is automatically notified by the message\/alert processing module  when any updated content matching the user-specified affinity indicators is posted on the website. Using the dialog prompt , the user can specify the notification delivery mode the user wishes to use for delivery of notifications of updated content feeds on the particular website. As shown, the user can select to be notified by email, SMS text messaging, or a Twitter direct message. It will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that other notification modes can be provided in an alternative embodiment. The user can also specify temporal parameters, such as a frequency or interval at which notification is provided. When the user has completed the input of prompted data, the user is configured as a subscriber to the website and set up to receive notifications of content updates on the website via the delivery modes and temporal parameters as specified. The user is so advised in a dialog prompt  shown in the example of .","The subscriber services module  also provides a follow function processing module . The follow function processing performed by follow function processing module  enables a publisher of content to insert a user-selectable widget, button, icon, softkey, tab, or other user-selectable object (denoted herein as a follow button) on one or more pages of a particular content item. As used herein, a widget is an element of a graphical user interface (GUI) that displays an information arrangement changeable by the user, such as a window or a text box. The defining characteristic of a widget is to provide a single interaction point for the direct manipulation of a given kind of data. In other words, widgets are basic visual building blocks which, combined in an application, hold all the data processed by the application and the available interactions on this data. An example of a follow button  in a particular embodiment is illustrated in . A user can activate the follow button  using a cursor control device or mouse and a select key or using other conventional means. Upon activation of the follow button  by a user accessing the content item , the user is prompted with a series of dialog prompts, with which a user can readily subscribe to the content item  and the source of the content item . An example of these follow button  dialog prompts - are shown in . As illustrated, the first dialog prompt  shown in  enables the user to specify an email notification delivery mode that the user wishes to use for delivery of notifications of updated content in the particular content item . The user can thereby become a subscriber to the content of the particular content item . Once the user is a subscriber to the content of the particular content item , the user is automatically notified by the message\/alert processing module  when any updated content is posted in the particular content item . Using the dialog prompt  shown in , the user can specify the SMS text message notification delivery mode that the user wishes to use for delivery of notifications of updated content in the particular content item . Similarly, as shown in , the user can also specify a Twitter direct message notification delivery mode that the user wishes to use for delivery of notifications of updated content in the particular content item . Thus, the user can select to follow (i.e., subscribe to) the content of the particular content item  in which the follow button  is embedded. Once so subscribed, the user is notified by email, SMS text messaging, or a Twitter direct message when the content in the content item  is updated. It will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that other notification modes can be provided in an alternative embodiment. As shown in dialog prompts -, the user can also specify temporal parameters, such as a frequency or interval at which notification is provided. When the user has completed the input of prompted data, the user is configured as a subscriber to the content item and set up to receive notifications of content updates in the content item via the delivery modes and temporal parameters as specified.","Referring now to , the publisher services module  of a particular embodiment is illustrated. Publisher services module  provides the functionality with which a networked computer user operating from a publisher platform  can become a publishing partner of the content management service of host site  and interact with the publisher content management services provided by the publisher services module . These publisher content management services can be implemented by several functional components provided by the publisher services module . In an example embodiment shown in , these functional components can include a publisher account module , a follow processing module , a subscriber click accounting module , and an advertising support module . The publisher account module  can be used to create and maintain a publisher account on the host site . The publisher account module  can also be used to configure publisher settings, create and maintain a publisher profile on host site , and otherwise manage publisher data and operational parameters on host site . The publisher data and operational parameters can be retained in database . The follow processing module , a subscriber click accounting module , and advertising support module  provide an ability for a publisher to manage its content feeds and the user activity related to the publisher content. These modules and the services they provide are described in more detail next.","A publisher may be a website provider on which content is published or a provider of one or more content items that may be published on a website or other network source. In either case, the follow processing module  of an example embodiment provides the tools necessary for a publisher to implement a a follow button  (e.g., see ) in a publisher content item .","In regard to implementing the follow button  in a publisher content item , the follow processing module  provides a follow button installation module that may be executed by a publisher at the publisher platform . The follow button installation module enables the publisher to embed a follow button  in one or more publisher content items . The follow button  can be configured to link a user activating the follow button back to the host site  for processing the user's follow content request. The publisher may also use the follow button installation module to provide or configure any authorizations or revenue-sharing policies needed for enabling a user\/subscriber to subscribe to one or more publisher content items . Upon completion of the follow button installation process, a follow button  appears on the one or more publisher content items  and enables users to subscribe to content provided therein. As part of being subscribed to the website content or the content in a particular content item, the user\/subscriber can also be configured to receive content update notifications as described above.","The publisher services module  of a particular embodiment includes a subscriber click accounting module . The subscriber click accounting module  provides functionality with which the host site  and particular publishers using publisher platforms  can track the interaction of users\/subscribers with the publisher content. For example, as described above, users can subscribe to content on websites, content feeds, or other content sources. These content subscriptions, and the publishers who provide the content, can be correlated by host site . The host site  can provide a particular publisher with detailed information on the types of subscribers who subscribed to that publisher's content. For example, the host site  can profile the subscribers for a particular publisher based on the subscriber's demographic information, the subscriber's content interests, the relationship of the subscriber to other subscribers or other content sources, and the like. The subscriber information provided to the publishers can be made anonymous to protect the identity and privacy of the subscribers. In addition, the host site  can track subscriber interactions with the content based on mouse clicks, views, saves, prints, copies made of particular content items, purchases, bids, or subscriber responses to content update alerts for particular content items. As described above, the content management system  of an example embodiment can provide a listing of content feed summaries . Each item in the listing  can represent a particular item of content. The subscriber can click on these items in listing  to view the entire content item. The content management system  can track these subscriber clicks to assist in the implicit determination of subscriber affinity Additionally, the content feed filters, as described above, that are specified by a particular subscriber can be processed and normalized to further assist in the implicit determination of subscriber affinity. Any or all of this detailed subscriber information can be provided to an authorized publisher or other authorized third party via a web interface or an application programming interface (API) provided by subscriber click accounting module .","The publisher services module  of a particular embodiment includes an advertising support module . Given the detailed subscriber information captured and processed by the subscriber click accounting module , the content management system  can determine subscriber affinity in a variety of dimensions. For example, the subscriber affinity information can be correlated to determine the types of content in which the subscriber is most interested. These content types can be defined in varying levels of granularity from broad content categories to specific content items. Once these content types for a particular subscriber are determined, corresponding advertising types can be determined. The determined advertising types for a particular subscriber can be used to find particular advertising items (ads) from an inventory of advertising maintained by the advertising support module . These ads can be served to the particular subscriber at various times, such as when the subscriber clicks on a content item that correlates to a particular advertising item. In this manner, the advertising support module  enables the content management system  to facilitate targeted advertising to subscribers.","Referring now to , the analytics module  of an example embodiment is illustrated. Analytics module  provides the functionality with which the content management system  can process and provide a variety of analytic information services based on information obtained from the interaction of subscribers with content. These analytics services can be implemented by several functional components provided by the analytics module  of an example embodiment. In an example embodiment shown in , these functional components can include a first correlation module  to correlate various content feeds to subscriber input, a second correlation module  to correlate subscriber input to the subscriber profile, a third correlation module  to correlate subscriber click activity to the various content feeds, and a fourth correlation module  to correlate subscriber click activity to the various advertising items. The first correlation module  determines relationships between the content of various content feeds and the content feed filters input by the subscribers. The first correlation module  tries to determine how relevant a particular content item is to a particular subscriber based on the subscriber's defined content feed filters. The second correlation module  determines relationships between the content of various content feeds and the subscriber profiles expressly input by the subscribers. The second correlation module  tries to determine how relevant a particular content item is to a particular subscriber based on the subscriber's explicit profile. The third correlation module  determines relationships between the content of various content feeds and the subscriber affinity based on clicks of particular content items by the subscribers. The third correlation module  tries to determine how relevant a particular content item is to a particular subscriber based on the subscriber's implicit affinity. The fourth correlation module  determines relationships between the various advertising items and the subscriber affinity based on clicks of particular content items by the subscribers. The fourth correlation module  tries to determine how relevant a particular advertising item is to a particular subscriber based on the subscriber's affinity. In each case, the analytics module  processes correlations between subscribers, content, and advertising. Any or all of this detailed analytics information can be provided to an authorized publisher or other authorized third party via a web interface or an application programming interface (API) provided by analytics module .","Referring now to , another example embodiment  of a networked system in which various embodiments may operate is illustrated. In the embodiment illustrated, the host site  is shown to include the content management system . The content management system  is shown to include the functional components -. In a particular embodiment, the host site  may also include a web server , having a web interface with which subscribers may interact with the host site  via a user interface or web interface. The host site  may also include an application programming interface (API)  with which the host site  may interact with other network entities on a programmatic or automated data transfer level. The API  and web interface  may be configured to interact with the content management system  either directly or via an interface . The content management system  may be configured to access a data storage device  either directly or via the interface .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0055","num":"0054"},"figref":"FIG. 18","b":["1010","1020","1030","1040","1050"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0056","num":"0055"},"figref":"FIG. 19"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0057","num":"0056"},"figref":"FIG. 20","b":"700"},"The example computer system  includes a processor  (e.g., a central processing unit (CPU), a graphics processing unit (GPU), or both), a main memory  and a static memory , which communicate with each other via a bus . The computer system  may further include a video display unit  (e.g., a liquid crystal display (LCD) or a cathode ray tube (CRT)). The computer system  also includes an input device  (e.g., a keyboard), a cursor control device  (e.g., a mouse), a disk drive unit , a signal generation device  (e.g., a speaker) and a network interface device .","The disk drive unit  includes a machine-readable medium  on which is stored one or more sets of instructions (e.g., software ) embodying any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. The instructions  may also reside, completely or at least partially, within the main memory , the static memory , and\/or within the processor  during execution thereof by the computer system . The main memory  and the processor  also may constitute machine-readable media. The instructions  may further be transmitted or received over a network  via the network interface device . While the machine-readable medium  is shown in an example embodiment to be a single medium, the term \u201cmachine-readable medium\u201d should be taken to include a single medium or multiple media (e.g., a centralized or distributed database, and\/or associated caches and servers) that store the one or more sets of instructions. The term \u201cmachine-readable medium\u201d can also be taken to include any medium that is capable of storing, encoding or carrying a set of instructions for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies of the various embodiments, or that is capable of storing, encoding or carrying data structures utilized by or associated with such a set of instructions. The term \u201cmachine-readable medium\u201d can accordingly be taken to include, but not be limited to, solid-state memories, optical media, and magnetic media.","The Abstract of the Disclosure is provided to comply with 37 C.F.R. \u00a71.72(b), requiring an abstract that will allow the reader to quickly ascertain the nature of the technical disclosure. It is submitted with the understanding that it will not be used to interpret or limit the scope or meaning of the claims. In addition, in the foregoing Detailed Description, it can be seen that various features are grouped together in a single embodiment for the purpose of streamlining the disclosure. This method of disclosure is not to be interpreted as reflecting an intention that the claimed embodiments require more features than are expressly recited in each claim. Rather, as the following claims reflect, inventive subject matter lies in less than all features of a single disclosed embodiment. Thus the following claims are hereby incorporated into the Detailed Description, with each claim standing on its own as a separate embodiment."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The various embodiments is illustrated by way of example, and not by way of limitation, in the figures of the accompanying drawings in which:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0007","num":"0006"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0008","num":"0007"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIGS. 4 and 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIGS. 6-9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIGS. 11-13"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIGS. 14-15"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 16"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 17"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 18"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 19"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 20"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
