---
title: Method and apparatus for enhanced terahertz radiation from high stacking fault density
abstract: A method and device for generating terahertz radiation comprising a polar crystal material layer operative to emit terahertz radiation; the polar crystal material layer comprising a plurality of stacking faults; the stacking faults lying substantially perpendicular to the polar axis and forming boundaries at which the internal electric polarization terminates leading to charges accumulating at the boundaries, and creation of internal electric fields oriented along the polar axis; a pulsed radiation source for creating photogenerated carriers in the polar crystal material; whereby the photogenerated carriers accelerate in the internal electric fields associated with the termination of the internal electric polarization by the stacking faults to thereby generate terahertz radiation.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07919764&OS=07919764&RS=07919764
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 07919764
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20090505
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS","GOVERNMENT INTEREST","FIELD OF THE INVENTION","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","DESCRIPTION OF THE RELATED ART","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS"],"p":["This application claims priority of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61\/050,890 filed May 6, 2008, which is incorporated herein by reference.","The invention described herein may be manufactured, used, and\/or licensed by or for the United States Government.","This invention relates generally to radiation emitting crystals, and more particularly to crystal structures which provide a source of terahertz radiation.","Electromagnetic waves sent at terahertz frequencies, known as terahertz radiation, terahertz waves (THz) rays, occur in the region of the electromagnetic spectrum between 300 gigahertz (3\u00d710Hz) and 3 terahertz (3\u00d710Hz), and correspond to the wavelength range of between 1 millimeter (high-frequency edge of the microwave band) and 100 micrometer (long-wavelength edge of far-infrared light).","THz-rays, which are shorter than microwaves and longer than infrared, have potential usage in biomedical and security applications in that THz-rays are safe, and non-ionizing, and can pass through such materials as clothing, paper, cardboard, wood, masonry, plastic, ceramics, as well as penetrate fog and clouds. THz radiation is safe for biological tissues (unlike X-rays), and images can be formed with terahertz radiation having resolution of less than 1 mm. THz radiation has potential spectroscopic uses in that while many materials are transparent to THz, many materials exhibit unique spectral identifiers when exposed to terahertz radiation, including explosives, pharmaceuticals, and illegal narcotic substances. Accordingly, items of interest can be observed through normally visually opaque intervening layers, such as packaging and clothing. To date, THz rays have not yet been widely used, partly, because of the difficulty in producing them at sufficient intensity. For example, in the journal article entitled, \u201cGeneration of Terahertz Radiation with Two Color Semiconductor Lasers,\u201d Hoffman and Hoffman, Laser and Photonics Reviews, Rev. 1, No. 1, 44-56 (available on-line Feb. 13, 2007) (hereinafter Hoffman & Hoffman) though time-domain THz spectroscopy has been shown to be extremely powerful, it suffers from its enormous price (at least $200,000) and complexity, which restricts the use of the system.","Previous approaches to terahertz radiation devices have used photoconductive switches in conjunction with a semiconductor comprising two parallel metal strips on the surface separated by a small distance (hundreds of microns to a few millimeters). A schematic illustration of such a configuration is shown in . These metal strips act as electrodes, across which a large voltage (up to kV) is applied, creating electric fields as large as 10 kV\/cm. The semiconductor material is highly restrictive, such that virtually no current flows without illumination. When the gap between the electrodes is illuminated with an approximately 100 femtosecond pulse of photon energy larger than the fundamental bandgap of the semiconductor, electron-hole pairs are created and swept out in the high field, producing a transient current that generates a THz pulse with usable bandwidth beyond 1 THz. The energy of the THz pulse is proportional to the square of the bias field. One disadvantage of this approach is that metal electrodes with kV voltages across them must be used to create THz radiation. Another disadvantage is that the external bias voltage, and therefore the THz pulse energy, is limited by dielectric breakdown in air to less than 300 kV\/cm in theory, but in practice 100 kV\/cm is rarely exceeded. Terahertz (THz) radiation in conventional devices is commonly generated through in-plane carrier acceleration in electric fields utilizing externally biased photoconductive (PC) switches, a surge-current normal to the surface due to a built-in surface field, or the photo-Dember field. Although the geometry of the biased photoconductive antennas is more favorable for coupling out the THz radiation than that for other semiconductor-based THz sources employing transport normal to the surface, these photoconductive switches require electrode processing and an external bias voltage, which is limited by the dielectric strength of air, to establish an in-plane electric field.","An alternative optical THz generation approach creates narrow band radiation through the mixing of continuous-wave (CW) lasers separated in frequency by the desired terahertz difference frequency in a semiconductor photomixer. Most photomixers use low-temperature grown GaAs thin films as the active layer due to its short carrier lifetime (approximately 0.5 ps), large breakdown-field threshold (>300 kV\/cm) and high carrier mobility (\u02dc200 cm\/V\u00b7s).","THz emission from quantum wells (QWs) has been observed from GaAs\/AlGaAs single QWs, low indium concentration InGaN\/GaN multiple quantum wells (MQWs), and high indium concentration InN\/InGaN MQWs. THz emission in conventional devices is governed by carrier diffusion or surface surge-currents normal to the surface.","In consideration of the problems described above, an object of the present invention is to provide an improved source of terahertz (THz) radiation that will provide significantly more terahertz power than that which can be obtained using current state of the art photoconductive switches. In a preferred embodiment, a polar crystal material is excited by an emission source, such as for example, a 100 femtosecond pulse source. The polar crystal material has stacking faults (SFs) grown along a nonpolar direction to create high internal fields that result from termination of the spontaneous polarization along the in-plane c-axis of the polar crystal material. Such stacking faults may be created, for example, during the course of the heteroepitaxial growth of the crystals on non-native substrates, whereby large densities (in the range of 10to 10per cm) of these stacking faults are generated, primarily perpendicular to the polar c-axis. The internal electric fields created by the stacking faults may exceed those that can be obtained using large externally applied voltages in conventional, large aperture photoconductive switches, which are constrained by dielectric breakdown in air. Unlike photoconductive strips, the present invention requires substantially no elaborate etching during fabrication, making easier to fabricate than photoconductive switches because it does not require metal contacts. Moreover, the present invention requires no external voltage source. In a preferred embodiment, the stacking faults are substantially equally spaced.","Polar crystal materials, which may be semiconductors, developed using the principles of the present invention use nonpolar growth directions to create in-plane spontaneous and piezoelectric polarizations that are terminated at stacking faults to produce large in-plane internal electric fields. In effect, the structure creates an array of contactless photoconductive nano switches that create coherent additive THz fields under femtosecond pulse illumination.","The polar crystal material layer constructed in accordance with the principles of the present invention can be wurtzite GaN, InN, AlN, or alloys thereof. The polar crystal material layer can also be ZnO, MgO, ZnS, ZnSe, ZnTe, or alloys thereof. In addition, SiC may be utilized as the polar crystal material layer. The orientation of the crystal structure may be nonpolar with the a-plane or m-plane as the growth plane, or semipolar, where a projection of the c-axis is in the growth plane, as shown for example in . Strained wurtzite InN, GaN, AIN, or alloys thereof with a different lattice constant than the first wurtzite layer of InN, GaN, AIN or alloys thereof can be grown atop the first layer to create an additional piezoelectric field.","The present invention results in spectrally broadened emission and greater efficiency of emitting devices. The p-polarized (s-polarized) THz radiation measured from the high stacking fault density samples reaches its maximum and minimum when the c-axis is parallel or antiparallel with the p-polarization (s-polarization) detection direction, respectively.","A preferred method provides a stacking fault density in the approximate range of 10to 10per centimeter producing an average electric field in the approximate range of 3 to 1800 kV\/cm.","In order to attain the objectives described above, according to the present invention, there is provided an apparatus and methodology whereby enhanced levels of terahertz radiation are obtainable.","The present invention now will be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings, in which embodiments of the invention are shown. However, this invention should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein. Rather, these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete, and will fully convey the scope of the invention to those skilled in the art. In the drawings, the thickness of layers and regions may be exaggerated for clarity. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout. As used herein the term \u201cand\/or\u201d includes any and all combinations of one or more of the associated listed items.","The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to limit the full scope of the invention. As used herein, the singular forms \u201ca\u201d, \u201can\u201d and \u201cthe\u201d are intended to include the plural forms as well, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms \u201ccomprises\u201d and\/or \u201ccomprising,\u201d when used in this specification, specify the presence of stated features, integers, steps, operations, elements, and\/or components, but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features, integers, steps, operations, elements, components, and\/or groups thereof.","It will be understood that when an element such as a layer, region or substrate is referred to as being \u201con\u201d or extending \u201conto\u201d another element, it can be directly on or extend directly onto the other element or intervening elements may also be present. In contrast, when an element is referred to as being \u201cdirectly on\u201d or extending \u201cdirectly onto\u201d another element, there are no intervening elements present. It will also be understood that when an element is referred to as being \u201cconnected\u201d or \u201ccoupled\u201d to another element, it can be directly connected or coupled to the other element or intervening elements may be present. In contrast, when an element is referred to as being \u201cdirectly connected\u201d or \u201cdirectly coupled\u201d to another element, there are no intervening elements present.","It will be understood that, although the terms first, second, etc. may be used herein to describe various elements, components, regions, layers and\/or sections, these elements, components, regions, layers and\/or sections should not be limited by these terms. These terms are only used to distinguish one element, component, region, layer or section from another region, layer or section. Thus, a first element, component, region, layer or section discussed below could be termed a second element, component, region, layer or section without departing from the teachings of the present invention.","Furthermore, relative terms, such as \u201clower\u201d or \u201cbottom\u201d and \u201cupper\u201d or \u201ctop,\u201d may be used herein to describe one element's relationship to other elements as illustrated in the Figures. It will be understood that relative terms are intended to encompass different orientations of the device in addition to the orientation depicted in the Figures. For example, if the device in the Figures is turned over, elements described as being on the \u201clower\u201d side of other elements would then be oriented on \u201cupper\u201d sides of the other elements. The exemplary term \u201clower\u201d, can therefore, encompass both an orientation of \u201clower\u201d and \u201cupper,\u201d depending of the particular orientation of the figure. Similarly, if the device in one of the figures is turned over, elements described as \u201cbelow\u201d or \u201cbeneath\u201d other elements would then be oriented \u201cabove\u201d the other elements. The exemplary terms \u201cbelow\u201d or \u201cbeneath\u201d can, therefore, encompass both an orientation of above and below. Furthermore, the term \u201couter\u201d may be used to refer to a surface and\/or layer that is farthest away from a substrate.","Embodiments of the present invention are described herein with reference to cross-section illustrations that are schematic illustrations of idealized embodiments of the present invention. As such, variations from the shapes of the illustrations as a result, for example, of manufacturing techniques and\/or tolerances, are to be expected. Thus, embodiments of the present invention should not be construed as limited to the particular shapes of regions illustrated herein but are to include deviations in shapes that result, for example, from manufacturing. For example, an etched region illustrated as a rectangle will, typically, have tapered, rounded or curved features. Thus, the regions illustrated in the figures are schematic in nature and their shapes are not intended to illustrate the precise shape of a region of a device and are not intended to limit the scope of the present invention.","Unless otherwise defined, all terms (including technical and scientific terms) used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this invention belongs. It will be further understood that terms, such as those defined in commonly used dictionaries, should be interpreted as having a meaning that is consistent with their meaning in the context of the relevant art and will not be interpreted in an idealized or overly formal sense unless expressly so defined herein.","It will also be appreciated by those of skill in the art that references to a structure or feature that is disposed \u201cadjacent\u201d another feature may have portions that overlap or underlie the adjacent feature.","The present invention relates to Terahertz (THz) emission by a semiconductor  upon excitation by a femtosecond laser source , as shown schematically in .  illustrates the directions of the p-polarized and s-polarized components of the terahertz waveform produced by laser excitation of the semiconductor crystal structure . As recognized by those of ordinary skill in the art, a femtosecond is 10seconds and a femtosecond laser is a laser that operates in the domain of femtoseconds. The most preferable excitation source  is a low cost, compact, femtosecond fiber laser operating at either 1030 nm or 1560 nm (fundamental), or 515 nm or 780 nm (second harmonic). Preferably the pulsed radiation source has a photon energy greater than the bandgap of the crystal material. During photo excitation, a photo-Dember field can occur at the surface of a semiconductor due to a difference in diffusion coefficients for electrons and holes, and a structural asymmetry. Typically, electrons have a larger diffusion coefficient than holes. Consequently, upon photoexcitation, electrons diffuse more rapidly than the holes. In the absence of a surface boundary, no net dipole field is observed, since the center of charge does not change.","One aspect of the present invention is the recognition of polarized terahertz (THz) emission from nonpolar GaN, or the like, due to carrier transport in internal in-plane electric fields created by the termination, at stacking faults, of the in-plane polarization. Observation of a flip in the THz waveform polarity with a reversal in c-axis orientation indicates a reversal of photoelectric charge acceleration direction, consistent with built-in electric field along the c-axis in the nonpolar nitride semiconductor. This polarized THz emission, for horizontal c-axis, can lead to significant enhancement of the THz radiation usually observed due to carrier diffusion normal to the sample surface,","Calculations by Majewski, et al., in \u201cPolarization and band offsets of stacking faults in AIN and GaN,\u201d MRS Internet J. Nitride Semicond. Res. 3, 21 (1998), tend to show the charge accumulation in GaN results primarily from the spontaneous polarization, while the contribution from the piezoelectric polarization is negligible.","In order to derive the THz electric field radiated, the time derivative of the net current,",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0055","num":"0054"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00001","num":"00001"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mfrac":{"mrow":[{"mo":"\u2202","mi":"J"},{"mo":"\u2202","mi":"t"}]},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mo":"\u2211","mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":["q","i"]},{"mi":["r","i"]}],"mo":"\u2062"}}}}},"br":{}},"Majewski, et al., have performed calculations of zincblende inclusions embedded in bulk wurtzite GaN and concluded that charge buildup at the wurtzite\/zincblende interfaces in GaN (as depicted in ) results primarily from the spontaneous polarization Pin wurtzite material, with a negligible contribution from the piezoelectric polarization. Majewski, et al., also concluded that the interface charge can be calculated from the bulk spontaneous polarization. Using the appropriate boundary conditions at the SF interface and Maxwell's equations, the SF-related electric field Fin the wurtzite region can then be expressed as",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0057","num":"0056"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00002","num":"00002"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["F","w"]},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mfrac":{"msub":[{"mi":["P","sp"]},{"mi":"\u025b","mn":"0"}]},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mfrac":{"mn":"1","mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["\u025b","w"]},"mo":"+","mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["\u025b","zb"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"mrow":{"msub":{"mo":"\u2146","mi":"wz"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mo":"\/","msub":{"mo":"\u2146","mi":"zb"}}}}}}}}}},"mo":","}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"2"}}]}}}},"br":{},"sub":["sp ","wz ","zb ","wz ","zb ","o ","THz","wz"],"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0001","list-style":"none"},"li":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0001-0001","num":"0000"},"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0002","list-style":"none"},"li":["d\u02dc1\/n=100 \u212b, where nsf is SF density=1\u00d7106 cm-1","d\u02dc3\/2 c\u02dc8 \u212b (for I1 type SF, and cis lattice constant)\n\nAs shown above, the thickness of the zincblende region (in this case, the Itype SF) is d\u22483c\/2=8 \u212b, where cis the lattice constant of wurtzite GaN, and the thickness of the wurtzite region is d\u22481\/n=100 \u212b, where nis the SF density. For example, Majewski, et al, estimated that if P=\u22120.034 C\/m, the maximum average in-plane electric field in the wurtzite region of an m-GaN sample with an Itype SF density of 1\u00d710cmwas estimated as \u02dc290 kV\/cm (Unscreened average in-plane electric field in the wurtzite region). A more complete description is found at Majewski et. al, MRS Internet Journal of Nitride Semiconductor Research 3 (21) (1998) and J. A. Majewski, G. Zandler, and P. Vogl, Phys. Stat. Sol. A 179, 285 (2000).\n"]}}}},"Built-in electric fields due to a SF-terminated internal polarization have also observed in other materials such as SiC. For most optoelectronic applications, stacking fault defects and subsequent internal electric fields are undesirable as they reduce the quality of the material performance, and much research has been performed in an effort to decrease the number of stacking faults in semiconductors. However, in accordance with the principles of the present invention, the internal electric fields created by a stacking fault terminated in-plane polarization can function advantageously for terahertz (THz) applications.","Various compounds can be utilized to form the crystal structure, such as, for example, GaN, InN, AlN and alloys thereof, ZnO, MgO, ZnS, ZnSe, ZnTe, and alloys thereof, and SiC. Various crystal structure methods of formation may be used to create the crystal structure, including molecular beam epitaxy (MBE) and metalorganic chemical vapor deposition (MOCVD), which are known to those of ordinary skill in the art. As illustrated in , for enhanced THz radiation, the c-axis is in the plane of incidence and pointed along the +y direction (the x-y plane is shown in the left corner of ), and detection of the THz radiation is in the p-wave direction.","A substance which has a natural charge separation in the absence of a field is called a polar material. As used herein, the terminology polar, nonpolar, and semipolar relate to the orientations of the polar material. Specifically,  are illustrations showing three different orientations (polar, nonpolar and semipolar) of the c-axis of a crystal's structure (with c-axis being defined as perpendicular to the c-plane) relative to the growth plane, which in these examples is the sample surface. In the polar orientation example shown in , the c-axis is perpendicular to the growth plane. In the nonpolar orientation example, the c-axis is parallel to the growth plane and perpendicular to the growth direction. A semipolar orientation is depicted in  in which the c-axis of the crystal structure has a projection onto the growth plane. As used herein the terminology \u201cprojection onto\u201d refers to a mathematical construct in which a vector diagram can be used to evaluate the intensity of the component projected onto a given plane. As shown in , the projection of the c-axis onto the growth plane results in a vector component labeled as \u201cprojection of c-axis onto growth plane\u201d in . As seen in , the intensity value associated with the projection is non-zero; but may be in the range of 30 to 100%. The orientation of the crystal structure is that represented by the insert in .","In a preferred embodiment of the present invention, a polar semiconductor is grown on a substrate such that growth proceeds in a non-polar direction, with the crystal's polar axis in-plane as shown in the bottom of . This non-polar orientation of the crystal structure therefore has a non-zero in-plane polarization that can be terminated by a stacking fault, which normally originates perpendicular to the polar axis. As depicted for example in , the stacking fault(s) is essentially an interruption in the normal stacking sequence of crystal planes, effectively resulting in a material of slightly smaller bandgap that acts similar to an in-plane, ultra-narrow, quantum well-like structure that creates an electric field through the termination of the in-plane electric polarization. In addition to non-polar oriented crystal structure configurations where there is a non-zero in-plane electric polarization, the principles of the invention may be utilized with structures in which there is a projection of the c-axis on the growth plane, which is referred to as semi-polar oriented material; a representation of which is shown in .","For very large stacking fault densities, the internal electric field is determined by the spontaneous polarization of the semiconductor material. However, as the distance d between the stacking faults becomes larger, the field across the wurtzite region decreases as F approx. Eg\/qd), where Eg is the bandgap of the semiconductor and q is the electron charge. For typical stacking fault densities in the range of 10\/cm to 10\/cm the internal field can be as large as 1800 kV\/cm in some materials without any material processing or the contact formation required in some prior art embodiments. When illuminated with a roughly 100 femtosecond pulse with photon energy greater than Eg, carrier transport perpendicular to the stacking faults will generate THz radiation with a preferred polarization.","The present invention enables the generation of broadband THz pulses with higher pulse energy than a conventional photoconductive switch embodiment because it can support higher electric fields. Tests were performed using a frequency tripled (266 nm) coherent regenerative amplifier (RegA) at 800 nm. The typical pulse width is approximately 150 fs with a pump power of approximately 3 mW.  is a schematic illustration showing the orientation of a sample  relative to the femtosecond laser excitation. As shown in , the pump beam () is incident on the a-sample , for example GaN, at approximately 45 degrees to the surface normal.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0064","num":"0065"},"figref":["FIG. 5A","FIG. 5","FIG. 2A","FIG. 5A"],"b":["10","2","3","20","10","2","3"]},"The detection is a known electro optic sampling technique for detecting Terahertz emission. The configurations shown in , B and C use both a probe beam and a pump beam. Specifically, a reflector , which may be for example, a pellicle or thin membrane, reflects the probe beam and transmits terahertz radiation. The quarter wave plate  results in the linearly polarized incident probe beam becoming circularly polarized. The circularly polarized probe beam is then split by the Wollaston prism  which breaks up the vertically and horizontally polarized components of the probe beam spatially. The difference signal between the vertically and horizontally polarized components is detected using a balanced detector. When no terahertz emission is present, the balanced detector measures no signal. When terahertz emission is produced, the circularly polarized probe beam becomes elliptically polarized. For an elliptically polarized probe beam, one polarization component has a stronger amplitude and the balanced detector , indicates the difference between each; i.e., the detectors effectively breaks the beam into two orthogonal polarizations, and because the elliptically polarized probe light has two unequal components due to the Terahertz emission, the subtraction results in measurement of the Terahertz emission. For a more comprehensive explanation, reference is made to A. Nahata, et al., \u201cCoherent Detection of Freely Propagating Terahertz Radiation by Electro-optic Sampling,\u201d Appl. Phys. Lett. 68 (2), 8 Jan. 1996, which is hereby incorporated by reference. Although all III-Nitride semiconductors can emit THz radiation, a preferred embodiment utilizes InN, which has applications in 1550 nm fiber-laser based systems.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0066","num":"0067"},"figref":["FIG. 5B","FIGS. 5B and 5C","FIG. 5A","FIG. 2"],"b":["20","20","2","3","4","5","5","7"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0067","num":"0068"},"figref":["FIG. 5C","FIGS. 5A","FIGS. 5A","FIGS. 5A","FIGS. 5A","FIGS. 5B and 5C","FIGS. 5B and 5C","FIGS. 5B and 5C","FIG. 5D"],"b":["20","20","5","5","5","5","5","5","20","5","5","20","20","2","3","4","5","6","7","3","4","5","6","7","2"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0068","num":"0069"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 6"],"b":"10","o":"1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0069","num":"0070"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 7"],"sub":["2","3"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0070","num":"0071"},"figref":["FIG. 8","FIGS. 7-9"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0071","num":"0072"},"figref":["FIG. 9","FIG. 9"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0072","num":"0073"},"figref":["FIG. 10","FIG. 10"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0073","num":"0074"},"figref":["FIGS. 11A and 11B","FIGS. 11A and 11B","FIG. 11A"],"o":"1","sup":["6 ","\u22121"]},"The THz emission from the m-plane GaN material was compared with that from an approximately 330 \u03bcm-thick SF-free m-plane GaN substrate. The samples were optically excited using the third harmonic (226 nm) of a Coherent regenerative amplifier (RegA) at 800 nm with a repetition rate of 250 kHz and typical pulse width of approximately 150 fs. The pump beam was incident on the GaN sample at 45 degrees to the surface normal. The subsequent THz emission was collected with a pair of parabolic mirrors onto a ZnTe crystal for electro-optic sampling (as schematically illustrated in ). The ZnTe-based THz electro-optic detection system is polarization sensitive, enabling analysis of the polarization of the THz radiation.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0075","num":"0076"},"figref":["FIG. 12A","FIG. 12A","FIG. 12B","FIG. 12B"]},"The sample rotation angle-dependent THz signal from the high SF density m-plane GaN epilayer revealed that the in-plane polarization of the wurtzite crystalline structure is terminated by stacking faults, which introduce thin zincblende domains at which charge accumulation leading to strong electric fields parallel to the c-axis of the crystal occurs, as shown in . In-plane transport of photoexcited carriers proceeds parallel to the electric field, leading to the THz radiation polarized preferentially along this axis of the sample. This mechanism provided the 360 degree oscillatory component of the THz amplitude as a function of sample angle. Rotating the c-axis by 180 degrees also rotates the direction of the built-in field by 180 degrees and causes the photoexcited carriers to accelerate in the opposite direction. A reversal of the photoexcited carrier acceleration direction is observed as a flip in the THz waveform polarity, as seen in the THz signal from the high SF density m-plane GaN depicted in . The sin \u00d8 dependence of and 90\u00b0 shift between the p- and s-polarization curves (inset in ) indicates that the linearly polarized THz emission associated with in-plane carrier transport rotates with sample rotation. No optical rectification is observed; evidence of nonlinear polarization would appear as a sin(n\u03b8) (where n>1) dependence of the THz signal, as shown in the calculated THz signal due to optical rectification displayed in the lower graph in . Moreover, no dependence on pump polarization is found after accounting for absorption, and the THz signal vanishes for 400 nm excitation, indicating that the signal is associated with the generation and transport of real carriers.","In the inset of , the p-polarized curve is corrected for the surface normal transport contribution.","The offset which appears as a phase and amplitude asymmetry observed for the p-polarized THz waveforms from the high-SF-density m-plane GaN sample () emanates from the vertical, diffusion-driven transport, which does not depend upon sample rotation, and is also responsible for the angle independent p-polarization signal found for the SF-free sample ().","Terahertz emission from high stacking fault density m-plane GaN is achieved using ultrafast pulse excitation. As observed in the inset of , the terahertz signal exhibits a substantially 360\u00b0 periodicity with sample rotation and a polarity flip when the c-axis is rotated by 180\u00b0, characteristic of real carrier transport in an in-plane electric field parallel to the taxis induced by stacking fault-terminated internal polarization at wurtzite domain boundaries. The terahertz emission conducted according to the principles of the present invention potentially may be enhanced by several times relative to that from a stacking fault-free m-plane GaN sample, for which the terahertz signal emanates from surface surge-currents and diffusion-driven carrier transport normal to the surface and is independent of the taxis orientation.","Evidence of internal electric fields induced by stacking fault (SF)-terminated internal polarization in polar crystals has been observed in ZnS, ZnTe, and SiC and predicted in GaN. In semipolar or nonpolar wurtzite crystals, for which there is a projection of the c-axis in-plane, the stacking fault induced electric fields associated with the termination of the internal polarization along the polar [0001] direction at wurtzite domain boundaries also lay in-plane. The high fields within the wurtzite domains terminated by the stacking faults substantially point in the same direction, effectively creating an array of contactless PC switches that could significantly enhance THz emission from semiconductor surfaces under ultra short pulse excitation.","In accordance with the present invention, enhanced THz emission induced by femtosecond ultraviolet pulses can be obtained from high stacking fault density nonpolar GaN. This is attributed to the THz radiation from an m-plane (1 00) GaN epilayer with a SF density of 1\u00d710cmto the drift of photoexcited carriers in strong built-in electric fields created by SF-terminated internal polarization at wurtzite domain boundaries. The THz signal exhibits a 360\u00b0 periodicity with sample rotation and a polarity flip when the c-axis is rotated by 180\u00b0, characteristic of real carrier transport in an in-plane electric field parallel to the c-axis, which is not observed in the emission from a SF-free m-plane GaN substrate, in which THz emission is governed by carrier diffusion or surface surge-currents normal to the surface. Comparison of the THz emission from the stacking fault and stacking fault-free samples indicated that the component attributed to in-plane transport dominates that from surface normal transport, even for high excess electron energies and short absorption lengths favorable to diffusive transport.","Shown in  is an approximately 1 \u03bcm-thick high stacking fault-density m-plane GaN epilayer which was grown by metalorganic chemical vapor deposition (MOCVD) on an m-plane 6H\u2014SiC substrate with an AlN nucleation layer.  shows the cross-sectional transmission electron microscopy (TEM) image of the film in which basal plane stacking faults (BPSFs) are visible as dark lines running perpendicular to the c-axis ([0001] direction). In studies conducted, it was determined that by scattering contrast TEM imaging that the majority of the stacking faults in this film are Itype, which corresponds to a stacking sequence of the (0001) basal planes of . . . ABABABCBCBCB . . . as shown in . The stacking faults result primarily from the large density of structural defects associated with heteroepitaxial growth on lattice-mismatched substrates.","For comparison purposes, the stacking fault free m-GaN is a \u02dc330 \u03bcm-thick substrate from Mitsubishi Chemical Co., Ltd.\u00ae The samples were optically excited using \u02dc150 fs pulses obtained from the third harmonic (266 nm) and second harmonic (400 nm) of a 250 kHz Coherent regenerative amplifier (RegA) at 800 nm, as well as from the frequency doubled signal beam (350 nm) of an optical parametric amplifier pumped by the RegA. The pump beam was incident on the GaN sample at approximately 45\u00b0 to the surface normal (as depicted in ), and the subsequent THz emission is collected with a pair of parabolic mirrors for polarization sensitive ZnTe-based electro-optic sampling, as illustrated in, inter alia, .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0084","num":"0085"},"figref":["FIGS. 14A and 14B","FIGS. 14A","FIG. 14B","FIG. 12B","FIG. 11A","FIG. 11B"],"b":"14"},"Surface normal transport is also responsible for the phase shift and amplitude symmetry among the p-polarized THz waveforms from the high stacking fault density m-plane GaN sample (). To analyze only the in-plane transport, the normal photocurrent component can be separated from the in-plane drift component by rotating the c-axis of the crystal perpendicular to the p-polarization detection direction (). In this orientation, the in-plane drift contribution is not detected, and only the surface normal transport signal is measured. The p-polarized THz waveforms from the high SF-density m-plane GaN at various sample rotation angles can then be corrected for the surface normal transport contribution, which is independent of the c-axis orientation, to extract only the in-plane drift component.  displays the p-polarized THz waveform at \u00d8=0\u00b0 with and without removing the surface normal transport component, which has a slightly different phase than the in-plane drift contribution. After removing the normal photocurrent contribution, the phase shift and amplitude asymmetry between the peak positive and peak negative p-polarized THz signals () noted above are eliminated and the corrected p-polarized THz waveforms () resemble the s-polarized THz waveforms in . Based on the analysis of the amplitude asymmetry in  and the orientation of the c-axis, one can also determine that the electrons accelerate in the [000 ] direction, consistent with carrier transport in built-in, in-plane electric fields created by SF-terminated internal polarization at wurtzite domain boundaries.","In accordance a preferred embodiment of the present invention, the in-plane polarization of the wurtzite crystalline structure is terminated by stacking faults, creating an interface and charge accumulation leading to the occurrence of strong electric fields parallel to the c-axis of the crystal. In-plane transport of photoexcited carriers proceeds parallel to the electric field, leading to a THz radiation component polarized preferentially along this axis of the sample. Rotating the c-axis by 180\u00b0 also rotates the direction of the built-in field by 180\u00b0, causing the photoexcited carriers to accelerate in the opposite direction. A reversal of the photoexcited carrier acceleration direction is observed as a flip in the THz waveform polarity, as seen in the THz signal from the high SF density m-plane GaN in , A, and B.","In summary, the present invention provides enhanced THz emission from nonpolar GaN due to carrier transport in internal in-plane electric fields created by the termination of the in-plane polarization in wurtzite domains at zincblende SFs. The estimated, maximum average in-plane electric field of \u02dc290 kV\/cm in the wurtzite regions for an Itype SF density of 1\u00d710cmis comparable to the bias fields applied to PC switches using low-temperature grown GaAs, one of the best PC materials, but does not require electrode processing or an external bias. Comparison with THz emission from SF-free m-plane GaN indicates that the THz signal from SF-related in-plane carrier transport dominates that usually observed from carrier diffusion or surface surge-currents normal to the sample surface, even for high excess electron energies and short absorption lengths favorable to diffusive transport.","The maximum enhancement of the THz power from high SF density m-plane GaN occurs for p-polarized THz radiation when the c-axis is at 180 degrees, as displayed in . The THz power is the square of the time-integrated THz signal amplitude. The orientation of the c-axis is in the plane of incidence and aligned antiparallel to the projection of the excitation laser propagation direction onto the sample surface ().",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0089","num":"0090"},"figref":["FIG. 21","FIGS. 14A and 14B"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0090","num":"0091"},"figref":["FIG. 22","FIGS. 14A and 14B","FIG. 21"]},"The term stacking fault as used herein means, for example, in situations where there are AB AB AB then any derivation from this order as well as any change in A or B is a stacking fault. It is also possible to have Zinc Blende and then have wurtzite as a stacking fault. However, wurtzite is a lower energy state than cubic for nitride semiconductors and tends to stay that way.","Although various preferred embodiments of the present invention have been described herein in detail to provide for complete and clear disclosure, it will be appreciated by those skilled in the art, that variations may be made thereto without departing from the spirit of the invention.","The terminology \u201coutcoupling\u201d as used herein refers to radiation going from one medium (such as a semiconductor) to another (such as air). The term \u201cprojection\u201d as used in the following claims refers to a mathematical model vector projection. The terminology \u201cin-plane\u201d as used herein refers to a direction, such as carrier transport, lying in the surface plane of the polar crystal material. The terminology polarization of the emitted THz radiation relates to the direction of the electric field vector of the propagating THz wave. The terminology \u201cnonsaturation region\u201d used in relation to the pump power range refers to the operation range in which there is a constant ratio of terahertz emission out per excitation photons inputted. As used in the following claims, the term \u201cdevice\u201d is not intended to be limiting and includes an apparatus or system for producing terahertz radiation. Systems or devices of this nature are represented, for example, in , B, and C. The terminology \u201clayer\u201d as used in the following claims is not intended to be limiting; including as to size or dimension. The \u201clayer\u201d as used in the claims may be part of a composite device composed of various layers or the \u201clayer\u201d may be a part of a uniform material.","It should be emphasized that the above-described embodiments are merely possible examples of implementations. Many variations and modifications may be made to the above-described embodiments. All such modifications and variations are intended to be included herein within the scope of the disclosure and protected by the following claims."],"GOVINT":[{},{}],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The present invention can best be understood when reading the following specification with reference to the accompanying drawings, which are incorporated in and form a part of the specification, illustrate alternate embodiments of the present invention, and together with the description, serve to explain the principles of the invention. In the drawings:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 1A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":["FIG. 2A","FIG. 2B"],"b":"10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 4"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 5A","b":"10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 5B","b":"10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 5C","b":"10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 5D","b":"10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":"FIG. 7","sub":"1 "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":["FIG. 8","FIG. 8"],"sup":["6 ","\u22121 "],"sub":"1 "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIG. 9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":"FIG. 10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":["FIGS. 11A and 11B","FIGS. 11A and 11B","FIG. 11A"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":["FIG. 12A","FIG. 12B","FIG. 12A"],"sup":["6 ","\u22121 "]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":"FIG. 13"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":"FIGS. 14A and 14B","sup":["6 ","\u22121"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"figref":"FIG. 15","sup":["6 ","\u22121 "]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0034"},"figref":"FIG. 16","sup":["5 ","\u22121","6 ","\u22121","6 ","\u22121","6 ","\u22121 "]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"figref":"FIG. 17","o":["2","1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0037","num":"0036"},"figref":"FIG. 18"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0037"},"figref":"FIG. 19"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0039","num":"0038"},"figref":"FIG. 20"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0040","num":"0039"},"figref":"FIG. 21"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0041","num":"0040"},"figref":"FIG. 22"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0042","num":"0041"},"figref":["FIG. 23","FIG. 23","FIG. 18"],"sup":["6 ","\u22121"]}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
