---
title: Systems and methods for real-time online monitoring of computing devices
abstract: Computing devices, such as workstations, associated with an institution system may each run a real-time online (RTO) software application. Each RTO application may comprise a software object that executes on the computing device to recognize events pertaining to the computing device, such as startup, shutdown, user logon, and user logoff. Upon occurrence of one of the events, data pertaining to the event is forwarded to the institution system, where it may be processed and stored in an RTO repository for future querying. The institution system may generate a plurality of reports based on an analysis of event data it has received from each computing device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08296262&OS=08296262&RS=08296262
owner: United Services Automobile Association (USAA)
number: 08296262
owner_city: San Antonio
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20090504
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["Within business organizations, educational institutions, and other large entities, individual computers are increasingly connected to each other by means of a network. As the number of computers on a network increases, the complex task of managing the networked computers quickly overwhelms information technology (IT) departments. Currently, real-time analysis is nearly impossible for these systems. A network administrator typically must wait until data is compiled before making changes to individual computers on the network.","Current methods of monitoring individual computers, such as workstations, for a large enterprise are cumbersome and do not collect data quickly enough to be of use in real-time. Current methods rely on remote scans and polling each individual workstation for information, which causes large network overhead and information latency, in some cases returning information that is only partially accurate and too stale for action.","Computing devices, such as workstations, associated with an institution system may each run a real-time online (RTO) software application. Each RTO application may comprise a software object that executes on the computing device to recognize events pertaining to the computing device, such as startup, shutdown, user logon, and user logoff. Upon occurrence of one of the events, data pertaining to the event is forwarded to the institution system, where it may be processed and stored in an RTO repository for future querying.","In an implementation, the institution system may comprise a report generator that generates a plurality of reports based on an analysis of event data it has received from each computing device.","In an implementation, the report generator may use the event data in conjunction with information and\/or analysis obtained from other systems or data sources to provide various types of systematic computing device usage reports. Such other systems or data sources may include, for example, a human resources (HR) profiler, a network analyzer, a software analyzer, an asset analyzer, and\/or an inventory manager.","This summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the detailed description. This summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter, nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":"105"},"In , three computing devices , ,  are shown connected to the institution system . Each computing device , ,  is associated with a user , , , respectively. Although only three users , ,  and three computing devices , ,  are shown in , any number of users and any number of computing devices are contemplated and may be in communication with the institution system .","In an implementation, each user , ,  may be an individual or other entity who accesses and\/or uses a computing device. Each computing device , ,  may be any type of workstation, PC, laptop or notebook computer, handheld computing device such as a personal digital assistant (PDA), a smartphone, or a mobile phone, for example. An example computing device is described with respect to .","Each computing device , ,  and the institution system  may be connected over a communications network. Each computing device , ,  may be continually connected to the institution system  or occasionally connected to the institution system . Each user , ,  and each computing device , ,  may communicate with the institution system  by way of a communications network such as an intranet, the Internet, a LAN, a wide area network (WAN), a wireless fidelity (WiFi) network, a public switched telephone network (PSTN), a cellular network, a voice over Internet protocol (VoIP) network, and the like.","A LAN is a network that usually spans a relatively short distance. A plurality of LANs is contemplated and may be coupled to one another through a WAN. A WAN is a network that may span a relatively large geographical area, and may connect computing devices and\/or LANs which are very far apart. In such a manner, for example, the computing devices , ,  may be connected to each other. Any of a variety of network topologies (i.e., the geometric arrangement of devices on the network), protocols (i.e., the rules and encoding specifications for sending data, and whether the network uses a peer-to-peer or client\/server architecture), and media (e.g., twisted-pair wire, coaxial cables, fiber optic cables, radio waves) may be used.","Each computing device , ,  may run a real-time online (RTO) software application, shown as RTO applications , , , respectively. Each RTO application may comprise a software object that executes on an associated computing device to recognize events pertaining to the computing device, such as startup, shutdown, user logon, and user logoff. Upon occurrence of one of the events, data pertaining to the event is forwarded to the institution system , where it may be processed and stored in an RTO repository  for future querying. The RTO repository  may be any type of storage or memory device, and the data may be stored, e.g., as an entry in a database record corresponding to the computing device, the user, the event, the date, the time, the processes executing on the computing device and the computing device resources, etc. Thus, real-time data on computing device online\/offline, and user logon\/logoff statuses may be obtained and data collection latency may be eliminated with respect to remotely determining computing device online\/offline and user logon\/logoff statuses.","The institution system  may generate a plurality of reports based on the analysis of the event data it has received from each computing device , , . The institution system  may comprise an RTO engine  that comprises the RTO repository  and a report generator . The report generator  may retrieve and process event data from RTO repository  and generate a variety of reports using the event data.","The institution system  may thus accurately determine real-time and historical statistics on workstation online\/offline and user logon\/logoff statuses using the appropriate associated event data from one or more of the computing devices , ,  connected to the institution system . Although event data is described with respect to startup, shutdown, user logon, and user logoff, one skilled in the art will understand that any data regarding the applications, resources, or events of a computing device, such as the computing device , , or  may be used.","The RTO engine  may collect, track, and respond to event data provided by the computing devices , ,  alone or in conjunction with data provided or obtained from one or more internal data source(s)  and\/or external data source(s) , e.g., via a data source access engine .","In an implementation, the RTO engine  may obtain data from internal data source(s)  and\/or external data source(s)  using the data source access engine . The RTO engine  has access to data, files, and documents pertaining to the users , ,  and their computing devices , , , as well as any other data, files, and documents that are currently stored by the institution system  (stored in internal data source(s) , the RTO repository , and storage , for example) as well as external data, files, and documents (stored in external data source(s) , for example). Such data, files, and documents stored in the internal data source(s)  and\/or the external data source(s)  may be useful in determining behaviors of the users , ,  with respect to their computing devices , ,  and generating reports directed to the users , ,  and\/or the computing devices , , , as described further herein.","Internal data source(s)  may contain data, metadata, email, files, and\/or documents that the institution system  maintains pertaining to the user , , , such as personal data such as name, physical address, email address, etc., as well as event and asset (e.g., equipment, hardware, software, etc.) information. The external data sources  may be data sources that are unaffiliated with the institution system  and may include public databases and private databases and other information that is publicly or otherwise accessible (e.g., using the appropriate credentials). The retrieved data may be stored centrally, perhaps in storage . Information may also be provided to the institution system  from the users , , .","Real-time capability provides a foundation for a number of uses for the event data, such as software distribution and licensing, workforce optimization, fraud detection, enterprise asset management, etc., for example. In an implementation, the report generator  may use the event data in conjunction with information and\/or analysis obtained from other systems or data sources to provide various types of systematic computing device usage reports. Such other systems or data sources may include, for example, a human resources (HR) profiler , a network analyzer , a software analyzer , an asset analyzer , and an inventory manager .","The HR profiler  may monitor, track, and determine user information, such as information pertaining to users that are currently logged on, such as their names, job descriptions, titles, etc. The network analyzer  may determine network information, such as which user just logged into which computing device. The software analyzer  may analyze applications on the computing devices. The asset analyzer  may analyze the assets of the institution system , such as determining whether computing devices are being utilized properly or are underutilized and may be redeployed or returned to stock. The inventory manager  maintains hardware and software inventory, such as how many computing devices are online and how many are offline.","Using the event data, reports may be generated directed to information such as which computing devices (e.g., workstations) are currently online, which computing devices are currently offline, and which users are currently logged on, for example. The event data may be used for troubleshooting, such as to determine which computing devices have not been rebooted during a particular period of time or the number of times a computing device has been rebooted during a particular period of time.","Asset management may also be provided using the event data. For example, computing devices that have not been on the network (e.g., not started up) in a particular length of time may be tracked (e.g., as lost or stolen equipment). Determining the last time a specific computing device was powered on may assist with asset tracking and total enterprise computing device counts. Additionally, the last logged on user for a specific lost computing device may be determined in order to assist in locating the lost computing device.","Additionally, user logon trending may be provided using data such as the number of computing devices that are logged on during particular times of the day. This data may be used to re-allocate computing devices so they are not under-utilized or over-utilized. User logon behavior may be monitored, such as the status of the user logon at a particular time each day (e.g., the logon status of a user everyday at a particular time). Additionally, the event data may be used to determine which computing devices a user has logged onto. Such a determination may be useful for a security analysis. Using the event data, a primary user for a particular computing device may be determined.","In an implementation, the event data may be used in software license management and software management. For example, it may be determined when each computing device with a particular software application has been on the network. This may be used to determine if a software license is not being used and\/or may not be appropriate for a computing device. A machine-idle report may be generated which can be used to remove computing devices from a network after an idle period, saving licensing costs for example. Such a report may be prepared using information from the HR profiler  to determine if the primary user of the computing device is on extended leave, for instance.","The event data may be used to quickly determine if a computing device is online and whether a user is logged on. In an implementation, it may be determined which computing devices are online that do not have current security updates. The current security updates may be distributed immediately to the computing devices that are online that do not have the current security updates. Any type of software may be distributed in such a manner, e.g., pursuant to determining using the event data that the computing device is online and there is no user logged on. Additionally, historical logon patterns may be determined using the event data and may be evaluated to determine times when service may be performed on the computing device without impacting a user of the computing device.","Although not shown in , the institution system  may include a user interface module which may generate and format one or more pages of content as a unified graphical presentation that may be provided to the computing device of a user. In an implementation, the page(s) of content may be provided to the computing device of the user via a secure website associated with the institution system .","The institution system  may include any combination of systems and subsystems such as electronic devices including, but not limited to, computers, servers, databases, or the like. The electronic devices may include any combination of hardware components such as processors, databases, storage drives, registers, cache, random access memory (RAM) chips, data buses, or the like and\/or software components such as operating systems, database management applications, or the like.","The institution system  may comprise one or more computing devices . The computing device(s)  may have one or more processors , storage  (e.g., storage devices, memory, etc.), and software modules . The computing device(s) , including its processor(s) , storage , and software modules , may be used in the performance of the techniques and operations described herein. An example computing device and its components are described in more detail with respect to .","Examples of software modules  may include modules that may be used in conjunction with receiving and storing event data from a user, obtaining data from a data source, generating one or more reports using event data and\/or data obtained from one or more data sources, issuing a report to a user such as an administrator, and taking action with respect to the reports, for example. While specific functionality is described herein as occurring with respect to specific modules, the functionality may likewise be performed by more, fewer, or other modules.","Each computing device , ,  may run additional software applications in addition to the RTO application , , , some examples of which are described with respect to .  is a block diagram illustrating example software components executing on a computing device . In an implementation, the computing device  may be similar to one of the computing devices , ,  described with respect to .","The computing device  may comprise an operating system , applications , communication components , an RTO application , and RTO storage . The operating system  is responsible for performing basic tasks, such as recognizing input from an input device, sending output to an output device, keeping track of files and directories in storage and controlling peripheral devices such as scanners and printers. The operating system  is also responsible for managing the execution of other programs, including without limitation, the applications , the communication components , and the RTO application . Any operating system may be used, such as a Windows operating system provided by Microsoft Corporation, for example, or any other known operating system. The operating system  may also maintain information relating to system security, memory usage, currently executing processes, network communications, CPU (central processing unit) usage, and the like.","Any one or more applications  may operate on the computing device , such as a web browser, a word processor, a spreadsheet program, a database program, etc. Communications components  may include any known applications that provide or facilitate communications over computer networks and the Internet, for example.","The RTO application  operates on the computing device  and may comprise scripts directed to startup, shutdown, logon, and logoff events. The scripts may fire at their associated event and collect event data , such as data directed to an identifier of the computing device , applications operating thereon, an identifier of the user using the computing device , a date and time of the event, the type of event, and the like. The type of event may be a user logon, a user logoff, a startup, or a shutdown, in an implementation. The event data may also comprise information directed to the processes executing on the computing device  and the computing device  resources, such as CPU usage, memory usage, and page file usage.","The event data  may be stored in an RTO storage  of the computing device . The RTO storage  may be any type of storage or memory device, and the event data  may be stored, e.g., as an entry in a database record corresponding to the computing device , the user, the event, the date, and\/or the time, etc. The event data  may be transmitted to the institution system  where it may be received and stored in the RTO repository  as described above with respect to .","In an implementation, the scripts directed to startup, shutdown, logon, and logoff events may be embedded into Windows Active Directory. Active Directory is a technology created by Microsoft that provides a variety of network services, including directory services, authentication, naming and other network information. Active Directory allows administrators to assign policies, deploy software, and apply critical updates to an institution or enterprise. Active Directory stores information and settings in a central database. Active Directory networks can vary from a small installation with a few hundred objects, to a large installation with millions of objects.","Event data pertaining to one or more events occurring individually on one or more computing devices may be provided form the computing device(s) to the institution system for storage, analysis, and use in generating one or more reports. The events may all be of the same type (e.g., all directed to user logon, all directed to user logoff, all directed to startup of the computing device(s), all directed to shutdown of the computing device(s)) or may be of different types.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0043","num":"0042"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":["300","310","250","105","182","187","192","200"]},"At , an event occurs. As described above, in an implementation, the event may comprise a startup, shutdown, user logon, or user logoff of the workstation. At , the RTO application  recognizes the event, and at , the RTO application  may collect data, such as event data , regarding the event.","In an implementation, the event data  may be stored in storage at the workstation, such as in RTO storage . At , the RTO application  may provide the event data  regarding the event to the institution system . The workstation may access the institution system  using a communication pathway via a communications network. There may be several ways in which the communication pathway may be established, including, but not limited to, an Internet connection or any other network connection, as described further above.","At , the institution system  receives the event data  and stores the event data  in an RTO repository, such as the RTO repository . Operations  through  may repeat over time for various events occurring on various workstations.","At , a report may be generated using the event data  in the RTO repository . The report may be generated upon request by a user (e.g., an administrator of the institution system) or automatically (e.g., at predetermined times (e.g., every day at : p.m., etc.), pursuant to predetermined events or rules (e.g., whenever the number of online users meets a threshold, whenever a predetermined number of computing devices have not been started up, etc.), using predetermined information from the RTO repository , etc.). The report may be stored in storage and\/or provided to an administrator or an information technology (IT) department, for example, at .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0048","num":"0047"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":["400","410","105","252","252","122"]},"At , data pertaining to one or more events may be retrieved from the RTO repository . The data may be retrieved pursuant to a request for a generation of a report, for example.","At , data from one or more additional data sources, such as the HR profiler , the network analyzer , the software analyzer , the asset analyzer , and the inventory manager , may be requested and obtained. The appropriate data may be requested and obtained depending on the report that is to be generated. At , a report may be generated using the retrieved data pertaining to the event(s) and the data that has been obtained from the one or more additional data sources.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0051","num":"0050"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},"Numerous other general purpose or special purpose computing system environments or configurations may be used. Examples of well known computing systems, environments, and\/or configurations that may be suitable for use include, but are not limited to, PCs, server computers, handheld or laptop devices, multiprocessor systems, microprocessor-based systems, network PCs, minicomputers, mainframe computers, embedded systems, distributed computing environments that include any of the above systems or devices, and the like.","Computer-executable instructions, such as program modules, being executed by a computer may be used. Generally, program modules include routines, programs, objects, components, data structures, etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Distributed computing environments may be used where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network or other data transmission medium. In a distributed computing environment, program modules and other data may be located in both local and remote computer storage media including memory storage devices.","With reference to , an exemplary system for implementing aspects described herein includes a computing device, such as computing device . In its most basic configuration, computing device  typically includes at least one processing unit  and system memory . Depending on the exact configuration and type of computing device, system memory  may be volatile (such as RAM), non-volatile (such as read-only memory (ROM), flash memory, etc.), or some combination of the two. This most basic configuration is illustrated in  by dashed line .","Computing device  may have additional features and\/or functionality. For example, computing device  may include additional storage (removable and\/or non-removable) including, but not limited to, magnetic or optical disks or tape. Such additional storage is illustrated in  by removable storage  and non-removable storage .","Computing device  typically includes a variety of computer-readable media. Computer-readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by computing device  and includes both volatile and non-volatile media, and removable and non-removable media. By way of example, and not limitation, computer-readable media may comprise computer storage media and communication media.","Computer storage media include volatile and non-volatile, and removable and non-removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer-readable instructions, data structures, program modules or other data. System memory , removable storage , and non-removable storage  are all examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media include, but are not limited to, RAM, ROM, Electrically Erasable Programmable Read-Only Memory (EEPROM), flash memory or other memory technology, CD-ROM, digital versatile disks (DVD) or other optical storage, magnetic cassettes, magnetic tape, magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices, or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by computing device . Any such computer storage media may be part of computing device .","Computing device  may also contain communication connection(s)  that allow the computing device  to communicate with other devices. Communication connection(s)  is an example of communication media. Communication media typically embody computer-readable instructions, data structures, program modules, or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism, and include any information delivery media. The term \u201cmodulated data signal\u201d means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example, and not limitation, communication media include wired media such as a wired network or direct-wired connection, and wireless media such as acoustic, radio frequency (RF), infrared, and other wireless media. The term computer-readable media as used herein includes both storage media and communication media.","Computing device  may also have input device(s)  such as a keyboard, mouse, pen, voice input device, touch input device, etc. Output device(s)  such as a display, speakers, printer, etc. may also be included. All these devices are well known in the art and need not be discussed at length here.","Computing device  may be one of a plurality of computing devices  inter-connected by a network. As may be appreciated, the network may be any appropriate network, each computing device  may be connected thereto by way of communication connection(s)  in any appropriate manner, and each computing device  may communicate with one or more of the other computing devices  in the network in any appropriate manner. For example, the network may be a wired or wireless network within an organization or home or the like, and may include a direct or indirect coupling to an external network such as the Internet or the like.","It should be understood that the various techniques described herein may be implemented in connection with hardware or software or, where appropriate, with a combination of both. Thus, the methods and apparatus of the presently disclosed subject matter, or certain aspects or portions thereof, may take the form of program code (i.e., instructions) embodied in tangible media, such as floppy diskettes, CD-ROMs, hard drives, or any other machine-readable storage medium wherein, when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine, such as a computer, the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the presently disclosed subject matter. In the case of program code execution on programmable computers, the computing device generally includes a processor, a storage medium readable by the processor (including volatile and non-volatile memory and\/or storage elements), at least one input device, and at least one output device. One or more programs may implement or utilize the processes described in connection with the presently disclosed subject matter, e.g., through the use of an application programming interface (API), reusable controls, or the like. Such programs may be implemented in a high level procedural or object-oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However, the program(s) can be implemented in assembly or machine language, if desired. In any case, the language may be a compiled or interpreted language and it may be combined with hardware implementations.","Although exemplary embodiments may refer to utilizing aspects of the presently disclosed subject matter in the context of one or more stand-alone computer systems, the subject matter is not so limited, but rather may be implemented in connection with any computing environment, such as a network or distributed computing environment. Still further, aspects of the presently disclosed subject matter may be implemented in or across a plurality of processing chips or devices, and storage may similarly be effected across a plurality of devices. Such devices might include personal computers, network servers, and handheld devices, for example.","Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and\/or methodological acts, it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather, the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The foregoing summary, as well as the following detailed description of illustrative embodiments, is better understood when read in conjunction with the appended drawings. For the purpose of illustrating the embodiments, there are shown in the drawings example constructions of the embodiments; however, the embodiments are not limited to the specific methods and instrumentalities disclosed. In the drawings:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 5"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
