---
title: Application display on a locked device
abstract: A user request to display an application while the device is locked is received. In response to this user request, one or more images generated by the application are obtained and displayed while the device is locked. Additionally, an indication of an application to be displayed upon resuming operation from a power-saving mode can be received, and an image generated by the application is displayed in response to resuming operation from the power-saving mode.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08434153&OS=08434153&RS=08434153
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 08434153
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20090824
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["Mobile communications devices, such as wireless phones, have become increasingly commonplace. Due to their typically small size, such mobile communications devices can oftentimes be easily kept in a pocket, briefcase, purse, etc. Storing mobile communications devices in such locations can be problematic because the devices can be accidentally activated, causing unwanted actions to be performed by the devices. To prevent such accidental activation, some mobile communications devices can be locked by a user entering a particular key sequence, and then unlocked by the user entering another particular key sequence. When locked, the device typically accepts no inputs (except inputs to unlock the device), and displays some default or generic screen to the user. While such locking prevents accidental activation of the device, it is not without its problems. One such problem is that locking and unlocking the device can be a time-consuming and cumbersome process for the user, which can result in frustrating experiences when users are trying to use the mobile communications devices.","This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter, nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.","In accordance with one or more aspects, a user request to display an application while the device is locked is received. In response to the user request to display the application while the device is locked, an image generated by the application is obtained and displayed while the device is locked.","In accordance with one or more aspects, an indication of an application to be displayed upon resuming operation from a power-saving mode is received. An image generated by the application is displayed in response to resuming operation from the power-saving mode.","Application display on a locked device is discussed herein. A user of a device can request, such as with a simple finger gesture, that a particular application be displayed while the device is locked. In response to the request, images generated by the application continue to be displayed while the device is locked. The images displayed can change as the application runs while the device is locked, allowing the user to continually view updates from the application despite the device being locked. Alternatively, the device can be locked and placed in a power-saving mode in which no images are displayed. Upon resuming from the power-saving mode, the device remains locked but is also displaying images generated by a particular application requested by the user.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["100","100","100","100"]},"Mobile communications device  includes a shell module , a screen , and one or more applications . Shell module  includes a user interface (UI) module , an input module , a communication module , a power-save module , a device lock module , and a locked display module . Each of modules , , , , , , and  can be implemented in software, firmware, hardware, or combinations thereof. When implemented in software or firmware, such a module includes one or more instructions that are executed by one or more processors or controllers of mobile communications device .","Screen  is a display component of mobile communications device . Screen  can be implemented in a variety of different manners, such as using liquid crystal display (LCD) technology, plasma screen technology, image projection technology, and so forth. Alternatively, rather than including screen , mobile communications device  can generate one or more signals that are output to one or more other display devices which include screen .","Shell module  includes one or more modules that manage communications, receive user inputs, display images, and so forth as discussed in more detail below. Applications  communicate with shell module  and provide various functionality. Applications  typically rely on shell module  to manage receiving of user inputs on behalf of the applications , and displaying images generated by applications  on screen . A variety of different types of applications can be included as applications , such as productivity applications (e.g., spreadsheet applications, word processing applications), recreational applications (e.g., games), resource applications (e.g., databases, digital books), audio\/video applications (e.g., digital cameras, digital video cameras, music playback programs), mapping or tracking applications, and so forth.","Input module  receives user inputs from a user of mobile communications device . User inputs can be provided in a variety of different manners, such as by pressing a particular portion of a touchpad or touchscreen of device , or pressing one or more keys of a keypad or keyboard of device . Touchscreen functionality can be provided using a variety of different technologies, such as through capacitive, surface acoustic wave, resistive, optical, strain gauge, dispersive signals, acoustic pulse, or other touchscreen technologies. The user input can also be provided in other manners, such as via audible inputs, other physical feedback input to the device (e.g., tapping any portion of device  or another action that can be recognized by a motion detection component of device , such as shaking device , rotating device , etc.), and so forth.","UI module  generates, manages, and\/or outputs a user interface for display on screen . This user interface displays various information on screen , and user inputs can be received by input module  as discussed above. UI module  can display, for example, messages sent by mobile communications device  to other devices, messages received by mobile communications device  from other devices, images generated by applications , and so forth.","Communication module  manages receiving of communications from and sending of communications to other devices, including other mobile devices. Mobile communications device  can communicate with other devices using a variety of different technologies and protocols, such as cellular, satellite, and\/or other technologies or protocols. The technologies or protocols can include wireless and\/or wired technologies and protocols.","Communication module  supports one or more of a variety of different types of communications with other devices. One type of communication typically supported by communication module  is a voice call. This can include voice calls that are initiated by mobile communications device  (e.g., outgoing calls), as well as voice calls that are initiated by other devices (e.g., incoming calls). Alternatively, mobile communications device  can support other types of communications, and need not support voice calls.","Another type of communication supported by communication module  is a message, which refers to text messages or messages with other types of media such as images, video, audio, combinations of types of media, and so forth. Such messages can comply, for example, with the Short Message Service (SMS) communication protocol or the Multimedia Messaging Service (MMS) communication protocol. Various other types of communications can also be supported by communication module , such as mobile instant messaging (mobile IM), email (electronic mail), and so forth.","Power-save module  manages power saving functionality for mobile communications device . This functionality is typically designed to conserve one or more batteries powering device . Power-save module  supports various power-saving modes implementing various power saving functionality, such as decreasing the brightness of screen , turning off screen , reducing the operating speed and\/or power of a processor of device , turning off one or more input\/output components of device , and so forth. Different types of power saving functionality can be implemented by power-save module , and which power saving functionality is implemented at which times can vary. For example, power-save module  can be configured to enter a first power-saving mode by decreasing the brightness of screen  after a first amount of time has passed with no user input being received by module , and to enter a second power-saving mode by turning off the screen  after a second amount of time has passed with no user input being received by module .","Device lock module  manages the locking of mobile communications device . Device  is locked to prevent accidental activation of the device. When device  is locked, module  prevents most inputs received by input module  from being acted upon by device . This prevention can be performed in different manners, such as module  intercepting and ignoring such inputs, module  informing input module  to ignore such inputs, and so forth. When device  is locked, device lock module  monitors inputs received by input module  for a particular input. This particular input is, for example, activation or selection of a particular key or button, activation or selection of a particular key sequence or button sequence, inputting of a particular gesture, and so forth. This particular input is interpreted by device lock module  as a user request to unlock mobile communications device .","In response to a user request to unlock mobile communications device , device lock module  unlocks device . When unlocked, module  no longer prevents inputs received by module  from being acted upon by device . For example, module  can stop intercepting and ignoring such inputs, module  can inform input module  to no longer ignore such inputs, and so forth.","Locked display module  manages the display of images from an application  while mobile communications device  is locked. Rather than displaying a generic image on screen  when device  is locked, module  allows images generated by an application  to be displayed while device  is locked. As the application  runs and updates the images it displays, at least some of these updated images are displayed by module  on screen .","In one or more embodiments, a user of mobile communications device  inputs a request via input module  for a particular application to be displayed while device  is locked. In response to such a request, locked display module  displays images generated by the particular application while device  is locked. The user request can be input in a variety of different manners via input module . For example, the user request can be input by the user entering a gesture with his or her finger via a touchscreen or touchpad (e.g., a circle, the letter \u201cZ\u201d, etc.), by the user selecting a menu item (e.g., a \u201cdisplay when locked\u201d menu item), by the user moving the device in a particular manner (e.g., rotating the device, tapping the device twice in quick succession, etc.), and so forth.","One or more different applications  can be run on mobile communications device , including running multiple applications  concurrently. Multiple applications  can be run concurrently on device  in a variety of different conventional manners. The multiple applications typically have a depth ordering, with applications being viewed as running at particular depths or Z-orders. Which application is at which depth or level changes based on user requests to use the applications, such as more recently requested applications being a higher level than less recently requested applications. The top-level application of applications  can change, and is typically the application that is currently being used (or was most recently used or selected) by the user. This top-level application at any particular time is also typically the application that is being displayed on screen  at that particular time.","In one or more embodiments, locked display module  displays images generated by the top-level application  at the time the user request for a particular application to be displayed while device  is received. Accordingly, the user can easily request that a particular application be displayed while device  is locked by having that particular application be the top-level application, and then entering the request for the application to be displayed while device  is locked.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 2"],"b":["200","202","204","204","202","202","204","202"]},"In the example of , the application running on the mobile communications device is a map application that displays the current location of the mobile communications device on a map. Various streets are illustrated in display portion , along with an arrow and large dot to identify the current location of the mobile communications device. The current location of the mobile communications device can be determined in a variety of different manners, such as based on Global Positioning System (GPS) signals received by the mobile communications device, based on signals or information received from cellular towers or other wireless base stations, and so forth. It is to be appreciated that the map application is an example, and that alternatively images generated by other applications can alternatively be displayed in display portion .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 2","FIG. 1","FIG. 2"],"b":["210","122"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0034"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 3","FIG. 2","FIG. 3"],"b":["200","202","204"]},"In , a menu  is displayed including various menu items from which the user can select. Menu  can be displayed in response to a variety of different commands, such as user selection of a \u201cmenu\u201d button or key, the user entering a particular gesture with his or her finger and\/or providing physical feedback to the mobile communications device in a particular manner, and so forth. Menu  includes a \u201cdisplay when locked\u201d menu item, which can be selected by the user. The user can select menu items in a variety of different manners, such as by touching the displayed menu item with his or her finger, navigating the menu items using directional buttons and pressing a \u201cselect\u201d or \u201cok\u201d button when the menu item is highlighted, and so forth. The user selection of the \u201cdisplay when locked\u201d menu item is interpreted by locked display module  of  as a user request for a particular application to be displayed while the mobile communications device is locked. The particular application is the application being displayed when the menu item selection is made, which is the map application in .","Returning to , mobile communications device  can be locked at some time after a user request for a particular application to be displayed while device  is locked is received. Device  can be locked in response to a user request, or alternatively in response to some other action or event (e.g., after a particular amount of time of no user input being received by device ). In one or more embodiments, the user request for a particular application to be displayed while device  is locked is also a request to lock device , although alternatively the request to lock device  can be a separate user input.","Additionally, in response to a request for an application to be displayed while device  is locked, locked display module  prevents the power saving functionality provided by power-save module  from entering a power-saving mode. In one or more embodiments, locked display module  notifies power-save module  that module  should cease its power saving functionality. In response to such a notification, power-save module  ceases performing its power saving functionality, such as decreasing the brightness of screen  and\/or turning off screen , by not entering power-saving modes. This cessation of the power saving functionality continues until power-save module  is notified to resume its power saving functionality (e.g., by device lock module  in response to device  being unlocked).","Alternatively, rather than not entering a power-saving mode, power-save module  can alter its entering a power-saving mode. This alteration can include not entering certain power-saving modes and\/or changing the time of when certain power-saving modes are entered. For example, power-save module  may normally enter a first power-saving mode by decreasing the brightness of screen  after a first amount of time of no user input being received, and then enter a second power-saving mode by turning off screen  after a second amount of time of no user input being received. Power-save module  can alter this functionality to not enter the first power-saving mode, but may still enter the second-power saving mode after a particular amount of time of no user input being received (which may be the same amount of time as the second amount of time, or alternatively may be a longer or shorter amount of time).","Whether to enter and\/or when to enter a power-saving mode can be determined in different manners. In one or more embodiments, power-save module  is configured with an indication of when (and whether) to enter particular power-saving modes in response to a notification to cease power saving functionality received from locked display module . Alternatively, an indication of when (and whether) to enter particular power-saving modes can be provided by locked display module  and\/or the application  to be displayed while device  is locked.","Alternatively, locked display module  can determine when (and whether) device  is to enter particular power-saving modes in other manners. For example, locked display module  can intercept commands issued by power-save module , such as commands to turn off screen , commands to reduce the brightness of screen , and so forth. These intercepted commands can be deleted (so that they are not performed) and\/or altered by locked display module .","Locked display module  displays images generated by a particular application  while device  is locked, and can display these images in a variety of different manners. In one or more embodiments, the particular application  continues to run while device  is locked, generating images for display as if device  were not locked. Locked display module  provides these images to a display driver associated with screen  in a same manner as when device  is not locked, which displays the images as if device  were not locked.","Alternatively, locked display module  can display images generated by a particular application  in other manners. For example, the particular application  can continue to run and generate images for display while device  is locked, but locked display module  does not provide all of these images to the display driver associated with screen . Rather, locked display module  selects images at regular or irregular intervals (e.g., every ten or fifteen seconds, every minute, etc.), and provides those selected images to the display driver associated with screen . These intervals can vary based on application . For example, it may be desirable to have more frequent updates for an application  that is a mapping application than for an application  that is a stock quote application.","Whether images generated by an application  are displayed as if device  were not locked, or whether images generated by an application  are displayed at some other interval, application  need have no knowledge that device  is locked. Rather, application  continues running until receiving a notification from shell  to cease running.","Alternatively, application  can be notified (e.g., by locked display module ) that device  is locked, and in response the behavior of application  can be altered. For example, application  can invoke a method of an application programming interface (API) exposed by locked display module  to provide module  with images to be displayed while device  is locked. Module  receives these images and provides the received images to the display driver associated with screen . The particular images generates for display while device  is locked, and the frequency with which those particular images are generated, is determined by the application .","Regardless of the manner in which locked display module  displays images generated by application  while device  is locked, user inputs to application  are prevented because device  is locked. Thus, the user is able to continue to see the images generated or otherwise output by application , but is not able to provide inputs to application  until device  is unlocked.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0047","num":"0046"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 4","FIG. 2","FIG. 4"],"b":["400","402","404","202","402","404"]},"Screen  also includes a lock button . Lock button  can be displayed in application display portion  by locked display module  or alternatively another module or application. For example, locked display module  can generate an overlay that is lock button  and provide the overlay along with the image from the map application to the display driver associated with screen . Alternatively, lock button  can be displayed elsewhere, such as in header portion .","Lock button  signifies to a user of the mobile communications device that the mobile communications device is currently locked. Lock button  can be selected by the user in a variety of different manners to request that the mobile communications device be unlocked, such as by pressing lock button , tapping lock button  a particular number of times in rapid succession, pressing and sliding lock button  to the left or right, and so forth. Such a request to unlock the device is typically followed by user entry of particular character or number sequence, or some other code or pattern, to unlock the device.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0050","num":"0049"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 5","FIG. 4"],"b":["400","402","404","406"]},"In , however, the image displayed in application display portion  is different than the image illustrated in . This change in images displayed in portion  is a result of a different image being generated by the map application being displayed in portion  while the map application is running.","Thus, as can be seen in the examples of , screen  displays images generated by the map application in application display portion . These images are displayed even though the mobile communications device is locked. These images also change over time as new images are generated by the map application as the map application runs while the mobile communications device is locked.","Additionally, it can be seen from the discussions herein that the application display on a locked device techniques allow a user to quickly and easily identify an application to be displayed while the mobile communications device is locked. For example, the user can simply enter on a touchscreen a particular gesture with his or her figure while the desired application is being displayed, and that desired application becomes the application displayed while the device is locked. Thus, the user can have his or her device locked and at the same time be able to continue to monitor the application and see images generated by the application. The user is able to see these images without needing to repeatedly unlock the device, check the application, and relock the device.","Returning to , locked display module  displays images generated by an application  while device  is locked in response to a user request for a particular application to be displayed while device  is locked. It should be noted that device  can still be locked in a more traditional manner, such as in response to a user request for a traditional locking of device , after a particular amount of time has elapsed with no user input, and so forth. In such situations, a generic image is displayed to the user while screen  is turned on and device  is locked. This generic image, however, is not based on images generated by application  while device  is locked.","Additionally, as discussed above situations can arise where power-save module  enters a power-saving mode (e.g., turns off screen ) while mobile communications device  is locked. In one or more embodiments, locked display module  displays images generated by an application  after device  resumes operation from the power-saving mode (e.g., after screen  is turned back on by power-save module ). The particular application  whose generated images are displayed by locked display module  can be determined in different manners. For example, the particular application  whose generated images are displayed by locked display module  can be the application for which a user request for a particular application to be displayed while device  is locked is received. By way of another example, the particular application  whose generated images are displayed by locked display module  can be the top-level application at the time device  is locked (or enters a power-saving mode). By way of yet another example, the particular application  whose generated images are displayed by locked display module  can be a user-specified application identified in a user configuration or parameter setting. It should be noted that locked display module  can display images generated by an application when resuming from a power-saving mode regardless of whether a user request for a particular application to be displayed while device  is locked is received.","Locked display module  can determine when device  has resumed operation from a power-saving mode in a variety of different manners. In one or more embodiments, power-save module  notifies locked display module  that device  has resumed operation from a power-saving mode. Alternatively, locked display module  can determine when device  has resumed operation from a power-saving mode, such as intercepting commands issued by power-save module , identifying settings or state of other components or modules of device  (e.g., identifying whether screen  is turned on), and so forth.","For example, a user request for a particular application to be displayed while device  is locked can be received. Device  is subsequently locked, and after a particular amount of time device  enters a power-saving mode by power-save module  turning off screen . Device  can subsequently resume operation from the power-saving mode, such as in response to a user input being received via input module , by power-save module  turning back on screen . Device  is still locked, but locked display module  displays images generated by the particular application .","By way of another example, no user request for a particular application to be displayed while device  is locked may be received. Device  is subsequently locked and a generic image is displayed on screen . After a particular amount of time device  enters a power-saving mode by power-save module  turning off screen . Device  can subsequently resume operation from the power-saving mode, such as in response to a user input being received via input module , by power-save module  turning back on screen . Device  is still locked, but locked display module  displays images generated by the particular application  rather than the generic image.","Additionally, in one or more embodiments a user of device  can elect to opt out of having a particular one or more applications displayed while device  is locked. This allows the user to prevent images from being displayed by an application that may display images that include sensitive data (e.g., confidential work emails) or other images that the user desires not to be displayed. The user can select these particular one or more applications in a variety of manners, such as entering a particular gesture while the application is the top-level application, selecting a menu item while the application is the top-level application, accessing a configuration menu or window of the application, and so forth. Alternatively, all applications can default to being opted out of being displayed while device  is locked, and the user can elect to opt in to having a particular one or more applications displayed while device  is locked. The user can select these particular one or more applications in a variety of manners, such as entering a particular gesture while the application is the top-level application, selecting a menu item while the application is the top-level application, accessing a configuration menu or window of the application, and so forth.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0060","num":"0059"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 1"],"b":["600","600","100","600"]},"In process , a user request to display an application while the device is locked is received (act ). This user request can be received in a variety of different manners, such as input of a user gesture, selection of a menu item, and so forth.","In response to the user request received in act , an image generated by the application is obtained (act ) and displayed (act ). This image is obtained and displayed while the device is locked as discussed above. Acts  and  can be repeated multiple times, allowing multiple images generated by an application to be displayed while the device is locked as discussed above. Acts  and  can be repeated until a user request to unlock the device is received, or another module (e.g., power-save module ) indicates to cease displaying the images.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0063","num":"0062"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 1"],"b":["700","700","100","700"]},"In process , an indication of an application to be displayed after resuming from a power-saving mode is received (act ). This indication can be received in a variety of different manners as discussed above, such as a configuration setting input by the user.","After the device has entered a power-saving mode, a determination is made that the device has resumed operation from the power-saving mode (act ). This determination can be made in a variety of manners, such as in response to a notification from a power-save module (e.g., module  of ) that the device has resumed from the power-saving mode.","In response to the device resuming operation from the power-saving mode, an image generated by the application is displayed (act ). This application is the application for which the indication was received in act , and the image generated by the application is generated after the device resumes operation from the power-saving mode. Accordingly, the image generated is a current output or image of the application when the device resumes operation form the power-saving mode. Additionally, multiple images from this application can be displayed while the device remains locked, as discussed above. The display of such images can continue until a user request to unlock the device is received, or another module (e.g., power-save module ) indicates to cease displaying the images.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0067","num":"0066"},"figref":["FIG. 8","FIG. 1"],"b":["800","800","100"]},"Computing device  includes one or more processors or processing units , one or more computer readable media  which can include one or more memory and\/or storage components , one or more input\/output (I\/O) devices , and a bus  that allows the various components and devices to communicate with one another. Computer readable media  and\/or one or more I\/O devices  can be included as part of, or alternatively may be coupled to, computing device . Bus  represents one or more of several types of bus structures, including a memory bus or memory controller, a peripheral bus, an accelerated graphics port, a processor or local bus, and so forth using a variety of different bus architectures. Bus  can include wired and\/or wireless buses.","Memory\/storage component  represents one or more computer storage media. Component  can include volatile media (such as random access memory (RAM)) and\/or nonvolatile media (such as read only memory (ROM), Flash memory, optical disks, magnetic disks, and so forth). Component  can include fixed media (e.g., RAM, ROM, a fixed hard drive, etc.) as well as removable media (e.g., a Flash memory drive, a removable hard drive, an optical disk, and so forth).","The techniques discussed herein can be implemented in software, with instructions being executed by one or more processing units . It is to be appreciated that different instructions can be stored in different components of computing device , such as in a processing unit , in various cache memories of a processing unit , in other cache memories of device  (not shown), on other computer readable media, and so forth. Additionally, it is to be appreciated that the location where instructions are stored in computing device  can change over time.","One or more input\/output devices  allow a user to enter commands and information to computing device , and also allows information to be presented to the user and\/or other components or devices. Examples of input devices include a keyboard, a cursor control device (e.g., a mouse), a microphone, a scanner, and so forth. Examples of output devices include a display device (e.g., a monitor or projector), speakers, a printer, a network card, and so forth.","Various techniques may be described herein in the general context of software or program modules. Generally, software includes routines, programs, objects, components, data structures, and so forth that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. An implementation of these modules and techniques may be stored on or transmitted across some form of computer readable media. Computer readable media can be any available medium or media that can be accessed by a computing device. By way of example, and not limitation, computer readable media may comprise \u201ccomputer storage media\u201d and \u201ccommunications media.\u201d","\u201cComputer storage media\u201d include volatile and non-volatile, removable and non-removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions, data structures, program modules, or other data. Computer storage media include, but are not limited to, RAM, ROM, EEPROM, flash memory or other memory technology, CD-ROM, digital versatile disks (DVD) or other optical storage, magnetic cassettes, magnetic tape, magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices, or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by a computer.","\u201cCommunication media\u201d typically embody computer readable instructions, data structures, program modules, or other data in a modulated data signal, such as carrier wave or other transport mechanism. Communication media also include any information delivery media. The term \u201cmodulated data signal\u201d means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example, and not limitation, communication media include wired media such as a wired network or direct-wired connection, and wireless media such as acoustic, RF, infrared, and other wireless media. Combinations of any of the above are also included within the scope of computer readable media.","Generally, any of the functions or techniques described herein can be implemented using software, firmware, hardware (e.g., fixed logic circuitry), manual processing, or a combination of these implementations. The terms \u201cmodule\u201d and \u201ccomponent\u201d as used herein generally represent software, firmware, hardware, or combinations thereof. In the case of a software implementation, the module or component represents program code that performs specified tasks when executed on a processor (e.g., CPU or CPUs). The program code can be stored in one or more computer readable memory devices, further description of which may be found with reference to . The features of the application display on a locked device techniques described herein are platform-independent, meaning that the techniques can be implemented on a variety of commercial computing platforms having a variety of processors.","Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and\/or methodological acts, it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather, the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The same numbers are used throughout the drawings to reference like features.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0007","num":"0006"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0008","num":"0007"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 8"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
