---
title: Method and apparatus for a high-performance compact volumetric antenna
abstract: A wide-bandwidth antenna (e.g., a rib-dipole antenna) includes a first pole formed by a first conductive member and/or a second pole formed by a second conductive member. The antenna also includes an antenna feed between the first conductive member and the second conductive member. The antenna also includes at least one electrically conductive element including a surface. A portion of the surface is electrically connected to, and extends from, the first conductive member or the second conductive member. The at least one electrically conductive element is capable of conducting a current that generates a magnetic field. The magnetic field lowers a total reactance of the antenna, thereby resulting in enhanced performance of the antenna and more efficient use of volume.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08810466&OS=08810466&RS=08810466
owner: Physical Sciences, Inc.
number: 08810466
owner_city: Andover
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20090713
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"GOVINT":[{},{}],"heading":["STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENT INTEREST","FIELD OF THE INVENTION","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION"],"p":["The subject matter described herein was developed in connection with funding provided by the U.S. Army under Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR) Contract No. W15QKN-08-C-0050. The federal government may have certain rights in the technology.","This invention relates to antennas, and more specifically to antennas that achieve wide bandwidth, occupy a small volume, and are easily manufactured.","A performance of an antenna can be defined in terms of its gain, bandwidth, antenna pattern, pattern control and reactance. A gain of an antenna can be defined as the ratio between a radiation intensity of the antenna in a certain direction and the radiation intensity that would be obtained if the power accepted by the antenna were radiated isotropically. A bandwidth of an antenna can be defined as a range of frequencies, on either side of a center frequency (usually the resonance frequency for a dipole) where the matching antenna characteristics (the input impedance) are within an acceptable value. The antenna fractional bandwidth is the ratio of the bandwidth to its center frequency (percentage). When the bandwidth is larger than 100% it is measured as the ratio of the upper frequency to the lower frequency of the band. For example, the 2:1 antenna has one octave bandwidth. An antenna pattern is a graphical representation of the radiation properties of the antenna as a function of space coordinates. Pattern control is the capability of intentionally modifying the pattern, for instance via antenna geometry manipulation. Reactance is defined as a measure of the opposition of capacitance and inductance to current.","There are two types of reactance: capacitive reactance and inductive reactance. Capacitive reactance is a function inversely proportional to the frequency and the capacitance. Inductive reactance is a function proportional to the frequency and the inductance. Total reactance is a function given by the difference between the inductive reactance and the capacitive reactance.","Antennas in the prior art include dipole antennas, helical antennas, loop antennas, and parabolic antennas.  shows a dipole antenna in the prior art. The dipole antenna can be used in communications. The dipole antenna  includes two conductors (e.g., a first pole , second pole ) and an antenna feed  (e.g., a center feed element). Electric current flow in the dipole antenna from the feed generates of a first current flow  in the first pole  of dipole antenna , and second current flow  in the second pole  of dipole antenna . A common dipole is the half-wave dipole (e.g., a wire of total length equal to half the wavelength). The theoretical maximum gain of a half-wave dipole is 2.15 dB. The fundamental 10-12% bandwidth of a straight half-wavelength cylindrical dipole antenna is a weak function of the ratio of the length of the dipole to its diameter and the reactance as function of frequency. To fit in the small space available, and to comply with stealth requirements, the dipole antenna has to be reduced in size and become electrically small antennas that do not work at resonance (non-resonant dipole). Dipoles that are designed to be much smaller than the wavelength of operation, have a very low radiation resistance and high capacitive reactance that makes them inefficient. The (matched) bandwidth of small dipoles drastically decreases from 10-12% to 0.1% and less.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0007","num":"0006"},"figref":"FIG. 1B","b":["130","130","131","130","130","130","130","130"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0008","num":"0007"},"figref":"FIG. 1C","b":["140","140","140"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":"FIG. 1D","b":["145","145","146","145","145"]},"The invention features a wide bandwidth, compact volumetric antenna. A volumetric antenna is one that is not planar or linear, but rather, occupies a volume. Advantages of a dipole antenna (e.g., feasible at very long wavelengths) can be retained but with better performance than traditional dipoles (e.g., better matching, wider bandwidth, and occupying a smaller volume). The antenna can occupy a smaller volume to allow miniaturization while achieving wider bandwidth, pattern control, and low manufacturing cost as compared to state-of-the-art antennas. The volume can be more efficiently used than a traditional dipole antenna and can be designed to be shorter than, for example, traditional dipole antennas at the same operating frequency. The wide bandwidth, compact volumetric antenna can be designed to be, for example, up to five times shorter than a conventional HF whip antenna.","Capabilities include a more stable pattern and greater bandwidth than conventional dipole antennas in less than, for example, half the linear dimension. A 3:1 or even 4:1 bandwidth can be achieved for the high-performance compact volumetric antenna with ground plane. Applications for the technology include, for example, RF communications (e.g., on a soldier's manpack, on land vehicles, on UAV's, on munitions for HF, UHF and VHF communications), enhanced performance\/safety for cell phones, and high definition digital TV. Moreover, a directive antenna pattern can be obtained using an array of compact volumetric antennas to be used in High Power Microwave systems and platforms (e.g., for Directed Energy applications to produce high-density bursts of energy capable of damaging or destroying nearby electronics). The technology has excellent performance in the HF frequency band (e.g., High Frequency of about 3 MHz to about 30 MHz) and in the VHF frequency band (e.g., about 30 MHz to about 300 MHz), where the large wavelengths (e.g., between about 100 m and about 1 m) require large antenna sizes for classic antennas. Moreover, the high performance compact volumetric antenna can be scaled to work at other frequencies.","In one aspect, the invention features a wide-bandwidth antenna (e.g., a \u201crib-dipole\u201d antenna) that includes a first pole formed by a first conductive member, a second pole formed by a second conductive member and an antenna feed between the first conductive member and the second conductive member. The antenna also can include at least one electrically conductive element. The electrically conductive element can include a surface having a portion that is electrically connected to the first conductive member or the second conductive member. The electrically conductive element can also extend from the first conductive member or the second conductive member. The at least one electrically conductive element can be capable of conducting a current that generates a magnetic field that lowers a total reactance of the antenna.","At least one electrically conductive element can be attached\/connected to (e.g., adjacent) the first conductive member or the second conductive member. In some embodiments, the portion of the surface of at least one electrically conductive element is connected\/attached to, and extends laterally from, the first conductive member or the second conductive member. The electrically conductive element can be curvilinear and can include a contoured surface. In some embodiments, a portion of the contoured surface is connected to, and extends laterally from, the first conductive member or the second conductive member. In some embodiments, the antenna is \u201cconformal.\u201d The antenna can conform to any shape\/surface (e.g., an irregular surface) on a body. By way of example, the antenna can conform to an aircraft wing or a vehicle body.","The first conductive member and the second conductive member can be metal plates\/sheets\/blades. In some embodiments, the electrically conductive element is a planar electrically conductive element that is connected to, and extends from, the first conductive member or the second conductive member. The planar electrically conductive element can be disposed at an angle (e.g., substantially perpendicular) relative to the first conductive member or the second conductive member.","In some embodiments, the antenna also includes a third pole formed by a third conductive member and a fourth pole formed by a fourth conductive member. The first conductive member, the second conductive member, the third conductive member, the fourth conductive member and the electrically conductive element(s) occupy a volume. The volume can be, for example, a cylindrical volume, a conical volume, a bi-conical volume, a sphere, a pyramid or a parallelepiped.","The first conductive member can be substantially co-axial to the second conductive member. In some embodiments, the magnetic field generated by the electrically conductive element is substantially parallel to a longitudinal axis of a volume formed by the antenna (e.g., the first conductive member, the second conductive member and electrically conductive element(s)).","The electrically conductive element(s) can be a metal plate or metal sheet. For example, the electrically conductive element can be a closed ring, a hollow cylinder, a strip, a fractal strip, a slotted strip or include any combination\/variation thereof.","In some embodiments, the antenna includes a first, second and third electrically conductive element. The electrically conductive elements can be each spaced at a distance relative to one another. The distance can be, for example, constant, linear, increasing, decreasing, logarithmic, randomly distributed, or any combination\/variation thereof.","A length of the antenna (e.g., a length of the volume occupied by the antenna) can be greater than a width, thickness, or radial width of the antenna.","In another aspect, the invention features a wide-bandwidth antenna (\u201crib-dipole\u201d). The antenna can include a first pole formed by a first conductive plate, a second pole formed by a second conductive plate and an antenna feed between the first conductive plate and the second conductive plate. The antenna can also include two or more planar electrically conductive sheets that are electrically connected to, and disposed substantially perpendicular from, or at an angle from, the first conductive plate. The electrically conductive sheets(s) can be capable of conducting a current generating a magnetic field that lowers a total reactance of the antenna.","In another aspect, the invention features a wide-bandwidth antenna (\u201crib-dipole\u201d) that includes a first conductive member, a second conductive member, and an antenna feed between the first conductive member and the second conductive member. The antenna can also include at least two electrically conductive components disposed along the first conductive member or the second conductive member. The electrically conductive components each include respective surfaces each having a portion electrically connected to, and extending from, the first conductive member or the second conductive member. The electrically conductive components are capable of conducting a respective current that generates a respective magnetic field that lowers an overall total reactance of the antenna.","In some embodiments, the electrically conductive components extend laterally from the first conductive member or the second conductive member. The electrically conductive components can be curvilinear and include respective contoured surfaces, each having a portion connected to, and laterally extending from, the first conductive member or the second conductive member. The electrically conductive components can each have different lengths, widths, or thicknesses.","The antenna can include two poles formed by a first metal plate and a second metal plate. The electrically conductive components can be planar electrically conductive sheets connected to, and substantially perpendicular to, the first metal plate and\/or the second metal plate. In some embodiments, the antenna is substantially parallel relative to a ground plane.","In some embodiments, the antenna includes a third conductive member and a fourth conductive member. The first conductive member, the second conductive member, the third conductive member, the fourth conductive member and the at least two electrically conductive components can occupy a volume. The volume can be, for example, a cylindrical volume, a conical volume, a bi-conical volume, a sphere, a pyramid, or a parallelepiped.","The electrically conductive components can include a closed ring, a hollow cylinder, a curvilinear strip, a fractal strip, a slotted strip or any combination\/variation thereof. The electrically conductive components can be disposed at an angle relative to a shared longitudinal axis of the first conductive member and the second conductive member (e.g., where the first conductive member and the second conductive member are substantially coaxial).","In some embodiments, the antenna also includes a third electrically conductive component and the electrically conductive components are each spaced at a distance relative to one another. The distance can be, by way of example, constant, linear (e.g., linearly increasing or decreasing), increasing, decreasing, logarithmic, randomly distributed or any combination\/variation thereof.","In yet another aspect, the invention features a method for transmitting or receiving electromagnetic energy. The method can include the step of providing at least a first current flow in a first pole of an antenna and generating a second current flow in at least one electrically conductive element from the first current flow in the first pole. The at least one electrically conductive element can include a surface having a portion electrically connected to, and extending from, the first pole. The method can also include the step of generating a magnetic field from the second current flow in the at least one electrically conductive element, where the magnetic field lowers an intrinsic reactance of the antenna.","In some embodiments, the at least one electrically conductive element is curvilinear and includes a contoured surface. A portion of the contoured surface can be electrically connected to, and extend laterally from, the first pole. In some embodiments, the electrically conductive element is a planar electrically conductive sheet that is electrically connected to, and substantially perpendicular to, the first pole.","In another aspect, the invention features a wide-bandwidth antenna. The antenna includes a first pole formed by a conductive member and an antenna feed electrically connected to the conductive member. The antenna can also include at least one electrically conductive element configured to conduct a current from the first pole that generates a magnetic field that lowers a total reactance of the antenna. A portion of a surface of the electrically conductive element can be electrically connected to, and extend laterally from, the conductive member.","In some embodiments, the at least one electrically conductive element includes a contoured surface having a portion electrically connected to, and extending laterally from, the conductive member.","The first pole and the antenna feed can form a monopole antenna (e.g., together with the electrically conductive elements forming a \u201crib-monopole\u201d). In some embodiments, the antenna also includes a second pole formed by a second conductive member. The second conductive member can be substantially coaxial to the conductive member.","In another aspect, the invention features a system for transmitting and receiving electrical signals. The system can include a power source and an antenna. The antenna can include a first conductive member configured to conduct a first current from the power source and an antenna feed electrically coupled to the first conductive member. The system can also include at least one electrically conductive component including a surface having a portion electrically connected to, and extending from, the first conductive member. The electrically conductive component is capable of conducting a second current generated by the first current in the first conductive member and the second current can produce a corresponding magnetic field that lowers a total reactance of the antenna.","In some embodiments, the system also includes a second conductive member configured to conduct a third current from the power source. The second conductive member can be electrically coupled to the antenna feed. The system can also include a second electrically conductive component including a surface having a portion electrically connected to, and extending from, the second conductive member. The second electrically conductive component can be configured to conduct a fourth current generated by the third current. The fourth current can produce a corresponding magnetic field that lowers the total reactance of the antenna.","Other aspects and advantages of the invention can become apparent from the following drawings and description, all of which illustrate the principles of the invention, by way of example only.","A high performance, compact volumetric antenna (e.g., \u201crib-dipole\u201d or a \u201crib monopole\u201d antenna) has the advantages of a traditional dipole antenna (e.g., dipole  as shown in ), but with higher performance capabilities. Advantages of a rib-dipole\/monopole antenna include, for example, a monotonic, predictable and smooth impedance curve. Another advantage is the lack of erratic impedance behavior at low frequencies (e.g., as compared to the helical antenna as shown in ). Therefore, the rib-dipole\/monopole antenna is better matched over a wider band as compared to small helical antennas in the prior art. The rib-dipole antenna can have a pattern that can be the same pattern of a traditional dipole antenna, regardless of size. In contrast, the helical antenna changes its pattern from broadside to end-fire when frequency increases. Therefore, the rib-dipole\/monopole antenna can be used for both small and intermediate frequencies (e.g., over a wider bandwidth) in contrast to the helical antenna. As with a traditional dipole antenna, the rib-dipole antenna can be a high-impedance load at low frequencies and can also be used as a radiating antenna (e.g., as compared to a small loop antenna as shown in , which is a low-impedance load that cannot be used as a radiating antenna.)","A traditional dipole antenna (e.g., dipole  of ), however, has a large capacitive reactance, Xthat reduces the efficiency of the antenna.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0064","num":"0063"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00001","num":"00001"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["X","C"]},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mrow":[{"mo":"-","mfrac":{"mn":"1","mrow":{"mi":["\u03c9","C"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}}}},{"mo":"-","mfrac":{"mn":"1","mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mi":["\u03c0","fC"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}}}}],"mo":"="}}},{"mrow":{"mi":"EQN","mo":[".","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},"mn":"1"}}]}}}},"br":{}},"The enhanced performance of the high performance compact volumetric antenna (e.g., the rib-dipole\/monopole antenna) can be attributed to the additional magnetic fields produced by the antenna's specific geometric configuration. The additional magnetic fields are produced from electrically conductive components\/element(s) disposed along the pole(s) of the antenna. The electrically conductive component\/elements can be curved\/curvilinear or straight. The electrically conductive component\/elements are attached to the pole(s) of the antenna and can extend from the poles (e.g., laterally extend outwards, like ribs). Layers of an electrically conductive material (e.g., metal layers, such as a copper, brass, gold, carbon fibers, carbon nanotubes, etc.) can be disposed to form the shape of electrically conductive components\/elements on to a dielectric cylinder, making the antenna affordable to manufacture, less sensitive to damage and to manufacturing uncertainties. The antenna can conform to any surface\/shape of a body (e.g., can conform to an aircraft wing, vehicle body, etc.) These additional magnetic fields produce a desirable inductive reactance that lowers the total reactance of the antenna, which results in higher performance (e.g., wider bandwidth, better matching). The improved performance of the antenna  is attributed, at least in part, to its intrinsic large inductive reactance, X:\n\nX=\u03c9L=2\u03c0fL\u2003\u2003EQN. 2\n\nwhere f=frequency (Hertz, Hz), L=inductance (henrys, H). A large inductive reactance (X) (e.g., from EQN. 2) can reduce the total reactance (X) of the antenna:\n\n\u2003\u2003EQN. 3\n\nand where is the antenna impedance:\n\n\u2003\u2003EQN. 4\n\nwhere R is the antenna radiation resistance and j is the imaginary unit.\n","EQN. 3 above shows that the lower is the frequency, the higher is Xand the lower is X. The smaller the capacitance, the higher is X. The smaller the inductance, the lower is X. Therefore, at lower frequencies of the RF spectrum (e.g. HF range), traditional dipole antennas (e.g., of ) have increasing high intrinsic capacitive reactance, a large total reactance, and therefore worse performance than at higher frequencies. The inductive reactance to lower the total reactance (X) can be achieved by introducing electrically conductive component\/elements that produce additional magnetic fields that increase the inductive reactance and lower the total reactance of the antenna (e.g., the total reactance can be, for example, 5-8 times smaller than that of a traditional dipole antenna at low frequencies). Similarly, the inductive reactance is larger than the inductive reactance of a traditional dipole antenna.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0067","num":"0066"},"figref":"FIG. 2A","b":["200","110","120","150","210","220","110","120","150","200","200","210","220","210","220","200","200"]},"The electrically conductive component\/elements  and  extend from the first pole  and the second pole  (e.g., the electrically conductive component\/elements do not surround\/encompass the first pole  and the second pole ). The electrically conductive component\/elements  and  can extend laterally from the first pole  and second pole  (e.g., like conductive \u201cribs\u201d pointing out from and disposed along the poles). In some embodiments, the electrically conductive component\/elements  and  are adjacent poles  and . Each electrically conductive component\/element  and  can include a surface  and  (e.g., or a wall). For example, electrically conductive component\/element  or  can be curvilinear and the surface\/wall  and  can be a contoured surface. A portion of the surface\/wall  and  can be connected\/attached (e.g., electrically connected) to the first pole  and the second pole .","The first pole  and the second pole  can be substantially coaxial and share a common longitudinal axis . In some embodiments, the electrically conductive component\/elements  and  form a volume (e.g., a cylindrical volume) having a longitudinal axis  that is substantially parallel to the longitudinal axis  of the poles  and . In some embodiments, the magnetic field generated by electrically conductive component\/elements  and  are substantially parallel to the longitudinal axis .","In this embodiment, the electrically conductive component\/elements  and  are curved (e.g., curve metal sheets\/plates that are closed rings). However, in some embodiments, as shown in , the electrically conductive components\/elements are planar sheets\/plates that are disposed along and connected to (e.g., electrically connected and\/or attached) the dipole antenna. In this embodiment, the electrically conductive component\/elements  and  are hollow cylinders. However, in other embodiments, the electrically conductive component\/elements can be metal plates or metal sheets (e.g., a closed ring, a strip, a fractal strip, a slotted strip, or any combination thereof). Furthermore, in this embodiment, antenna  includes two electrically conductive component\/elements  and . However, it is contemplated that an antenna can include any number of electrically conductive component\/elements (e.g., one or more). Furthermore, in some embodiments, the electrically conductive component\/elements  and  are disposed at an angle relative to the longitudinal axis .","In some embodiments, the antenna  is \u201cconformal.\u201d The antenna  can conform to any shape\/surface (e.g., an irregular surface) on a body. By way of example, the antenna can conform to an aircraft wing or a vehicle body.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0072","num":"0071"},"figref":"FIG. 2B","b":["200","200","110","150","110","210","110","211","210","110","110","200","210","200"]},"In this embodiment, the electrically conductive component\/element  is a curvilinear electrically conductive component\/element (e.g., a closed \u201cring\u201d or cylinder). As described above, the electrically conductive component\/element  is capable of conducting a current (e.g., generated by the current in pole ) that generates a magnetic field that lowers an overall reactance of the antenna \u2032, thereby providing enhanced performance (e.g., wide bandwidth) in a more compact volume. In this embodiment, the pole  can include a longitudinal axis \u2032 and the antenna (e.g., the pole , electrically conductive component\/element ) occupies a volume (e.g., a cylindrical volume) that has a longitudinal axis \u2032 that is substantially parallel to longitudinal axis \u2032.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0074","num":"0073"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 2A"],"b":["200","115","125","215","210","225","220","215","217","225","227","200","214","217","227","214"]},"A power source  can supply power to generate a current  and  in the poles  and , which subsequently generates a current  and  in the electrically conductive component\/elements  and . A method for transmitting or receiving electromagnetic energy can include the step of providing\/conducting at least a first current flow  in a first pole  (e.g., from the power source ) of an antenna and generating a second current flow  in at least one electrically conductive element  from the first current flow  in the first pole . As noted above in , electrically conductive element  can include a surface having a portion electrically connected to, and extending from, the first pole . The method can also include the step of generating a magnetic field  from the second current flow  in the electrically conductive element , where the magnetic field  lowers a total\/intrinsic reactance of the antenna . In some embodiments, the method can also include providing\/conducting a third current flow  (e.g., from the power source ) in the second pole  and generating a fourth current flow  in the electrically conductive component  from the third current flow . The method can also include generating a magnetic field  from the fourth current flow  in the electrically conductive component , where the magnetic field  lowers a total\/intrinsic reactance of the antenna .","An inductive reactance is generated by the magnetic fields  and . The antenna  has an additional larger inductive reactance and, therefore, a smaller total reactance than a traditional dipole antenna (e.g., dipole antenna  of ). A reduction of the total reactance of the antenna  produces desirable performance enhancements, such as an increased bandwidth with respect to an equivalent traditional dipole configuration (e.g., a dipole antenna of  that does not have additional electrically conductive component\/elements besides the poles  and ).","The power gain of a matching circuit is proportional to the fourth degree of an antenna's reactance:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0078","num":"0077"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00002","num":"00002"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mi":"Gain","mo":"\u2248","mfrac":{"mi":"const","mrow":{"mi":"B","mo":"\u00b7","msup":{"mrow":{"mo":["\uf603","\uf604"],"mrow":{"mi":"Im","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["Z","A"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"msub":{"mi":["f","C"]}}}}}},"mn":"4"}}}}},{"mrow":{"mi":"EQN","mo":[".","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},"mn":"5"}}]}}}},"br":{},"sub":["C ","L"],"b":["100","200","100","200","200","100","200","100","200","215","225","210","220","217","227"],"figref":["FIG. 1A","FIG. 2A"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0079","num":"0078"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIGS. 2A-2B"],"b":["300","300","300","110","120","150","310","320","310","320","310","320","310","320","200","3","300","300"]},"A portion of the electrically conductive component\/elements  and  are connected\/attached (e.g., electrically connected) to the first pole  and second pole . Each of the respective electrically conductive component\/elements  and  has a wall\/surface. In some embodiments, the electrically conductive component\/elements  and  do not encompass\/surround the poles  and . Rather, a portion of the wall\/surface is connected to poles  and , such that the electrically conductive component\/elements  and  extend from poles  and . The electrically conductive component\/elements  and  can extend laterally\/outwardly from the sides of the poles  and  (e.g., like \u201cribs\u201d along the poles  and ). Electrically conductive component\/elements  and  define a volume having a longitudinal axis , which can be substantially parallel to the longitudinal axis  shared by poles  and .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0081","num":"0080"},"figref":["FIG. 5A","FIG. 5","FIGS. 2A-2B"],"b":["400","400","110","120","150","110","120","400","410","420","410","420","3","400","400"]},"The electrically conductive component\/elements  and  are connected to, and extend from, first pole  and second pole  (e.g., do not surround\/encompass the dipole  and ). In some embodiments, the electrically conductive component\/elements  and  extend laterally from (e.g., extend outwards) from the poles  and  (e.g., like \u201cribs\u201d attached to the poles  and ). The electrically conductive component\/elements  and  can be disposed along the first pole  and second pole . In this embodiment, the electrically conductive component\/elements  and  are curved\/curvilinear. The electrically conductive component\/elements  and  include a contoured surface\/wall  and . A portion of the contoured surface\/wall  and  of each electrically conductive component\/elements  and  is connected\/attached (e.g., electrically connected) to the first pole  and the second pole . The half-cylindrical volume formed by the electrically conductive component\/elements  and  can have a longitudinal axis  substantially parallel to the shared longitudinal axis  of the dipole  and .","Although not shown in , there is a current flow in the first half-cylinder set  of curvilinear electrically conductive components\/elements and a current flow in the second half-cylinder set  of electrically conductive components\/elements and associated magnetic fields therefrom (e.g., as discussed in ). The magnetic field associated with the electric current flow in curvilinear electrically conductive components\/elements  and  electrically connected to a dipole (e.g., poles  or ) or a monopole (e.g., as shown in ) occurs in both the case of open or closed ribs. Consequently, the half-cylinder volumetric antenna  with open electrically conductive components\/elements also produces the increased inductive reactance (e.g., as described above and as in cylindrical volumetric antennas  and  of  and ) even though the curvilinear electrically conductive components\/elements from  and  were closed, not open.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0084","num":"0083"},"figref":["FIG. 5B","FIG. 5A"],"b":["410","420","421","410","420","421","310","320"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0085","num":"0084"},"figref":["FIG. 6A","FIG. 6A","FIG. 1A"],"b":["510","520","500","110","120","150","500","510","520","510","520","100"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0086","num":"0085"},"figref":"FIG. 6B","b":["600","610","620","600","110","120","150","600","610","620","611","612","610","620","110","120","610","620","110","120","610","620","600"]},"In this embodiment, the electrically conductive component\/elements  and  are curvilinear, but they do not necessarily have to be (e.g., as shown in ). The curvilinear electrically conductive components\/elements  and  are \u201cshortened\u201d (e.g., a contour length that is a fraction of a closed cylindrical perimeter), however, the contour lengths of the curvilinear electrically conductive components\/elements  and  can vary. For example, the electrically conductive component\/elements  and  can have different lengths, widths or thicknesses. The antenna  can include, for example, a variable length set of curvilinear electrically conductive components\/elements  and .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0088","num":"0087"},"figref":"FIG. 7","b":["700","700","710","720","750","710","720","700","715","717","725","727","715","717","725","727","700","700","730"]},"In this embodiment, the antenna  includes a first planar electrically conductive sheet  (e.g., a metal sheet or flat metal strip) and a second planar electrically conductive sheets  (e.g., a metal sheet or a flat metal strip) attached\/connected (e.g., electrically connected) to the pole  and disposed at an angle (e.g., substantially perpendicular) relative to the metal ground plane  and pole . The electrically conductive sheets  and  extend from the pole .","The antenna  also includes a third planar electrically conductive sheet  (e.g., a metal sheet or flat metal strip) and a fourth planar electrically conductive sheet  attached to the pole  (e.g., a metal sheet or flat metal strip) and disposed at an angle (e.g., substantially perpendicular) relative to the metal ground plane  and pole . The electrically conductive sheets  and  can be attached to, and extend from, the pole .","This antenna  configuration is very desirable for the low profile and wide bandwidth. It can be used as single element for a planar antenna array (e.g., as shown in ) having a performance equivalent to a parabolic dish antenna (e.g., of ) but occupying a smaller volume. By way of example, a 2 m by 2 m array can be constructed using two or more antenna which can have a similar performance as that of a 3 m parabolic dish antenna (e.g., as shown in ).","The electrically conductive component\/elements , ,  and  extend from blades\/poles  and . A portion of a surface of electrically conductive component\/elements , ,  and  are attached\/connected (e.g., electrically connected) to poles  and . The electrically conductive component\/elements , ,  and , poles  and  and ground plane  can occupy a volume (e.g., a rectangular\/square or parallelepiped). A longitudinal axis of the volume  can be substantially parallel to the longitudinal axis  shared by the poles  and  (e.g., along the y-axis).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0093","num":"0092"},"figref":"FIG. 8","b":["800","400","400","400","800","110","120","150","400","410","420","110","120","814","813","110","120"]},"The antenna (e.g., first, second, third, and fourth poles and the electrically conductive component\/elements) occupies a volume. In this embodiment, the volume is a cylindrical volume (e.g., also shown in ) and the length of the antenna (e.g., along the z-axis) is greater than a width, thickness or radial width (e.g., along the x-axis). However, in some embodiments, the antenna (e.g., poles, feed and electrically conductive component\/elements) occupy a conical volume (e.g., such as the bottom or top half of the volume occupied by the antenna array shown in ), bi-conical volume (e.g., as shown in ), a spherical volume (e.g., as shown in ), a pyramid, or parallelepiped (e.g., as shown in ).","Antenna  can be about 5 times shorter than a conventional HF whip antenna and can feature higher gain and pattern control due to, at least in part, the magnetic fields generated by the curvilinear electrically conductive components\/elements  and . Antennas  can also be used for directed energy applications (e.g., 10 kW) while reducing overall antenna size as compared to, for example, parabolic antenna designs (e.g., as shown in ). In some embodiments, the half-cylinder volumetric antennas  are facing one another and are fed 180 degrees out of phase. The antenna  can be used for HF (e.g., 2 MHz to about 30 MHz). Antenna  can also have a height of about 65 cm and a diameter of about 10 cm. In some embodiments, each of the electrically conductive components\/elements  and  have a length of about 17.5 cm, a width of about 1.2 cm and are spaced 4.5 cm relative to one another. The gain at 2 MHz can be about 4 dB and the gain at 16 MHz can be about 7 dB. In contrast, a conventional dipole (e.g., \u201cwhip\u201d) antenna has a height of about 3-5 m and has a gain at 2 MHz of about \u221210 dB and a gain at 16 MHz of about 3 dB.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0096","num":"0095"},"figref":["FIG. 9A","FIG. 5","FIG. 9B","FIG. 8","FIG. 9A","FIG. 9B"],"b":["400","800","800","400","400","800","800"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0097","num":"0096"},"figref":["FIG. 10A","FIG. 2","FIG. 2","FIG. 10A"],"b":["800","400","400","400","410","420","400","400"]},"Alternatively, as shown in , a cylindrical volumetric antenna  can include three or more volumetric antennas, each having shortened curvilinear electrically conductive components\/elements. The electrically conductive component\/elements are connected to, and extend from (e.g., laterally extend from), the poles. A portion of a contoured surface of each of the electrically conductive component\/elements is connected to the poles.  shows a cylindrical volumetric antenna  that includes three \u201cthird-cylinder volumetric antennas\u201d \u2032A-C where each third-cylinder volumetric antenna \u2032A, \u2032B or \u2032C includes two poles (e.g., poles  and  as shown in , -, and A-B) and shortened curvilinear electrically conductive components\/elements \u2032 and \u2032 (e.g., each having a contour length about \u2153 that of a closed cylindrical perimeter). The three third-cylinder volumetric antennas \u2032A-C can be fed 120\u00b0 out of phase with respect to one another.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0099","num":"0098"},"figref":"FIG. 10C","b":["804","804","400","410","420","400","804","400"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0100","num":"0099"},"figref":["FIGS. 11A-11C","FIGS. 11A-11C","FIG. 11A"],"b":["900","901","901","110","120","150","902","903","902","903","110","120","902","903","110","120","901","901","900","901","901"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0101","num":"0100"},"figref":["FIG. 11B","FIG. 11B","FIG. 11A"],"b":["905","110","120","150","906","907","906","907","905","904","905"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0102","num":"0101"},"figref":"FIG. 11C","b":["908","110","120","909","910","110","120","908","908","908"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0103","num":"0102"},"figref":["FIGS. 12A and 12B","FIG. 12A","FIG. 12A"],"b":["1001","1000","1001","110","120","1002","1003","110","120","1002","1003","110","120","1002","1003","110","120","1002","1003","1001"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0104","num":"0103"},"figref":["FIG. 12B","FIG. 12B"],"b":["1005","1004","1005","110","120","1006","1007","110","120","1006","1007","1005"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0105","num":"0104"},"figref":["FIG. 12C","FIG. 12C"],"b":["1009","1008","1009","110","120","1010","1011","110","120","1010","1011","1009"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0106","num":"0105"},"figref":["FIG. 13","FIG. 7","FIG. 7","FIG. 1D"],"b":["1100","700","1100","700","710","720","715","717","725","727","730","1100","1100","1","1100"]},"The invention has been described in terms of particular embodiments. While the invention has been particularly shown and described with reference to specific illustrative embodiments, it should be understood that various changes in form and detail may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. The alternatives described herein are examples for illustration only and not to limit the alternatives in any way. The steps of the invention can be performed in a different order and still achieve desirable results."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The advantages of the invention described above, together with further advantages, may be better understood by referring to the following description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings. The drawings are not necessarily to scale, emphasis instead generally being placed upon illustrating the principles of the invention.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"figref":"FIG. 1A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0037","num":"0036"},"figref":"FIG. 1B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0037"},"figref":"FIG. 1C"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0039","num":"0038"},"figref":"FIG. 1D"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0040","num":"0039"},"figref":"FIG. 2A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0041","num":"0040"},"figref":"FIG. 2B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0042","num":"0041"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 2A"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0043","num":"0042"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0044","num":"0043"},"figref":"FIG. 5A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0045","num":"0044"},"figref":"FIG. 5B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0046","num":"0045"},"figref":"FIG. 6A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0047","num":"0046"},"figref":"FIG. 6B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0048","num":"0047"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0049","num":"0048"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0050","num":"0049"},"figref":"FIG. 9A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0051","num":"0050"},"figref":"FIG. 9B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0052","num":"0051"},"figref":"FIG. 10A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0053","num":"0052"},"figref":"FIG. 10B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0054","num":"0053"},"figref":"FIG. 10C"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0055","num":"0054"},"figref":"FIG. 11A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0056","num":"0055"},"figref":"FIG. 11B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0057","num":"0056"},"figref":"FIG. 11C"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0058","num":"0057"},"figref":"FIG. 12A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0059","num":"0058"},"figref":"FIG. 12B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0060","num":"0059"},"figref":"FIG. 12C"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0061","num":"0060"},"figref":"FIG. 13"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
