---
title: Providing a number of web services for imaging optional medical applications
abstract: A system and a computer-implemented method are disclosed, as well as a computer readable medium, for providing a number of web services for at least one medical viewing application, so as to provide the application with application-exceeding basic functionalities with regard to a transfer management service, a data management service, a workflow management service, a report management service, a protocol management service, an operating management service and an enterprise application integration management service. A web service of at least one embodiment, in that case, includes at least one remote service component, at least one business object and at least one service component.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08380809&OS=08380809&RS=08380809
owner: Siemens Aktiengesellschaft
number: 08380809
owner_city: Munich
owner_country: DE
publication_date: 20090305
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["FIELD","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE EXAMPLE EMBODIMENTS","REFERENCE LIST"],"p":["At least one embodiment of the present invention is in the field of data processing and medical technology and generally relates to providing a number of web services for a medical application.","The development of software applications in the field of image-processing medical technology differs from that in other fields because it must take into consideration special protocols and additional specific characteristics of the medical domain. The software development in this field consequently requires specifically adapted software solutions, for example solutions adapted to the high volume of image data to be transferred, to increased electronic networking, or to the increasing complexity of the clinical tasks to be managed.","In the past, software applications in the medical field were also produced monolithically, meaning that if changes were required it was always necessary to modify the complete application unit. This process was always tied to extremely high expenditure and was also susceptible to errors. For that reason, a change was made to developing medical software applications with the aid of high-performance, generic, so-called frameworks. The generic frameworks are used to increase the productivity of the application development. Examples of such frameworks are .NET, J2EE and OpenGL. The disadvantage of these generic frameworks is seen in the fact that so far they have not been tailored to the medical domain, so that the application development for the most part must still be realized manually, despite the use of the generic framework.","One example of a medical framework is described in the cited document EP 1 906 304, to which we refer with respect to content in the present patent application. The disadvantage of using frameworks that are directed specifically to the medical domain, however, is that the respective application is so-to-speak fixedly linked to the respective framework. As a result, a replacement of specific framework components or the replacement of a framework with a better framework, for example that of another manufacturer, is only possible with limitations or not at all.","The structure of medical applications generally comprises several layers with respectively different components. This problem is made worse when considering a free component selection, flexibility and improved ability to replace components because the involved application components generally have very complex dependencies, so that a change made for one component usually requires a cascade of changes to other components.","At least one embodiment of the present invention improves the development of applications used in the field of medical technology, especially for the imaging medical technology. In particular, one goal of at least one embodiment is to make the application development more flexible and to ensure that the components used for an application can be replaced easier. In addition, the goal is to simplify the software development and to show a path for respectively selecting the most cost-effective technical and optimal implementation. It should furthermore be possible to make changes to individual functionalities of the application, without having to adapt and modify the application.","Any features, advantages or alternative embodiments mentioned in the process must also be transferred to the other claimed objects and vice versa. In other words, the additional claims (for example directed toward a method or a product), can also be modified with the features that are described or claimed in connection with the system. The respective functional features of the method are embodied with corresponding modules, in particular hardware modules, for the system and\/or the product.","At least one embodiment of the invention in particular relates to a system for providing a number of web services for at least one medical application in the field of image-processing medical technology, so as to provide application-exceeding basic functionalities for the medical application, wherein respectively one web service implements at least one basic functionality and wherein all web services are respectively configured based on the same diagram and comprise at least the following components:\n\n","The concepts used within the framework of at least one embodiment of this invention are explained in further detail in the following.","The so-called web services are software applications, which make available a specific basic functionality to a client or an application. The web services can be accessed via a network, in particular the Internet. As a rule, they are based on a service-oriented architecture (SOA) and convert distributed and\/or object-oriented standards. The web services provided within the framework of this patent application relate to clinical and\/or medical applications in the broader sense and can also be administration-specific and organization-specific. In the same way, the applications can relate, for example, to control methods for a configuration of medical devices.","Within the framework of at least one embodiment of this invention, the medical application is in the field of the image-processing technology and, in particular, relates to viewing applications. These are preferably based on a data transfer according to the DICOM standard (DICOM=digital imaging and communications in medicine), which\u2014if applicable together with patient data or report data\u2014is used to draw up, modify, transfer to and\/or store in a different node of a clinical network, e.g. medical modalities, computers, servers, databases or other data-processing systems, a clinical finding or a report.","The basic functionality is an application-exceeding functionality that is relevant for all medical applications. One important aspect of at least one embodiment of the present invention therefore is that it defines a specific set and\/or a set of basic functionalities, meaning a set of seven basic functionalities. These functionalities comprise: the transfer management, data management, workflow management, report management, protocol management, operating management and the enterprise application integration management (EAI management). One essential advantage of using this fixedly-defined set of basic functionalities therefore is that all functionalities of medical viewing applications can be covered with these basic functionalities. A detailed description of the aforementioned basic functionalities will be provided later on.","A web service has a modular design and comprises at least three components: at least one remote service component, at least one business object and at least one service component.","The remote service component is a component of the web service and functions to allow access to the respective web service. A remote service component is a component with a web-service interface. A remote service component can also comprise additional and special sub components, such as the provider objects and (local) service components. As a rule, a web service comprises several remote service components. Depending on the degree of complexity and the application case, a web service can also comprise only one remote service component. The combined number of all interfaces for all remote service components of the web service then forms the API interface (application programming interface), which is the programming interface for the respective web service. The web services use these APIs for utilizing the web service functionality.","In a business object, the respective basic functionality is implemented. A remote service component can offer several such business objects. The business objects can also be exchanged in order to change a specific functionality of the respective web service, which is possible without having to change the respective application.","A service component combines selected and different basic functionalities, which can be used by a remote service component. A remove service component can use several such service components. The service components are generated in such a way that it is not always necessary to implement the complete basic functionality of a web service within remote service components, but to allow the use of only a selected number of the available basic functionalities. The advantage is that the service components can also be used by several remote service components. Service components\u2014in the same way as remote service components\u2014can comprise business objects which, when replacing them with other business objects, can be used to adapt the respective web service functionality.","According to one example embodiment of the present invention, the respective application directly accesses the web service. Alternatively or cumulatively, the application can also access the web service indirectly via a framework, in which case the web services are loosely coupled to the frameworks. The web services can thus advantageously be exchanged easily (because from a logical point of view they are not hard wired) and can be replaced by other services or can also be modified in different ways, for example through web services of other producers.","According to a different advantageous embodiment, the web service can be executed in a development environment for the application to be generated and\/or a running-time environment for the application. In other words, the system according to at least one embodiment of the invention can be used as tool within the framework of the software development and as tool for supporting the application.","The web services made available to the application can preferably be addressed in a programming-language and platform-independent description language, wherein the access preferably occurs via WSDL (Web Service Description Language) as XML-based meta-language. However, alternatives or expansions, e.g. WSDL-S or OGSA (open grid service architecture) can also be used for this, thus making it possible to achieve further flexibility.","The flexibility of the system according to at least one embodiment of the invention is also increased in that the system is based on a programming language, platform and protocol independent architecture. In other words, the system can be used with optional programming languages, platforms and protocols. One essential advantage is the fact that the system can also be used with system already in use, thus resulting in a clearly positive cost balance.","In the following, the set of selected web services is to be explained further and, in particular, the seven defined basic functionalities are to be described in further detail.","The transfer management provides the basic functionality to the DICOM transfer of medical image data sets. The transfer management is used to request information on available storage media (e.g. media devices) on a machine (e.g. a computer or a computer-supported system or a modality). In addition, characteristics of the available storage media should be made available, such as the dimensions of the storage medium, the available capacity and the like and the data transfer realized to the available and suitable media. The transfer management functionality comprises two remote service components: a media access component that supplies information on available storage media on a computer along with their characteristics, as well as a remote service component, namely a network listener component. The network listener component monitors a specific port of a machine via a socket. When data arrive at the socket, the network listener component activates the respective processing steps, for example by initiating a query of specific DICOM nodes in the network. A storage commit SCU and a perform procedure step (PPS) can also be initiated.","The second web service in the set of web services relates to the data management. The data management service is used to obtain access to data systems on remote computers. In addition, it offers access to indexed DICOM data. The data management comprises two remove service components. A data management component allows access to an index repository of DICOM data stored in a database. A file access component allows access to the file system of a remote computer.","The third service in the set of available web services relates to the workflow management, which is responsible for the control of different medical applications for clinical sequences and\/or procedures. The workflow management comprises two remove service components. A workflow component delivers role-specific work lists and permits a mapping of clinical procedures for the applications to be run. In addition, it automatically starts the applications for a clinical procedure and furthermore establishes a link between the incoming data and the respective application. The second component is an information component, which administers demographic patient data, makes available search functions for these data, and is embodied for administering and distributing performed-procedure steps information. The information component implements the interface information management.","The fourth web service from the set of web services relates to the report management. The report management allows combining individual applications, individual application-specific partial reports (also called evidence documents) into a complete and uniform report. The report management service includes only one remote service component, which is a common reporting data component. The common data reporting data component is responsible for transferring the individual, separate evidence documents into a joint data model and consolidate these into a uniform report.","In the following, we want to introduce the protocol management as the fifth web service within the framework of the set of web services. The protocol management service is intended to administer and distribute the protocols for transferring medical imaging data. In particular, the protocols are administered with respect to the medical modalities. The protocol management service comprises a protocol management component and a protocol distribution component, which can both access in turn a database management system. The protocol management component is a component that provides access to a database of the acquisition protocols, which can be administered in this database. The protocol distribution component is a component responsible for distributing protocols. For this, the protocol distribution component can also communicate with external devices, e.g. medical modalities.","The sixth web service relates to the operating management and comprises a number of all-encompassing, supporting services for medical applications. The operating management service provides functionalities for monitoring resources on the computer, on which the framework and\/or the respective web service is installed. The operating management comprises seven components, preferably a GSM component, a CoLicenseManager component, a message-store component, a central audit component, a central utilization component, a central log component and a depot component. The GSM component (GSM\u2014global session management) makes possible the global user session administration. The advantage is that a user needs to log on to an application only once to be able to use all other applications within the network. Without the GSM component, the user would have to log on separately for each application.","The CoLicenseManager component administers licenses for software applications. The message-store component administers messages system-wide with regard to errors, general information, debugging information, audit information and the like. The central-audit component functions as central memory for audit messages. The central-utilization component functions as central memory for application messages. The central-log component functions as central memory for the log-on information. The depot-component functions as a memory for storing all software applications, which can be installed within the network.","The final web service to be described is the enterprise-application-integration subsystem. This subsystem is designed to provide the basic functionality for linking to other medical systems via standard protocols and is, so-to-speak, a protocol converter, which operates in particular based on the HL7 standard, wherein other standards can also be used. The EAI functionality allows the interaction and\/or the data exchange with any other optional systems via the exchange of messages. This type of web service in particular allows sending and receiving messages, especially messages from the OpenLink protocol for communicating with other external medical or non-medical systems. The OpenLink remote service component implemented the OpenLink protocol and offers two Interfaces linking to the outside: ReceivedMessage and ISendMessage.","One advantage of the fixedly defined set of web services and their basic functionalities is that the expenditure for generating applications can be noticeably reduced. The web services provided implement frequently used functionalities in the medical field, so that the application development can concentrate exclusively on the implementing of the actual application functionality, without unnecessarily using resources for the implementing of basic functionalities (e.g. data transfer, general communication and the like).","In addition, the use of the web services can noticeably reduce the time for the application development, which on the whole implies a reduced time to market and lower costs for the total system.","One essential advantage must also be seen in the uniform structuring of the components used, thus making it easy and simple to replace the modular system and making it easier to use individual web services or components thereof in different applications. In addition, the components can also be replaced with those of other producers, thereby further increasing the flexibility.","We again want to mention here that the aforementioned number of web services must only be understood to be an example. The number of the web services provided can be expanded at any time and easily by using additional web services. Individual web services with less complex embodiments can furthermore be deleted from this list, so that only an underlying number of basic functionalities are provided.","At least one embodiment is furthermore directed to a method and a computer program as disclosed in the enclosed main claims. The embodiments, features and advantages mentioned in connection with the system can also be transferred to the computer program product.","The above-described embodiments of the inventive method can also take the form of a computer program product, wherein the computer is triggered to realize the above-described method according to the invention if the program is run on the computer and\/or a processor for the computer.","An alternative solution provides for a storage medium for storing the above-described computer-implemented method and which can be read by a computer.","In addition, it is possible to design the individual components of the above-described method as a marketable unit and to embody the remaining components as a different marketable unit, so-to-speak in the form of a distributed system.","Corresponding configurations and\/or components are provided with the same reference numbers in the Figures.","Various example embodiments will now be described more fully with reference to the accompanying drawings in which only some example embodiments are shown. Specific structural and functional details disclosed herein are merely representative for purposes of describing example embodiments. The present invention, however, may be embodied in many alternate forms and should not be construed as limited to only the example embodiments set forth herein.","Accordingly, while example embodiments of the invention are capable of various modifications and alternative forms, embodiments thereof are shown by way of example in the drawings and will herein be described in detail. It should be understood, however, that there is no intent to limit example embodiments of the present invention to the particular forms disclosed. On the contrary, example embodiments are to cover all modifications, equivalents, and alternatives falling within the scope of the invention. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout the description of the figures.","It will be understood that, although the terms first, second, etc. may be used herein to describe various elements, these elements should not be limited by these terms. These terms are only used to distinguish one element from another. For example, a first element could be termed a second element, and, similarly, a second element could be termed a first element, without departing from the scope of example embodiments of the present invention. As used herein, the term \u201cand\/or,\u201d includes any and all combinations of one or more of the associated listed items.","It will be understood that when an element is referred to as being \u201cconnected,\u201d or \u201ccoupled,\u201d to another element, it can be directly connected or coupled to the other element or intervening elements may be present. In contrast, when an element is referred to as being \u201cdirectly connected,\u201d or \u201cdirectly coupled,\u201d to another element, there are no intervening elements present. Other words used to describe the relationship between elements should be interpreted in a like fashion (e.g., \u201cbetween,\u201d versus \u201cdirectly between,\u201d \u201cadjacent,\u201d versus \u201cdirectly adjacent,\u201d etc.).","The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of example embodiments of the invention. As used herein, the singular forms \u201ca,\u201d \u201can,\u201d and \u201cthe,\u201d are intended to include the plural forms as well, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. As used herein, the terms \u201cand\/or\u201d and \u201cat least one of\u201d include any and all combinations of one or more of the associated listed items. It will be further understood that the terms \u201ccomprises,\u201d \u201ccomprising,\u201d \u201cincludes,\u201d and\/or \u201cincluding,\u201d when used herein, specify the presence of stated features, integers, steps, operations, elements, and\/or components, but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features, integers, steps, operations, elements, components, and\/or groups thereof.","It should also be noted that in some alternative implementations, the functions\/acts noted may occur out of the order noted in the figures. For example, two figures shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or may sometimes be executed in the reverse order, depending upon the functionality\/acts involved.","Spatially relative terms, such as \u201cbeneath\u201d, \u201cbelow\u201d, \u201clower\u201d, \u201cabove\u201d, \u201cupper\u201d, and the like, may be used herein for ease of description to describe one element or feature's relationship to another element(s) or feature(s) as illustrated in the figures. It will be understood that the spatially relative terms are intended to encompass different orientations of the device in use or operation in addition to the orientation depicted in the figures. For example, if the device in the figures is turned over, elements described as \u201cbelow\u201d or \u201cbeneath\u201d other elements or features would then be oriented \u201cabove\u201d the other elements or features. Thus, term such as \u201cbelow\u201d can encompass both an orientation of above and below. The device may be otherwise oriented (rotated 90 degrees or at other orientations) and the spatially relative descriptors used herein are interpreted accordingly.","Although the terms first, second, etc. may be used herein to describe various elements, components, regions, layers and\/or sections, it should be understood that these elements, components, regions, layers and\/or sections should not be limited by these terms. These terms are used only to distinguish one element, component, region, layer, or section from another region, layer, or section. Thus, a first element, component, region, layer, or section discussed below could be termed a second element, component, region, layer, or section without departing from the teachings of the present invention.","The structural context of the system according to an embodiment of the invention is explained further in the following with the aid of the and ","Three applications A, A and A are shown in the upper portion of , which are representative for a plurality of medical applications. The applications A advantageously refer to medical visualization applications. To make the development of medical applications easier, the use of frameworks F is known from the prior art. A known framework F is the .NET framework by the company Microsoft Corporation, which is based on a configuration with n layers and offers the option of using different programming languages such as Visual Basic, .NET, C++, JScript, Javascript.NET and the like. The .NET framework comprises as language converter, which makes it possible to convert the respectively used programming language into a common intermediate language (CIL). Other frameworks F are J2EE and Open GL. The .NET and the J2EE framework respectively comprise a plurality of generic subsystems, which can be used for the application development to implement the respectively desired functionality of the application A.","For example, the framework F as a rule contains subsystems for the communication functionality, so that all functionalities can be covered with regard to an interaction of the respective application A with other components. It has turned out to be a problem in this connection that the medical domain in many respects requires a special treatment, for example it involves as a rule extremely high data volumes to be able to transfer DICOM images. Specific functionalities for image-processing medical applications cannot be derived from the F framework. Starting with this, the cited reference EP 1 906 304, the entire contents of which is hereby incorporated herein by reference, discloses an approach to providing domain-specific frameworks with the corresponding functionality for the medical field. For this, the applications A access the framework F, wherein the framework F in turn can access different web services WS via a uniform Interface. The web services WS are shown in the lower portion of  with the respective references WS, . . . WSn.","If we were to use such a framework F, the application A could also directly access the available web services WS. This scenario is shown in , wherein the respective web services WS are loosely linked to the framework F, thereby resulting in the advantage that the respective web services WS can be replaced easily with the web services WS from other producers. The application development can thus be clearly improved on the whole because it can be provided faster and cheaper. In the same way, the web services WS, which are used by the respective applications A without a framework F\u2014as shown in \u2014are also linked loosely to the respective applications A and can thus be replaced easily.","As indicated in and , the web services WS in the form of WS, WS, . . . WSn are accessed via a uniform interface, which also noticeably reduces the programming expenditure.","In connection with , the basic configuration of a respective web service WS is described in the following in further detail.","As previously explained in connection with , an application A can access a web service WS directly or indirectly. As shown in  with the dashed square, the web service WS comprises several components, that is to say one or generally several remote service components RSC. As a rule, these comprise several business objects BO and one or generally several service components SC.","In addition, a remote service component RSC can also comprise several sub components, for example provider objects and (local) service components SC. All interfaces of all remote service components RSC taken together, meaning so-to-speak the combined number of all interfaces of all remote service components RSC, of the web services WS jointly form the programming interface (application programming interface\u2014API) of the respective web service WS. This is shown in  by the connecting line pointing to the left outside, which starts with the remote service component RSC and which is shown in  as a dot representing the interface to the application A. The applications A utilize the APIs for accessing the functionality of the respective web services WS.","A remote service component RSC can offer business objects BO. These can be replaced to change a specific functionality of the web services WS in that different web services can be replaced easily with the preceding web services WS.","A remote service component RSC can use several service components SC. These service components are generated to avoid having to always implement the complete functionality of a web service WS within a remote service component RSC. For example, if only a selection [selected component?] from this functionality is sufficient, then a service component SC can be defined which then provides this selection. The service components SC can be used by several different remote service components RSC. In addition, the service components SC can comprise business objects BO, wherein these business objects BO in turn can be replaced by other business objects BO\u2032 to adapt and\/or change the functionality on the whole.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0068","num":"0070"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":["1","0"]},"One important feature of an embodiment of the present application is that a specific set of medical web services WS is made available, wherein these are combined into a set that is specifically directed toward the medical domain. With these seven web services WS it is possible to cover and\/or provide and make available all functionalities for medical applications A.","The example embodiment of the web services WS comprises seven web services:\n\n","However, it is possible at any time to change this number with the aid of other advantageous embodiments. For less complex embodiments, only some of the previously mentioned services can be provided. In the same way, it is possible to replace the aforementioned services with other services or to expand the list with additional web services WS.","The individual web services WS are explained in the following in connection with .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0073","num":"0082"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":["1","2"]},"The data management service D also comprises two remote service components RSC: a data management component D and a file access component D, as shown in .","The workflow management service W also comprises two remote service components RSC, as shown in , which include a workflow component W and an information component W.","The report management service R for one example embodiment comprises only one remote service component RSC: namely the common reporting data component R, as shown in .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0077","num":"0086"},"figref":"FIG. 7","b":["1","2"]},"The operating management service O shown in  comprises seven remote service components RSC: a GSM component , a CoLicense component , a message-store component , a central-audit component , a central-utilization component , a central log component  and a depot component .","The enterprise application integration management service E is shown in  and comprises only one remote service component RSC, namely a so-called OpenLink component E. The OpenLink component E implements the OpenLink protocol and preferably offers only two interfaces to external services, IReceiveMessage and ISendMessage, as indicated in .","For example, a medical viewing application could access the data management service D, the enterprise application integration management E, the transfer management T and the technical architecture component (not described further herein) for displaying CT, MR and\/or US images on a monitor or for browsing. The application A uses the data management D for loading and storing images and for indexing these, so that they can be found quicker later on.","The application A furthermore uses the transfer management service T for transmitting images from other computer-supported nodes in a network and\/or to send them to other nodes.","Finally, the application A uses the enterprise application integration management service E for communicating via the HL7 standard protocol with a hospital information system (e.g. a RIS or radiology information system or a HIS, meaning a hospital information system).","An important feature of an embodiment of the present invention is that all web services WS that are used can be addressed via a uniform interface. The services are preferably addressed by the application A in a programming language-independent, platform-independent description language. The WSDL (web service description language) in particular is used as the description language for the network services WS for exchanging messages based on XML.","The above example was directed toward an application A, designed for displaying medical images with different modalities and\/or to display them on a monitor.","A further example is a browsing application A, which will be explained further in the following. The browsing application A uses five web services WS: the workflow management W, a technical architecture component, the data management D, an application infrastructure component web service and the transfer management service T.","The browsing application A uses the workflow management W to start specific applications A if a user clicks on the indicated image.","The application A furthermore uses the data management D to obtain a list of the available images, which list is then shown to the user.","Finally, the application A uses the transfer management service T to obtain a list of images, which are not available locally. Once the images are obtained, this list is also shown to the user.","According to one example embodiment, the transfer management service T is designed for the transfer of medical DICOM image data. It contains functionalities for transferring image data in the DICOM format between two different data systems. One advantageous expansion of the transfer management service T can be to provide data transfer service outside of the network, for example to access data from other medical devices and vice versa to make available data from other external instances.","The data management service D makes available basic functionalities for storing and indexing and\/or referencing medical DICOM image data, so that these can be detected quickly during a search. It comprises in particular hardware-type functions for reading, writing and deleting data and\/or files, especially local or external hard drives, internal or external data storage devices, portable data carriers such as USB sticks or the like. According to one advantageous modification, the data management service D additionally comprises access rules and relates to the distribution and administration of user-specific access and use rights for individual data sets.","The report management service R provides basic functionalities for the manual, semi-automatic or automatic preparation of medical reports. According to one advantageous modification, the report management service R can additionally comprise functionalities for automatically reading medical reports. Text components for a uniform reporting can furthermore be provided for the purpose of automatically preparing reports.","One advantage of the solution according to an embodiment of the invention is that the different web services WS are basically completely independent of each other and can be configured based on the same or different configuration principles, wherein different versions of the web services WS can advantageously also be combined.","In conclusion, we want to point out that the description of the invention and the example embodiments should not be understood as restricting in view of a specific physical realization of the invention. It is especially obvious to one skilled in the art that the invention can be realized in part or completely with the aid of software and\/or hardware and\/or several physical products, in particular also computer program products.","The patent claims filed with the application are formulation proposals without prejudice for obtaining more extensive patent protection. The applicant reserves the right to claim even further combinations of features previously disclosed only in the description and\/or drawings.","The example embodiment or each example embodiment should not be understood as a restriction of the invention. Rather, numerous variations and modifications are possible in the context of the present disclosure, in particular those variants and combinations which can be inferred by the person skilled in the art with regard to achieving the object for example by combination or modification of individual features or elements or method steps that are described in connection with the general or specific part of the description and are contained in the claims and\/or the drawings, and, by way of combineable features, lead to a new subject matter or to new method steps or sequences of method steps, including insofar as they concern production, testing and operating methods.","References back that are used in dependent claims indicate the further embodiment of the subject matter of the main claim by way of the features of the respective dependent claim; they should not be understood as dispensing with obtaining independent protection of the subject matter for the combinations of features in the referred-back dependent claims. Furthermore, with regard to interpreting the claims, where a feature is concretized in more specific detail in a subordinate claim, it should be assumed that such a restriction is not present in the respective preceding claims.","Since the subject matter of the dependent claims in relation to the prior art on the priority date may form separate and independent inventions, the applicant reserves the right to make them the subject matter of independent claims or divisional declarations. They may furthermore also contain independent inventions which have a configuration that is independent of the subject matters of the preceding dependent claims.","Further, elements and\/or features of different example embodiments may be combined with each other and\/or substituted for each other within the scope of this disclosure and appended claims.","Still further, any one of the above-described and other example features of the present invention may be embodied in the form of an apparatus, method, system, computer program, computer readable medium and computer program product. For example, of the aforementioned methods may be embodied in the form of a system or device, including, but not limited to, any of the structure for performing the methodology illustrated in the drawings.","Even further, any of the aforementioned methods may be embodied in the form of a program. The program may be stored on a computer readable medium and is adapted to perform any one of the aforementioned methods when run on a computer device (a device including a processor). Thus, the storage medium or computer readable medium, is adapted to store information and is adapted to interact with a data processing facility or computer device to execute the program of any of the above mentioned embodiments and\/or to perform the method of any of the above mentioned embodiments.","The computer readable medium or storage medium may be a built-in medium installed inside a computer device main body or a removable medium arranged so that it can be separated from the computer device main body. Examples of the built-in medium include, but are not limited to, rewriteable non-volatile memories, such as ROMs and flash memories, and hard disks. Examples of the removable medium include, but are not limited to, optical storage media such as CD-ROMs and DVDs; magneto-optical storage media, such as MOs; magnetism storage media, including but not limited to floppy disks (trademark), cassette tapes, and removable hard disks; media with a built-in rewriteable non-volatile memory, including but not limited to memory cards; and media with a built-in ROM, including but not limited to ROM cassettes; etc. Furthermore, various information regarding stored images, for example, property information, may be stored in any other form, or it may be provided in other ways.","Example embodiments being thus described, it will be obvious that the same may be varied in many ways. Such variations are not to be regarded as a departure from the spirit and scope of the present invention, and all such modifications as would be obvious to one skilled in the art are intended to be included within the scope of the following claims.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0103","num":"0000"},"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0005","list-style":"none"},"li":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0005-0001","num":"0000"},"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0006","list-style":"none"},"li":["A application","BO business object","D data management","D data management component","D file access component","E enterprise application integration management","E OpenLink interface","F framework","O operating management","O depot component","O central-log component","O central-utilization component","O CoLicenseManager component","O GSM component","O central-audit component","O message-store component","P protocol management","R report management","R reporting-data component","RSC remote-service component","SC service component","T transfer management","T media-access component","T network-listener component","W workflow management","W workflow component","W information component","WS web service"]}}}}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The following detailed description of the Figures, which is not intended to be restrictive, discusses the features and advantages of the example embodiments with the aid of the drawing, which shows in:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0040","num":"0042"},"figref":["FIG. 1","FIG. 1","FIG. 1"],"i":["a ","b; "]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0041","num":"0043"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0042","num":"0044"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0043","num":"0045"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0044","num":"0046"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0045","num":"0047"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0046","num":"0048"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0047","num":"0049"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0048","num":"0050"},"figref":"FIG. 9"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
