---
title: Dynamic RFI detection using signal strength values
abstract: An apparatus may include a radio interface to receive a plurality of signal strength values of a radio. An interference module can identify a radio frequency interference impact on the radio based on the plurality of signal strength values. In one embodiment, the radio interface issues a plurality of interference calls to the radio, where each of the plurality of signal strength values corresponds to an interference call.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08433248&OS=08433248&RS=08433248
owner: Intel Corporation
number: 08433248
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20090608
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS","BACKGROUND","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["This application is related to U.S. application Ser. No. 12\/217,099, filed on Jun. 30, 2008.","1. Technical Field","Embodiments of the invention generally relate to radio frequency interference (RFI). In particular, embodiments relate to the use of signal strength values to detect RFI.","2. Discussion","As mobile platforms such as laptops, personal digital assistants (PDAs) and wireless \u201csmart phones\u201d continue to increase in complexity, it is not uncommon for a single device to be equipped with multiple radios. The radio frequency interference (RFI) that can occur between the platform and the radios, as well as between the radios themselves, may be significant. While certain closed-loop and open-loop approaches to detecting and mitigating RFI may be available, there still remains considerable room for improvement.","Embodiments of the present invention provide for an apparatus having a radio interface to receive a plurality of signal strength values of a radio, and an interference module to identify a radio frequency interference (RFI) impact on the radio based on the plurality of signal strength values.","Embodiments of the present invention also provide for a computer readable medium having a set of stored instructions which, if executed, cause an apparatus to receive a plurality of signal strength values of a radio, and identify an RFI impact on the radio based on the plurality of signal strength values.","Embodiments of the present invention also provide for a system having a first radio, a second radio and a host processor. The host processor may receive a plurality of signal strength values from the first radio, identify an RFI impact on the first radio based on the plurality of signal strength values, and adjust a real-time operational value associated with the second radio based on the RFI impact. A platform management engine may adjust a real-time operational value of one or more of the other radios based on the identified interference impact. In one example, the platform management engine might identify and adaptively shift an interfering computing clock either out of the on-channels or to a neutral position within the on-channels in order to negate the harmful effects of the clock.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["10","12","14","14","14","10","10","14","14","14","10","10"],"i":["a","n"]},"In the illustrated example, the RFI system  has an interface  (-) to each of the radios , wherein each interface  is able to issue interference calls to its respective radio and receive a plurality of signal strength values from the radio in response to the interference calls. For example, the interface may be an application programming interface (API) that issues an interference call  such as a dynamic linked library (DLL) call to the radio , receives a corresponding signal strength value  in response to the call, and repeats the iterative process to obtain a plurality of signal strength values. The interface could alternatively exchange the interference calls and signal strength values with a device other than the radio such as another radio (not shown) that is controlled by the radio as a slave device and is dedicated to issuing signal strength values. The type of signal strength value may vary based on the type of radio . For example, the signal strength value could be a unitless received signal strength indicator (RSSI) value as used in the IEEE 802.11 protocol family, or a signal to noise ratio (SNR) as used in other communication systems.","The illustrated RFI system  also includes an interference module , which can identify an RFI impact on the radio in question based on the plurality of signal strength values obtained from that radio. As will be discussed in greater detail below, one approach to identifying the RFI impact is to identify maximum and minimum values in the plurality of signal strength values, and draw certain inferences with regard to traffic signal strengths and interference signal strengths. A platform management engine  may adjust a real-time operational value of one or more of the other radios  based on the identified interference impact. In one example, the platform management engine  might identify and adaptively shift an interfering computing clock either out of the on-channels or to a neutral position within the on-channels in order to negate the harmful effects of the clock. Thus, the illustrated platform  does not require \u201cquiet time\u201d in order to assess RFI conditions, and can even identify noise during radio receive operations from radios that can only provide RSSI or SNR information. As a result, wireless performance can be maximized at minimal cost through reuse of existing radio hardware components.","Turning now to , a method  of mitigating RFI is shown. The method  may be implemented in executable software as a set of logic instructions stored in a machine- or computer-readable medium of a memory such as random access memory (RAM), read only memory (ROM), programmable ROM (PROM), flash memory, etc., in fixed-functionality hardware using circuit technology such as application specific integrated circuit (ASIC), complementary metal oxide semiconductor (CMOS) or transistor-transistor logic (TTL) technology, or any combination thereof. For example, computer program code to carry out operations shown in method  may be written in any combination of one or more programming languages, including an object oriented programming language such as Java, Smalltalk, C++ or the like and conventional procedural programming languages, such as the \u201cC\u201d programming language or similar programming languages.","With continuing reference to , illustrated processing block  provides for issuing iterative calls to a radio and receiving a plurality of signal strength values  (-) in response to the calls. Maximum and minimum values can be identified at block , wherein a maximum value may be designated as the traffic signal strength and a minimum value may be designated as the interference signal strength. Illustrated block  provides for calculating the difference between the minimum value and the maximum value . Such a calculation can provide a relative assessment between the traffic signal strength and the interference signal strength, where a larger difference represents a minimal RFI impact and a smaller difference represents a more significant RFI impact. In this regard, the signal strength values  may be unitless values that provide an opportunity for fast, relative determinations, rather than absolute determinations that may require more processing overhead and\/or more time to reach a conclusion. In addition, the maximum and minimum values could be identified on a \u201cmax-hold\u201d, \u201cmin-hold\u201d running basis, wherein as each signal strength value is received, a determination is made as to whether it represents a minimum or a maximum value.","The RFI impact on the radio in question may be determined at block  and a real-time operational value may be adjusted based on the RFI impact at block . As already noted, the adjustment operation at block  might include a clock shift or other type of operation in order to increase the difference between the minimum and maximum values.","Thus, using minimum-hold and maximum-hold operations, the illustrated approach can exploit the discontinuous and random nature of real-time wireless traffic during receive operations and the steady state nature of the platform RFI, to distinguish RFI from received traffic. As a result, the illustrated approach can detect real-time environmental or internal platform RFI from radios that provide limited information. In addition, in-band spurious emissions originating from the platform itself or its surroundings need not be left for after-market wireless performance adjustments\/optimizations. Moreover, the illustrated approach may provide for minimizing returns of material (platforms), maximizing wireless platform performance, and reducing the occurrence of high platform noise interference profiles. The illustrated approach may also represent a hybrid between traditional closed-loop solutions that are dynamic and can be computationally intensive and difficult to implement, and conventional open-loop solutions that are static and may fail to predict the real-time impact of RFI.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 1"],"b":["38","40","42","44","46","48","50","40","52","12","46","48","46","48","52","46","48","52","46","48","40","44","46","48","50","42","42","40"]},"The memory  can include one or more memory blocks to provide additional RAM to the processor(s) . It may be implemented with any suitable memory including but not limited to dynamic RAM (DRAM), static RAM (SRAM), flash memory, or the like. The radios ,  may wirelessly couple the processor(s)  to a wireless network (not shown). The radios ,  may also include portions of the RFI system , as appropriate. The user interface devices  may include one or more devices such as a display, keypad, mouse, etc. to allow a user to interact with and perceive information from the system .","As already noted, the system  may implement a variety of different computing devices or other appliances with computing capability. Such devices include but are not limited to laptop computers, notebook computers, PDAs, cellular phones, audio and\/or video media players, desktop computer, servers, and the like. The system  could constitute one or more complete computing systems or alternatively, it could constitute one or more components useful within a computing system.","Embodiments of the present invention are applicable for use with all types of semiconductor integrated circuit (\u201cIC\u201d) chips. Examples of these IC chips include but are not limited to processors, controllers, chipset components, programmable logic arrays (PLA), memory chips, network chips, and the like. In addition, in some of the drawings, signal conductor lines are represented with lines. Some may be thicker, to indicate more constituent signal paths, have a number label, to indicate a number of constituent signal paths, and\/or have arrows at one or more ends, to indicate primary information flow direction. This, however, should not be construed in a limiting manner. Rather, such added detail may be used in connection with one or more exemplary embodiments to facilitate easier understanding of a circuit. Any represented signal lines, whether or not having additional information, may actually comprise one or more signals that may travel in multiple directions and may be implemented with any suitable type of signal scheme, e.g., digital or analog lines implemented with differential pairs, optical fiber lines, and\/or single-ended lines.","Example sizes\/models\/values\/ranges may have been given, although embodiments of the present invention are not limited to the same. As manufacturing techniques (e.g., photolithography) mature over time, it is expected that devices of smaller size could be manufactured. In addition, well known power\/ground connections to IC chips and other components may or may not be shown within the figures, for simplicity of illustration and discussion, and so as not to obscure certain aspects of the embodiments of the invention. Further, arrangements may be shown in block diagram form in order to avoid obscuring embodiments of the invention, and also in view of the fact that specifics with respect to implementation of such block diagram arrangements are highly dependent upon the platform within which the embodiment is to be implemented, i.e., such specifics should be well within purview of one skilled in the art. Where specific details (e.g., circuits) are set forth in order to describe example embodiments of the invention, it should be apparent to one skilled in the art that embodiments of the invention can be practiced without, or with variation of, these specific details. The description is thus to be regarded as illustrative instead of limiting.","The term \u201ccoupled\u201d is used herein to refer to any type of relationship, direct or indirect, between the components in question, and may apply to electrical, mechanical, fluid, optical, electromagnetic, electromechanical or other connections. In addition, the terms \u201cfirst\u201d, \u201csecond\u201d, etc. are used herein only to facilitate discussion, and carry no particular temporal or chronological significance unless otherwise indicated.","Those skilled in the art will appreciate from the foregoing description that the broad techniques of the embodiments of the present invention can be implemented in a variety of forms. Therefore, while the embodiments of this invention have been described in connection with particular examples thereof, the true scope of the embodiments of the invention should not be so limited since other modifications will become apparent to the skilled practitioner upon a study of the drawings, specification, and following claims."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The various advantages of the embodiments of the present invention will become apparent to one skilled in the art by reading the following specification and appended claims, and by referencing the following drawings, in which:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0008","num":"0007"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 4"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
