---
title: Computing device with handheld and extended computing devices
abstract: A handheld computing unit includes a processing module, memory, a transceiver, a first extended computing unit interface, a second extended computing unit interface, and an interconnection structure operably coupled to the processing module, the memory, the transceiver, and the first and second extended computing unit interfaces. The first extended computing unit interface couples to a first extended computing unit and the second extended computing unit interface coupled to a second extended computing unit such that the handheld computing unit and the extended computing units constitute a computing device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08195860&OS=08195860&RS=08195860
owner: Broadcom Corporation
number: 08195860
owner_city: Irvine
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20090226
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"p":["This patent application is claiming priority under 35 USC \u00a7120 as a continuation in part patent application of patent application entitled COMPUTING DEVICE WITH HANDHELD AND EXTENDED COMPUTING UNITS, having a filing date of Feb. 6, 2008, and Ser. No. 12\/026,681.","NOT APPLICABLE","NOT APPLICABLE","1. Technical Field of the Invention","This invention relates generally to communication systems and more particularly to computing devices used in such communication systems.","2. Description of Related Art","Communication systems are known to support wireless and wire lined communications between wireless and\/or wire lined communication devices. Such communication systems range from national and\/or international cellular telephone systems to the Internet to point-to-point in-home wireless or wired networks. The wireless and\/or wire lined communication devices may be personal computers, laptop computers, personal digital assistants (PDA), cellular telephones, personal digital video players, personal digital audio players, global positioning system (GPS) receivers, video game consoles, entertainment devices, etc.","Many of the communication devices include a similar basic architecture: that being a processing core, memory, and peripheral devices. In general, the memory stores operating instructions that the processing core uses to generate data, which may also be stored in the memory. The peripheral devices allow a user of the communication device to direct the processing core as to which operating instructions to execute, to enter data, etc. and to see the resulting data. For example, a personal computer includes a keyboard, a mouse, and a display, which a user uses to cause the processing core to execute one or more of a plurality of applications.","While the various communication devices have a similar basic architecture, they each have their own processing core, memory, and peripheral devices and provide distinctly different functions. For example, a cellular telephone is designed to provide wireless voice and\/or data communications in accordance with one or more wireless communication standards (e.g., IEEE 802.11, Bluetooth, advanced mobile phone services (AMPS), digital AMPS, global system for mobile communications (GSM), code division multiple access (CDMA), local multi-point distribution systems (LMDS), multi-channel-multi-point distribution systems (MMDS), radio frequency identification (RFID), Enhanced Data rates for GSM Evolution (EDGE), General Packet Radio Service (GPRS), and\/or variations thereof). As another example, a personal digital audio player is designed to decompress a stored digital audio file and render the decompressed digital audio file audible.","Over the past few years, integration of the some of the communication device functions into a single device has occurred. For example, many cellular telephones now offer personal digital audio playback functions, PDA functions, and\/or GPS receiver functions. Typically, to load one or more of these functions, files, or other applications onto a handheld communication device (e.g., a cellular telephone, a personal digital audio and\/or video player, a PDA, a GPS receiver), the handheld communication device needs to be coupled to a personal computer or laptop computer. In this instance, the desired application, function, and\/or file is first loaded on to the computer and then copied to the handheld communication device; resulting in two copies of the application, function, and\/or file.","To facilitate such loading of the application, function, and\/or file in this manner, the handheld communication device and the computer each require hardware and corresponding software to transfer the application, function, and\/or file from the computer to the handheld communication device. As such, two copies of the corresponding software exist as well as having two hardware components (one for the handheld device and the second for the computer). In addition to the redundancy of software, timing issues, different versions of the software, incompatible hardware, and a plethora of other reasons cause the transfer of the application, function, and\/or file to fail.","In addition to integration of some functions into a single handheld device, handheld digital audio players may be docked into a speaker system to provide audible signals via the speakers as opposed to a headphone. Similarly, a laptop computer may be docked to provide connection to a full size keyboard, a separate monitor, a printer, and a mouse. In each of these docking systems, the core architecture is not changed.","Therefore, a need exists for a computing device that includes a handheld computing unit and multiple extended computing units.","The present invention is directed to apparatus and methods of operation that are further described in the following Brief Description of the Several views of the Drawing(s), the Detailed Description of the Drawings, and the claims. Other features and advantages of the present invention will become apparent from the following detailed description of the invention made with reference to the accompanying drawings.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0046","num":"0045"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["10","12","14","12","16","14"]},"In general, the handheld computing unit  includes the primary processing module (e.g., central processing unit), the primary main memory, and the primary hard disk memory for the computing device . In this manner, the handheld computing unit  functions as the core of a personal computer (PC) or laptop computer when it is docked to the extended computing unit and functions as a cellular telephone, a GPS receiver, a personal digital audio player, a personal digital video player, a personal digital assistant, and\/or other handheld electronic device when it is not docked to the extended computing unit.","In addition, when the handheld computing unit  is docked to the extended computing unit , files and\/or applications can be swapped therebetween. For example, assume that the user of the computing device  has created a presentation using presentation software and both reside in memory of the extended computing unit . The user may elect to transfer the presentation file and the presentation software to memory of the handheld computing unit . If the handheld computing unit  has sufficient memory to store the presentation file and application, then it is copied from the extended computing unit memory to the handheld computing unit memory. If there is not sufficient memory in the handheld computing unit, the user may transfer an application and\/or file from the handheld computing unit memory to the extended computing unit memory to make room for the presentation file and application.","With the handheld computing unit  including the primary components for the computing device , there is only one copy of an application and\/or of a file to support PC functionality, laptop functionality, and a plurality of handheld device functionality (e.g., TV, digital audio\/video player, cell phone, PDA, GPS receiver, etc.). In addition, since only one copy of an application and\/or of a file exists (other than desired backups), special software to transfer the applications and\/or files from a PC to a handheld device is no longer needed. As such, the processing module, main memory, and I\/O interfaces of the handheld computing unit  provide a single core architecture for a PC and\/or a laptop, a cellular telephone, a PDA, a GPS receiver, a personal digital audio player, a personal digital video player, etc.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0050","num":"0049"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":["12","14","28","36","38","30","32","34","26","28","14"]},"As is also shown, the extended computing unit  is coupled to a monitor , a keyboard, a mouse , and a printer . The extended computing unit  may also be coupled to other devices (not shown) such as a trackball, touch screen, gaming devices (e.g., joystick, game pad, game controller, etc.), an image scanner, a webcam, a microphone, speakers, and\/or a headset. In addition, the extended computing unit  may have a form factor similar to a personal computer and\/or a laptop computer. For example, for in-home or in-office use, having the extended computing unit with a form factor similar to a PC may be desirable. As another example, for traveling users, it may be more desirable to have a laptop form factor.","In this example, the handheld computing unit  is docked to the extended computer unit  and function together to provide the computing device . The docking of the handheld computing unit  to the extended computing unit  encompasses one or more high speed connections between the units  and . Such a high speed connection may be provided by an electrical connector, by an RF connector, by an electromagnetic connector, and\/or a combination thereof. In this mode, the handheld computing unit  and the extended computing  collectively function similarly to a personal computer and\/or laptop computer with a WLAN card and a cellular telephone card.","In this mode, the handheld computing unit  may transceive cellular RF communications  (e.g., voice and\/or data communications). Outgoing voice signals may originate at the VoIP phone  as part of a VoIP communication  or a microphone coupled to the extended computing unit . The outgoing voice signals are converted into digital signals that are subsequently converted to outbound RF signals. Inbound RF signals are converted into incoming digital audio signals and that may be provided to a sound card within the extended computing unit for presentation on speakers or provided to the VoIP phone via as part of a VoIP communication .","Outgoing data signals may originate at the mouse , keyboard , image scanner, etc. coupled to the extended computing unit . The outgoing data signals are converted into digital signals that are subsequently converted to outbound RF signals. Inbound RF signals are converted into incoming data signals and that may be provided to the monitor , the printer , and\/or other character presentation device.","In addition, the handheld computing unit  may provide a WLAN transceiver for coupling to the WLAN router  to support WLAN RF communications  for the computing device . The WLAN communications  may be for accessing the internet  via modem , for accessing the entertainment server, and\/or accessing the entertainment receiver . For example, the WLAN communications  may be used to support surfing the web, receiving emails, transmitting emails, accessing on-line accounts, accessing on-line games, accessing on-line user files (e.g., databases, backup files, etc.), downloading music files, downloading video files, downloading software, etc. As another example, the computing device  (i.e., the handheld computing unit  and the extended computing unit ) may use the WLAN communications  to retrieve and\/or store music and\/or video files on the entertainment server; and\/or to access one or more of the entertainment components  and\/or the entertainment receiver .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0056","num":"0055"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 2"],"b":["12","14","14","18","22","24"]},"In this example, the handheld computing unit  is docked to one of the extended computer units  and coupled to another one of the extended computing units  via the WLAN. The combination of the handheld computing unit  and the extended computing units function as a single computing device . While functioning as a single computing device , the handheld computing unit  may transceive cellular RF communications  (e.g., voice and\/or data communications). Outgoing voice signals may originate at the VoIP phone  as part of a VoIP communication , via a microphone or headset coupled to handheld computing unit , and\/or a microphone or headset coupled to one or more of the extended computing units . The outgoing voice signals are converted into digital signals that are subsequently converted to outbound RF signals. Inbound RF signals are converted into incoming digital audio signals and may be provided to a sound card within one of the extended computing units  for presentation on speakers, provided to a speaker or the headset coupled to the handheld computing unit, and\/or provided to the VoIP phone via as part of a VoIP communication .","Outgoing data signals may originate at the mouse , keyboard , image scanner, etc. coupled to the extended computing unit . The outgoing data signals are converted into digital signals that are subsequently converted to outbound RF signals. Inbound RF signals are converted into incoming data signals and that may be provided to the monitor , the printer , and\/or other character presentation device.","As an example of use of the computing device  in this configuration, a user may have two extended computing units with his\/her home or office. One of the extended computing units may be directly affiliated with his\/her handheld computing unit (e.g., the one the handheld computing unit is directly docked to) and the other may be affiliated with a family member's handheld computing unit. In this instance, the hardware, operating system, and application software of the handheld computing unit and the extended computing units are integrated or are configured in a primary-secondary manner (as will be discussed below) to provide the functionality of the computing device . In this mode, the user can select which extended computing will provide the user interfaces (e.g., which monitor to use, which keyboard, etc.) or it may be configured in accordance with a default protocol.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0060","num":"0059"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 2"],"b":["12","14","14","18","22","24"]},"In this example, the handheld computing unit  is docked to both of the extended computer units . The combination of the handheld computing unit  and the extended computing units function as a single computing device . While functioning as a single computing device , the handheld computing unit  may transceive cellular RF communications  (e.g., voice and\/or data communications) as previously described.","As an example of use of the computing device  in this configuration, a user may have two extended computing units with his\/her home or office. One of the extended computing units may be directly affiliated with his\/her handheld computing unit (e.g., the one the handheld computing unit is directly docked to) and the other may be affiliated with a family member's handheld computing unit. Alternatively, both extended computing units may be affiliated with the user's handheld computing unit. In either case, the hardware, operating system, and application software of the handheld computing unit and the extended computing units are integrated or are configured in a primary-secondary manner to provide the functionality of the computing device . In this mode, the user can select which extended computing will provide the user interfaces (e.g., which monitor to use, which keyboard, etc.) or it may be configured in accordance with a default protocol. Note that only one of the extended computing units  may have user interface components (e.g., keyboard, mouse, etc.).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0063","num":"0062"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 2"],"b":["12","14","12","14","14","38","12","10","10","12","40"]},"As an example of use of the computing device  in this configuration, a user may have two extended computing units: one at his\/her home and the other at his\/her office. In this instance, the hardware, operating system, and application software of the handheld computing unit and the extended computing units are integrated or are configured in a primary-secondary manner (as will be discussed below) to provide the functionality of the computing device .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0065","num":"0064"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 2"],"b":["12","14","12","46","14","12","14"]},"The quasi docking  of the handheld computing unit  to the extended computing unit  is provided by an RF communication, where an RF transceiver of the handheld computing unit  is communicating with an RF transceiver of the extended computing unit . Depending on the bit rate of the RF connection, the handheld computing unit can access files and\/or applications stored in memory of the extended computing unit . In addition, the handheld computing unit  may direct the processing module of the extended computing unit  to perform a remote co-processing function, but the processing module of the handheld computing unit and the extended computing unit do not function as a multiprocessing module as they do when in the integrated and\/or primary-secondary docked mode.","As an alternative, the quasi docked mode may be achieved by the handheld computing unit  communicating with the extended computing unit via the WLAN communication  and the WLAN router . As yet another example, the quasi docked mode may be achieved via a data cellular RF communication  via the internet  to the extended computing unit .","In this mode, the handheld computing unit  may transceive cellular RF communications  (e.g., voice and\/or data communications). In addition, the handheld computing unit  may provide a WLAN transceiver for coupling to the WLAN router  to support WLAN RF communications  with the WLAN router . The WLAN communications  may be for accessing the internet  via modem , for accessing the entertainment server, and\/or accessing the entertainment receiver . For example, the WLAN communications  may be used to support surfing the web, receiving emails, transmitting emails, accessing on-line accounts, accessing on-line games, accessing on-line user files (e.g., databases, backup files, etc.), downloading music files, downloading video files, downloading software, etc. As another example, the the handheld computing unit  may use the WLAN communications  to retrieve and\/or store music and\/or video files on the entertainment server; and\/or to access one or more of the entertainment components  and\/or the entertainment receiver .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0069","num":"0068"},"figref":"FIG. 7","b":["12","14","12","14","14","12"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0070","num":"0069"},"figref":"FIG. 8","b":["12","14","12","50","52","54","56","58","60","62","64","66","68","70","72","74","76","78","75","110"]},"The extended computing unit  includes an extended processing module , extended main memory , extended hard disk\/flash memory , extended random access memory (RAM) , extended read only memory (ROM) , a slave clock circuit , extended input\/output (I\/O) interfaces (e.g., extended audio I\/O interface , extended video and\/or graphics interface , and an extended data I\/O interface ), and extended I\/O components (e.g., extended microphone , extended speaker , extended display \u2014which may be monitor  and\/or printer \u2014, and an extended keyboard\/mouse , which may be keyboard  and mouse ), an extended connection structure , an extended bus structure , and a radio frequency identification (RFID) tag .","Within the handheld computing unit , the processing module  and the baseband processing module  may be separate processing modules or the same processing module. Such a processing module may be a single processing device or a plurality of processing devices, where a processing device may be a microprocessor, micro-controller, digital signal processor, microcomputer, central processing unit, field programmable gate array, programmable logic device, state machine, logic circuitry, analog circuitry, digital circuitry, and\/or any device that manipulates signals (analog and\/or digital) based on hard coding of the circuitry and\/or operational instructions. The processing module may have an associated memory and\/or memory element, which may be a single memory device, a plurality of memory devices, and\/or embedded circuitry of the processing module. Such a memory device may be a read-only memory, random access memory, volatile memory, non-volatile memory, static memory, dynamic memory, flash memory, cache memory, and\/or any device that stores digital information. Note that when the processing module implements one or more of its functions via a state machine, analog circuitry, digital circuitry, and\/or logic circuitry, the memory and\/or memory element storing the corresponding operational instructions may be embedded within, or external to, the circuitry comprising the state machine, analog circuitry, digital circuitry, and\/or logic circuitry. Further note that, the memory element stores, and the processing module executes, hard coded and\/or operational instructions corresponding to at least some of the steps and\/or functions illustrated in .","Also within the handheld computing unit , the handheld main memory  includes one or more RAM integrated circuits (IC) and\/or boards. The RAM may be static RAM (SRAM) and\/or dynamic RAM (DRAM). The handheld hard disk\/flash memory  may be one or more of a hard disk, a floppy disk, an optical disk, NOR flash memory, NAND flash memory, and\/or any other type of non-volatile memory. The clock generator circuit  may be one or more of: a phase locked loop, a crystal oscillator circuit, a fractional-N synthesizer, and\/or a resonator circuit-amplifier circuit, where the resonator may be a quartz piezo-electric oscillator, a tank circuit, or a resistor-capacitor circuit. Regardless of the implementation of the clock generator circuit , it generates a master clock signal that is provided to the slave clock circuit  and generates the clock signals for the handheld computing unit . Such clock signals include, but are not limited to, a bus clock, a read\/write clock, a processing module clock, a local oscillation, and an I\/O clock.","The handheld ROM  stores the basic input\/output system (BIOS) program for the computing device  (i.e., the handheld computing unit  and the extended computing unit ). The ROM  may be one or more of an electronically erasable programmable ROM (EEPROM), a programmable ROM (PROM), and\/or a flash ROM.","As used herein, an interface includes hardware and\/or software for a device coupled thereto to access the bus of the handheld computing unit and\/or of the extended computing unit. For example, the interface software may include a driver associated with the device and the hardware may include a signal conversion circuit, a level shifter, etc. Within the handheld computing unit, the handheld audio I\/O interface  may include an audio codec, a volume control circuit, and\/or a microphone bias and\/or amplifier circuit to couple the handheld (HH) microphone  and\/or the HH speaker  to the HH bus structure . The HH video I\/O interface  may include a video codec, a graphics engine, a display driver, etc. to couple the HH display to the HH bus structure . The HH data I\/O interface  may include the graphics engine, a display driver, a keypad driver, a touch screen driver, etc. to coupled the HH display  and\/or the HH keypad  to the HH bus structure .","Within the extended computing unit , the extended (EXT) processing module  may be a single processing device or a plurality of processing devices, where a processing device may be a microprocessor, micro-controller, digital signal processor, microcomputer, central processing unit, field programmable gate array, programmable logic device, state machine, logic circuitry, analog circuitry, digital circuitry, and\/or any device that manipulates signals (analog and\/or digital) based on hard coding of the circuitry and\/or operational instructions. The processing module may have an associated memory and\/or memory element, which may be a single memory device, a plurality of memory devices, and\/or embedded circuitry of the processing module. Such a memory device may be a read-only memory, random access memory, volatile memory, non-volatile memory, static memory, dynamic memory, flash memory, cache memory, and\/or any device that stores digital information. Note that when the processing module implements one or more of its functions via a state machine, analog circuitry, digital circuitry, and\/or logic circuitry, the memory and\/or memory element storing the corresponding operational instructions may be embedded within, or external to, the circuitry comprising the state machine, analog circuitry, digital circuitry, and\/or logic circuitry. Further note that, the memory element stores, and the processing module executes, hard coded and\/or operational instructions corresponding to at least some of the steps and\/or functions illustrated in .","Also within the extended computing unit , the EXT main memory  includes one or more RAM integrated circuits (IC) and\/or boards. The RAM may be static RAM (SRAM) and\/or dynamic RAM (DRAM). Note that the EXT main memory  and the EXT RAM  may be omitted if the handheld computing unit contains a sufficient amount of main memory. The EXT hard disk\/flash memory  may be one or more of a hard disk, a floppy disk, at tape drive, an optical disk, NOR flash memory, NAND flash memory, and\/or any other type of non-volatile memory. The slave clock circuit  may be a phase locked loop (PLL), clock divider, and\/or clock multiplier that receives the master clock signal and produces therefrom the clock signals for the extended computing unit . Such clock signals include, but are not limited to, a bus clock, a read\/write clock, a processing module clock, and an I\/O clock.","The EXT ROM  may be one or more of an electronically erasable programmable ROM (EEPROM), a programmable ROM (PROM), and\/or a flash ROM. Note that the EXT ROM  may be omitted if the HH ROM  is of sufficient size to accommodate the BIOS program and other system data that is stored in non-volatile memory.","The EXT audio I\/O interface  may include a sound card and corresponding driver to couple the EXT microphone  and\/or the EXT speaker  to the HH and\/or EXT bus structure  and\/or . The EXT video I\/O interface  may include a video codec, a graphics card, a graphics control unit, a display driver, etc. to couple the EXT display  (e.g., monitor ) to the HH and\/or EXT bus structure  and\/or . The EXT data I\/O interface  may include the graphics card, the graphics control unit, a display driver, a keyboard and mouse driver(s), a touch screen driver, etc. to coupled the EXT display  and\/or the EXT keyboard\/mouse  to the HH and\/or EXT bus structure  and\/or .","The RFID tag  provides an RF communication link to the handheld computing unit  when the extended computing unit  is disabled. The WID tag  may be implemented as disclosed in patent application entitled POWER GENERATING CIRCUIT, having a serial number of \/,, and a filing date of Mar. 31, 2006, issued as U.S. Pat. No. 7,595,732, on Sep. 29, 2009. Communication with the RFID tag  will be described in greater detail with reference to .","When the computing device  is active in a wireless transmission, the baseband processing module  and the RF section  are active. For example, for cellular voice communications, the baseband processing module  converts an outbound voice signal into an outbound voice symbol stream in accordance with one or more existing wireless communication standards, new wireless communication standards, modifications thereof, and\/or extensions thereof (e.g., GSM, AMPS, digital AMPS, CDMA, etc.). The baseband processing module  may perform one or more of scrambling, encoding, constellation mapping, modulation, frequency spreading, frequency hopping, beamforming, space-time-block encoding, space-frequency-block encoding, and\/or digital baseband to IF conversion to convert the outbound voice signal into the outbound voice symbol stream. Depending on the desired formatting of the outbound voice symbol stream, the baseband processing module  may generate the outbound voice symbol stream as Cartesian coordinates (e.g., having an in-phase signal component and a quadrature signal component to represent a symbol), as Polar coordinates (e.g., having a phase component and an amplitude component to represent a symbol), or as hybrid coordinates as disclosed in patent application entitled HYBRID RADIO FREQUENCY TRANSMITTER, having a filing date of Mar. 24, 2006, and an application Ser. No. of 11\/388,822, issued as U.S. Pat. No. 7,787,547, on Aug. 31, 2010, and patent application entitled PROGRAMMABLE HYBRID TRANSMITTER, having a filing date of Jul. 26, 2006, and an application Ser. No. of 11\/494,682, now issued as U.S. Pat. No. 7,852,970, on Dec. 14, 2010.","The RF section  converts the outbound voice symbol stream into an outbound RF voice signal in accordance with the one or more existing wireless communication standards, new wireless communication standards, modifications thereof, and\/or extensions thereof (e.g., GSM, AMPS, digital AMPS, CDMA, etc.). In one embodiment, the RF section  receives the outbound voice symbol stream as Cartesian coordinates. In this embodiment, the RF section  mixes the in-phase components of the outbound voice symbol stream with an in-phase local oscillation to produce a first mixed signal and mixes the quadrature components of the outbound voice symbol stream to produce a second mixed signal. The RF section  combines the first and second mixed signals to produce an up-converted voice signal. The RF section  then amplifies the up-converted voice signal to produce the outbound RF voice signal, which it provides to an antenna section. Note that further power amplification may occur between the output of the RF section  and the input of the antenna section.","In other embodiments, the RF section  receives the outbound voice symbol stream as Polar or hybrid coordinates. In these embodiments, the RF section  modulates a local oscillator based on phase information of the outbound voice symbol stream to produce a phase modulated RF signal. The RF section  then amplifies the phase modulated RF signal in accordance with amplitude information of the outbound voice symbol stream to produce the outbound RF voice signal. Alternatively, the RF section  may amplify the phase modulated RF signal in accordance with a power level setting to produce the outbound RF voice signal.","For incoming voice signals, the RF section  receives an inbound RF voice signal via the antenna section. The RF section  converts the inbound RF voice signal into an inbound voice symbol stream. In an embodiment, the RF section  extracts Cartesian coordinates from the inbound RF voice signal to produce the inbound voice symbol stream. In another embodiment, the RF section  extracts Polar coordinates from the inbound RF voice signal to produce the inbound voice symbol stream. In yet another embodiment, the RF section  extracts hybrid coordinates from the inbound RF voice signal to produce the inbound voice symbol stream.","The baseband processing module  converts the inbound voice symbol stream into an inbound voice signal. The baseband processing module  may perform one or more of descrambling, decoding, constellation demapping, modulation, frequency spreading decoding, frequency hopping decoding, beamforming decoding, space-time-block decoding, space-frequency-block decoding, and\/or IF to digital baseband conversion to convert the inbound voice symbol stream into the inbound voice signal, which is placed on the bus structure .","The baseband processing module  and the RF section function similarly for processing data communications and for processing WLAN communications. For data communications, the baseband processing module  and the RF section function in accordance with one or more cellular data protocols such as, but not limited to, Enhanced Data rates for GSM Evolution (EDGE), General Packet Radio Service (GPRS), high-speed downlink packet access (HSDPA), high-speed uplink packet access (HSUPA), newer version thereof, and\/or replacements thereof. For WLAN communications, the baseband processing module  and the RF section  function in accordance with one or more wireless communication protocols such as, but not limited to, IEEE 802.11(a), (b), (g), (n), etc., Bluetooth, ZigBee, RFID, etc.","When the computing device  is executing one or more user applications (e.g., word processing, spreadsheet processing, presentation processing, email, web browsing, database, calendar, video games, digital audio playback, digital video playback, digital audio record, digital video record, video games, contact management program, notes, web favorites, money management program, etc.), the HH processing module  and the EXT processing module  function as a multiprocessing module and the HH and EXT main memories  and  function as combined main memory. In addition, the HH hard disk\/flash memory  and the EXT hard disk\/flash memory  function as a combined hard disk\/flash memory.","For instance, the multiprocessing module provides mmultiprocessing via the HH and EXT processing modules  and . In this configuration, the processing modules  and  may share tasks and\/or execute multiple concurrent software processes. Further, the processing modules  and  may be equal; one may be reserved for one or more special purposes; may be tightly coupled; may be loosely coupled; etc. For example, at the operating system level, the HH processing module  may be designated to respond to all interrupts, traps, and\/or services calls and the invoke the EXT processing module  as needed. As another example, at the user level, the processing modules may function in a symmetrical multiprocessing mode, in an asymmetrical multiprocessing mode, in a non-uniform memory access multiprocessing mode, and\/or in a clustered multiprocessing mode.","With respect to instruction and data streams, the processing modules  and  may execute a single sequence of instructions in multiple contexts (single-instruction, multiple-data or SIMD), multiple sequences of instructions in a single context (multiple-instruction, single-data or MISD), or multiple sequences of instructions in multiple contexts (multiple-instruction, multiple-data or MIMD).","The computing device  incorporates a virtual memory technique, overlays, and\/or swapping to utilize the combined main memories and hard disk\/flash memories for one or more user applications. In an embodiment, the virtual memory is divided the virtual address space into pages (e.g., a 4K-Byte block), where one or more page tables (e.g., one for the computing device, one for each running user application, etc.) translates the virtual address into a physical address. Note that the memory controller manages accesses to the one or more page tables to facilitate the fetching of data and\/or instructions from physical memory. If a page table indicates that a page is not currently in memory, the memory controller and\/or one of the processing modules  and\/or  raise a page fault interrupt.","A paging supervisor of the operating system receives the page fault interrupt and, in response, searches for the desired page containing the required virtual address. Once found, the paging supervisor reads the page into main memory and updates the appropriate page table. If there is insufficient room the main memory, the paging supervisor saves an area of the main memory to the HH or EXT hard disk\/flash memory and update the corresponding page table. The cleared area of main memory is then used for the new page.","With respect to user I\/O devices, the HH microphone , the HH speaker , the HH display  and the HH keypad  may be disabled while the handheld computing unit is docked. In this mode, the EXT microphone , the EXT speaker , the EXT display , and the EXT keyboard\/mouse  are active to provide the user interfaces to the computing device . Note that for a cellular voice telephone call, the inbound and outbound voice signals may be provided to\/from the EXT microphone  and the speaker , an EXT headset (not shown), or the VoIP phone .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0093","num":"0092"},"figref":["FIG. 9","FIGS. 3-5","FIG. 8"],"b":["12","14","12","111","12","110","111","75","55","60","54","62","52","50","57","56","58"]},"The connectors  and  function as interfaces with the extended computing units, where connector  couples the HH computing unit  to the first EXT computing unit  and connector  couples the HH computing unit to the second EXT computing unit . The connectors  and  may be hard-wired connections (e.g., electrical connectors), may be firmware to support dedicated local wireless links, may be firmware to support shared local wireless link, and\/or may be firmware to support a shared wide area wireless link.","The handheld computing unit  may include one or more integrated circuits. For example, one or more integrated circuits may be used to implement the processing module, the memory, the transceiver, and the interconnection structure. As another example, the one or more integrated circuits may be used to implement the processing module, the memory, the transceiver, the interconnection structure, and at least one of the first and second extended computing unit interfaces.","In another embodiment, the handheld computing unit includes the processing module , the memory , the transceiver , the first extended computing unit interface (e.g., connector ), a second extended computing unit interface (e.g., connector ), and an interconnection structure (e.g., bus structure ) operably coupled to the processing module, the memory, the transceiver, and the first and second extended computing unit interfaces. At start up, the handheld computing unit is operable to determine the mode of the handheld computing unit. When the handheld computing unit is in an integrated multiple extended unit mode, the HH unit executes an integrated multiple extended unit operating system boot loader. Alternatively, when the handheld computing unit is in a primary-second multiple extended unit mode, the HH unit executes a primary-secondary multiple extended unit operating system boot loader. This will be discussed in greater detail below.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0097","num":"0096"},"figref":"FIG. 10","b":["12","14","12","50","52","54","56","58","62","110","110","1","110","8","122","220","222","14","110","80","82","90","128","132","130","134","136","138"]},"With handheld computing unit  docked to the extended computing unit , the core components of units  and  function as a single computing device . As such, when the computing device  is enabled, the BIOS stored on the HH ROM  is executed to boot up the computing device. After initializing the operating system, which will described in greater detail with reference to , the computing device  is ready to execute a user application.","In an embodiment, the memory controller  is within the handheld computing unit  and is coupled to the I\/O controller , the graphics card , the EXT processing module , and the EXT main memory via the connector structure - through -. When connected, the memory controller  coordinates the reading data from and writing data to the HH main memory  and the EXT main memory , by the processing modules  and , by the user I\/O devices coupled directly or indirectly to the I\/O controller , by the graphics card , and\/or for data transfers with the HH and\/or the EXT hard disk\/flash memory  and\/or .","If the demultiplexers  and  are included, the memory controller  is coupled to the HH processing module  via demultiplexer  and is coupled to the HH main memory  via demultiplexer  when the handheld computing unit  is in the docked mode. When the handheld computing unit  is in the remote mode, the memory controller  may be deactivated such that the demultiplexers  and  couple the HH processing module  and the HH main memory  to the HH bus structure . If the demultiplexers  and  are not included, the memory controller  is on in both the docked and remote modes to coordinate reading from and writing to the HH main memory .","Within the extended computing unit, the EXT processing module , the EXT main memory , the I\/O controller , the I\/O interface , the PCI interface , and the host controller  may be implemented on a single integrated circuit, each on separate integrated circuits, or some elements may be implemented on the same integrated circuits. For example, the I\/O controller , the I\/O interface , the PCI interface , and the host controller  may be implemented on the same integrated circuit.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0102","num":"0101"},"figref":"FIG. 11","b":["12","14","12","50","52","54","56","58","62","110","111","110","1","110","8","122","220","222","14","110","111","80","82","90","128","132","130","134","136","138"]},"In this embodiment, when the handheld computing unit is in an integrated mode, the memory controller  configures the memory and memory of the first and second extended computing units as computing device memory. When the handheld computing unit is in a primary-secondary mode, the memory controller configures the memory and the memory of the first extended computing unit as the computing device memory and identifies the memory of the second extended computing unit as secondary memory or off-line memory.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0104","num":"0103"},"figref":"FIG. 12","b":["12","14","12","50","52","54","56","58","62","110","9","122","14","110","9","80","82","90","128","132","130","134","136","138"]},"With handheld computing unit  docked to the extended computing unit , the core components of units  and  function as a single computing device . As such, when the computing device  is enabled, the BIOS stored on the HH ROM  is executed to boot up the computing device. After initializing the operating system, which will described in greater detail with reference to , the computing device  is ready to execute a user application.","In an embodiment, the memory controller  is within the handheld computing unit  and is coupled to the I\/O controller , the graphics card , the EXT processing module , and the EXT main memory of each EXT computing unit via the connector structures  and . When connected, the memory controller  coordinates the reading data from and writing data to the HH main memory  and the EXT main memories , by the processing modules  and , by the user I\/O devices coupled directly or indirectly to the I\/O controller , by the graphics card , and\/or for data transfers with the HH and\/or the EXT hard disk\/flash memory  and\/or .","Within each of the extended computing units, the EXT processing module , the EXT main memory , the I\/O controller , the I\/O interface , the PCI interface , and the host controller  may be implemented on a single integrated circuit, each on separate integrated circuits, or some elements may be implemented on the same integrated circuits. For example, the I\/O controller , the I\/O interface , the PCI interface , and the host controller  may be implemented on the same integrated circuit.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0108","num":"0107"},"figref":"FIG. 13","b":["12","14","12","50","52","54","56","58","62","110","111","122","14","110","111","80","82","90","128","132","130","134","136","138"]},"With handheld computing unit  coupled to the extended computing units , the core components of units  and  function as a single computing device . As such, when the computing device  is enabled, the BIOS stored on the HH ROM  is executed to boot up the computing device. After initializing the operating system, which will described in greater detail with reference to , the computing device  is ready to execute a user application.","In an embodiment, the memory controller  is within the handheld computing unit  and is coupled to the I\/O controller , the graphics card , the EXT processing module , and the EXT main memory of each EXT computing unit via the connector structures  and . When connected, the memory controller  coordinates the reading data from and writing data to the HH main memory  and the EXT main memory , by the processing modules  and , by the user I\/O devices coupled directly or indirectly to the I\/O controller , by the graphics card , and\/or for data transfers with the HH and\/or the EXT hard disk\/flash memory  and\/or .","Within each of the extended computing units, the EXT processing module , the EXT main memory , the I\/O controller , the I\/O interface , the PCI interface , and the host controller  may be implemented on a single integrated circuit, each on separate integrated circuits, or some elements may be implemented on the same integrated circuits. For example, the I\/O controller , the I\/O interface , the PCI interface , and the host controller  may be implemented on the same integrated circuit.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0112","num":"0111"},"figref":"FIG. 14","b":["12","14","12","10","12","14"]},"When the handheld computing unit  is in the remote mode, the power supply for the extended computing unit  is off, as such, all of the devices of the extended computing unit are off. In this mode, power for the handheld computing unit is provided by a battery and the listed components are enabled (e.g., on). When the handheld computing unit  is in the quasi docked mode, the power supply of the extended computing unit is on and the extended computing unit devices are activated and\/or deactivated as indicated. Similarly, the handheld computing unit devices are activated and\/or deactivated as indicated. When the handheld computing unit  is in the docked mode, the battery is disabled and the handheld computing unit  is powered by the power supply of the extended computing unit . In addition, the extended computing unit  may include a battery charger to charge the battery of the handheld computing unit. The devices of the units  and  are activated and\/or deactivated as indicated. Accordingly, when the handheld device is in different modes, different operating systems are used as will be subsequently described.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0114","num":"0113"},"figref":"FIG. 15","b":["310","12","14","310","62","12","310","312","312","316","318","320","321","323"]},"In this example, the HH hard disk\/flash memory  includes an operating system space  and a user space . The OS space  includes the common OS section , an remote mode OS section , and a quasi docked mode OS section . The EXT hard disk\/flash memory  of each of the EXT computing units includes an OS space  and a user space . The OS space  includes a quasi mode OS section , a docked mode OS section  (used for both single EXT mode and multiple integrated EXT mode), and a primary-secondary mode OS . Since each mode of operation of the handheld computing device  utilizes different devices, each mode has a correspondingly different operating system that includes common OS components and exclusive OS components.","When the handheld computing unit is in the remote mode, which is determined during execution of the POST code , the remote mode operating system (OS) boot loader  is accessed. The remote mode OS boot loader , which may be a multiple stage boot loader, points to the common OS section  and to the remote mode OS section  of the HH hard disk\/flash memory . The common OS section  includes operating system functions that are common for certain devices, processes, files, and\/or applications of the handheld computing unit  regardless of the mode and the remote mode OS section includes operating system functions are unique to certain other devices, processes, files, and\/or applications of the handheld computing unit when it is in the remote mode. Note that the common OS functions may be considered a subset of the remote operating system functions, of quasi-docked operating system functions, and\/or of docked operating system functions.","The remote mode OS boot loader  instructs the HH processing module  and\/or memory controller , if included within the handheld computing unit , to facilitate the transfer of the common OS functions, or at least a portion thereof, and the remote OS functions, or at least a portion thereof, to the HH main memory . The HH main memory  has an OS space  and a user space . The OS space  is used to store the current mode OS , which, in this example, is the remote mode operating system. Note that the OS space  may vary in size depending on which operating system is being loaded and further note that the OS space  is a privileged memory section that is accessible only to the processing module  when in an operating system kernel mode. Once the current OS is loaded in the HH main memory , the OS may initiate a graphical user interface and a log in procedure.","When the handheld computing unit is in the quasi docked mode, which is determined during execution of the POST code , the quasi docked mode operating system (OS) boot loader  is accessed. The quasi docked mode OS boot loader , which may be a multiple stage boot loader, points to the common OS section , to the quasi docked mode OS section  of the HH hard disk\/flash memory , and may further point to the quasi docked mode OS section  of the EXT hard disk\/flash memory . The quasi docked OS section  includes operating system functions that are unique to certain devices, processes, files, and\/or applications of the handheld computing unit  and the quasi docked OS section  includes operating system functions that are unique to certain devices, processes, files, and\/or applications of the extended computing unit when the handheld computing unit is in the quasi docked mode.","In this example, the quasi docked mode OS boot loader  instructs the HH processing module  and\/or memory controller , if included within the handheld computing unit , to facilitate the transfer of the common OS functions, or at least a portion thereof, and the quasi docked OS functions, or at least a portion thereof, from the HH hard disk\/flash memory  to the HH main memory . In addition, the quasi docked mode OS boot loader  instructs the HH processing module  and\/or memory controller  to facilitate a transfer of the quasi docked OS functions, or at least a portion thereof, from the EXT hard disk\/flash memory  to the OS space  of the HH main memory . The OS space  is used to store the current mode OS , which, in this example, is the quasi docked mode operating system. Note that the OS space  may vary in size depending on which operating system is being loaded and further note that the OS space  is a privileged memory section that is accessible only to the processing module  when in an operating system kernel mode. Once the current OS is loaded in the HH main memory , the OS may initiate a graphical user interface and a log in procedure.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0120","num":"0119"},"figref":"FIG. 16","b":["310","12","14","312","320","320","325","336","84","336"]},"In this example, the docked mode OS boot loader  instructs the HH processing module  and\/or memory controller , if included within the handheld computing unit , to facilitate the transfer of the common OS functions, or at least a portion thereof, and the docked OS functions, or at least a portion thereof, from the EXT hard disk\/flash memory  to the HH main memory . The OS space  is used to store the current mode OS , which, in this example, is the docked mode operating system. Note that the OS space  may vary in size depending on which operating system is being loaded and further note that the OS space  is a privileged memory section that is accessible only to the processing module  when in an operating system kernel mode. Once the current OS is loaded in the HH main memory , the OS may initiate a graphical user interface and a log in procedure.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0122","num":"0121"},"figref":"FIG. 17","b":["310","12","14","312","321","321","325","336","84","336"]},"In this example, the integrated mode OS boot loader  instructs the HH processing module  and\/or memory controller , if included within the handheld computing unit , to facilitate the transfer of the common OS functions, or at least a portion thereof, and the docked OS functions, or at least a portion thereof, from the EXT hard disk\/flash memories  to the HH main memory . The OS space  is used to store the current mode OS , which, in this example, is the integrated mode operating system. Note that the OS space  may vary in size depending on which operating system is being loaded and further note that the OS space  is a privileged memory section that is accessible only to the processing module  when in an operating system kernel mode. Once the current OS is loaded in the HH main memory , the OS may initiate a graphical user interface and a log in procedure.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0124","num":"0123"},"figref":"FIG. 18","b":["310","12","14","312","323","323","325","336","84","337","336","337"]},"In this example, the primary-secondary mode OS boot loader  instructs the HH processing module  and\/or memory controller , if included within the handheld computing unit , to facilitate the transfer of the common OS functions, or at least a portion thereof, the docked OS functions, or at least a portion thereof, from the EXT hard disk\/flash memory  to the HH main memory ; and the primary-secondary OS, or portion thereof, from the EXT hard disk\/flash memory  to the HH main memory . The OS space  is used to store the current mode OS , which, in this example, is the primary-secondary mode operating system. Note that the OS space  may vary in size depending on which operating system is being loaded and further note that the OS space  is a privileged memory section that is accessible only to the processing module  when in an operating system kernel mode. Once the current OS is loaded in the HH main memory , the OS may initiate a graphical user interface and a log in procedure.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0126","num":"0125"},"figref":"FIG. 19","b":["10","12","14","10","39","33","27","21","39"]},"The hardware  portion of the computing device  includes core hardware  on the handheld (HH) computing unit  and hardware  of the EXT computing units . The hardware of the HH computing unit  may include one or more of: a radio frequency (RF) section, a baseband processing module, a hard disk and\/or flash memory, main memory, a processing module, RAM, ROM, clock circuitry, an audio IO interface, a video IO interface, a data IO interface, and may further include a memory controller. The hardware  of each of the EXT computing unit  may include one or more of: a hard disk and\/or flash memory, main memory, a co-processing module, RAM, ROM, slave clock circuitry, an audio IO interface, a video IO interface, a data IO interface, and may further include a memory controller.","In this instance, the hardware of the HH computing unit  is the core hardware of the computing device  and the hardware of the EXT computing units  provides an extension of the HH hardware . For example, the processing module of the HH computing unit  may use the processing modules of the EXT computing units  as co-processors, as auxiliary processors, as part of a multiple-processor core, or not use it at all. As another example, the HH computing unit  may use the main memories of the EXT computing units  as an extension of its main memory, as auxiliary main memories (e.g., use as a backup copy), as a second layer of cache (e.g., L1 or L2 cache), or not use it at all.","The operating system  includes a core operating system  stored in memory of the HH computing device  and operating system extensions  stored on the EXT computing units . The operating system of the computing device  is discussed in detail with reference to  of the parent application referenced above and as may further be described herein. In general, the core operating system  provides the primary operating system for the computing device  and the EXT operating systems  augment the primary operating system for further functionality when the HH computing unit  is docked to the EXT computing units .","The computer level API  includes APIs  that are stored on the HH computing unit  and APIs  that are stored on the EXT computing units . Similarly, the computer level applications  include applications  that are stored on the HH computing unit  and applications  stored on the EXT computing units . As described in the parent patent application, applications may reside on the handheld computing unit  (e.g., cellular telephone applications) or on the extended computing unit . The applications may be swapped therebetween such that, when the HH computing unit  is not docked to the EXT computing unit , the HH computing unit  can store the applications  of interest to the user of the HH computing device  in a mobile mode (i.e., not docked).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0131","num":"0130"},"figref":"FIG. 20","b":["10","12","14","12","14","12","23","29","35","41","14","25","31","37","43","12","10"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0132","num":"0131"},"figref":"FIG. 21","b":["10","12","14","10","39","33","27","21","39"]},"The hardware  portion of the computing device  includes core hardware  on the handheld (HH) computing unit  and hardware  of the EXT computing units . The hardware of the HH computing unit  may include one or more of: a radio frequency (RF) section, a baseband processing module, a hard disk and\/or flash memory, main memory, a processing module, RAM, ROM, clock circuitry, an audio IO interface, a video IO interface, a data IO interface, and may further include a memory controller. The hardware  of each of the EXT computing unit  may include one or more of: a hard disk and\/or flash memory, main memory, a co-processing module, RAM, ROM, slave clock circuitry, an audio IO interface, a video IO interface, a data IO interface, and may further include a memory controller.","In this instance, the hardware of the HH computing unit  is the core hardware of the computing device  and the hardware of one of the EXT computing units  provides the core hardware for the computing device . For example, the processing module of the HH computing unit  may use the processing module of one of the EXT computing units  as co-processors, as auxiliary processors, as part of a multiple-processor core, or not use it at all. As another example, the HH computing unit  may use the main memories of the EXT computing units  as an extension of its main memory, as auxiliary main memories (e.g., use as a backup copy), as a second layer of cache (e.g., L1 or L2 cache), or not use it at all. The hardware of the other EXT unit may not be used or used in a subordinate manner.","The operating system  includes a core operating system  stored in memory of the HH computing device  and operating system extensions  stored on the EXT computing units . In general, the core operating system  provides the primary operating system for the computing device  and the EXT operating system  of one of the EXT units augments the primary operating system for further functionality when the HH computing unit  is docked to the EXT computing units . In this instance, the operating system of the other EXT unit is not used.","The computer level API  includes APIs  that are stored on the HH computing unit  and APIs  that are stored on the EXT computing units . Similarly, the computer level applications  include applications  that are stored on the HH computing unit  and applications  stored on the EXT computing units .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0137","num":"0136"},"figref":"FIG. 22","b":["10","33","27","39","21"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0138","num":"0137"},"figref":"FIG. 23","b":["400","401"]},"The method branches at step  depending on whether the HH unit is in a remote mode or one of the EXT modes. When in the remote mode, the method continues at step  where the HH unit executes the remote OS boot loader. If the HH unit is in one of the EXT modes, the method continues at step  where the HH unit determines whether the mode is a single EXT mode or a multiple EXT mode. When the mode is a single EXT mode, the method continues at step  where the HH unit executes the single EXT OS boot loader .","If the HH unit is in the multiple EXT mode, the method branches at step  depending on whether the HH unit is in the integrated EXT mode or the primary-secondary mode. When the handheld computing unit is in the integrated multiple extended unit mode, the method continues at step  where the HH unit executes the integrated multiple extended unit operating system boot loader . When the handheld computing unit is in a primary-second multiple extended unit mode, the method continues at step  where the HH unit executes the primary-secondary multiple extended unit operating system boot loader .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0141","num":"0140"},"figref":"FIG. 24","b":["420","422","424"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0142","num":"0141"},"figref":"FIG. 25","b":["570","572","574","772","576","580","570","325","326","328","334","336","325","582","584","586","588","570"]},"In general, the kernel section  functions to connect an application to the hardware resources of a computing device. In this regard, the kernel section  manages the computing device's resources (e.g., multi-processing capabilities, processing module run time, main memory, hard disk memory, network throughput, I\/O devices, communication between hardware and software components, etc.) and provides the lowest-level software abstraction layer. Note that the kernel section  may include monolithic kernels and\/or micro-kernels.","The process management kernel section  provides one or more kernels to allow and support execution of one or more processes. A process is the execution of an application's operating instructions and several processes may be associated with the same application. When the handheld computing unit is in a remote mode, the HH processing module may function as a single central processing unit that executes one instruction at a time. In this embodiment, the HH processing module may use a time-sharing process to allow seemingly concurrent execution of multiple processes. In another embodiment, the HH processing module includes a multi-processor core that supports actual concurrent execution of multiple processes, where each processing core may use the time-sharing process to allow more processes to run at once. When the handheld computing unit  is in the docked mode, the HH processing module and the EXT processing module function collectively to provide the multi-processor core. Note that each of the HH and EXT processing modules may include its own multi-processor core such that, when functioning collectively, the number of processors is further increase.","To run an application, a kernel of the process management kernel section  sets up an address space for the application, loads the file containing the application's code into memory, sets up a stack for the application and branches to a given location inside the application to start its execution. Several applications may be supported by using multi-tasking kernels, pre-emptive multi-tasking kernels, cooperative multi-tasking kernels, and\/or multiprocessing. A multi-tasking kernel schedules access to the HH processing module and\/or EXT processing module among a plurality of processes in an orderly manner. The scheduling may be done in a variety of ways including multiprogramming, time-sharing, and real-time.","A pre-emptive multi-tasking kernel allocates each process a slice of time and switches from process to process in accordance with the time slices to provide the illusion of concurrent execution. The size of the time slices may vary from process to process and may be adjusted and\/or reallocated based on priority of other processes. The kernel also provides a mechanism for the processes sharing the processing resources to communication with one another, which is generally referred to as inter-process communication (IPC), which may be done by sharing memory, message passing, and\/or a remote procedure calls.","A cooperative multi-tasking kernel allows a process to run uninterrupted until it makes a special request that tells the kernel it may switch to another process. The special request may be the result of a response to an inter-process communication or the process is waiting for an event to occur.","A multiprocessing kernel allows different processes and\/or threads to run on different processors (e.g., the HH processing module and the EXT processing module). The kernel provides a synchronization mechanism to ensure that no two processors attempt to modify the same data at the same time.","The memory management kernel section  provides one or more kernels to control access to the HH main memory, the HH hard disk\/flash memory, the EXT main memory, and\/or the EXT hard disk\/flash memory. In general a memory management kernel has full access to the computing device's memory and controls a process' access to the memory. This includes establishing virtual addressing using paging and\/or segmentation. The virtual address spaces may be different for different processes (e.g., the memory that one process accesses at a particular (virtual) address may be different memory from what another process accesses at the same virtual address). The operating system maintains a page table to track the virtual addresses association to physical addresses and the allocation of the virtual memory to particular processes. The virtual memory allocations are tracked so that when a process terminates, the memory used by that process can be made available for other processes. In this manner, the memory management kernel allows each process to function as if it the only process running.","The file system management kernel section  includes one or more kernels to control a file system for file storage and\/or file transfers. The file system uses the EXT hard disk\/flash memory, the EXT CD-ROM drive, the HH hard disk\/flash memory, etc. to store and organizes files and\/or applications for ease of finding and accessing. In an embodiment, the file system includes directories that associate file names with files. This may be done by connecting the file name to an index into a file allocation table. The directory structure may be flat (no subdirectories) or hierarchical (includes subdirectories). The directory may further include meta data regarding a file. The meta data may include file length, a byte count, time the file was last modified, file creation time and\/or date, time and\/or date the file was last accessed, any changes to the meta data, owner's identity, creator's identity, access permission settings, etc.","The file system may be a disk file system, a flash file system, a database file system, a transactional file system, and\/or a special purpose file system. In an embodiment, each of the various modes of the operating system has its own file system. For example, the remote mode operating system has a file system that utilizes the HH hard disk\/flash memory ; the quasi docked mode operating system has a file system that has a hierarchical preference for the HH hard disk\/flash memory  over the EXT hard disk\/flash memory ; and the docked mode operating system has a file system that has a hierarchical preference for the EXT hard disk\/flash memory  or the HH hard disk\/flash memory .","The I\/O device management kernel section  includes one or more kernels that manage I\/O device processing resource and\/or memory resource allocation requests. As an example, a process may need to access an I\/O device (e.g., the HH display), which is controlled by the kernel through a device driver. As a more specific example, to show the user something on the HH display, an application would make a request to the kernel, which would forward the request to its display driver, which plots the character\/pixel for display.","The operating system  may security features. The security may include levels: internal security and external security. The internal security is the protection of the computing device's resources from concurrently running applications performing the same process at the same time. In this instance, applications and\/or processes thereof are assigned a privilege level, which blocks less privileged applications and\/or processes from using certain hardware instructions, certain processing resources, accessing certain memory spaces, etc. When an application or process is blocked, it must ask a higher privileged application or process to perform the task for it.","For external security, the computing device may include a software firewall or an intrusion detection\/prevention system. The software firewall is configured to allow or deny network traffic to or from a service or application running on the operating system.","The operating system  further includes graphical user interfaces (GUI) for the handheld computing unit and the extended computing unit. The GUI may be for a touch screen, a keypad, an LCD display, a monitor, and vary depending on the applications being used. For example, when the handheld computing unit is in a cellular telephone mode, the GUI may be adapted for the cell phone. As another example, when the handheld computing unit is a GPS receiver mode, the GUI may be adapted to for GPS operations. When the handheld computing unit is docked to the extended computing unit, the GUI may resemble a personal computer and\/or laptop GUI.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0156","num":"0155"},"figref":"FIG. 26","b":["570","570","590","592","594","596","598","590"]},"As an example, assume that the handheld computing unit is in the remote mode and is executing a user application and the operating system is in the user mode state  for this user application. The executing of the user application includes one or more processes that require access to the HH computing unit's resources. When a process needs a resource, it generates a service call and\/or evokes a trap. When the process service call or the trap is detected, the operating system transitions to the process kernel state  for a process service call, to the I\/O kernel mode for an I\/O service call, to the memory kernel mode  for a memory service call, or to the file system kernel mode for a file service system call. Assuming that the service call was a process service call, the operating system is in state  and beings to process the process service call. The process service call may be to have a series of operational instructions executed by the HH processing module, may be to store data, may be to read data, may be use certain data while executing the operational instructions, may be to display data, may be to receive data, etc.","If the process service call is to execute operational instructions, the process management kernel schedules the process for access to the HH processing module based on the state of the process. As shown in , a process may be in a blocked state , a running state , or a ready state . If the process is in a blocked state , it is dependent on some other process, memory management function, and\/or file management function to be completed before it can execute its current task. When the dependency is removed, the process transitions into the ready state . The process remains in this state until the resource it has requested is allocated to it. When allocated, the process transitions to the running state .","Returning to the state diagram of , after the process is scheduled and\/or the process is completed, the operating system transitions back to the user state . If the process service call includes requesting access to the processing module and to store the results, the operating system would also transition to the memory kernel state  and the file system kernel state  to fulfill the storage request service call.","When an I\/O device desires access to the processing module, to a file, and\/or to the memory, it issues an interrupt. When the operating system receives the interrupt, it transitions to the I\/O device kernel mode to process the interrupt, which may be for access to the file system, access to the processing module, and\/or access to the memory. As such, from the I\/O kernel state , the operating system may transition to the process kernel state , the file system kernel state , and\/or to the memory kernel state . Note for from application to application and\/or process to process, the operating system may be in different states at any one time.","Further examples of service calls include:","Process management",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0162","num":"0000"},"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0001","list-style":"none"},"li":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0001-0001","num":"0000"},"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0002","list-style":"none"},"li":["create a child process","create a process (at system initiation, per system call, per user request, per batch job)","delete a process (normal, error, fatal error, killed by another process)","wait for child to terminate","replace a process' core image","terminate process execution and return status\n\nFile management\n","open a file for reading and\/or writing","close an open file","read data from a file into a buffer","write data from a buffer into a file","move the file pointer","get file status information\n\nDirectory and file system management\n","create a new directory","remove an empty directory","create a new entry, name, name pointer (shortcut)","remove a directory entry","mount a file system","unmount a file system"]}}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0163","num":"0179"},"figref":"FIG. 27","b":["600","602"]},"The method continues at step  where the HH processing module calls a quasi mode subprogram library to retrieve a subprogram (e.g., a handler) to support the fulfillment of the service call.  is an example of a library  that includes remote mode OS subprograms , quasi mode OS subprograms , and docked mode OS subprograms . As shown, the subprograms overlap such that when the handheld computing unit is in the docked mode, it may call a subprogram from any of the OS subprograms -. Conversely, when the handheld computing unit is in the remote mode, it may only call subprograms for the remote OS subprogram section .","The library  may be static library or a dynamically linked library. An embodiment of a static library includes of a set of routines which are copied into a target application by the compiler, linker, or binder, producing object files and a stand-alone executable file. Actual address, references for jumps and other routine calls are stored in a relative address or symbolic which cannot be resolved until all code and libraries are assigned final static addresses. The linker resolves the unresolved addresses into fixed or virtual addresses.","In an embodiment, a dynamic linking library loads the subroutines of a library into an application program at runtime, rather than at compile time. This reduces the compile time of the linker since it records what library routines the program needs and the index names in the library. At the loading of an application, a loader transfers the relevant portions of the library from the hard disk to the main memory, which may be in the handheld and\/or extended computing unit.","Returning to the discussion of , the method continues at step  where the HH processing module updates a process table for the system call for the application and\/or one of it processes.  illustrates an example of a process table that includes a column for each of the processes that are active. The data stored for each process includes processing information  (e.g., register locations, program counter (PC), status word, stack pointer, process state, priority, schedule parameters, process ID<parent process, signals, process start time, processing user time, children use time, time of and\/or next alarm), memory information  (e.g., pointer to text (e.g., code, instructions, etc.) segment, pointer to data segment, and pointer to stack segment), and file information  (e.g., root directory, working directory, file description, user ID, and\/or group ID).","Returning to the discussion of , the method continues at step  where the HH processing module executes a trap to switch to a kernel quasi docked mode (e.g., process, memory, file, I\/O device). The method continues at step  where the HH processing module identifies a system call handler to provide access to higher level software layers for the system call. At step , the system call is processed, which may be done by the HH processing module executing a higher level layer operation system subroutine. When the system call has been processed, which may done as previously discussed with reference to , the method proceeds from step  to step .","At step , the HH processing module executes another trap to return to a user mode. The method continues at step  where the HH processing module retrieves parameters from the stack such that the application can resume processing where it left off when it initiated the service call.","The method of  is also applicable when the handheld computing unit is in the remote mode. At step , the HH processing module receives a system call from a handheld application, a handheld block I\/O device, or a handheld character I\/O device. Steps - include store parameters of the system call in a remote mode stack, call a remote mode subprogram library; update process table for the system call; execute a trap to switch to a kernel remote mode; identify system call handler for the system call; when processing the system call is complete, executing another trap to return to a user mode and retrieve parameters.","The method of  is also applicable when the handheld computing unit is in the docked mode. At step , the HH processing module receives a system call from a handheld application, a docked mode application, a handheld block I\/O device, an extended block I\/O device, or an extended character I\/O device. Steps - include store parameters of the system call in a docked mode stack, call a docked mode subprogram library; update process table for the system call; execute a trap to switch to a kernel docked mode; identify system call handler for the system call; when processing the system call is complete, executing another trap to return to a user mode; and retrieve parameters.","As may be used herein, the terms \u201csubstantially\u201d and \u201capproximately\u201d provides an industry-accepted tolerance for its corresponding term and\/or relativity between items. Such an industry-accepted tolerance ranges from less than one percent to fifty percent and corresponds to, but is not limited to, component values, integrated circuit process variations, temperature variations, rise and fall times, and\/or thermal noise. Such relativity between items ranges from a difference of a few percent to magnitude differences. As may also be used herein, the term(s) \u201coperably coupled to\u201d, \u201ccoupled to\u201d, and\/or \u201ccoupling\u201d includes direct coupling between items and\/or indirect coupling between items via an intervening item (e.g., an item includes, but is not limited to, a component, an element, a circuit, and\/or a module) where, for indirect coupling, the intervening item does not modify the information of a signal but may adjust its current level, voltage level, and\/or power level. As may further be used herein, inferred coupling (i.e., where one element is coupled to another element by inference) includes direct and indirect coupling between two items in the same manner as \u201ccoupled to\u201d. As may even further be used herein, the term \u201coperable to\u201d or \u201coperably coupled to\u201d indicates that an item includes one or more of power connections, input(s), output(s), etc., to perform, when activated, one or more its corresponding functions and may further include inferred coupling to one or more other items. As may still further be used herein, the term \u201cassociated with\u201d, includes direct and\/or indirect coupling of separate items and\/or one item being embedded within another item. As may be used herein, the term \u201ccompares favorably\u201d, indicates that a comparison between two or more items, signals, etc., provides a desired relationship. For example, when the desired relationship is that signal  has a greater magnitude than signal , a favorable comparison may be achieved when the magnitude of signal  is greater than that of signal  or when the magnitude of signal  is less than that of signal .","The present invention has also been described above with the aid of method steps illustrating the performance of specified functions and relationships thereof. The boundaries and sequence of these functional building blocks and method steps have been arbitrarily defined herein for convenience of description. Alternate boundaries and sequences can be defined so long as the specified functions and relationships are appropriately performed. Any such alternate boundaries or sequences are thus within the scope and spirit of the claimed invention.","The present invention has been described above with the aid of functional building blocks illustrating the performance of certain significant functions. The boundaries of these functional building blocks have been arbitrarily defined for convenience of description. Alternate boundaries could be defined as long as the certain significant functions are appropriately performed. Similarly, flow diagram blocks may also have been arbitrarily defined herein to illustrate certain significant functionality. To the extent used, the flow diagram block boundaries and sequence could have been defined otherwise and still perform the certain significant functionality. Such alternate definitions of both functional building blocks and flow diagram blocks and sequences are thus within the scope and spirit of the claimed invention. One of average skill in the art will also recognize that the functional building blocks, and other illustrative blocks, modules and components herein, can be implemented as illustrated or by discrete components, application specific integrated circuits, processors executing appropriate software and the like or any combination thereof."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["STATEMENT REGARDING FEDERALLY SPONSORED RESEARCH OR DEVELOPMENT","INCORPORATION-BY-REFERENCE OF MATERIAL SUBMITTED ON A COMPACT DISC","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","BRIEF SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS"],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE SEVERAL VIEWS OF THE DRAWING(S)","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":"FIG. 11"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":"FIG. 12"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIG. 13"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":"FIG. 14"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":"FIG. 15"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":"FIG. 16"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":"FIG. 17"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":"FIG. 18"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"figref":"FIG. 19"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0034"},"figref":"FIG. 20"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"figref":"FIG. 21"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0037","num":"0036"},"figref":"FIG. 22"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0037"},"figref":"FIG. 23"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0039","num":"0038"},"figref":"FIG. 24"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0040","num":"0039"},"figref":"FIG. 25"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0041","num":"0040"},"figref":"FIG. 26"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0042","num":"0041"},"figref":"FIG. 27"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0043","num":"0042"},"figref":"FIG. 28"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0044","num":"0043"},"figref":"FIG. 29"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0045","num":"0044"},"figref":"FIG. 30"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
