---
title: Wide bandgap bipolar turn-off thyristor having non-negative temperature coefficient and related control circuits
abstract: An electronic device includes a wide bandgap thyristor having an anode, a cathode, and a gate terminal, and a wide bandgap bipolar transistor having a base, a collector, and an emitter terminal. The emitter terminal of the bipolar transistor is directly coupled to the anode terminal of the thyristor such that the bipolar transistor and the thyristor are connected in series. The bipolar transistor and the thyristor define a wide bandgap bipolar power switching device that is configured to switch between a nonconducting state and a conducting state that allows current flow between a first main terminal corresponding to the collector terminal of the bipolar transistor and a second main terminal corresponding to the cathode terminal of the thyristor responsive to application of a first control signal to the base terminal of the bipolar transistor and responsive to application of a second control signal to the gate terminal of the thyristor. Related control circuits are also discussed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08294507&OS=08294507&RS=08294507
owner: Cree, Inc.
number: 08294507
owner_city: Durham
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20090508
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"GOVINT":[{},{}],"heading":["STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENT INTEREST","FIELD","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF EMBODIMENTS"],"p":["The present invention was developed with Government support under Army Research Laboratory Contract No. W911NF-04-2-0022. The Government has certain rights in this invention.","This invention relates to power semiconductor devices, and more particularly, to devices and circuits including power switching devices.","Power devices are widely used to carry large currents and support high voltages. Modern power devices are generally fabricated from monocrystalline silicon semiconductor material. One type of power device is the thyristor. A thyristor is a bistable power semiconductor device that can be switched from a nonconducting \u201coff\u201d state to a conducting \u201con\u201d state, or vice versa. Power semiconductor devices, such as thyristors, high-power bipolar junction transistors (\u201cHPBJT\u201d), or power metal oxide semiconductor field effect transistors (\u201cMOSFET\u201d), are semiconductor devices capable of controlling or passing large amounts of current and blocking high voltages.","Thyristors are generally known and conventionally have three terminals: an anode, a cathode, and a gate. A thyristor may be activated to conduct current between its anode and cathode terminals when a current pulse is received at its gate terminal. More particularly, a thyristor may be turned on by applying a short current pulse across the gate and the cathode. Once the thyristor turns on, the gate may lose its control to turn off the device. The turn off may be achieved by applying a reverse voltage across the anode and the cathode. A specially designed gate turn-off thyristor (\u201cGTO\u201d), however, is typically turned off by a reverse gate pulse. The GTO thyristors generally start conduction by some trigger input and then behave as diodes thereafter.","A thyristor is a highly rugged device in terms of transient currents, di\/dt and dv\/dt capability. The forward voltage (V) drop in conventional silicon thyristors is about 1.5 V to 2 V, and for some higher power devices, about 3 V. Therefore, the thyristor can control or pass large amounts of current and effectively block high voltages (i.e., a voltage switch).","Two parameters of a thyristor are the built-in potential (which is a characteristic of the bandgap of the semiconductor material used to manufacture the thyristor) and the specific on-resistance (i.e., the electrical resistance across the anode and cathode of the device in the linear region when the device is turned on). The specific on-resistance for a thyristor is typically as small as possible so as to provide a large current per unit area for a given voltage applied to the thyristor. The lower the specific on-resistance, the lower the forward voltage (V) drop is for a given current rating. The minimum Vfor a given semiconductor material is its built-in potential (voltage).","Some conventional thyristors may be manufactured in silicon (Si) or gallium arsenide (GaAs), such as a silicon controlled rectifier (\u201cSCR\u201d). Thyristors formed in Si or GaAs, however, may have certain performance limitations resulting from the Si or GaAs material itself, such as the minority carrier lifetime and the thickness of the drift region. The largest contributory factor to specific on-resistance is the resistance of the thick low-doped drift region of the thyristor. In a majority carrier device, such as a MOSFET, the specific on-resistance is determined by the doping concentration and the thickness of the lightly doped drift layer. In a minority carrier (or bipolar) device, carriers, both electrons and holes, are injected into this drift layer, and substantially reduces the specific on-resistance. This effect is referred to as conductivity modulation. As the rated voltage of a thyristor increases, typically the thickness of the drift region increases and the doping of the drift region decreases. For effective conductivity modulation, a very long minority carrier lifetime is required. At the same time, the amount of carriers stored in the drift layer increases because the volume of the drift layer is increased. Therefore, the time required to remove access carriers in the drift layer, which determines the switching times and frequencies, may increase dramatically for devices with higher blocking voltage ratings.","Development efforts in power devices have included the use of silicon carbide (SiC) devices for power devices. Silicon carbide has a wide bandgap, a lower dielectric constant, a high breakdown field strength, a high thermal conductivity, and a high saturation electron drift velocity relative to silicon. These characteristics may allow silicon carbide power devices to operate at higher temperatures, higher power levels and with lower specific on-resistance and higher switching frequency than conventional silicon-based power devices. A theoretical analysis of the superiority of silicon carbide devices over silicon devices is found in a publication by Bhatnagar et al. entitled \u201c6-3-\u201d, TREE Transactions on Electron Devices, Vol. 40, 1993, pp. 645-655.","According to some embodiments of the present invention, an electronic device includes a wide bandgap thyristor having an anode, a cathode, and a gate terminal, and a wide bandgap bipolar transistor having a base, a collector, and an emitter terminal. The emitter terminal of the bipolar transistor is coupled to the anode terminal of the thyristor. The bipolar transistor and the thyristor define a hybrid or monolithic wide bandgap bipolar power switching device. The wide bandgap bipolar power switching device is configured to switch between a nonconducting state and a conducting state that allows current flow between the collector terminal of the bipolar transistor and the cathode terminal of the thyristor responsive to application of a first control signal to the base terminal of the bipolar transistor and responsive to application of a second control signal to the gate terminal of the thyristor.","In some embodiments, the electronic device may further include a control circuit configured to generate the first and second control signals, supply the first control signal to the gate terminal of the thyristor, and supply the second control signal to the base terminal of the bipolar transistor to switch the bipolar power switching device to the conducting state such that a load current flows between the collector terminal of the bipolar transistor and the cathode terminal of the thyristor. The control circuit may be further configured to couple the gate terminal of the thyristor to the collector terminal of the bipolar transistor such that the load current is commutated to the gate terminal of the thyristor to switch the bipolar power switching device to the nonconducting state.","In some embodiments, the control circuit may include a first voltage source configured to generate the first control signal configured to switch the bipolar transistor to a conductive state, a second voltage source configured to generate the second control signal configured to switch the thyristor to a conductive state, a first switching element configured to couple the first voltage source to the base terminal of the bipolar transistor to supply the first control signal thereto, a second switching element configured to couple the second voltage source to the gate terminal of the thyristor to supply the second control signal thereto, and a third switching element configured to couple the gate terminal of the thyristor to the collector terminal of the bipolar transistor.","In some embodiments, the control circuit may include a first switching element coupled to the gate terminal of the thyristor, an inverting driver device configured to provide the first control signal to the base terminal of the bipolar transistor and configured to switch the first switching element to provide the second control signal to the gate terminal of the thyristor, a second switching element coupled between the gate terminal of the thyristor and the collector terminal of the bipolar transistor, and a noninverting driver device configured to switch the second switching element to couple the gate terminal of the thyristor to the collector terminal of the bipolar transistor.","In some embodiments, the first switching element may be a wide bandgap metal-oxide-semiconductor (MOS) transistor having a source\/drain terminal coupled to the gate terminal of the thyristor and a gate terminal coupled to an output of the inverting driver device. The second switching element may be a wide bandgap commutating bipolar transistor having a collector terminal coupled to the collector terminal of the bipolar transistor, an emitter terminal coupled to the gate terminal of the thyristor, and a base terminal coupled to an output of the noninverting driver device.","In some embodiments, the control circuit may further include an optically triggered driver device configured to provide an output signal responsive to light applied thereto. The inverting driver device and the noninverting driver device may be coupled to an output of the optically triggered driver device. The inverting driver device may be configured to provide the first control signal to the base terminal of the bipolar transistor and may be configured to switch the MOS transistor to a conducting state to provide the second control signal to the gate terminal of the thyristor when light is applied to the optically triggered driver device. The noninverting driver device may be configured to switch the commutating bipolar transistor to a conducting state to couple the collector terminal of the first bipolar transistor to the gate terminal of the thyristor when light is not applied to the optically triggered driver device.","In some embodiments, the control circuit may further include a bypass stage coupled between the gate terminal of the thyristor and the collector terminal of the bipolar transistor. The bypass stage may be configured to conduct current therebetween to switch the bipolar power switching device to the nonconducting state when the current between the collector terminal of the bipolar transistor and the cathode terminal of the thyristor exceeds a predetermined level.","In some embodiments, the bypass stage may include a zener diode that is configured to conduct when the voltage drop between the collector of the bipolar transistor and the gate of the thyristor exceeds a breakdown voltage of the zener diode. In some embodiments, the bypass stage may include a plurality of power diodes connected in series between the gate terminal of the thyristor and the collector terminal of the bipolar transistor.","In some embodiments, the bypass stage may further include a commutating bipolar transistor having a collector terminal coupled to the collector terminal of the bipolar transistor, an emitter terminal coupled to the gate terminal of the thyristor, and a base terminal coupled to the zener diode. The commutating bipolar transistor may be configured to be switched to a conducting state responsive to conduction of the zener diode to provide the load current to the gate terminal of the thyristor and switch the bipolar power switching device to the nonconducting state.","In some embodiments, the bipolar transistor and the thyristor may be included in a common package. An on-resistance between the anode and cathode terminals of the thyristor may decrease as operating temperature of the thyristor increases. An on-resistance between the collector and emitter terminals of the bipolar transistor may increase as operating temperature of the bipolar transistor increases.","In some embodiments, the increase in the on-resistance of the bipolar transistor may be greater than the decrease in the electrical resistance of the thyristor as the respective operating temperatures increase. As such, an electrical resistance of the bipolar power switching device in the conducting state may increase as operating temperature of the bipolar power switching device increases.","In some embodiments, the increase in the on-resistance of the bipolar transistor may be substantially similar to the decrease in the electrical resistance of the thyristor as the respective operating temperatures increase. As such, an electrical resistance of the bipolar power switching device in the conducting state may not substantially change as operating temperature of the bipolar power switching device increases.","In some embodiments, the bipolar power switching device may be configured to provide current saturation capability when the bipolar transistor is operated in the active region.","In some embodiments, the bipolar transistor may be a silicon carbide bipolar junction transistor (BJT), and the thyristor may be a silicon carbide gate turn-off thyristor (GTO).","According to further embodiments of the present invention, a packaged bipolar power switching device includes a wide bandgap bipolar transistor having a base, a collector, and an emitter terminal, and a wide bandgap thyristor having an anode, a cathode, and a gate terminal. The anode terminal of the thyristor is coupled to the emitter terminal of the bipolar transistor. The collector terminal corresponds to a first main terminal of the bipolar power switching device, and the cathode terminal corresponds to a second main terminal of the bipolar power switching device. The bipolar power transistor is configured to switch between a nonconducting state and a conducting state that allows current flow between the first and second main terminals. The bipolar power transistor has a non-negative temperature coefficient, where an electrical resistance between the first and second main terminals does not decrease as operating temperature of the bipolar power switching device increases.","In some embodiments, an on-resistance between the anode and cathode terminals of the thyristor may decrease as an operating temperature of the thyristor increases. An on-resistance between the collector and emitter terminals of the bipolar transistor may increase as an operating temperature of the bipolar transistor increases.","In some embodiments, the increase in the on-resistance of the bipolar transistor may be greater than the decrease in the electrical resistance of the thyristor as the respective operating temperatures increase to provide a positive temperature coefficient where an electrical resistance between the first and second main terminals of the bipolar power switching device in the conducting state increases as operating temperature of the bipolar power switching device increases.","In some embodiments, the increase in the on-resistance of the bipolar transistor is substantially similar to the decrease in the electrical resistance of the thyristor as the respective operating temperatures increase to provide a near-zero temperature coefficient where an electrical resistance between the first and second main terminals of the bipolar power switching device in the conducting state does not substantially change as operating temperature of the bipolar power switching device increases.","According to still further embodiments of the present invention, a packaged bipolar turn-off thyristor device includes a wide bandgap gate turn-off thyristor (GTO) having an anode, a cathode, and a gate terminal, and a wide bandgap bipolar junction transistor (BJT) having a base, a collector, and an emitter terminal. The emitter terminal of the BJT is directly coupled to the anode terminal of the GTO. The bipolar power switching device is configured to switch between a nonconducting state and a conducting state that allows current flow between the collector of the BJT and the cathode of the GTO responsive to application of a first control signal to the base terminal of the BJT and responsive to application of a second control signal to the gate terminal of the GTO.","In some embodiments, an on-resistance between the anode and cathode terminals of the GTO may decrease as operating temperature of the GTO increases, and an on-resistance between the collector and emitter terminals of the BJT may increase as operating temperature of the BJT increases.","In some embodiments, the GTO may include a substrate of a first conductivity type having the cathode terminal thereon, a drift layer of a second conductivity type opposite to the first conductivity type on the substrate opposite the cathode terminal, a base layer of the first conductivity type on the drift layer and having the gate terminal thereon, and a first layer of the second conductivity type on the base layer and having the anode terminal thereon. The BJT may include a layer of the first conductivity type directly on the first layer of the second conductivity type and having the emitter terminal thereon, and a second layer of the second conductivity type on the layer of the first conductivity type. The second layer may include a highly doped first region of the first conductivity type therein having the collector terminal thereon, and a highly doped second region of the second conductivity type therein having the base terminal thereon.","In some embodiments, the first conductivity type may be n-type, and the second conductivity type may be p-type. The substrate and the layers thereon may be silicon carbide.","The invention is described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings, in which embodiments of the invention are shown. This invention may, however, be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein. Rather, these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete, and will fully convey the scope of the invention to those skilled in the art. In the drawings, the size and relative sizes of layers and regions may be exaggerated for clarity. It will be understood that when an element or layer is referred to as being \u201con\u201d, \u201cconnected to\u201d or \u201ccoupled to\u201d another element or layer, it can be directly on, connected or coupled to the other element or layer or intervening elements or layers may be present. In contrast, when an element is referred to as being \u201cdirectly on,\u201d \u201cdirectly connected to\u201d or \u201cdirectly coupled to\u201d another element or layer, there are no intervening elements or layers present. As used herein, the term \u201cand\/or\u201d includes any and all combinations of one or more of the associated listed items. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout.","It will be understood that although the terms first and second are used herein to describe various regions, layers and\/or sections, these regions, layers and\/or sections should not be limited by these terms. These terms are only used to distinguish one region, layer or section from another region, layer or section. Thus, a first region, layer or section discussed below could be termed a second region, layer or section, and similarly, a second region, layer or section may be termed a first region, layer or section without departing from the scope of the present invention.","Furthermore, relative terms, such as \u201clower\u201d or \u201cbottom\u201d and \u201cupper\u201d or \u201ctop,\u201d may be used herein to describe one element's relationship to another elements as illustrated in the Figures. It will be understood that relative terms are intended to encompass different orientations of the device in addition to the orientation depicted in the Figures. For example, if the device in the Figures is turned over, elements described as being on the \u201clower\u201d side of other elements would then be oriented on \u201cupper\u201d sides of the other elements. The exemplary term \u201clower\u201d, can therefore, encompasses both an orientation of \u201clower\u201d and \u201cupper,\u201d depending of the particular orientation of the figure. Similarly, if the device in one of the figures is turned over, elements described as \u201cbelow\u201d or \u201cbeneath\u201d other elements would then be oriented \u201cabove\u201d the other elements. The exemplary terms \u201cbelow\u201d or \u201cbeneath\u201d can, therefore, encompass both an orientation of above and below.","The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of the invention. As used herein, the singular forms \u201ca\u201d, \u201can\u201d and \u201cthe\u201d are intended to include the plural forms as well, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms \u201cincludes\u201d and\/or \u201cincluding,\u201d when used in this specification, specify the presence of stated features, integers, steps, operations, elements, and\/or components, but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features, integers, steps, operations, elements, components, and\/or groups thereof.","Unless otherwise defined, all terms (including technical and scientific terms) used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this invention belongs. It will be further understood that terms, such as those defined in commonly used dictionaries, should be interpreted as having a meaning that is consistent with their meaning in the context of this disclosure and the relevant art and will not be interpreted in an idealized or overly formal sense unless expressly so defined herein.","Referring now to the drawings,  are schematic circuit diagrams illustrating various embodiments of the present invention. Transistors and thyristors according to embodiments of the present invention may be formed of silicon carbide having a polytype of 3C, 2H, 4H, 6H, and 15R, or from any of the various Group III-nitride materials useful for fabricating electronic devices. In the illustrated embodiments, the n+ and n\u2212 regions, as well as the p+ and p\u2212 regions, are designated \u201c+\u201d and \u201c\u2212\u201d to symbolize different doping concentration levels respectively of the same conductivity type material in a manner well understood to those of ordinary skill in this art. As used herein, the \u201c+\u201d and \u201c\u2212\u201d designations do not necessarily imply that a material is degenerate on one hand or semi-insulating on the other. The p-type silicon carbide may be doped, for example, with aluminum or boron and the n-type silicon carbide maybe doped, for example, with nitrogen or phosphorous. P-type nitrides may be doped, for example, with magnesium, while n-type nitrides may be doped, for example, with silicon.","As is known to those skilled in the art, a thyristor is a four-layer latching switching device having an anode and a cathode for current flow and a gate for switching the device from a blocking state to a conducting state, and vice versa. A control signal applied to the gate causes the device to \u201clatch\u201d into an \u201con\u201d or conductive state, in which current can flow freely between the anode and cathode of the device. The device remains in the conductive state even after the control signal is removed. A second control signal, opposite in polarity to the first control signal, switches the device back into the \u201coff\u201d or blocking state. A specially designed gate turn-off thyristor (\u201cGTO\u201d), however, is typically turned off by a reverse gate pulse. The GTO thyristors generally start conduction by some trigger input and then behave as diodes thereafter. While certain wide bandgap thyristor designs are discussed in more detail below, the design of wide bandgap thyristors is generally known in the art. For example, U.S. Pat. No. 5,539,217 describes the design and manufacture of silicon carbide (SiC) thyristors. Such silicon carbide thyristors may exhibit improved power handling capabilities over similar silicon thyristors.","Some embodiments of the present invention may arise from realization that conventional thyristors may be difficult to implement in parallel due to differences in inherent on-resistances, especially as operating temperatures increase. In particular, some conventional SiC thyristors may have a negative temperature coefficient (NTC), where the on-resistance (and thus, the forward voltage drop V) across the device may decrease as operating temperature increases. Such a negative temperature coefficient for the forward voltage drop may increase the conducting current, due to the increase in the junction temperature. This may lead to current concentration on one or more thyristors connected in parallel, which may result in terminal run-away.","Embodiments of present invention provide a bipolar power switching device including a wide bandgap thyristor and a wide bandgap bipolar transistor connected in series. Such wide bandgap devices include an active semiconductor layer of a wide bandgap material, such as silicon carbide (SiC), gallium nitride (GaN), and\/or other Group-III nitride material. In particular, embodiments of the present invention provide a SiC thyristor having at least a SiC bipolar junction transistor (BJT) connected in series with the thyristor anode terminal. Such configuration, also referred to herein as a Bipolar Turn-Off thyristor (\u201cBTO\u201d), may provide enhanced operating characteristics as compared to conventional SiC thyristors.","In particular, bipolar power switching devices according to embodiments of the present invention can provide a near-zero temperature coefficient (e.g., such that the on-resistance across the device does not substantially change as operating temperature increases) or even a positive temperature coefficient (PTC) (e.g., such that the on-resistance across the device increases as operating temperature increases) for the forward voltage drop Vby connecting a wide bandgap BJT in series with a wide bandgap thyristor. For example, a SiC BJT, which has a positive temperature coefficient for the forward voltage drop, can be specifically chosen to reduce the negative temperature coefficient of an SiC thyristor, and may provide a near-zero or even slightly positive temperature coefficient across the main terminals of the BTO. More particularly, the SiC BJT may act like a resistor when it is operated in saturation region, and may provide a positive temperature coefficient for the forward voltage drop. Accordingly, bipolar power switching devices according to embodiments of the present invention can be more easily paralleled, as the forward voltage drop may increase with increasing temperature to promote more even current distribution in parallel connected devices.","In addition, bipolar power switching devices according to some embodiments of the present invention may provide current saturation capability when the SiC BJT operates in the active region. The current saturation capability can protect such devices from inrush current during turning-on, and\/or current over shooting in the case of short-circuit failure. Bipolar power switching devices according to some embodiments of the present invention may also provide a negative temperature coefficient for the saturation current.","Bipolar power switching devices according to some embodiments of the present invention can also switch at relatively high speed. For example, a BTO according to some embodiments of the present invention can be turned off faster than conventional SiC thyristors, as the SiC BJT may be used to turn off the anode current of the SiC thyristor at a relatively high rate. Also, a bypass stage including a zener diode and\/or several power diodes connected in series may be used to divert anode current to the thyristor gate terminal to turn off the thyristor. Bipolar power switching devices according to some embodiments of the present invention can also operate at relatively high temperatures, due to the absence of a gate dielectric film.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0048","num":"0047"},"figref":["FIG. 1","FIG. 1","FIG. 1","FIG. 1","FIG. 1"],"b":["100","100","105","110","110","110","110","110","105","105","105","105","105","105","110","110","105","105","100","110","110","100","100","105","110","100","105","110","100","105","110","105","110"],"i":["g","c","a","b","c","e","e ","a ","c ","a ","c ","c ","b ","g "]},"Application of respective control signals to the base and the gate terminals switches the BTO  from a nonconducting state (where current does not flow between the anode and cathode ) to a conducting state (which allows current flow between the anode and cathode ). More particularly, application of a control signal to the gate causes the SiC GTO  to \u201clatch\u201d into a conductive or \u201con\u201d state, which allows current flow between the anode and cathode . Likewise, application of a control signal to the base causes the SiC BJT  to turn on, conducting current between the collector and emitter terminals. In particular, the control signal applied to the base is sufficient to operate the BJT  in the saturation region, e.g., where changes in the base current Ihave little effect on the collector current I. As similar current levels may be provided to the base and the gate to activate the BJT  and the GTO  to a conducting state, respectively, a control circuit may be used to generate and supply the control signals to both the base of the BJT  and the gate of the GTO .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0050","num":"0049"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1","FIG. 2","FIG. 2","FIG. 2"],"b":["100","200","210","205","105","105","215","105","105","110","110","105","105","100","100","230","110","100","100","220","110","110","105","105","215","215"],"i":["b ","c ","g ","c ","a ","c ","c ","g ","c "]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0051","num":"0050"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 3"],"b":["300","100","300","100","1","310","2","320","301","304","1","315","1","310","105","105","2","320","110","110","1","315","2","320"],"i":["c ","g "]},"To turn on the BTO  to a conducting state, switches  and  are closed and switches  and  are open. Closing switch  connects the base to the positive connection of V . Being an emitter follower (also referred to as a \u201ccommon collector\u201d), the base of the SiC BJT  should be pulled above the collector potential to place the SiC BJT  in saturation. V  is used to provide this voltage, and has a voltage rating that is greater than the base-to-emitter voltage drop Vof the SiC BJT . For example, in some embodiments, V  may be configured to provide a voltage of about 3V to about 3.5 V. V  is also configured to regulate the base current Ithat is applied to the SiC BJT . Closing switch  connects the gate of the SiC GTO  to the negative connection of V , which causes the SiC GTO  to transition from a blocking or nonconducting state to a conducting state. The voltage rating of V  is also set to a value somewhat higher than the forward voltage of the anode-to-gate junction of the SiC GTO . For example, in some embodiments, V  may be configured to provide a voltage of about 3V to about 3.5 V. V  is also configured to regulate the gate current Ithat is applied to the SiC GTO . As such, when the BJT  and the GTO  are both switched to a conducting state, a load current may flow between the anode and cathode terminals of the BTO .","To turn off the BTO  to a blocking or nonconducting state, switches  and  are opened and switches  and  are closed. The opening of switch  and the closing of switch  tie the base of the SiC BJT  to the negative terminal of V , thereby turning off the SiC BJT . The opening of switch  and the closing of switch  tie the gate of the SiC GTO  to the anode of the BTO . As a result, the load current is commutated from the BTO anode to the GTO gate . This causes the anode-to-gate junction of the SiC GTO  to be reverse biased, resulting in rapid turn-off of the SiC GTO .","Still referring to , the control circuit  including the BTO  according to some embodiments of the present invention provides a fault current limiting feature. In particular, the SiC BJT  remains in hard saturation so long as its collector current Iis below the product of the base current Iand the current gain \u03b2 of the SiC BJT . Once this criterion is no longer met, the SiC BJT  enters its active region and limits the current to the product of the base current Iand current gain \u03b2. This causes the collector-to-emitter voltage Vof the SiC BJT  to rapidly increase, and as a result, the SiC GTO gate-to-SiC BJT collector voltage also increases at a corresponding rate. The voltage drop between the gate and the collector rises until it exceeds the breakdown voltage Vof the clamp diode D , at which point the clamp diode D  begins to conduct. The clamp or breakdown voltage Vz is greater than the voltage provided by V , which prevents clamp diode D  from conducting in normal operation. The combination of the increase in the collector-to-emitter voltage Vof the SiC BJT  and the clamping of the SiC BJT collector to the SiC GTO gate by clamp diode D  causes the anode-to-gate junction of the SiC GTO  to be reverse biased. This forces the load current to commutate from the BTO anode to the GTO gate , which rapidly turns off the SiC GTO , thereby interrupting the fault current.","Another example control circuit  according to some embodiments of the present invention is illustrated in . As shown in , the control circuit  uses a BJT Q  as the commutation element for the SiC GTO . Referring now to , when the BTO  is in the conducting state, a load current flows from the anode terminal of the BTO , through SiC BJT Q  and the SiC GTO , and to the cathode terminal of the BTO . The remainder of the circuit  is used to control the SiC GTO  and the SiC BJT Q . In particular, the control circuit  includes an optically triggered driver  (including a light emitting diode or other light source and an inverting driver ) to provide an isolated turn on\/turn off signal, an inverting driver INV  and a non-inverting driver BUF , a low-voltage n-type metal-oxide semiconductor (NMOS) transistor  and a resistor R  to provide turn-on gate current for the SiC GTO , and a bypass stage (including BJT Q  and zener diode D ), which is used to clamp the SiC GTO gate during commutation and fault conditions. The BTO  includes the cascode SiC BJT Q  and the SiC GTO . The cathode terminal of the BTO  is coupled to the negative terminal of supply voltage Vcc . Two floating DC voltage sources, V\u2032  and V\u2032 , which are referenced to the grounded anode terminal of the BTO , are used to supply power.","Operation of the example control circuit  of , as described in detail below, is based on the following implementation. In particular, the reference point or ground  for the drive voltages is the anode terminal of the BTO . The outputs of the inverting driver INV  and the non-inverting driver BUF  provide both positive and negative potentials referenced to the anode terminal of the BTO . The voltage swing is from +V\u2032 (high) and \u2212V\u2032 (low), where the voltages provided by V\u2032  and V\u2032  may be similar to those provided by the voltage sources V  and V , respectively, of . The magnitude of the voltage provided by voltage source V\u2032  and the current sourcing capability of the inverting driver INV  and non-inverting driver BUF  are sufficient to pull the emitters of SiC BJT Q  and BJT Q  to anode potential under many (if not all) collector current conditions. The magnitude of the voltage provided by voltage source V\u2032  and the current capability of the NMOS transistor  are sufficient to turn on the SiC GTO  (when SiC BJT Q  is conducting) under many (if not all) load current conditions. Adequate current limiting is provided on the outputs of the inverting driver INV , the non-inverting driver BUF , and the NMOS transistor  to allow safe operation under many (if not all) operating conditions.","Still referring to , the blocking or nonconducting state of the BTO  is described as follows. When the SiC GTO  is in the blocking or nonconducting state and light is not provided by the light source to trigger the optically triggered driver , the output of inverting driver INV  is at a voltage \u2212V\u2032, and the output of non-inverting driver BUF  is at a voltage +V\u2032. As a result, SiC BJT Q  and NMOS transistor  are in the \u201coff\u201d or blocking state, and BJT Q  is in \u201con\u201d or conducting state. This effectively ties the SiC GTO gate to the BTO anode , providing a robust blocking state with relatively high immunity to changes in voltage over time (dV\/dt).","The transition from the blocking state to the conducting state of the BTO  is as follows. When light is provided by the light source to trigger the optically triggered driver  to provide the turn on signal, the output of inverting driver INV  swings to +V\u2032, and the output of non-inverting driver BUF  swings to \u2212V\u2032. As a result, BJT Q  is turned off, and SiC BJT Q  and NMOS transistor  are turned on. With SiC BJT Q  in the conducting state, the anode of SiC GTO  is strongly connected to the anode terminal of the BTO . This causes current to flow from DC voltage source V\u2032  through NMOS transistor , to resistor R , into the gate of the SiC GTO , through the anode of the SiC GTO , and back to DC voltage source V\u2032 . This action forward biases the gate of the SiC GTO , with the gate current Ilimited by the resistance of resistor R . This puts the BTO  in the conducting state, and a load current flows between the anode terminal and the cathode terminal . During this time, NMOS transistor  may be biased in such a way to limit its drain current to a level appropriate to drive the SiC GTO gate ","Operation of the BTO  in the conducting state is as follows. The load current flows into the anode terminal of the BTO , into the collector and out of the emitter of SiC BJT Q , into the anode and out of the cathode of the SiC GTO , and out of the cathode terminal of the BTO . The SiC BJT Q  and the SiC GTO  are connected in series to decrease the anode-to-cathode voltage drop of the SiC GTO . In particular, the SiC BJT  has a positive temperature coefficient, where the collector-to-emitter voltage drop Vincreases with increases in operating temperature. As such, SiC BJT Q  in each packaged BTO  according to some embodiments of the present invention may be specifically selected based on its positive temperature coefficient for the forward voltage drop and based on the negative temperature coefficient of the SiC GTO  to reduce and\/or effectively negate the negative temperature coefficient of the SiC GTO , and may even provide a positive temperature coefficient for the BTO  in some embodiments. The negative temperature coefficient of the SiC GTO  may make static current sharing difficult in parallel arrays of conventional SiC GTOs. Accordingly, by employing the SiC BJT Q  in series with the SiC GTO , the BTO  may have a non-negative (e.g., near-zero or even positive) temperature coefficient, which may promote more even current distribution and ease in paralleling BTOs according to some embodiments of the present invention.","The transition from the conducting state to the blocking state of the BTO  is as follows. When the light is not provided by the light source to trigger the optically triggered driver , the output of inverting driver INV  driver swings to \u2212V\u2032, and the output of non-inverting driver BUF  swings to +V\u2032. As a result, SiC BJT Q  and NMOS transistor  are turned off, and BJT Q  is turned on. With the SiC BJT Q  in a nonconducting state, the anode of the SiC GTO  is disconnected from the anode terminal of the BTO . With BJT Q  in a conducting state and NMOS transistor  in a nonconducting state, the gate of the SiC GTO  is disconnected from the voltage source V\u2032  and is connected to the anode terminal of the BTO . Accordingly, the load current is commutated from the anode terminal into the gate of the SiC GTO , causing the SiC GTO  to be rapidly turned off.","Embodiments of the present invention as illustrated in  may also provide an over current feature that turns off the SiC GTO  in the event that the load current exceeds a predetermined value. More particularly, the collector current k provided by SiC BJT Q  may be determined by the product of its base current Iand its current gain \u03b2. When this value is exceeded, SiC BJT Q  enters its linear region and begins to behave as a constant current source. As a result, the collector-to-emitter voltage Vof SiC BJT Q  may rapidly increase, which results in an increase in the voltage between the BTO anode terminal and the SiC GTO gate . When the anode-to-gate voltage drop exceeds the breakdown voltage of zener diode D , the diode D  will conduct, causing BJT Q  to clamp the gate voltage to a predetermined level. As the fault current increases, the collector-to-emitter voltage Vacross SiC BJT Q  will further increase, thereby reverse biasing the anode-to-gate junction of the SiC GTO  and causing the SiC GTO  to turn off, interrupting the load current. The voltage at which BJT Q  clamps the gate of the SiC GTO  may be selected to prevent damage to the control circuit .","As discussed above with reference to , SiC BJT Q  may be selected to support continuous full load current in the conducting state, and to support voltage V\u2032 when in the blocking state. During conduction, the collector-to-emitter voltage drop Vacross SiC BJT Q  should remain low enough to forward bias the anode-to-gate junction of the SiC GTO . BJT Q  may also be selected to support full load current in the conducting state (e.g., during the commutation of the SiC GTO ), and to support voltage V\u2032 when in the blocking state. During conduction, the collector-to-emitter voltage drop Vacross BJT Q  should be less than V\u2032, to reduce and\/or prevent possible damage to NMOS transistor .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0063","num":"0062"},"figref":["FIGS. 5 and 6","FIGS. 5 and 6","FIG. 5","FIG. 6"],"b":["505","510","515","520","605","610"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0064","num":"0063"},"figref":"FIG. 7","b":["100","105","110","105","110","52"]},"As shown in , a BTO  according to some embodiments includes an n-type layer . A contact \/is provided on the n-type layer , and provides the cathode terminal for both the BTO  and the GTO . A p-type drift layer  is provided on the n-type layer , an n-type base layer  is provided on the p-type drift layer . A gate contact for the GTO  is provided on a highly doped n+ region  of the n-type base layer . A p-type layer  is provided on the n-type base layer , and an n-type layer  is provided on the p-type layer . Contacts and are provided on the n-type layer  and the p-type layer  as an emitter terminal for the BJT  and an anode terminal for the GTO , respectively. A p-type layer  is provided on the n-type layer . The p-type layer  includes a highly doped p+ region , and a highly-doped n+ region . A base contact for the BJT  is provided on the highly-doped p+ region , and a contact \/is provided on the highly-doped n+ region  as an anode terminal for the BTO  and a collector terminal for the BJT .","Accordingly, the n-type region , the p-type layer , and the n-type layer  define the SiC BJT . The contact on the p+ region  provides the base terminal of the BJT , the contact \/on the n+ region  provides the collector terminal of the BJT  (and the anode terminal of the BTO ), and the contact on the n-type layer  provides the emitter terminal of the BJT. Also, the p-type layer , the n-type base layer , the p-type drift layer , and the n-type layer  define the SiC GTO . The contact on the n-type base layer  provides the gate terminal of the GTO , the contact on the p-type layer  provides the anode terminal of the GTO , and the contact \/on the n-type layer  provides the cathode terminal of the GTO  (and the cathode terminal of the BTO ). The n-type layer , which provides the BJT emitter, is directly on the p-type layer , which provides the GTO anode, such that the BJT  and the GTO  are connected in series.","Embodiments of the present invention as described above with reference to  can be achieved by monolithic integration or a hybrid combination of the bipolar transistor  and the thyristor . As used herein, a \u201chybrid\u201d bipolar power switching device may refer to a cascode configuration and\/or other combination of a discrete bipolar transistor  and a discrete thyristor . A \u201cmonolithic\u201d bipolar power switching device may refer to a device where both the bipolar transistor  and the thyristor  are fabricated in the same semiconductor chip and\/or substrate. A packaged bipolar power switching device according to some embodiments of the present invention may include both monolithic and hybrid combinations of the bipolar transistor  and the thyristor .","While the above embodiments are described with reference to particular figures, it is to be understood that some embodiments of the present invention may include additional and\/or intervening layers, structures, or elements, and\/or particular layers, structures, or elements may be deleted. More generally, the foregoing is illustrative of the present invention and is not to be construed as limiting thereof. Although a few exemplary embodiments of this invention have been described, those skilled in the art will readily appreciate that many modifications are possible in the exemplary embodiments without materially departing from the novel teachings and advantages of this invention. Accordingly, all such modifications are intended to be included within the scope of this invention as defined in the claims. Therefore, it is to be understood that the foregoing is illustrative of the present invention and is not to be construed as limited to the specific embodiments disclosed, and that modifications to the disclosed embodiments, as well as other embodiments, are intended to be included within the scope of the appended claims. The invention is defined by the following claims, with equivalents of the claims to be included therein."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The accompanying drawings, which are included to provide a further understanding of the invention and are incorporated in and constitute a part of this application, illustrate certain embodiment(s) of the invention. In the drawings:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":"FIGS. 1-4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"figref":"FIGS. 5 and 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0034"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 1"]}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
