---
title: plant named ‘DASING’
abstract: A new distinct cultivar of plant named ‘DASING’, characterized by its upright and inverted conical plant habit; green and gray-green foliage; decorative, composite-type inflorescence with about 250 purple-violet colored ray florets; and only about 5 to 10 disc florets per inflorescence which are white in color with green spots (almost 100% filled capitulae).
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=PP021166&OS=PP021166&RS=PP021166
owner: Gartneriet Raahoj
number: PP021166
owner_city: Malling
owner_country: DK
publication_date: 20090226
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"p":["Latin name of the genus and species of the claimed plant: -(now -).","Variety denomination: \u2018DASING\u2019.","The present invention relates to a new and distinct cultivar of plant, botanically known as -(now -) of the  Asteraceae family, commonly known as Michaelmas Daisy and New York Aster, and hereinafter referred to by the cultivar name \u2018DASING\u2019.","The new cultivar is a product of a planned breeding program conducted by the inventor, Bent Juhl JENSEN, in Malling, Denmark. The objective of the breeding program is to develop a new variety with uniform plant growth habit, unique floret colors, and good postproduction longevity.","The new cultivar originated from a cross made in a controlled breeding program by the inventor on Apr. 1, 2005, in Mailing, Denmark. The female or seed parent is -\u2018WHITE PRESTIGE\u2019 (unpatented, described in terminated CPVO Grant No. 8521). The male or pollen parent is the unpatented -seedling selection designated 05-110-009. The new \u2018DASING\u2019 was discovered and selected by the inventor as a single flowering plant within the progeny of the stated cross in September of 2006 in a controlled environment in Malling, Denmark. The selection of the new \u2018DASING\u2019 was based on its uniform plant growth habit and desirable inflorescence form and ray floret color.","Asexual reproduction of the new cultivar by vegetative tip cuttings was first performed in June of 2006 in Mailing, Denmark, and has demonstrated that the combination of characteristics as herein disclosed for the new cultivar are firmly fixed and retained through successive generations of asexual reproduction. The new cultivar reproduces true to type.","The accompanying photographs illustrate the overall appearance of the new \u2018DASING\u2019 showing the colors as true as is reasonably possible with colored reproductions of this type.","Colors in the photographs may differ slightly from the color value cited in the detailed botanical description which accurately describe the color of \u2018DASING\u2019.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 3","i":["Aster ","Aster ","Aster "]},"The new \u2018DASING\u2019 has not been observed under all possible environmental conditions. The phenotype of the new cultivar may vary with variations in environment such as temperature, light intensity, and day length without any change in the genotype of the plant.","The aforementioned photographs, together with the following observations, measurements and values describe the new \u2018DASING\u2019 as grown in a glass-covered greenhouse in Malling, Denmark, under conditions which closely approximate those generally used in commercial practice. \u2018DASING\u2019 plants were grown in 9.5 cm pots in a heated and lighted glass-covered greenhouse with the day temperatures ranging from 18\u00b0 C. to 20\u00b0 C. and the night temperature averaging 18\u00b0 C. \u2018DASING\u2019 plants are grown under long day (20 hour) photoperiodic treatments for five weeks, followed by short day (12 hour) photoperiodic treatments for five weeks. During the long day (20 hour) photoperiodic treatments, if ambient light level falls below +50 Wm, a supplementary light at +200 Wmis applied. \u2018DASING\u2019 plants \u2018DASING\u2019 plants were pinched once, and treated twice with the growth retardant Daminozide.","Color references are made to The Royal Horticultural Society Colour Chart (R.H.S.), 4th Edition, except where general colors of ordinary significance are used. Color values were taken under daylight conditions in Mailing, Denmark. The age of the \u2018DASING\u2019 plants shown in the photographs and described herein is about 10 weeks.\n\n"],"heading":["BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE PHOTOGRAPHS","DETAILED BOTANICAL DESCRIPTION"],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","p":["The following traits have been repeatedly observed and are determined to be unique characteristics of \u2018DASING\u2019, which in combination distinguish this as a new and distinct cultivar:\n\n","Plants of the new \u2018DASING\u2019 differ from plants of the female parent, -\u2018WHITE PRESTIGE\u2019 (unpatented, described in terminated CPVO Grant No. 8521) in the characteristics described below:\n\n","Plants of the unpatented male parent, -seed line designated 05-110-009, and not available to provide a comparison description.","Of the many commercial cultivars known to the present inventor, the most similar in comparison to the new \u2018DASING\u2019 are 1) -\u2018VICTORIA FANNY\u2019 (patented, U.S. Plant Pat. No. 13,360 and CPVO Grant No. 11804) and 2) -\u2018MILKA\u2019 (patented, U.S. Plant Pat. No. 10,602). Plants of the new \u2018DASING\u2019 differ from plants of 1) -\u2018VICTORIA FANNY\u2019 and 2) -\u2018MILKA\u2019 in the characteristics described in Table 1.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0018"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00001","num":"00001"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"4"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"49pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":"TABLE 1"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":[{},{},"Comparison",{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"Cultivar","Comparison"]},{"entry":[{},{},"\u2018VICTORIA","Cultivar"]},{"entry":[{},"New Cultivar","FANNY\u2019","\u2018MILKA\u2019"]},{"entry":["Characteristic","\u2018DASING\u2019","(patented)","(patented)"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Leaf Shape:","Lanceolate","Lanceolate","Elliptic"]},{"entry":["Mature Leaf","Green,","Yellow-green,","Green, RHS"]},{"entry":["Color (upper","RHS 139A","RHS 147A","137A to RHS"]},{"entry":["surface):",{},{},"137B"]},{"entry":["Capitulum","Diameter: 60-70","Diameter: 32.5","Diameter: 24-27"]},{"entry":["Size:","mm","mm","mm"]},{"entry":["Ray Florets","About 250 ray","About 190 ray","About 128-164"]},{"entry":[{},"florets per inflo-","florets per flower,","ray florets per"]},{"entry":[{},"rescence, which","which are narrow-","flower, which are"]},{"entry":[{},"are oblong in","ly obovate in","narrowly elliptic"]},{"entry":[{},"shape, with","shape, with","in shape, with"]},{"entry":[{},"rounded, slightly","rounded apex","acute apex"]},{"entry":[{},"retuse apex"]},{"entry":["Mature Ray","Purple violet,","Violet, RHS 88C","Violet, RHS 85A"]},{"entry":["Floret Color","RHS N80B near"]},{"entry":["(upper surface):","base to RHS"]},{"entry":[{},"N80D near apex"]},{"entry":["Disc Florets:","About 5-10 disc","About 25-35 disc","No disc florets"]},{"entry":[{},"florets per","florets per","produced."]},{"entry":[{},"inflorescence","inflorescence"]},{"entry":["Mature Disc","White, RHS","Yellow-green,","N\/A"]},{"entry":["Floret Color:","155D, with green","RHS 151B"]},{"entry":[{},"spots, RHS 137D"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
