---
title: Integrated handheld computing and telephony device
abstract: A method and apparatus for an organizer that may receive a cellular portion to form a cellular telephone is provided. An organizer comprises an organizer component, including a microphone. The organizer further includes an area for receiving an additional component. The area is designed to receive a cellular component, and a connection element is designed to mate the microphone in the organizer component with the cellular component, to use the organizer as a part of a cellular telephone.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08855722&OS=08855722&RS=08855722
owner: Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P.
number: 08855722
owner_city: Houston
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20090925
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS"],"p":["This patent application is a continuation of and claims a benefit of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11\/273,872, filed Nov. 14, 2005, titled \u201cIntegrated Handheld Computing And Telephony Device,\u201d which is a continuation-in-part of and claims a benefit of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11\/231,631, filed Sep. 20, 2005, titled \u201cIntegrated Handheld Computing and Telephony System and Services\u201d, now U.S. Pat. No. 7,555,727, and a continuation of and claims a benefit of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09\/977,871, filed Oct. 14, 2001, titled \u201cMethod and Apparatus for Accessing a Contacts Database and Telephone Services\u201d, now U.S. Pat. No. 7,007,239, and a continuation-in-part of and claims a benefit of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09\/668,123, filed Sep. 21, 2000, titled \u201cMethod and Apparatus for Organizing Addressing Elements\u201d, now U.S. Pat. No. 6,781,575, and a continuation-in-part of and claims a benefit of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09\/374,095, filed Aug. 12, 1999, titled \u201cMobile Computer System Designed for Wireless Communication Expansion\u201d, now U.S. Pat. No. 6,516,202, the relevant contents of each of these applications herein being incorporated by reference.","1. Field of the Invention","The present invention relates to mobile computer systems, and more specifically, to a handheld computer system.","2. Description of the Related Art","A cellular telephone is becoming an essential tool for more and more people. It is useful for being available while one is traveling, or out of the office. Most people also have organizers. These organizers range from paper-based systems such as the Day Runner to electronic handheld computers, such as the PalmPilot. The organizer is useful to keep a daily schedule, as well as for an address book. For many, if they wish to call someone on the cellular telephone, the user must look up the telephone number in the user's organizer, and then dial the number on the physically separate cellular telephone. This is inconvenient.","One prior art solution to this problem is the Qualcomm pdQ Smartphone, illustrated in . The Smartphone has a display indicator showing telephone mode status. The Smartphone also has a closed keypad with push-buttons for dialing telephone numbers. The Smartphone further includes status lights, a speaker, and a microphone.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0008","num":"0007"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},"The Smartphone combines some of the functionality of an organizer and a telephone. However, having a Smartphone means that any time someone wishes to have an organizer with them, they must also carry the telephone. Furthermore, there is a separate dialing keypad for the telephone and a separate input area for the organizer, such that manufacturing the Smartphone is expensive. Therefore, an improved method and apparatus for combining the functionality of an organizer and a cellular telephone would be advantageous.","An organizer designed for a cellular telephone expansion is described. An organizer comprises an organizer component, including a microphone. The organizer further includes an area for receiving an additional component. The area is designed to receive a cellular component, and a connection element is designed to mate the microphone in the organizer component with the cellular component, to use the organizer as a part of a cellular telephone.","The features and advantages described in the specification are not all inclusive and, in particular, many additional features and advantages will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art in view of the drawings, specification, and claims. Moreover, it should be noted that the language used in the specification has been principally selected for readability and instructional purposes, and may not have been selected to delineate or circumscribe the inventive subject matter.","An organizer designed to receive a cellular component, and thereby form a unitary cellular telephone is described. The organizer is an independent handheld computer which functions without the cellular component. However, when the cellular component is inserted into the organizer, a single telephone is formed. This is advantageous because it simplifies development of both the organizer component and the cellular component, because it permits a single organizer to be coupled to a plurality of telephones for different frequencies\/standards so that the cellular telephone may be used in different parts of the world, and because the user need not carry a full cellular telephone around, if he or she wishes to have an organizer available.","The present specification discusses an organizer component and a cellular component. The organizer component may be any handheld computer, or small size electronic device. The organizer component generally includes a processor, a screen, and a way of interacting with a user. For one embodiment, the organizer component uses the Palm Operating System from 3Com Corporation.","The specification further discusses a cellular component. The cellular component includes any wireless communication device. For one embodiment, the cellular component may be a mobile telephone, such as a TDMA, CDMA, GSM, PCS, DCS, digital or other telephone. The cellular component may be enabled to make voice connections and\/or digital data connections.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":"FIG. 3A","b":["300","350","300","305","305","305"]},"The organizer  further includes a writing area , on which a user may enter information. For one embodiment, the user may also enter information by writing directly on screen .","The organizer  further includes keys  for controlling the display of the organizer . For one embodiment, the keys  may be set to bring up various applications. For one embodiment, the keys  may be user programmable.","The organizer  includes a serial connection to couple the organizer to a computer system. For one embodiment, the serial connection may be used to synchronize the organizer with the computer system. For one embodiment, the serial connection is a Universal Serial Bus (USB) connection. For another embodiment, the serial connection is an RS-232 connection. Alternative types of connections may be used.","The organizer  further includes a void  in the back area of the organizer . The void  is designed to receive an extra element. For one embodiment, the extra element may be a simple place holder. For another embodiment, the extra element may be something else. The void  includes a connection portion . The connection portion  leads signals and other connections from the organizer component to the void .  shows a back view of the organizer, showing the connection portion  at the bottom of the void .","For one embodiment, at least some of the connections may be connected from the processor on the organizer component. For one embodiment, at least one connection may be directly coupled from the serial connection of the organizer component, used for synchronizing the organizer with a computer system. For one embodiment, the connection portion  is designed to mate with the extra element placed in the void .","For one embodiment, the organizer  further includes a microphone . The input of the microphone , for one embodiment, is coupled directly to the connection portion , such that any sound picked up by the microphone is transmitted to the extra element that is connected to the connection element  of the organizer .","For one embodiment, a cellular element  is the extra element that may be coupled into the void . The cellular element  includes a control button , for one embodiment, a power button. For one embodiment, the control button  may have multiple functionalities, or there may be multiple control buttons .","For one embodiment, the cellular element includes a voice connection button  and a data connection button . The voice connection button  is used to initiate a voice connection, to receive or place a voice telephone call. For one embodiment, when the user pushes the voice connection button  a dialing screen is displayed, permitting the user to select a telephone number for a voice connection. The data connection button  is used to initiate a data connection, for access to the World Wide Web, e-mail, fax, or other data transfer. When the user pushes the data connection button, a data screen is displayed, permitting the user to connect to e-mail, the Web, a fax interface, or other data interface.","The cellular element  further may include a status indicator . The status indicator  may be a light, a display panel, or other indicator of status. For one embodiment, the status indicator  may include multiple lights or other indicators. For one embodiment, if the status indicator  is a single light that can display multiple colors such that different colors indicate different statuses.","The cellular element  may further include an antenna  and a speaker . The cellular element  includes a connector . A lower portion  of the cellular element  is sized such that it fits into the void  of the organizer . When the lower portion  is inserted into the void , the connector  is coupled to the connection portion , thereby completing a circuit. Signals are thus routed between the cellular element  and the organizer .","The cellular element , for one embodiment, does not include a microphone. Rather, when the cellular element  is mated to the organizer , the microphone  in the organizer  is used by the cellular element .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0043","num":"0042"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":["410","325","300","410","420"]},"The organizer extension  is hardware which is part of the cellular element, but is under the control of the organizer, and behaves as an extension of the organizer. The organizer extension  includes read only memory (ROM) , and a bidirectional communication medium. For one embodiment, the bi-directional communication medium is a Universal Asynchronous Receiver Transmitter (UART) . For another embodiment, the bidirectional communication medium may be a FIFO, Dual-port, RAM, registers, or other such devices.","The ROM  includes the code to install a portion of the software on the organizer to allow the organizer to interface with the cellular element, and to uninstall the installed software. For one embodiment, the ROM  further includes software which is executed in-place by the organizer.","The phone specific hardware  is the hardware in the cellular element that is used to control specific telephone functionalities. The phone specific hardware  may include: a radio frequency (RF)\/antenna , an IF logic , a power connection , a coder\/decoder\/speaker unit , a microcontroller , and other functions .","For one embodiment, the microcontroller  includes a digital signal processor (DSP). The microcontroller  interfaces with the organizer, via the organizer extension slot  and the UART . The microcontroller  also controls the functions of the other elements of the cellular element. The microcontroller  sends an interrupt signal  to the organizer when a telephone call is received. For one embodiment, the \u201ctelephone call\u201d can include voice, data, or fax connections.","For one embodiment, the microcontroller  also monitors the battery level signal . If the battery level signal  indicates that the organizer does not have a battery in or if the battery level is below a threshold, the microcontroller  does not send the interrupt signal . Generally, when a call is received, the organizer is asked to respond. Using the battery level signal , the organizer is not asked to respond when the battery level is below the threshold. This prevents the stand-by power from being exhausted, possibly leading to memory loss.","The codec\/speaker  receives a microphone signal  from the organizer expansion slot . For one embodiment, the microphone signal  is connected directly through the organizer from a microphone  in the organizer. The organizer itself does not touch the microphone signal , but merely passes it to the codec\/speaker . The speaker itself is in the cellular element. In this way, the microphone  in the organizer is integrated into the codec\/speaker  in the cellular element.","The power  is a battery or other storage device to maintain power to the microcontroller  and the other elements of the cellular element. The power , for one embodiment, receives a power connection  from the organizer. The power connection  may provide auxiliary power, operational power, or charging power to the cellular element. For one embodiment, the power connection  is connected through the organizer expansion slot , to an organizer cradle slot. One of the interconnections between the organizer and the cradle is a power connection. This power connection is routed through the organizer, without being used within the organizer, to couple the power signal  to the power element , when the cellular element is coupled to the organizer. The power connection is used to charge the battery in the cellular element. For one embodiment, the power element  may further include a backup power source, such as a battery or capacitor, to maintain memory or otherwise maintain necessary data within the phone\u2014 specific hardware , if the cellular element has not been charged in some period.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0051","num":"0050"},"figref":"FIG. 5A","b":"510"},"At block , the organizer recognizes that a card has been inserted into the expansion slot. For one embodiment, a hard interrupt is sent to the organizer when a card mates with the card connection of the organizer.","At block , the Set Up application software is copied to RAM from the cellular component's ROM.","At block , the organizer calls the Set Up software with an install parameter. The cellular component queries the organizer which language is being run by the organizer. For one embodiment, the organizer may have multiple language support. Based on the language supported by the organizer, the appropriate language software is selected to be uploaded and moved into RAM.","At block , the Set Up software uploads any software needed to interface the cellular component and the organizer. For one embodiment, this may include operating software, interrupts, an updated address book, and other software. For one embodiment, portions of the software executed by the organizer are executed in-place directly from the cellular component's memory.","At block , the newly formed cellular telephone unit, consisting of the organizer and the cellular element, can be used. In this period, the user can place telephone calls, receive calls, use a dialing screen, or access data wirelessly from the cellular telephone unit. For one embodiment, the overall function of the organizer is not impacted by the presence of the cellular element. However, if a telephone call is received, the cellular element interrupts or wakes up the organizer, and otherwise interacts with the organizer to permit a user to take the telephone call.","At block , the system determines whether the cellular element has been removed from the slot. For one embodiment, this is an interrupt driven system, and the organizer does not test this function. Rather, the organizer recognizes the removal of the cellular element.","At block , the organizer calls on the Set Up application with a remove parameter, to remove all software, hooks, and anything else uploaded to operate the cellular element.","At block , after the Set Up application has finished the removal process, the organizer deletes the Set Up application. The organizer is now returned to the same state it was operating in prior to the insertion of the cellular element. The process ends at block .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0060","num":"0059"},"figref":"FIG. 5B","b":["63","63"]},"The pins include microphone pins, pins  and . Microphone pins transmit the microphone signal from the organizer to the codec of the cellular element. By transmitting the microphone signal as a differential pair, the effects of noise are reduced.","The pins further include VDOCK, pins  and\/or , or docking voltage. This signal transmits the power connection from the cradle to the cellular component, as described above.","For one embodiment, the physical header is similar to the pins of PCMCIA standard. This is advantageous because it permits a cellular component to use an off-the-shelf connector. For one embodiment, the key of the socket is different from PCMCIA standard, such that a PCMCIA card can not be accidentally inserted into the organizer.","Of course, it is to be understood that this is merely an exemplary pin out, and the pin order as well as content could be changed without changing the present invention.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0065","num":"0064"},"figref":"FIG. 6","b":["610","650","610","610"]},"The software that executes on the organizer  includes a phone application . The phone app  controls the user interface, database, and system level operations of the cellular element. The software that executes on the organizer may further include an address book . For one embodiment, the organizer includes an address book that is changed in format when the cellular element is coupled to the organizer. For example, for one embodiment, the address book displays a single-key dialing ability when the cellular element is coupled to the organizer.","Other applications , such as conference calling, e-mail, web browser, etc. may be part of the software that runs on the organizer . Any application that is altered by the connection of the cellular element to the organizer would be included in this list.","The software that executes on the cellular element  interfaces with the software that executes on the organizer  using an application programming interface (API) . For one embodiment, the API  runs over serial communications, over the bidirectional communications medium.","For one embodiment, the software that executes on the cellular element  runs on the microcontroller in the cellular element. For one embodiment, the software that executes on the cellular component  includes the phone OS , cellular telephony protocol stack , and hardware control and interface . The cellular telephony functions include the cellular protocol stack, frequency\/code selection, control of data services, etc. For one embodiment, functions directly related to making a connection to the network are handled in the software that executes on the cellular component . Functions for database management, storing and retrieving information about the connection, etc. are executed on the organizer.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0070","num":"0069"},"figref":"FIG. 7","b":["710","715","720","725","715","730","735","740","720","725","725","760","750","750"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0071","num":"0070"},"figref":"FIG. 8A","b":"805"},"The base screen is the speed dialing screen . Programmed speed dialing screen  includes identifiers for each of the individuals programmed into the speed dialer. The identifiers are designated by the user, and may be nicknames, or other identifiers. For one embodiment, the top left hand slot is a voicemail slot.","On the bottom left of the speed dialing screen  are indicated the other base screens, the dial pad screen , and the call history screen (not shown). An option to edit the speed dial listings is also provided.","At the top of the speed dialing screen , and every other base screen for one embodiment, are indicators. There is a time indicator, a message indicator, a signal strength indicator, and a battery strength indicator. For one embodiment, there are two message indicators, indicating either a voicemail message or a text\/e-mail message. For one embodiment, the message indicator may further include service provider information as well.","From the speed dialing screen , if a user presses a speed dial button, the screen changes to the dialing screen . The dialing screen  indicates the status of the call, as well as the identity of the person called. For one embodiment, there is a hang-up option. When the call is connected, the call active screen  is displayed, showing the connection time, and providing the options of hanging up, placing the call on hold, placing a second call, or engaging the key pad (to dial additional numbers, such as for a credit card call, voicemail call, dialing an extension, etc.)","If the user selects \u201csecond call\u201d, the speed dialing screen  appears, although the user may optionally switch to another screen. The first call is automatically placed on hold. The second call is then dialed. The-two-call dial status screen  indicates the status of both calls. For one embodiment, only one call can be active at any time. For another embodiment, multiple calls may be simultaneously active, and in such a case, the calls may be conferenced together.","An alternative base screen is the dialing pad . The dialing pad  displays the software generated dialing keys. When the user starts dialing, the dialing screen  is displayed, and the numbers dialed replace the status indicators at the top of the screen.","Of course, these screens are sample screens only. Altering the location or display format of any of this data is optional, and would not change the present invention.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0079","num":"0078"},"figref":"FIG. 8B","b":["865","865","868","870"]},"The user may chose to answer the call, by pushing the answer button, or ignore the call. For one embodiment, the answer button may be a software generated button. For one embodiment, the user may also accept or ignore the call by pushing a built-in button on the cellular element. If the user ignores the call, and voicemail is enabled on the system, the call is automatically transferred to voicemail. For one embodiment, if the user ignores the call, the call may be transferred to a user designated destination. A missed call screen  is displayed, showing the identity, telephone number, time and date of call. The user may acknowledge the missed call, or may automatically return the call, if caller identification is enabled. For one embodiment, if the caller left a message on voicemail, a third option is displayed, permitting the user to listen to the voicemail left by the caller, shown on voicemail screen .","If the user answers the call, the active call screen  is shown. From here, the user can place the caller on hold, hang up, dial a second call, or receive a second call. When a second call is received, the first call is placed on hold, for one embodiment. In this way, the maximum amount of information is displayed to the user, regarding the status of various calls and systems.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0082","num":"0081"},"figref":"FIG. 8C","b":["890","893","893"]},"The user can further save information from the call history. If the user selects the \u201csave\u201d button, a save screen  is displayed. This save screen  permits the user to automatically add data from the history entry to his or her speed dial list and\/or address book. For one embodiment, if other programs are supported, the user may further add the data into other programs, such as a contact tracker, etc. For one embodiment, the call history may interface with a contact tracking application, and automatically update information in the contact tracking application, as calls are made and received.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0084","num":"0083"},"figref":"FIG. 9A","b":"910"},"At block , the user selects to add a new voicemail account to the speed dialing list. Voicemail programmed speed dial buttons are treated differently from other speed dial buttons.","At block , the user is prompted to enter the telephone number and\/or password for the voicemail account. For one embodiment, the user is permitted to use \u201cpause\u201d characters or \u201cwait for tone\u201d characters, to dial the full voicemail access code. For another embodiment, when the user first pushes the voicemail button, the telephone number is dialed, and when the user pushes the voicemail button for a second time, the password is dialed. Both of these numbers are entered at this stage.","At block , control screen is displayed. The control screen includes each of the commands that are generally available in a voicemail system, such as previous message, next message, back, skip message, delete message, forward message, back to the beginning, reply to message, etc. For one embodiment, a subset of these commands may be made available. For another embodiment, the user may alter this listing, and may create new commands.","At block , the user is prompted to enter a command or command sequence for each of the commands that are available in the voicemail system. For example, in a voicemail system, pressing the \u201c3\u201d key may mean \u201cdelete message.\u201d The user can enter the number \u201c3\u201d underneath the command key, to program the command. In other systems, the pressing the \u201c7\u201d key twice may be the code to \u201cdelete message.\u201d The user can enter whatever key combination works for the specific voicemail system.","At block , after the user finishes programming the voicemail system, the user is prompted to name the speed dial button. For one embodiment, the default name is \u201cvoicemail.\u201d However, users may have multiple voicemail accounts, and may wish to have more descriptive names. At block , the process ends. The programming of the voicemail access is now complete, and the user can access the voicemail system by pressing the speed dial button.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0090","num":"0089"},"figref":"FIG. 9B","b":["950","955","950","820","960","960","960","960"]},"In the foregoing specification, the invention has been described with reference to specific exemplary embodiments thereof. It will, however, be evident that various modifications and changes may be made thereto without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention as set forth in the appended claims. The specification and drawings are, accordingly, to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The disclosed embodiments have other advantages and features which will be more readily apparent from the following detailed description and the appended claims, when taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.","The present invention is illustrated by way of example, and not by way of limitation, in the figures of the accompanying drawings and in which like reference numerals refer to similar elements and in which:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 3A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 3B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 5A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 5B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 8A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 8B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 8C"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":"FIG. 9A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":"FIG. 9B"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
