---
title: Means for improving inertial measurement unit reliability for cannon launched applications
abstract: This invention provides a shock mitigation means that attenuates the high frequency energy transmitted to the floating element of an inertial measurement unit (IMU) device in a cannon launched guided projectile or cannon launched munition improving the ability of the IMU to survive the extreme forces of such cannon launched environment. The invention utilizes a crushable foam mitigator located in the IMU device's housing to interfere and apply a compressive force to the floating element of the IMU device, plus a rubber pad attenuator element placed above the foam mitigator to further tailor the transmission of shock energy to the floating element in the IMU device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08113045&OS=08113045&RS=08113045
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 08113045
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20090618
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS","U.S. GOVERNMENT INTEREST","BACKGROUND OF INVENTION","SUMMARY AND OBJECTS OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["This application claims benefit under 35USC119 (e) of the filing date of provisional application 61\/179,160 filed May 18, 2009.","The inventions described herein may be made, used, or licensed by or for the U.S. Government for U.S. Government purposes.","The invention relates in general to ballistic munitions and in particular to ballistic projectiles that measure conditions in a launching tube and in the exterior flight environment.","The United States military has sought to ensure and enhance reliability in various guided projectiles which contain an inertial measurement unit (IMU). An IMU is a critical part of any flight control system which helps allow for proper guidance of the airframe. Artillery or tank cannon launching of guided projectiles has created a plethora of issues regarding the ruggedness of an IMU. One such means of improving the reliability of the IMU is to increase the support to its sensing element, during the cannon launch phase of the projectile flight. Once the projectile is in free-flight, the sensing element is allowed to float and function as intended. (In this specification, the sensing element may also at times be referred to as a \u201cfloating element\u201d).","The invention provides a means of improving the ability of an IMU to survive a cannon launching environment. The cannon launching environment applies extreme forces in all directions to the sensing element of the IMU. Said forces contain a spectrum of frequencies that can run as high as hundreds of thousands of cycles per second (Hz). This invention intends on applying a means of restricting motion of the sensing element of the IMU such that the device will withstand the period of cannon launching. Post cannon launching, the device will be allowed to float as designed, and function as it was originally intended.","The invention comprises a shock mitigation device that attenuates the high frequency energy transmitted to the floating element of an IMU in a cannon launched guided projectile. The mitigator can be a crushable foam, e.g., element that initially applies an interference force to the floating element of the IMU. During the time of cannon launch, the floating element compresses such foam. The foam is designed such that only under gun launch loads would it be stressed to the point of the inelastic yield range of the material and thus collapse, absorbing the impact energy. After the transient period of cannon launch, the floating element is restored to its original position as designed. The foam would be permanently deformed after the set back event and therefore would provide the space required to allow the floating element to again move freely during the exterior flight phase.","Therefore, it is an object of this invention to provide means of improving the ability of an IMU in a projectile or munition to survive the extreme forces of a cannon launching environment.","It is another object of this invention to provide a shock mitigation device that attenuates the high frequency energy transmitted to the floating element of an IMU in a cannon launched guided projectile.","Further objects, features, and advantages thereof will become more apparent, and the invention may be better understood, from the following description of the preferred embodiments taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings. In the drawings, which are not necessarily to scale, like or corresponding parts are denoted by corresponding reference numerals.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":["FIG. 1A","FIG. 1B"],"b":["1","5","4","2","3","4"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":["FIGS. 2A and 2B","FIG. 2D","FIG. 2C"],"b":["6","5","9","6","4","4","6","4","4"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":["FIGS. 3A and 3B","FIG. 3D","FIG. 3C"],"b":["7","9","6","4","6","7","5","6","7","8","6","7","7","6"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":["8","1","5","8","1","6","7","8"]},"While the invention has been described with reference to certain preferred embodiments, numerous changes, alterations and modifications to the described embodiments are possible without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined in the appended claims, and equivalents thereof. For example, while an IMU system has been described here above, the shock mitigator and attenuator system hereof might also be applied to various fuzing devices, guidance electronics, and other types of sensor systems, as a means of protecting these systems by tailoring the transmitted shock of a cannon launch, and therefore improving reliability."],"GOVINT":[{},{}],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":["FIG. 1A","FIG. 1B"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIGS. 2A and 2B","b":"6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":["FIG. 2C","FIG. 2D"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":["FIGS. 3A and 3B","FIGS. 2A and 2B"],"b":"7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":["FIG. 3C","FIG. 3D"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":"6"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
