---
title: Electronic apparatus, content reproduction method, record medium, and server apparatus
abstract: An electronic apparatus is disclosed. A reproduction section allows first video content containing a plurality of types of data and first identification information to be reproduced. A transmission section transmits the first identification information to a server apparatus. A reception section receives a first application and first access control information from the server apparatus, the first application being associated with the first video content and being retrieved by the server apparatus based on the transmitted first identification information, the first access control information being generated by the server apparatus based on the first identification information and representing a condition in which the first application accesses the individual types of the data contained in the first video content. A control section executes the received first application based on the received first access control information when the first video content is reproduced.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08682138&OS=08682138&RS=08682138
owner: Sony Corporation
number: 08682138
owner_city: Tokyo
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20090512
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DESCRIPTION OF PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS"],"p":["1. Field of the Invention","The present invention relates to an electronic apparatus, a content reproduction method, a record medium, and a server apparatus connected to the electronic apparatus, each of which is capable of reproducing content from a record medium such as a Blu-ray disc (BD).","2. Description of the Related Art","In the BD-ROM (Read Only Memory) standards, a so-called BD-J (BD-Java (registered trademark)), which is a Java (registered trademark) based application, has been used. A BD-J has an interactive function (that is a network connecting function). With the interactive function, a BD-ROM reproduction apparatus can download an application associated with video content recorded on a BD-ROM from a network and execute the downloaded application.","For example, Japanese Patent Application Laid-Open Publication No. 2007-508660, hereinafter referred to as Patent Document 1, discloses a player that is linked to a web server such that while content is being reproduced from an optical disc, an application and content such as sound, subtitle, and so forth can be downloaded from the web server to allow the content of the optical disc to collaborate with content of the web server. The optical disc whose data are reproduced by the player has a public key used to check whether or not downloaded content has been authenticated. The player reads content and a public key from the optical disc and authenticates the downloaded content with the public key. Thus, the content of the optical disc and the player are prevented from being damaged by hacking caused by the downloaded content.","However, the player disclosed in Patent Document 1 does not define any execution method of a downloaded application that collaborates with the content of the optical disc. Thus, even if a downloaded application has been authenticated, when it is executed, depending on the execution manner thereof, content of the optical disc may be modified and\/or controlled in a manner not intended by the content provider. The situation may disappoint the user of content of the optical disc.","In view of the foregoing, it would be desirable to provide an electronic apparatus, a content reproduction method, a record medium, and a server apparatus that allow an application associated with content that is being reproduced to be executed in an optimum state for content.","According to an embodiment of the present invention, there is provided an electronic apparatus. The electronic apparatus includes a reproduction means, a transmission means, a reception means, and a control means. The reproduction means allows first video content containing a plurality of types of data and first identification information to be reproduced. The transmission means transmits the first identification information to a server apparatus. The reception means receives a first application and first access control information from the server apparatus, the first application being associated with the first video content and being retrieved by the server apparatus based on the transmitted first identification information, the first access control information being generated by the server apparatus based on the first identification information and representing a condition in which the first application accesses the individual types of the data contained in the first video content. The control means executes the received first application based on the received first access control information when the first video content is reproduced.","Examples of the electronic apparatus include digital video players such as a BD player and a DVD player, digital video recorders such as a BD recorder, a DVD recorder, and a hard disc drive (HDD) recorder, a personal computer (PC), a game machine, a mobile phone, a portable audio\/visual reproduction device, a digital video camera, a personal digital assistant (PDA), a car navigation device, a robot device, and other electric appliances. Examples of the plurality of types of data include main program video data, bonus video data, audio\/music data, subtitle data, time line data, and metadata. Examples of the first application include various types of applications such as a game application, an E-commerce shopping application for songs, products, and tour tickets, a performer data retrieval application, and a learning application. The first content may be obtained from a network, a broadcasting signal, or a portable record medium such as an optical disc.","In this structure, the electronic apparatus transmits the first identification information of the first video content to the server apparatus and receives the first access control information along with the first application associated with the first video content from the server apparatus. Thus, while the first video content is being reproduced, although the application associated with the content can be executed, the application can be suppressed from minimally accessing the first video content. As a result, the application can be prevented from modifying and\/or controlling content in a manner not intended by the content provider. In addition, the application can be prevented from disappointing the user. In other words, when content is reproduced, the application associated with the content can be executed in an optimum state for the content.","In the electronic apparatus, the reception means may receive the first access control information again from the server apparatus when the received first application is executed. The control means may execute the received first application based on the first access control information which has been received again.","Thus, even if the first access control information that has been obtained when the application is received is different from the first access control information that has been obtained when the application is executed, the application can be appropriately controlled to access the first video content based on latest information.","In the electronic apparatus, the first video content may have been recorded on a first portable record medium along with a first program which causes the first video content to be reproduced and the first identification information to be transmitted. The control means may execute the first program which has been recorded.","Examples of the first portable record medium include optical discs such as a BD (Blu-ray Disc) and a DVD and a memory card containing a flash memory. The first program is structured, for example, as a Java (registered trademark) based application (BD-J). In this structure, using the first program recorded on a portable record medium separated from the electronic apparatus, not only the first video content is reproduced, but the first application associated with the first video content can be received and executed.","In the electronic apparatus, the reception means receives a list of a plurality of different applications including the first application retrieved by the server apparatus therefrom and receives a plurality of applications selected from the list and one piece of the first access control information from the server apparatus, the first access control information being generated by the server apparatus and representing a condition in which the selected plurality of applications access the individual types of the data. The transmission means may transmit a transmission request signal which requests for transmission of the selected applications to the server apparatus. The control means may receive a user's operation input which selects the plurality of applications and executes the received plurality of applications based on the received one piece of the first access control information.","Thus, when there are a plurality of applications associated with the first video content, they can be selected from a list. In addition, the plurality of applications can be controlled to access data with the one piece of the first access control information. Thus, the load imposed to the electronic apparatus can be suppressed to be minimum in comparison with the case that the electronic apparatus receives access control information for each application and executes the received application corresponding to the access control information.","In the electronic apparatus, the control means may obtain information about specifications of at least either of hardware specifications and software specifications of the electronic apparatus by executing the first program. The transmission means may transmit the obtained information about specifications to the server apparatus along with the first identification information by executing the first program. The reception means may receive, by executing the first program, the first application retrieved by the server apparatus based on the first identification information and the information about specifications that have been transmitted.","Thus, an application appropriately corresponding to hardware specifications or software specifications of the electronic apparatus can be received and executed along with an application associated with the first video content. Examples of the hardware specifications include information about a clock frequency of a central processing unit (CPU) as the control means, a storage capacity of a memory, and a network connection rate of a network interface as the transmission means and the reception means. Examples of the software specifications include information about applicable fonts, applicable character codes, permission\/prohibition of floating decimal point calculations, and applicable application programming interface (API).","The electronic apparatus may also include a connection means connectable to an external device. The control means may obtain connected device information about the connected external device through the connection means by executing the first program. The transmission means may transmit the obtained connected device information to the server apparatus along with the first identification information and the specification information. The reception means may receive, by executing the first program, the first application retrieved by the server apparatus based on the first identification information, the specification information, and the connected device information which have been transmitted.","Examples of the external device include input\/output devices such as a display device, a microphone, a mouse, a keyboard, and a remote controller, and devices such as an image capturing device. The external device is not limited to one directly connected to the electronic apparatus, but one indirectly connected to the electronic apparatus through another external device. Examples of the connected device information include the type and connection method of the external device, the screen size of the display device, the number of effective colors, luminance information, and the display mode (multi-display mode, picture-in-picture (PinP) mode, etc.).","In this structure, when information about the external device connected to the electronic apparatus is transmitted to the server apparatus, an application corresponding to the connection environment can be retrieved and received from the server apparatus. For example, the electronic apparatus can retrieve and receive from the server apparatus an application that can be executed with appropriate fonts and luminance corresponding to specifications of the display device. In addition, when a microphone and an image capturing device have been connected to the electronic apparatus, it can retrieve and receive from the server apparatus a language learning application that uses them.","The electronic apparatus may also include a storage means which stores first reproduction history information that denotes whether or not the first video content has been reproduced by the reproduction means based on the first identification information. The reproduction means may be capable of reproducing second video content which has summary information of the first video content and which is a sequel of the first video content. The control means may determine whether or not the first video content has been reproduced based on the first reproduction history information when the second video content is reproduced and controls the reproduction means not to reproduce the summary information if the control means has determined that the first video content has been reproduced.","In this structure, when the second video content is reproduced, summary information can be controlled to be reproduced or not reproduced based on the first reproduction history information of the first video content. Thus, if the user of the electronic apparatus watches the second video content after he or she watched the second video content, the summary information of the first video content can be prevented from being unnecessary reproduced. As a result, the user can effectively watch video content as he or she wants. Examples of the sequel include content that continues in a story from a prequel and content having a story developed from a story or a theme of the prequel.","In the electronic apparatus, the control means may control the reproduction means to reproduce the summary information if a predetermined period has elapsed after the first reproduction history information has been stored when the second video content is reproduced.","Thus, if it took a long time after the user watched the first content, the first summary information is reproduced before he or she watches the second content, he or she is allowed to remind the substance of the first content. Examples of the predetermined period include one week, one month, one year, and so forth. However, the predetermined period is not limited to these periods. In addition, the predetermined period may be customized by the user.","In the electronic apparatus, the second video content may contain a plurality of types of data and second identification information and have been recorded on a second portable record medium along with a second program which causes the second video content to be reproduced and the second identification information to be transmitted. The transmission means may transmit the second identification information and the first reproduction history information to the server apparatus when the second video content is reproduced. The reception means may receive a second application and second access control information from the server apparatus, the second application being retrieved by the server apparatus when it has been determined, based on the second identification information and the first reproduction history information which have been transmitted, that the first content has not been reproduced and allowing the user to buy the first video content, the second access control information representing a condition in which the second application accesses the individual types of the data contained in the second video content. The control means may execute the received second application based on the received second access control information when the second video content is reproduced.","In this structure, when the second video content is reproduced if the first video content, which is the prequel of the second video content, has not been reproduced by the reproduction means, an application that allows the user to buy the first video content can be received from the server apparatus and can be executed. Thus, the user can know the story of the first video content and more enjoy the second video content. In addition, the second application can be caused to minimally access the second video content such that it is prevented from being modified and\/or controlled in a manner not intended by the content provider.","In the electronic apparatus, the first video content may contain preview information of the second video content. The storage means may store second reproduction history information which denotes whether or not the second video content has been reproduced by the reproduction means based on the second identification information. The control means may determine whether or not the second video content has been reproduced based on the second reproduction history information when the first video content is reproduced and controls the reproduction means not to reproduce the preview information if the control means has determined that the second video content has been reproduced.","Thus, when the first video content is reproduced, preview information can be controlled whether or not to be reproduced based on the reproduction history of the second video content. Thus, when the user of the electronic apparatus watches the first video content after the second video content, the preview information of the second video content can be prevented from being unnecessarily reproduced. Thus, the user can be allowed to effectively watch video content as he or she wants. In other words, the first and second video content can be optimized based on their reproduction histories.","The electronic apparatus may also include a connection means connected to a display device. The control means may obtain display performance information about a display performance of the display device through the connection means from the display device, change a font and a luminance of character information contained in the first video content based on the display performance information which has been obtained, and output the resultant first video content to the display device by executing the first program.","Examples of the display performance information include a screen size, the number of effective colors, luminance information, a current display mode (multi-display mode, PinP mode, etc.). Thus, character information of the first video content can be optimized based on the specifications of the display device. As a result, in any environment, user's visibility and convenience can be easily secured.","In the electronic apparatus, the first video content may contain audience age restriction information which restricts a user who is under a predetermined age from watching the first video content. The transmission means may transmit, by executing the first program, the audience age restriction information to the server apparatus along with the first identification information. The reception means may receive the first application having the audience age restriction information and being retrieved by the server apparatus based on the first identification information and the audience age restriction information which have been transmitted by executing the first program.","The audience age restriction information is information that accomplishes a so-called parental lock or rating system. Thus, when the audience age restrictions have been applied to the first video content, the first application associated with the first video content can also execute the audience age restrictions. In other words, the server apparatus can retrieve applications that do not satisfy age restrictions as the first application and prevent the electronic apparatus from receiving these applications.","In the electronic apparatus, the first access control information may contain execution location information which restricts an execution location of the first application to a predetermined execution location over a network. The control means may restrict the first application from being executed in other than the predetermined execution location based on the execution location information.","Thus, even if the first application has been prohibited from being executed at other than a predetermined execution location, the first access control information can adequately control execution of the first application. Examples of the predetermined execution location include URLs of predetermined countries and areas. For example, when the first application is an application that allows the user to buy songs through a worldwide music delivery service, the execution location of the first application can be restricted to service providing servers disposed in other than Japan. Thus, even if copyright coverage differs in each country's legal system, execution of the first application can be adequately controlled.","According to another embodiment of the present invention, there is provided a content reproduction method. Identification information which identifies video content containing a plurality of types of data is transmitted to a server apparatus. An application and an access control information are received from the server apparatus, the application being associated with the video content and being retrieved by the server apparatus based on the transmitted identification information, the access control information being generated by the server apparatus based on the identification information. The access control information represents a condition in which the application accesses the individual types of the data contained in the video content. The received application is executed based on the received access control information when the video content is reproduced.","In this structure, when video content is reproduced, although an application associated with the video content can be executed, the application can be caused to minimally access the video content. Thus, the application can be prevented from modifying content in a manner not intended by the content provider and disappointing the user. In other words, when content is reproduced, an application associated with the content can be executed in an optimum state for the content.","According to another embodiment of the present invention, there is provided a record medium on which a program has been recorded, the program being executed by an electronic apparatus. Identification information which identifies video content containing a plurality of types of data is transmitted to a server apparatus. An application and an access control information are received from the server apparatus, the application being associated with the video content and being retrieved by the server apparatus based on the transmitted identification information, the access control information being generated by the server apparatus based on the identification information and representing a condition in which the application accesses the individual types of the data contained in the video content. The received application is executed based on the received access control information when the video content is reproduced.","Examples of the record medium include optical discs such as a BD and a DVD and a memory card having a built-in flash memory. The program is structured, for example, as a Java (registered trademark) based application (BD-J).","According to another embodiment of the present invention, there is provided a server apparatus. The server apparatus includes a reception means, a retrieval means, a generation means, and a transmission means. The reception means receives identification information from an electronic apparatus which is capable of reproducing video content containing a plurality of types of data and the identification information. The retrieval means retrieves an application associated with the video content based on the received identification information. The generation means generates access control information which represents a condition in which the retrieved application accesses the individual types of the data contained in the video content. The transmission means transmits the retrieved application and the generated access control information to an electronic apparatus.","In this structure, by retrieving an application based on identification information received from the electronic apparatus, it can be caused to execute an application associated with video content. In addition, by generating the access control information and transmitting it to the electronic apparatus, the application is prevented from modifying the content in a manner not intended by the content provider and disappointing the user. In other words, when content is reproduced by the electronic apparatus, an application associated with the content can be executed in an optimum state for the content.","In the server apparatus, the reception means may receive from the electronic apparatus information about specifications of at least either of hardware specifications and software specifications of the electronic apparatus. The retrieval means may retrieve the application based on the identification information and the information about specifications which have been received.","In the server apparatus, the reception means may receive connected device information about an external device connected to the electronic apparatus from the electronic apparatus. The retrieval means may retrieve the application based on the identification information and the connected device information which have been received.","In the server apparatus, the reception means may receive reproduction history information that denotes whether or not the video content has been reproduced by the electronic apparatus from the electronic apparatus. The retrieval means may retrieve the application based on the identification information and the reproduction history information which have been received.","According to another embodiment of the present invention, there is provided an electronic apparatus. The electronic apparatus includes a reproduction section, a transmission section, a reception section, and a control section. The reproduction section allows first video content containing a plurality of types of data and first identification information to be reproduced. The transmission section transmits the first identification information to a server apparatus. The reception section receives a first application and first access control information from the server apparatus, the first application being associated with the first video content and being retrieved by the server apparatus based on the transmitted first identification information, the first access control information being generated by the server apparatus based on the first identification information and representing a condition in which the first application accesses the individual types of the data contained in the first video content. The control section executes the received first application based on the received first access control information when the first video content is reproduced.","According to another embodiment of the present invention, there is provided a server apparatus. The server apparatus includes a reception section, a retrieval section, a generation section, a transmission section. The reception section receives identification information from an electronic apparatus which is capable of reproducing video content containing a plurality of types of data and the identification information. The retrieval section retrieves an application associated with the video content based on the received identification information. The generation section generates access control information which represents a condition in which the retrieved application accesses the individual types of the data contained in the video content. The transmission section transmits the retrieved application and the generated access control information to an electronic apparatus.","Thus, according to an embodiment of the present invention, when content is reproduced, an application associated with the content can be executed in an optimum state for the content.","These and other objects, features and advantages of the present invention will become more apparent in light of the following detailed description of best mode embodiments thereof, as illustrated in the accompanying drawings.","Next, with reference to the accompanying drawings, embodiments of the present invention will be described.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0063","num":"0062"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},"As shown in , the system includes a digital video recorder  (hereinafter referred to as the DVR ) and an application discovery server  (hereinafter referred to as the ADS ).","The DVR  can reproduce video content from an optical disc such as a BD-ROM , receive broadcast content, and record it on the BD-ROM . Connected to the DVR  is a television device  (hereinafter referred to as the TV ) as a display device that displays video content reproduced by the DVR . The DVR  has been connected to the ADS  through a network  such as the Internet or a local area network (LAN).","The ADS  is managed by a content provider that provides video content recorded on the BD-ROM . There are a plurality of ADSs  corresponding to titles of video content recorded on the BD-ROM  (only one of ADSs  is shown in the drawing). Each of the ADSs  is connected to a plurality of application servers  (to ) through the network . The application servers  each store various types of applications . The application servers  are managed by respective service providers that provide various types of services using the applications . It should be noted that the number of application servers  is not limited to three. The ADS  retrieves an application  associated with video content recorded on the BD-ROM  from the individual application servers  corresponding to a request from the DVR . The application  obtained by the ADS  is downloaded to the DVR  and executed while video content recorded on the BD-ROM  is being reproduced.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0067","num":"0066"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":"100"},"As shown in , the DVR  includes a digital tuner , a demodulation section , a demultiplexer , a codec , a record and reproduction section , a HDD  (storage means), an optical disc drive , a communication section  (transmission means, reception means), a central processing unit (CPU)  (control means), a flash memory  (storage means), a random access memory (RAM)  (storage means), an operation input section , a video control section , a video digital\/analog (D\/A) converter , an audio control section , and an audio digital\/analog (D\/A) converter .","The digital tuner  selects a particular channel of a digital broadcast through an antenna (not shown) under the control of the CPU  and receives a broadcast signal containing broadcast program data. This broadcast signal is an MPEG stream encoded according, for example, to the MPEG-2 TS format, but not limited thereto. The demodulation section  demodulates the broadcast signal that has been modulated.","The demultiplexer  demultiplexes a multiplexed broadcast signal into a video signal and an audio signal, which have been compressed. The codec  decodes the demultiplexed video signal and audio signal. In addition, the codec  can transcode signal formats of the video signal and audio signal into other formats corresponding to output destinations for the video signal and audio signal.","The record and reproduction section  includes a record section  and a reproducing section  (reproduction means). The record section  temporarily stores the video signal and audio signal that have been demodulated by the demodulation section  and that have been compressed or when necessary temporarily stores the video signal and audio signal transcoded by the codec . While controlling output timings and data amounts of the video signal and audio signal, the record section  outputs them to the HDD  and the optical disc drive  and causes them to record the video signal and audio signal. The reproduction section  reads a video signal and an audio signal of content from the HDD  and\/or an optical disc. While controlling output timings and data amounts of the video signal and audio signal, the reproduction section  outputs them to the codec  and causes it to decode and reproduce them.","The HDD  stores the application  received from the application server  over the network  and reproduction history information of video content on the BD-ROM  as well as broadcast program data received through the digital tuner . The reproduction history information contains a content ID and reproduction date\/time of video content reproduced by the recording and reproduction section . In addition, the HDD  stores any types of content including video content, still image content, and music content that are input from external devices such as a digital camera through various types of interfaces (not shown) (connection means) in a built-in hard disc. Moreover, the HDD  stores various types of programs including an operating system (OS), other applications, and other types of data. When data are read from the hard disc and reproduced, the HDD  reads them from the hard disc and outputs the obtained data to the recording and reproduction section .","The optical disc drive  has an insertion section (not shown) into which an optical disc is inserted (loaded). The optical disc drive  can write data to a recordable\/rewritable optical disc such as a BD-R (recordable), a BD-RE (rewritable), or the like that has been inserted into the insertion section and read data from a readable optical disc such as the BD-ROM . Beside these, examples of the optical disc include a DVD and a CD.","The communication section  is a network interface connecting to the network , through which data such as an application is downloaded from the ADS  according to a protocol such as the transmission control protocol\/internet protocol (TCP\/IP).","When necessary, the CPU  accesses the RAM  and so forth and totally controls each block of the DVR . For example, the CPU  controls, for example, a BD-J application to perform a reproduction process for video content stored in the BD-ROM  and the application  to perform an execution process. In addition, as will be described later, the CPU  controls a creation process for reproduction history information of video content, a process of obtaining specification information about hardware and\/or software of the DVR , and a process of obtaining information about an external device connected to the DVR .","The flash memory  is a nonvolatile memory that retains an OS, programs, and firmware of various parameters and so forth that the CPU  executes. The RAM  is used as a work area for the CPU  and temporarily stores the OS, programs, processed data, and so forth.","The operation input section  inputs various setting values and commands that the user inputs on a remote controller (not shown) having, for example, a plurality of keys and outputs them to the CPU . Of course, instead of a remote controller, the operation input section  may be a keyboard and a mouse connected to the DVR , and\/or switches disposed thereon.","The video control section  performs a graphic process such as an on-screen display (OSD) process for a video signal that is output from the codec  and data that are output from the CPU  to generate a video signal that is displayed on the TV . The video D\/A converter  converts a digital video signal that is input from the video control section  into an analog video signal and outputs it to the TV .","The audio control section  performs an amplifying process, an audio volume controlling process, and so forth for a digital audio signal generated by the CPU  and outputs the processed audio signal to the audio D\/A converter . The audio D\/A converter  converts the digital audio signal that is input from the codec  into an analog audio signal and outputs the analog audio signal to a speaker of the TV .","The TV  displays the analog video signal on a display section (not shown). The TV  outputs the analog audio signal to the speaker of the TV  or an external speaker (not shown).","Recorded on the BD-ROM  are various types of data that compose video content and a Java (registered trademark) based application (BD-J) that controls reproduction of the video content, connection with the network , and execution and so forth of the application  associated with video content. When video content is reproduced from the BD-ROM , the BD-J is read to the RAM  along with the video content. The BD-J stores a URL with which the ADS  is accessed, a program that obtains the applications  from the ADS  corresponding to the URL, a program that obtains information about the DVR  and the external device, and so forth. The BD-J can execute the application  downloaded from the ADS  corresponding to the URL like the video content or as if the application  were recorded on the BD-ROM . The BD-ROM  contains a content ID that uniquely identifies a title of video content recorded on the BD-ROM .","A microphone  and a camera  as external devices can be connected to the DVR  through an interface such as a universal serial bus (USB) (connection means).","The microphone  collects, for example, a user's voice, converts it into an analog audio signal, and outputs it to the audio control section . The audio control section  converts the analog audio signal that is input from the microphone  into a digital audio signal and outputs the digital audio signal to the CPU .","In the camera , an image sensor such as a complementary metal oxide semiconductor (CMOS) sensor or a charge coupled device (CCD) captures an image, for example, of the face of the user and outputs the captured image data as digital data to the video control section . The video control section  outputs the captured image data that are input from the camera  to the CPU .","The microphone  and the camera  can be also connected to the TV . Other external devices such as a remote controller are connectable to the DVR  and the TV  through any one of various types of wired or wireless interfaces (connection means).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0086","num":"0085"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":"300"},"As shown in , the ADS  includes a CPU  (retrieval means, generation means), a RAM , a read-only memory (ROM) , a communication section  (reception means, transmission means), an operation input section , and a HDD  that are connected through a bus .","When necessary, the CPU  accesses the RAM  and performs various types of calculation processes such as a retrieval process for applications  and a process of creating a security policy file so as to totally control each block of the ADS . The RAM  is used as a work area for the CPU  and temporarily stores, for example, an OS, programs, and data to be transmitted to the DVR . The ROM  is a nonvolatile memory that retains the OS, programs, and firmware of various types of parameters and so forth that the CPU  executes.","The communication section  is an interface that communicates with the DVR  and the application server  through the network . The operation input section  is composed of a mouse, a keyboard, buttons, switches, operation confirmation indicators, and so forth. The operation input section  inputs various types of commands that a supervisor of the content provider operates and outputs them to the CPU .","The HDD  stores the OS, programs, and data in the built-in hard disc, and reads them from the hard disc to the RAM . In addition, the HDD  stores applications  obtained from the application server  and data such as a security policy file (that will be described later).","The ADS  provides applications  associated with video content of the BD-ROM  to the DVR  and has an access control function for the applications  to video content corresponding to the foregoing security policy file. Next, this access control will be described.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0092","num":"0091"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},"As shown in , the ADS  has a security policy file  that defines conditions in which the applications  provided by the application server  access a plurality of types of data of the video content recorded on the BD-ROM . Examples of the plurality of types of data of the video content recorded on the BD-ROM  include video data, audio data, subtitle data, metadata, and other data. Examples of the metadata or other data include character data, time line data, and sound track music data.","The security policy file  has a plurality of pieces of access control information . Individual content providers define the access control information  for each application server . In other words, each piece of access control information  functions as an API that each application server  can use. For example, in , application server A can use access controls A and B; application server B can use access controls C and D; application server c can use only access control A; application server D can use only access control B; and application server E can use only access control C.","As will be described later, after a list of applications retrieved by the ADS  has been provided to the DVR , when the DVR  issues a download request for the application , the ADS  creates the security policy file . The created security policy file  is transmitted to the DVR  along with the requested application . The DVR  executes the downloaded application  based on the security policy file .","Next, operations of the DVR  and the ADS  having the foregoing structure will be described. When reproducing video content of the BD-ROM , the DVR  of this embodiment can optimize the video content based on the reproduction environment. In addition, the DVR  can download an application  associated with the video content from the ADS  and execute the application  such that the video content is reproduced in an optimum state. When the application  is executed, the application  is controlled to access the video content based on the security policy file .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0097","num":"0096"},"figref":"FIG. 5","b":["40","10","100","12","10","12","100"]},"As shown in , after the BD-ROM  is inserted into the insertion section of the DVR , the CPU  causes the optical disc drive  to read video content and a BD-J from the BD-ROM  and develops them in the RAM  (at step ). Thereafter, the BD-J developed in the RAM  obtains information about the BD-ROM  such as a content ID and audience age restriction information (a so-called parental lock or rating system) for the video content (at step ). Thereafter, the BD-J determines whether or not to obtain information about the DVR  to optimize video content and the application  associated therewith (at step ). Unless the BD-ROM  is reproduction-only for a particular DVR, the BD-ROM  does not contain information about the DVR . Thus, at step , the determined result denotes that it is necessary to obtain information about the DVR .","When the determined result denotes that it is necessary to obtain information about the DVR , the BD-J obtains necessary information from the DVR  (at step ). Examples of the necessary information include information about the DVR , namely information about specifications of the DVR  (information about hardware specifications and information about software specifications). Examples of the information of hardware specifications include the capacity of the RAM  of the DVR , the clock frequency of the CPU , and the network connection speed of the communication section . Examples of the information about software specifications include the applicable fonts, applicable character codes, permission\/prohibition of calculations of floating decimal point, and information of applicable API. In addition, the necessary information includes information about the state of the DVR  that occurs when it reproduces video content from the BD-ROM . Examples of the information about the state of the DVR  include information that represents that a broadcast wave is being recorded in background. In addition, examples of the necessary information include past reproduction history information of video content.","Thereafter, the BD-J determines whether or not it is necessary to obtain information about an external device connected to the DVR  (hereinafter referred to as connected device information) to perform the foregoing optimizing process (at step ). Examples of the external device include the TV , the microphone , and the camera . When an external device has been connected to the DVR , the BD-J determines that it be necessary to obtain the connected device information (Yes) and obtains the connected device information (at step ). When no external device has been connected, the BD-J determines that it be not necessary to obtain the connected device information (No). Examples of the connected device information include the type of input\/output device connected to the DVR  and the connection method thereof, information about display performance such as display size, number of effective colors, and luminance of the display device (TV ). Examples of the connected device information also include information about the state of the external device that occurs when video data are reproduced from the BD-ROM . Examples of the information about the state of the external device include information that denotes that two TVs  are displaying data in a multi-display mode and information that denotes that the TV  is displaying data in a PinP mode.","Thereafter, the BD-J optimizes video content of the BD-ROM  based on the obtained information about specifications and connected device information of the DVR  (at step ). This optimizing process may be contemplated to be various types of processes.","For example, when the BD-J has determined that the TV  have a large and high bright display based on connected device information, since character information of video content is legible, the BD-J controls the TV  to use highly ornamental and dirk color fonts of those of the DVR . In contrast, when the BD-J has determined that the TV  use a small and low bright display, since character information of the video content is illegible, the BD-J controls the TV  to use highly visible, bright color fonts of the DVR .","In addition, the BD-J can change a reproduction method of a so-called series of video content based on the reproduction history information. Next, this process will be described.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0104","num":"0103"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},"In , the case that video content \u201cSpider-man \u201d is reproduced from a BD-ROM and video content \u201cSpider-man \u201d that is a sequel of video content \u201cSpider-man \u201d is reproduced from a BD-ROM will be described.","In , the BD-ROM on which video content \u201cSpider-man \u201d has been recorded contains a trailer as preview information of video content \u201cSpider-man \u201d. In contrast, the BD-ROM on which video content \u201cSpider-man \u201d has been recorded contains summary information of video content \u201cSpider-man \u201d.","In , the BD-ROM and BD-ROM themselves or BD-Js recorded on the BD-ROM and BD-ROM each contain a content ID that identifies own video content. Each of the BD-ROMs and or each of these BD-Js may contain information that uniquely identifies the own BD-ROM  other than a content ID. As long as a content ID can identify a particular BD-ROM  (video content), the content ID does not depend on an ID system and uniqueness of all BD-ROMs . In this embodiment, for convenience, an ID that identifies video content \u201cSpider-man \u201d is designated by \u201cS\u201d and an ID that identifies video content \u201cSpider-man \u201d is designated by \u201cS\u201d. In addition, it is assumed that the BD-J of the BD-ROM has recognized the relationship between own content ID \u201cS\u201d and content ID \u201c\u201d of video content \u201cSpider-man \u201d. Likewise, it is assumed that the BD-J of the BD-ROM has recognized the relationship between own content ID \u201cS\u201d and content ID \u201cS\u201d of video content \u201cSpider-man \u201d.","First, the operation of the BD-J of the BD-ROM will be described. When the BD-ROM is inserted into the DVR , the BD-J of the BD-ROM checks for information necessary to reproduce video content \u201cSpider-man \u201d (at step ). It is assumed that the BD-J of the BD-ROM contains a program that causes the DVR  to reproduce the trailer of video content \u201cSpider-man \u201d when the DVR  has not reproduced video content \u201cSpider-man \u201d, which is a sequel of video content \u201cSpider-man \u201d, after the DVR  has reproduced the main program of video content \u201cSpider-man \u201d. The BD-J of the BD-ROM checks for this program and the own content ID.","Thereafter, the BD-J of the BD-ROM obtains reproduction history information as necessary information for the DVR  (at step ). The BD-J checks whether or not the DVR  has reproduced video content \u201cSpider-man \u201d, which is the sequel of video content \u201cSpider-man \u201d based on a content ID contained in the reproduction history information and the own content ID.","When the determined result denotes that the DVR  has not reproduced video content \u201cSpider-man \u201d, the BD-J of the BD-ROM causes the DVR  to automatically reproduce the trailer of video content \u201cSpider-man \u201d after reproducing the main program of video content \u201cSpider-man \u201d (at step ). Even if the determined result of the BD-J of the BD-ROM denotes that the DVR  has reproduced video content \u201cSpider-man \u201d, if a predetermined time has elapsed after the DVR  has reproduced video content \u201cSpider-man \u201d, the BD-J of the BD-ROM causes the DVR  to reproduce the trailer of video content \u201cSpider-man \u201d. Examples of the predetermined period includes one week, two weeks, and one month, but not limited thereto. In addition, the user may be able to customize this predetermined period.","After the DVR  reproduces video content \u201cSpider-man \u201d, the BD-J of the BD-ROM stores information, for example, of \u201cYYYY:MM:DD:HH:MM:SS:S\u201d (denoting that content S has been reproduced at HH:MM:SS on MM DD, YYYY) as reproduction history information to the HDD  or the like of the DVR  (at step ).","Next, the operation of the BD-J of the BD-ROM will be described.","When the BD-ROM is inserted into the DVR , the BD-J of the BD-ROM checks for information necessary to reproduce video content \u201cSpider-man \u201d (at step ). It is assumed that the BD-J of the BD-ROM contains a program that causes the DVR  to omit reproduction of the summary information of video content \u201cSpider-man \u201d when starting reproducing the main program of video content \u201cSpider-man \u201d, if the DVR  has reproduced video content \u201cSpider-man \u201d, which is a prequel of video content \u201cSpider-man \u201d. The BD-J of the BD-ROM checks for this program and the own content ID.","Thereafter, the BD-J of the BD-ROM obtains reproduction history information as necessary information for the DVR  (at step ). The BD-J checks whether or not the DVR  has reproduced video content \u201cSpider-man \u201d, which is the prequel of video content \u201cSpider-man \u201d, based on a content ID contained in the reproduction history information and the own content ID.","When the determined result denotes that the DVR  has reproduced video content \u201cSpider-man \u201d, the BD-J of the BD-ROM causes the DVR  to omit reproduction of summary information of video content \u201cSpider-man \u201d when starting reproducing the main program of video content \u201cSpider-man \u201d (at step ).","Returning to , the BD-J combines the obtained information about the BD-ROM, information about specifications, and connected device information and generates reproduction environment information (at step ). Thereafter, the BD-J transmits the generated reproduction environment information and the own content ID to the ADS  (at step ).","The ADS  retrieve an application associated with video content of the BD-ROM  based on the reproduction environment information and the content ID and causes the DVR  to download the application according to a request from the BD-J of the DVR .  is a flow chart showing a download process of the ADS . Next, with reference to  and , the download process for applications by the DVR  will be described.","As shown in , the CPU  of the ADS  receives the content ID and the reproduction environment information from the DVR  (at step ). Thereafter, the CPU  retrieves applications that match the content ID from the application server  (at step ).","Thereafter, the CPU  determines whether or not the retrieved applications are suitable for the reproduction environment information (at step ). For example, when the reproduction environment information contains audience age restriction information, the CPU  excludes applications that do not match the audience age restriction information. When the reproduction environment information contains connected device information, the CPU  retrieves applications that can be executed by an external device connected to the DVR  or the TV  from the application server .","Thereafter, the CPU  obtains applications that it has determined that they are suitable for the reproduction environment from the application server  (at step ), creates a list of the applications (at step ), and transmits the list to the DVR  (at step ).","As shown in , the BD-J of the DVR  receives the application list from the ADS  (at step ). The BD-J causes the video control section  to create an appropriate graphical user interface (GUI) that represents the application list and outputs the application list to the TV  to display it through the created GUI (at step ).","Thereafter, when the BD-J receives a user's operation input that selects at least one of the applications on the application list from the operation input section , the BD-J transmits a download request for the selected application(s) to the ADS  (at step ).","As shown in , the CPU  of the ADS  receives a download request for the application from the DVR  (at step ). Thereafter, the CPU  creates a security policy file that restricts the application(s) that has been requested to be downloaded from accessing video content of the BD-ROM  (at step ). When there are a plurality of applications requested to be downloaded, the security policy file is created by combining access controls for the plurality of applications as one file. The CPU  transmits the application(s) requested to be downloaded to the DVR  along with the security policy file (at step ).","As shown in , the BD-J of the DVR  receives the application(s) and the security policy file from the ADS  (at step ). Thereafter, the BD-J executes the application(s) based on the security policy file while reproducing video content of the BD-ROM  (at step ). Since access control for the application(s) is executed based on the security policy file, the application(s) is prevented from controlling and modifying video content in a manner not intended by the content provider.","A variety of applications may be downloaded from the ADS  can be contemplated depending on the application servers . The substance of access control based on the security policy file depends on applications.","For example, a BD-J can permit a downloaded application to open an access to only necessary information based on the security policy file. For example, when a tour company uses the application server , it may provide an application that allows the user to apply for a tour that visits a place promoted by video content. This application correlates information about settings of scenes of video content with time line information. In other words, this application can function when it can access only time line information in various types of data of video content. Thus, when the BD-J executes this application, for example, the security policy file permits the BD-J to access time line information in various types of data of video content and restricts it to access video and audio data based on the security policy file.","When a game creation company uses the application server , it may provide a game application that performs an instrument to the rhythm of music data of video content. This application can function by only accessing particular music data. Thus, when the BD-J executes this application, it may be permitted to access only music data in various types of data of video content based on the security policy file. When the BD-ROM  contains musical score information, the BD-J may cause the application to access only musical score information and create a musical score for a game. When the BD-ROM  does not contain musical score information, the BD-J may download musical score information from the application server  or the ADS . In addition, the BD-J may permit the game application to access music data, but not permit it to change reproduction speeds (trick play such as fast-forward) and reproduction scales.","When audience age restrictions have been applied to video content based on the security policy file, the BD-J may apply the audience age restrictions to an application. For example, when a video\/music\/book sales company uses the application server , it may provide an application that allows the user to buy videos, sound tracks, and books associated with video content on line. In this case, when video content has been rated as R18 (restricted under age 18), the BD-J may cause the application to exclude adult content from a sales list of videos\/books.","In addition, the BD-J may prohibit main video data of video content and an application from coexisting based on the security policy file to prevent the main video data from being secondary modified. For example, when an apparel sales company uses the application server , it may provide an application that allows the user to buy cloths that a person in video content wears. In this case, the BD-J may cause the application not to overlay a cloth order screen with main video data. Instead, although the BD-J causes the application to overlay the order screen with the main video data, the BD-J may cause the main video data to be paused. Instead, the BD-J may designate a position or a time where or when the BD-J causes the application to overlay the order screen with the main video data based on the security policy file. For example, the BD-J may cause the application not to overlay images of persons and characters that do not relate to those of main video data in an area for a face of a particular person of the main video data based on the security policy file.","In addition, the BD-J may cause the application to assign an access period for various types of data of video content based on the security policy file. For example, the BD-J may prohibit the application from accessing various types of data of video content within a predetermined period after release of the BD-ROM .","In addition, the BD-J may restrict regions and domains (URLs) where the application can be executed based on the security policy file. For example, the application server  may provide an application that allows the user to buy a song associated with video content through a music delivery service. When this service is provided worldwide, the BD-J can restrict application server  disposed outside Japan to provide this application. Thus, even if copyright coverage differs in each country's legal system, the application can be adequately controlled.","In addition, the application server  may provide an English learning application according to the substance of video content. The English learning application executes remote language learning using AV chatting. This application becomes executable when the DVR  is provided with the microphone  and the camera . Next, with an example in which the DVR  downloads this application and executes it, processes of the DVR  and the ADS  will be described in detail.  is a sequence chart showing these processes.","In , it is assumed that video content \u201cSpider-man \u201d having the foregoing ID [S] has been recorded on the BD-ROM . In addition, the ADS  has recognized the ID [S]. Moreover, the microphone  and the camera  have been connected as external devices to the DVR .","As shown in , when the BD-ROM  is inserted into the DVR , the BD-J checks for necessary information to reproduce video content \u201cSpider-man \u201d (at step ). In this embodiment, it is assumed that the BD-J has a program that can obtain information about external devices connected to the DVR  to reproduce the video content. Thus, the BD-J obtains the program and the own content ID.","Thereafter, the BD-J obtains information about specifications, reproduction history information, and so forth from the DVR  (at step ). In addition, the BD-J obtains the connected device information from the external devices such as the TV , the microphone , and the camera  connected to the DVR  (at steps  and ). Thus, the BD-J recognizes that the microphone  and the camera  have been connected as external devices.","Thereafter, the BD-J combines information about the BD-ROM, information about specifications of the DVR , and connected device information and generates reproduction environment information . Thereafter, the BD-J causes the DVR  to transmit a request for a list of downloadable applications to the ADS  along with the reproduction environment information  and content ID [S] (at steps  and ).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0137","num":"0136"},"figref":["FIG. 9A","FIG. 9A"],"b":["65","65","10","100"]},"Thereafter, the ADS  that has received the reproduction environment information and the content ID retrieves applications that satisfy necessary environment for video content \u201cSpider-man \u201d based on these kinds of information (at step ). Thereafter, the ADS  generates an application list  based on the retrieved result and transmits the application list  to the DVR . In this case, the application list  contains one application, \u201cSpider-man  English conversation learning application\u201d",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0139","num":"0138"},"figref":["FIG. 9B","FIG. 9B"],"b":["66","66","66","2"]},"Thereafter, when the BD-J receives the application list, the BD-J creates an appropriate GUI that represents the application list (at step ) and transmits a display request for the application list on the TV  to the DVR  (at step ). The CPU  of the DVR  causes the TV  to display the application list on the TV  according to the display request (at step ).","Thereafter, when \u201cSpider-man  English conversation learning application\u201d is selected on the operation input section , the BD-J transmits a download request for the application to the ADS  through the DVR  (at step ). The ADS  creates a security policy file  corresponding to \u201cSpider-man  English conversation learning application\u201d and transmits it to the ADS  along with the application (at step ).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0142","num":"0141"},"figref":"FIG. 9C","b":["67","67"]},"When the BD-J downloads \u201cSpider-man  English conversation learning application\u201d and the security policy file from the ADS , the BD-J binds them with data of video content \u201cSpider-man \u201d of the BD-ROM . The \u201cSpider-man  English conversation learning application\u201d that is bound to the data of video content \u201cSpider-man \u201d creates a language learning material from video content \u201cSpider-man \u201d, and allows the user to remotely learn language using AV chatting through the microphone  and the camera  connected.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0144","num":"0143"},"figref":["FIG. 10","FIG. 10"],"b":["200","2","2"]},"Next, a method of fabricating an optical disc such as the forgoing BD-ROM  as a record medium on which data that can be reproduced by the DVR  have been recorded will be described.  and  are schematic diagrams explaining the method of fabricating such an optical disc.","As shown in , a master disc made, for example, of glass is prepared. A record material made, for example, of photo resist is coated on the master disc. As a result, a recording master disc is obtained.","Thereafter, as shown in , in a software creation processing section, video data that have been encoded by an encoding device (video encoder) and that can be reproduced by the DVR  are temporarily stored in a buffer. In addition, audio data that have been encoded by an audio encoder are temporarily stored in a buffer. Moreover, non-stream data (for example, indexes, playlists, playitems, and so forth) that have been encoded by a data encoder are temporarily stored in a buffer. The video data, audio data, and non-stream data stored in respective buffers are multiplexed along with a synchronous signal by a multiplexing device (MPX) and then error correction codes are added to the multiplexed data by an error correction code encoding circuit (ECC). The resultant data are modulated according to a predetermined modulation system by a modulation circuit (MOD) and temporarily recorded, for example, on a magnetic tape, according to a predetermined format. Thereafter, software such as the foregoing BD-J is recorded on an optical disc such as the BD-ROM  whose data can be reproduced by the DVR .","When necessary, the software is edited (pre-mastered) and signals are generated in a recording format for the optical disc. As shown in , a laser beam is modulated corresponding to the record signals and the laser beam is irradiated onto the photo resist on the master disc. As a result, the photo resist on the master disc is exposed corresponding to the record signals.","Thereafter, the master disc is developed and pits are formed on the master disc. The resultant master disc is electrically cast and the pits on the glass master disc are transferred to a metal master disc. With the metal master disc, a metal stamper is fabricated as a molding die.","A material such as polymethylmethacrylate (PMMA) or polycarbonate (PC) is injected into the molding die and solidified. Instead, after ultraviolet-curing resin (photopolymer) or the like is coated on the metal stamper, the resin may be cured by irradiating ultraviolet rays thereon. Thus, the pits on the metal stamper are transferred to a replica made of a resin.","A reflection film is formed on the replica by evaporation, spattering, or the like. Instead, a reflection film is formed on the replica by spin-coating.","Thereafter, necessary treatments such as machining of the inner and outer diameters of the disc and adhering of two discs are performed. Thereafter, a label is adhered on the front surface of the disc and a hub is mounted on the disc. Thereafter, the disc is inserted into a cartridge. In such a manner, an optical disc on which data that can be reproduced by the DVR  have been recorded is obtained. Of course, a hub may not be mounted on the optical disc. In addition, the optical disc may be a bare disc that is not housed in a cartridge.","As described above, according to this embodiment, the BD-J obtains information about the DVR  and external devices to optimize video content recorded on a BD-ROM according to reproduction environment. In addition, a BD-J downloads an application and a security policy file from the ADS  to execute the application associated with video content in the optimum state for the content.","In the foregoing embodiment, after the BD-J of the DVR  downloads a security policy file and an application from the ADS , the BD-J may download the security policy file when executing the application. In this case, even if the security policy file has been rewritten by the ADS  after the application has been received until it is executed, the BD-J can appropriately execute the application. In other words, the BD-J can adequately execute access control for an application to video content based on the latest security policy file. In addition, if the substance of the security policy file that has been originally downloaded is different from the substance of the file that is downloaded again, the BD-J may inform the user about that through an appropriate GUI to gain permission of execution of the latest security policy file from him or her.","In the foregoing embodiment, as an example, the TV , the microphone , and the camera  are connected as external devices to the DVR . It should be noted that the external devices are not limited to them. For example, an BD-J can optimize video content and execute an optimum application based on the type of a remote controller connected to the DVR . When the BD-J recognizes that a gun type or a foot-pedal type remote controller has been connected, the BD-J transmits information about this as connected device information to the ADS . The ADS  retrieves applications such as games that the remote controller can operate and transmits an application list  including such applications to the ADS .","In the foregoing embodiment, as an example, the BD-ROM for video content \u201cSpider-man \u201d contains summary information of video content \u201cSpider-man \u201d and the BD-ROM for video content \u201cSpider-man \u201d contains the trailer of video content \u201cSpider-man \u201d. However, if both the BD-ROMs and do not contain summary information and trailer, each of the BD-Js may download summary information and trailer retrieved as applications from the ADS . In this case, the ADS  determines whether or not to contain summary information and trailer (or an application that allows the user to buy them) in the application list based on the content ID and reproduction history information. In other words, when the ADS  has determined that the DVR  has not reproduced video content \u201cSpider-man \u201d based on the reproduction history information received from the BD-J of the BD-ROM , the ADS  causes the trailer to be contained in the application list. In contrast, when the ADS  has determined that the DVR  has not reproduced video content \u201cSpider-man \u201d or it has taken a long time after the reproduction based on the reproduction history information received from the BD-J of the BD-ROM , the ADS  causes the summary information to be contained in the application list. In this case, the DVR  downloads the summary information and trailer as applications along with the security policy file and executes the applications automatically or according to a user's operation.","In the foregoing embodiment, as an example, a downloadable application allows the user to buy goods associated with visual content on line. When executing this application, the BD-J may check whether or not the DVD  has an online member ID and a password as information about the DVR . In this case, when the determined result denotes that the DVR  has the ID and password, the BD-J is controlled to execute applications that use the ID and password with priority. In addition, the BD-J may transmit the ID and password as reproduction environment information to the ADS  and authenticates the DVR  through the ADS  and downloads the applications in an executable form.","In the foregoing embodiment, the BD-J may change the types of applications that can be downloaded from the ADS  corresponding to information about the state of the DVR . For example, when the BD-J transmits information that denotes that the DVR  is recording a broadcast wave in background to the ADS , it may cause only applications that do not exceed a predetermined capacity to be contained in an application list. Thus, the download burden against the DVR  can be reduced. In addition, the BD-J may change the types of applications that can be downloaded from the ADS  based on information about the state of the display device (TV ). For example, when the BD-J transmits information that denotes that the TV  is displaying data with a multi-display mode or a PinP mode to the ADS , it retrieves applications suitable for the display mode of the TV . Namely, the BD-J can download and execute applications that use the multi-display mode or PinP mode.","In the foregoing embodiment, a BD-J may transmit model information of the DVR  as reproduction environment information to the ADS  and download and execute applications that can be executed by models of particular manufacturers.","In the foregoing embodiment, a BD-J may transmit information that denotes that a child watches video content with his or her parent(s) as reproduction environment information to the ADS  and download and execute an application that causes the TV  to automatically obscure violence scenes.","In the foregoing embodiment, an ADS  is separated from an application servers . Instead, the ADS  may be included as a function of the application server . In other words, the ADS  may store various types of applications in the own HDD or the like. When the ADS  is requested for an application from the DVR , the ADS  may retrieve applications associated with video content of the BD-ROM  reproduced by the DVR  from the HDD and provide the retrieved applications to the DVR .","The foregoing embodiment was applied to a DVR as an example of the electronic apparatus that can reproduce video content. However, examples of the electronic apparatus may include a PC, a game machine, a mobile phone, a portable audio\/visual reproduction device, a digital video camera, a PDA, a car navigation device, a robot device, and other electric appliances.","In the foregoing embodiment, video content that is reproduced has been recorded on the BD-ROM . Instead, video content may be downloaded over a network to the DVR  or broadcast content recorded on the HDD  or the like. In this case, when such video content is downloaded and recorded, necessary information such as a content ID is recorded on the DVR .","The present application contains subject matter related to that disclosed in Japanese Priority Patent Application JP 2008-127205 filed in the Japanese Patent Office on May 14, 2008, the entire content of which is hereby incorporated by reference.","It should be understood by those skilled in the art that various modifications, combinations, sub-combinations and alterations may occur depending on design requirements and other factors insofar as they are within the scope of the appended claims or the equivalents thereof."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0050","num":"0049"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0051","num":"0050"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0052","num":"0051"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0053","num":"0052"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0054","num":"0053"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0055","num":"0054"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0056","num":"0055"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0057","num":"0056"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0058","num":"0057"},"figref":["FIG. 9A","FIG. 9B","FIG. 9C"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0059","num":"0058"},"figref":"FIG. 10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0060","num":"0059"},"figref":"FIG. 11"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0061","num":"0060"},"figref":"FIG. 12"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
