---
title: System and method for merging mobile gift cards
abstract: A method and system for merging mobile gift cards is described. One embodiment transmits to a mobile device associated with a user a list of a plurality of mobile gift cards associated with a particular merchant that belong to the user, receives from the user via the mobile device a selection of a particular mobile gift card, receives from the user via the mobile device a selection of one or more other mobile gift cards associated with the particular merchant to be merged with the particular mobile gift card, and moves to the particular mobile gift card the remaining monetary balance of each of the other mobile gift cards selected by the user. In some embodiments, the merging operation is automated in the mobile-commerce platform.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08429047&OS=08429047&RS=08429047
owner: Mocapay, Inc.
number: 08429047
owner_city: Denver
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20091202
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["RELATED APPLICATIONS","FIELD OF THE INVENTION","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["The present application is related to the following commonly owned and assigned U.S. patent applications: application Ser. No. 12\/343,423, entitled \u201cSystem and Method for Distributing Mobile Gift Cards\u201d; application Ser. No. 12\/343\/425, entitled \u201cSystem and Method for Re-Distributing and Transferring Mobile Gift Cards\u201d; and application Ser. No. 12\/475,746, entitled \u201cMethod and System for Sending Marketing Messages to Mobile-Device Users from a Mobile-Commerce Platform.\u201d","The present invention relates generally to electronic commerce. More specifically, but not by way of limitation, the present invention relates to systems and methods for merging mobile gift cards.","Gift cards have become increasingly popular in recent years, and racks containing gift cards for various merchants are commonplace at grocery stores, convenience stores, street vendors, and other locations. One person pays the merchant (or a distributor marketing gift cards for the merchant) a specified amount of money for the gift card and gives the gift card to another person (the recipient or holder of the gift card) as a gift. The holder of a gift card is then able to purchase, from any merchant associated with that gift card, goods or services costing less than or equal to the monetary value associated with the gift card. Merchants like gift cards because they receive the funds immediately, and the gift-card makes it very likely that the recipient will visit the merchant's store or Web site. Though gift cards have the same value as cash, one disadvantage of conventional gift cards is that the user has to physically present the card to a merchant when using it to make a purchase. This burden is worsened if the card is ever lost because replacement gift cards are generally unavailable.","Attempts have been made to overcome some of the disadvantages of typical plastic, magnetically encoded gift cards. For example, various kinds of electronic gift cards and electronic gift certificates have been developed, but these have their own disadvantages. Specifically, fulfillment can take several days, preventing an electronic-gift-card recipient from making immediate use of the electronic gift card or gift certificate. Also, electronic gift cards stored in the holder's mobile device (e.g., a cellular telephone) make the mobile device an enticing target for theft.","A system and method is thus needed to overcome the inherent limitations of conventional physical and electronic gift cards.","Illustrative embodiments of the present invention that are shown in the drawings are summarized below. These and other embodiments are more fully described in the Detailed Description section. It is to be understood, however, that there is no intention to limit the invention to the forms described in this Summary of the Invention or in the Detailed Description. One skilled in the art can recognize that there are numerous modifications, equivalents, and alternative constructions that fall within the spirit and scope of the invention as expressed in the claims.","The present invention can provide a method and system for merging mobile gift cards. One illustrative embodiment is a computer-server-based method for merging mobile gift cards, comprising transmitting to a mobile device associated with a user a list of a plurality of mobile gift cards associated with a particular merchant that belong to the user; receiving from the user via the mobile device a selection of a particular one of the plurality of mobile gift cards associated with the particular merchant; receiving from the user via the mobile device a selection of one or more mobile gift cards in the plurality of mobile gift cards other than the particular one of the plurality of mobile gift cards to merge with the particular one of the plurality of mobile gift cards; and moving a remaining monetary balance of each of the selected one or more mobile gift cards in the plurality of mobile gift cards other than the particular one of the plurality of mobile gift cards to the particular one of the plurality of mobile gift cards; wherein the computer server acts as a server-side wallet for the particular one of the plurality of mobile gift cards, and the particular one of the plurality of mobile gift cards is usable, through interaction with the computer server, by the user for the purchase of goods or services from the particular merchant.","Another embodiment is a computer-server-based method for merging mobile gift cards, comprising ascertaining automatically that a mobile-payments account associated with a user includes a plurality of mobile gift cards associated with a particular merchant; selecting automatically a particular one of the plurality of mobile gift cards associated with the particular merchant; selecting automatically one or more mobile gift cards in the plurality of mobile gift cards other than the particular one of the plurality of mobile gift cards to merge with the particular one of the plurality of mobile gift cards; and moving automatically a remaining monetary balance of each of the selected one or more mobile gift cards in the plurality of mobile gift cards other than the particular one of the plurality of mobile gift cards to the particular one of the plurality of mobile gift cards; wherein the computer server acts as a server-side wallet for the particular one of the plurality of mobile gift cards, and the particular one of the plurality of mobile gift cards is usable, through interaction with the computer server, by the user for the purchase of goods or services from the particular merchant.","Systems that carry out the various methods of the invention are also described. These and other embodiments are described in further detail herein.","In various illustrative embodiments of the invention, the limitations of conventional physical and electronic gift cards are overcome by replacing the physical form factor of a plastic, magnetically encoded gift card with a mobile device such as a cellular telephone in a manner that leaves intact existing gift-card systems and services operated by gift-card service providers such as FIRST DATA and COMDATA.","A mobile-gift-card platform in accordance with these illustrative embodiments provides, among other things, a server-side digital wallet for mobile gift cards that overcomes the shortcomings (e.g., risk of loss or theft) associated with virtual gift cards or gift certificates that reside within the mobile device itself. In these illustrative embodiments, no credentials (account numbers, balances, or other sensitive information) associated with the mobile gift card reside in the mobile device itself. Instead, a secure network infrastructure distributes and manages the mobile gift cards and their associated credentials, the mobile device acting merely as one means for the user to communicate with the server-side digital wallet to access a variety of flexible services surrounding use of the mobile gift cards.","Such flexible services include, without limitation, the ability of a user to view a list of all available mobile gift cards in his or her server-side digital wallet, the ability to view the current balance of any particular mobile gift card, the ability to purchase securely goods or services from the merchant associated with a particular gift card using the mobile device at the point of sale (however, the option to use a physical card is not preempted by the mobile-gift-card platform described herein), the ability to transfer some or all of the balance of a particular mobile gift card to another person, and the ability to merge multiple mobile gift cards associated with a particular merchant into a single mobile gift card associated with that merchant.","Referring now to the drawings, where like or similar elements are designated with identical reference numerals throughout the several views, and referring in particular to , it is a functional block diagram of an environment  in which various illustrative embodiments of the invention can be implemented. In environment , distributor , merchant's agent , merchant , payment processor , wireless carrier , and gift-card service provider  are able to communicate with one another via network . A user's mobile device \u2014e.g., a cellular or Personal Communication Service (PCS) phone\u2014is also able to communicate with nodes connected with network  via wireless carrier . In some embodiments, network  includes, but is not necessarily limited to, the Internet.","The environment  in  builds on existing gift-card systems operated by gift-card service providers  such as, without limitation, FIRST DATA and COMDATA. Gift-card service provider , among other things, administers the financial aspects of gift cards, including keeping track of the balance associated with a particular gift card, settlement, reporting to merchants, and other functions.","Merchant  sells goods, services, or both and provides mobile gift cards to consumers with the assistance of merchant's agent . That is, merchant's agent  facilitates the distribution and sale of mobile gift cards issued by merchant  by acting as an intermediary between merchant  and any of the following: (1) a gift-card service provider , (2) mobile-gift-card distributors , (3) mobile-gift-card purchasers (those giving the mobile gift cards to others), and (4) mobile-gift-card recipients (consumers who use the mobile gift cards in commerce). A consumer holding such a mobile gift card can use the mobile gift card to purchase goods or services from the particular merchant that issued the mobile gift card, as explained above. How the holder of a mobile gift card uses the mobile gift card to make purchases from the issuing merchant is discussed further below.","Payment processor  processes the source of funds for transactions carried out from a user's mobile device such as the user's reloading of a mobile gift card or purchase of a mobile gift card on behalf of someone else. In such transactions, payment processor  acts as an agent of the merchant to collect funds from the user's credit card or other payment source. In some embodiments, an entity acting as a payment processor  in certain contexts may also be a distributor  in other contexts.","Distributor  markets mobile gift cards and, in some embodiments, is somewhat analogous to an entity such as grocery store chain SAFEWAY, which markets conventional plastic, magnetically encoded gift cards for a variety of other merchants on racks in its grocery stores with the assistance of a conventional-gift-card merchant's agent such as BLACKHAWK or IDT. Distributor  can take on a variety of different forms, depending on the particular embodiment.","In one embodiment, distributor  is an entity (not necessarily a merchant) that operates a Web site or other electronic communication channel where mobile gift cards for a number of different merchants are offered in an aggregated fashion. In another embodiment, a single merchant markets its mobile gift cards via remote distribution channels, local distribution channels, or both. For example, a merchant may market its mobile gift cards via a remote distribution channel such as a Web site or other networked electronic communication channel using Application Programming Interfaces (APIs) supplied by merchant's agent  or another entity. That is, a merchant may use flexible APIs provided by merchant's agent  to customize a Web site or other networked electronic communication channel to offer its mobile gift cards in a manner consistent with the merchant's particular brand identify, logos, etc. A merchant may also employ local distribution methods in a store (at the point of sale). In such an embodiment, the mobile gift card can be \u201cmobilized\u201d (made accessible to the recipient via the recipient's mobile device) at the point of sale.","In yet another embodiment, distributor  is a social networking Web site where the interests and preferences of a potential mobile-gift-card recipient are revealed to that person's friends and family. For example, John may discover on the social networking Web site FACEBOOK (www.facebook.com) that his friend Alan likes to shop at BEST BUY, and John can purchase a BEST BUY mobile gift card for Alan at the social networking site. The above are merely a few examples of distributors . Mobile gift cards can be marketed in a wide variety of ways and settings.","In an illustrative embodiment, merchant  receives the funds from a user's purchase of a mobile gift card minus a predetermined fee that is paid to the merchant's agent .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 2","FIG. 2"],"b":["200","210","140","210"]},"Various embodiments of the invention preserve the existing payments infrastructure supporting the use of gift cards and overlay them with a mobile commerce platform , which is explained below. Other entities involved are a mobile-payments-enabled merchant (sometimes called simply a \u201cmerchant\u201d herein) , a mobile user , and carriers or other entities (\u201cCARRIERS\/OTHERS\u201d in )  and their associated distribution systems (see distributor  in ). In the discussion of  below, interactions among these entities are identified by their corresponding reference numerals in parentheses.","In some embodiments, mobile user  can use a variety of different access methods such as, without limitation, Short Message Service (SMS) messages, Multimedia Message Service (MMS) messages, Wireless Access Protocol (WAP), an application, or voice to obtain one-use perishable authorization codes () from mobile commerce platform  in making payments from a variety of different tenders (forms of payment), including mobile gift cards. Mobile user  can also use a variety of methods, including the above examples, to provide one-use perishable authorization codes to merchants  in making electronic purchases (). Additional details regarding such mobile-payment technology can be found in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11\/624,620, entitled \u201cSystems and Method for Secure Wireless Payment Transactions,\u201d which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.","Mobile user  may also receive targeted marketing messages () before, during, or after a mobile purchase via mobile commerce platform  and may purchase () mobile gift cards from a carrier  (e.g., T-MOBILE, AT&T, VERIZON WIRELESS, etc.) or other distributor  such as a social networking Web site. The targeted marketing messages are assisted by the ability of merchant  to submit marketing rules, content, or both () to mobile commerce platform .","Merchant  receives payment authorizations () from mobile commerce platform  in conjunction with the mobile payments technology mentioned above in connection with U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11\/624,620. The mobile payments process is summarized briefly below.","Mobile commerce platform  facilitates the activation () of mobile gift cards sold by a carrier or other entity  (or other distributor ) in cooperation with gift card system  via communication link . Gift card system  also provides, among other things, settlement and reporting services () to merchant .","When mobile user  makes a purchase using a mobile gift card, mobile user  contacts mobile commerce platform  using any of a variety of access methods (e.g., SMS, MMS, WAP or other browser technology, application, voice) to provide an optional personal identification number (PIN) by which mobile commerce platform  authenticates mobile user  (). Mobile commerce platform  provides mobile user  with one-time perishable (time-limited) authorization codes and balances () for various tenders available to that user, including mobile gift cards. In the present example, mobile user  selects a specific mobile gift card to be used in making the purchase. The mobile-payments-enabled merchant  submits, via its point-of-sale (POS) system, the authorization code provided by mobile user  and the transaction amount to mobile commerce platform  (). Mobile commerce platform  routes the transaction parameters to gift card system , which ensures that the requested amount is available on the indicated mobile gift card. If everything checks out, gift card system  informs mobile commerce platform , which, in turn, conveys a return authorization to the merchant , completing the transaction ().","With this high-level background in place, the remainder of this Detailed Description focuses primarily on the distribution, transfer, and merging of mobile gift cards.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0040","num":"0039"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 2","FIG. 3","FIG. 3","FIG. 3"],"b":["300","300","205","305","310","315","320","325","330","335"]},"Input devices  include, for example, a keyboard, a mouse or other pointing device, or other devices that are used to input data or commands to server  to control its operation. Communication interfaces  may include, for example, various serial or parallel interfaces for communicating with network  (see ) or one or more peripherals.","Memory  may include, without limitation, random access memory (RAM), read-only memory (ROM), flash memory, magnetic storage (e.g., a hard disk drive), optical storage, or a combination of these, depending on the particular embodiment. In , memory  includes mobile gift card management platform , which distributes and manages mobile gift cards. In doing so, mobile gift card management platform  accesses and manipulates mobile gift card data , which may reside, at least in part, on storage devices .","As mentioned above, mobile gift card management platform  implements a server-side digital wallet for the mobile gift card data . A \u201cmobile gift card\u201d is, thus, a digital construct (stored digital data) that replaces a physical (e.g., plastic, magnetically encoded) gift card. In this illustrative embodiment, server  stores account information for each mobile-gift-card holder. That is, each mobile-gift-card user initially creates an account on server . This account information includes, for each mobile gift card belonging to a particular user, (1) the user's mobile phone number, (2) the account number of the particular mobile gift card (analogous to a card number of a physical gift card), and (3) the merchant that issued the mobile gift card. In some embodiments, server  stores additional information or different information from that just indicated. Note, however, that, in this particular embodiment, the balance remaining on the mobile gift card is not stored on server . Instead, the balance is tracked by the gift-card service provider  that operates the applicable gift card system . As mentioned above, no credentials associated with a mobile gift card reside on the user's mobile device.","In one illustrative embodiment, mobile gift card management platform  is implemented as software that is executed by processor . Such software may be stored, prior to its being loaded into RAM for execution by processor , on any suitable computer-readable storage medium such as a hard disk drive, an optical disk, or a flash memory. In general, the functionality of server  may be implemented using a combination of hardware and software and\/or firmware. The methods carried out by mobile gift card management platform  are explained more fully below in connection with .","A typical application for mobile gift cards is a situation in which User A wishes to give User B a gift card (e.g., User B has a birthday coming up). From a user perspective, User A can communicate with server  of mobile commerce platform  in a variety of different ways to purchase a mobile gift card for User B. Examples include, without limitation, a Web site hosted by server  (or another server elsewhere on the network) and visited by User A using a client personal computer (PC), a Web site or other portal accessed using User A's cellular or PCS phone, a visit by User A at the merchant's store, or other avenues (e.g., User A's wireless carrier or a social networking Web site), as discussed above. User A can employ methods such as, without limitation, SMS, MMS, WAP (a microbrowser on a mobile device), or voice (in person or over the phone) to initiate a gift-card purchase for User B. In general, User A simply needs a way to communicate, directly or indirectly, with server . The foregoing example of User A purchasing a mobile gift card for User B will be referred to frequently in the description of  that follows.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0046","num":"0045"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":["405","340","105"]},"At , mobile gift card management platform  receives, from User A, an indication of the monetary amount for the mobile gift card to be created and distributed, and, at , receives an electronic payment for that amount from User A.","At , mobile gift card management platform  applies the specified amount to the mobile gift card and, at , associates the mobile gift card with User B's (the recipient's) phone number (provided by User A).","At , mobile gift card management platform  transmits or otherwise conveys a notification regarding the mobile gift card to a mobile device (e.g., a cellular or PCS phone) associated with User B's (the recipient's) phone number provided by User A above in Block .","The notification transmitted at  may be accomplished in a variety of ways, including, without limitation, an SMS message, an MMS message, a voice message, or an application. The application, in some embodiments, is a WAP browser or other type of Internet browser running on the mobile-gift-card recipient's mobile device. In other embodiments, the application is a specialized application other than a browser.","In some embodiments, the notification to the recipient includes a personalized message created by User A such as, \u201cHappy birthday, Amy! I've sent you a mobile gift card for JC PENNY. Enjoy! Marsha.\u201d","Following receipt of the mobile gift card, User B can, after proper activation with mobile gift card management platform , use the mobile gift card to purchase goods or services from the merchant associated with the mobile gift card in a variety of different ways, as explained above (see discussion of secure payments in connection with  above).","Activation can also take different forms, depending on the particular embodiment. In some embodiments, for example, the notification User B receives includes instructions to User B for how to activate the mobile gift card. For example, the notification may be an SMS message stating, \u201cBob, you've received a $100 mobile gift card for SPORTS AUTHORITY. Please visit mocapay.com to activate your mobile gift card.\u201d Note that, in such embodiments, the notification includes a hyperlinked Uniform Resource Locator (URL) for User B to follow to complete the activation process. Alternatively, User B could be provided with a phone number, an e-mail address, or other contact information for accomplishing activation. When User B contacts mobile commerce platform  to activate the mobile gift card, User B is directed to create an account, if User B does not already have one. Mobile commerce platform  guides User B through this straightforward process.","In another embodiment, if User B already has an account with mobile commerce platform , the mobile gift card is activated automatically when the notification is transmitted to User B, which makes the mobile gift card available to User B immediately upon receipt of the notification. To spend the mobile gift card, User B communicates with the server-side digital wallet supported by mobile gift card management platform  in the manner described above in connection with .","At , the method in  terminates.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0056","num":"0055"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 5","FIG. 4","FIG. 4"],"b":["105","505","340","300","340","405"]},"At , mobile gift card management platform  receives a specific activation date from User A (the party purchasing the mobile gift card). For example, if User B's birthday is still five days in the future, User A would like to postpone notification of the mobile gift card until User B's birthday. In such an embodiment, notification of the mobile gift card is conveyed to User B on the activation date specified by User A.","At , mobile gift card management platform  causes the amount of the mobile gift card purchased by User A, minus a predetermined fee that goes to merchant's agent , to be remitted to the applicable merchant associated with the mobile gift card. Payment of the merchant is accomplished via the settlement process mentioned above in connection with .","Block  includes the modification mentioned above that the notification of the mobile gift card to User B is conveyed to User B's mobile device on the activation date specified by User A. At , the method terminates.","In some embodiments, the purchaser of a mobile gift card and the recipient of that mobile gift card may be one and the same person. That is, a user may, instead of purchasing a mobile gift card for another person, purchase a mobile gift card for himself or herself.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0061","num":"0060"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIGS. 6 and 7","FIGS. 6 and 7"]},"At , User B communicates with mobile gift card management platform  via any of the methods mentioned above (e.g., SMS, MMS, WAP, application, voice) or any others that might be applicable in a particular embodiment, and mobile gift card management platform  receives a selection of a particular mobile gift card from among those in User B's server-side digital wallet. For example, User B might contact mobile gift card management platform  using a cellular phone equipped with a WAP browser and view a list of available gift cards and their balances. At , mobile gift card management platform  receives a request from User B to transfer all or a portion of the selected mobile gift card to another person (User C).","At , mobile gift card management platform  receives, from User B, a phone number associated with User C. At , mobile gift card management platform  associates, with User C's phone number, a mobile gift card in the amount of the transfer specified by User B at Block . The transferred mobile gift card belonging to User C has the same merchant associated with it as the original mobile gift card belonging to User B.","At , mobile gift card management platform  transmits or otherwise conveys a notification of User C's new mobile gift card to a mobile device associated with User C's (the recipient's) phone number. At , the method terminates.","Note that, in some embodiments, where User B transfers the entire remaining balance of a mobile gift card to User C, it is not necessary for mobile gift card management platform  to create a separate mobile gift card for User C. In that case, the existing mobile gift card can simply be remapped from an association with User B's phone number to an association with User C's phone number, effectively deleting that mobile gift card from User B's account. Where User B elects to transfer less than the entire remaining balance, however, User B continues to hold the original mobile gift card with its remaining balance, and a new, separate mobile gift card in the amount of the transfer is created for User C.","Note that this ability to \u201cre-gift\u201d mobile gift cards as described above essentially puts User B in the position of being a mobile gift card distributor , and User C can do likewise, and so on. Once created, the separate mobile gift cards, in this illustrative embodiment, are completely independent of each other.","In the case of a mobile gift card that a user receives through a transfer from another user, all of the same options and features described above regarding notification (e.g., personalization), activation, and use (payments) apply equally to such a transferred mobile gift card.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0068","num":"0067"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 7","FIG. 6"],"b":["340","710"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0069","num":"0068"},"figref":"FIG. 8","b":["220","225","340"]},"At , mobile gift card management platform  transmits to the user's mobile device  a list of the mobile gift cards associated with a particular merchant  that belong to the user . For example, the user's mobile device  may display a list of all of the mobile gift cards for BEST BUY that are available to the user  in his or her server-side digital wallet. In some embodiments, the list is transmitted in response to a request received from the user's mobile device . In other embodiments, the list may be presented to the user  in another context while the user  is managing his or her mobile gift cards or other tenders on mobile device . This may, in some embodiments, include a prompt on mobile device  asking the user  if he or she wishes to merge multiple mobile gift cards associated with the same merchant  into fewer or a single mobile gift card.","At , mobile gift card management platform  receives from the user  via mobile device  a selection of a particular mobile gift card among the list of mobile gift cards transmitted at . This selected particular mobile gift card may be termed, for convenience of description, a \u201ctarget\u201d mobile gift card with which one or more other mobile gift cards in the list are to be merged. That is, the target mobile gift card is the mobile gift card that receives the remaining monetary balance of one or more other mobile gift cards in the list.","At , mobile gift card management platform  receives from the user  via mobile device  a selection of one or more mobile gift cards in the list other than the target mobile gift card to merge with the target mobile gift card. In making this selection, the user  may select all or only a subset of the other mobile gift cards in the list transmitted at .","At , mobile gift card management platform  moves the remaining monetary balance of each of the mobile gift cards selected at  to the target mobile gift card selected at . In some embodiments, mobile gift card management platform  communicates with gift card system  to execute one or more balance-transfer transactions, each such transaction causing the remaining monetary balance on one of the mobile gift cards selected at  to be transferred to the target mobile gift card selected at .","In other embodiments, mobile gift card management platform  communicates with gift card system  to perform a sale transaction on each mobile gift card to be merged with the target mobile gift card. Each such sale transaction is in an amount equal to the remaining monetary balance on the applicable mobile gift card. In these embodiments, mobile gift card management platform  also communicates with gift card system  to perform, for each mobile gift card being merged (eliminated), a corresponding credit transaction on the target mobile gift card. Each such credit transaction credits, to the target mobile gift card, the amount of the sale transaction that was performed on the applicable mobile gift card being merged. Either implementation\u2014that using balance-transfer transactions or that using in-tandem sale and credit transactions\u2014accomplishes the same objective\u2014that of moving the remaining monetary balances of the mobile gift cards selected at  to the mobile gift card selected at .","At , the method terminates. User  may use the resulting merged\/consolidated mobile gift card (the target mobile gift card selected at ) in commerce like any other mobile gift card, as described above. The resulting merged mobile gift card has a monetary balance equal to the combined monetary balances of the target mobile gift card selected at  and those selected for merging at .","In some embodiments, mobile gift card management platform  deletes from the user's account the mobile gift cards selected for merging at  after they have been merged with the target mobile gift card. This eliminates zero-balance (useless) mobile gift cards from the user's account, reducing clutter. Such deletion may be automatic, or it may be performed in response to a request from the user  via mobile device .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0077","num":"0076"},"figref":"FIG. 9","b":["340","220","905","340","225","910","340","225","225"]},"At , mobile gift card management platform  automatically selects one or more mobile gift cards other than the target mobile gift card to merge with the target mobile gift card selected at . In some embodiments, all of the other mobile gift cards associated with the particular merchant  are merged with the target mobile gift card so that only one mobile gift card associated with that merchant  remains in the user's account after the merge. In other embodiments, only a subset of the other mobile gift cards are merged with the target mobile gift card so that multiple mobile gift cards associated with the particular merchant  remain in the user's account after the merge.","At , mobile gift card management platform  automatically moves the remaining monetary balance of each of the mobile gift cards selected at  to the target mobile gift card. This can be accomplished, for example, using the techniques described above in connection with  (e.g., a balance-transfer transaction or in-tandem sale and credit transactions for each mobile gift card being merged with the target mobile gift card).","Optionally, mobile gift card management platform  may notify the user of the merge operation via the user's mobile device . Such notification could include mention of the merchant, the target mobile gift card, identification of the mobile gift cards that were merged with the target mobile gift card, and the resulting balance on the target mobile gift card. Automatic merging of multiple gift cards from the same merchant into a single mobile gift card is, in some embodiments, a user preference that the user  can set via his or her mobile device .","At , the method terminates.","As with the method discussed above in connection with , user  may use the resulting merged mobile gift card (the target mobile gift card selected at ) in commerce like any other mobile gift card, as described above. The resulting merged mobile gift card has a monetary balance equal to the combined monetary balances of the target mobile gift card selected at  and those selected for merging at . Also, as with the method discussed above in connection with , the merged mobile gift cards, now with zero balances, may be deleted from the user's account after the merge operation.","In conclusion, the present invention provides, among other things, a method and system for merging mobile gift cards. Those skilled in the art can readily recognize that numerous variations and substitutions may be made in the invention, its use, and its configuration to achieve substantially the same results as achieved by the embodiments described herein. Accordingly, there is no intention to limit the invention to the disclosed exemplary forms. Many variations, modifications, and alternative constructions fall within the scope and spirit of the disclosed invention as expressed in the claims. For example, though the above description implies that the selection of a target mobile gift card (see Blocks  and  in , respectively) occurs prior to selection of one or more mobile gift cards to merge therewith (see Blocks  and  in , respectively), this is not necessarily the case in all embodiments. In some embodiments, these steps are performed in the opposite order. That is, the mobile gift cards to be merged with another (as-yet-unspecified) mobile gift card are selected first by the user  or mobile gift card management platform , depending on the particular embodiment, and then the target mobile gift card with which they are to be merged is selected. The process of moving the remaining monetary balances of the other selected mobile gift cards to the target mobile gift card is unaffected by the order in which the target and the other mobile gift cards are selected."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["Various objects and advantages and a more complete understanding of the present invention are apparent and more readily appreciated by reference to the following Detailed Description and to the appended claims when taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings, wherein:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 9"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
