---
title: Method and system for monetizing content
abstract: An e-commerce system, comprising an endorsement engine, a first interface software coupled to the endorsement engine and adapted to interact with one or more content sources connected over a network and adapted to enable subscriptions from users using a protocol, and a second interface software coupled to the endorsement engine and adapted to interact with one or more merchants to receive information about products, is disclosed. In an embodiment, the first interface software enables an endorsing user to browse the content sources and select a content item, to enter code associated with the selected content element, to view product information provided by merchants, to select a product for endorsement, and to enter code associated with the selected product. Upon retrieval of content by a viewing user who previously subscribed to the content source using the protocol, at least one of the content-specific code and the product-specific code is also provided to the viewing user via the protocol. Upon activation of the content-specific code, the viewing user is connected to the selected content and is able to view the selected content, and upon activation of the product-specific code by a viewing user, the viewing user is connected to a network-connected shopping cart, and is thereby enabled to buy the product.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08244593&OS=08244593&RS=08244593
owner: Pure Verticals, Inc.
number: 08244593
owner_city: San Leandro
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20090622
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["The present invention is a continuation-in-part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12\/381,603, titled \u201cMethod and System for Monetizing Content\u201d, filed on Mar. 13, 2009, which is a continuation-in-part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12\/291,207, titled \u201cMethod and System for Monetizing Third-Party Content\u201d, filed on Nov. 7, 2008, and is a continuation-in-part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11\/968,374, titled \u201cMethod and System for Monetizing User-Generated Content\u201d, filed on Jan. 2, 2008, and claims priority to Provisional Application Ser. 60\/989,425, filed on Nov. 20, 2007. The disclosure of each of the above-referenced patent applications is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.","The present invention is also a continuation-in-part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12\/313,423, titled \u201cMethod and System for Linking EProcurement to Virtual Communities\u201d, filed on Nov. 19, 2008, which is a continuation-in-part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11\/968,384, filed on Jan. 2, 2008, and claims priority to Provisional Application Ser. 60\/989,430, filed Nov. 20, 2007 and Provisional Application Ser. 61\/043,897, filed Apr. 10, 2008. The disclosure of each of the above-referenced patent applications is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.","1. Field of the Invention","The present invention is in the field of e-commerce, particularly as it pertains to virtual communities such as social networks, online gaming communities and \u201cvirtual worlds\u201d and to content aggregators that make third-party content available to members of virtual communities. Yet more particularly, the present invention pertains to monetization of user-generated and third-party content through virtual communities using networks such as the Internet.","2. Discussion of the State of the Art","In the field of entertainment media, several trends have emerged in recent years, quite separately, that when combined offer surprising new possibilities for individuals and enterprises alike. One of these trends is emergence of product placements as a new kind of advertisement. This now familiar technique involves advertisers (vendors of products such as personal computers, cars, liquors and toys, just to name a few) paying content creators (movie studios, TV studios and others) to display or refer to their products in prominent ways within the content itself. This is in stark contrast to previous practices in advertising, where the boundary between advertising and entertainment content was clearly defined; with product placements, commercial messages can be included within content for which consumers pay to view, and with which consumers are strongly emotionally engaged.","A second trend is democratization of content creation. In the age of the great movie studios, control of content creation (at least in the new media of radio and the movies) was entirely within the hands of a few very powerful businessmen. Later, as the costs of high quality production came down, and as more and more channels to market became available, first through UHF television stations and later through cable and satellite systems, content creation became more diffuse, taking place across thousands of companies acting in various capacities. But only recently has serious content routinely been created by individuals acting as consumers rather than as employees of media companies. The emergence of \u201cuser-generated content\u201d (UGC) has been a large part of the post-2000 boom in user-centric web services, which commonly is labeled broadly as Web 2.0. Today, with blogs, personal web pages, and sites for the uploading of user-generated music and video clips, more and more of what people read, hear and watch is created outside of the corporate world and in the world of UGC.","Another important trend has been emergence of highly targeted advertising. Advertising once was a mass media affair, and segmentation tended to go no further than choosing during which radio or television shows to advertise. Today, Internet portal companies, search engines, marketing database companies with access to credit card and other financial data all compete to precisely target advertisements to ever more finely sliced segments of the consumer population. The rapid rise of Google has also shown how much the advertising equation has changed; while charging only a tiny fraction of what traditional media charged for advertising, and while permitting only the most rudimentary text-based advertising, Google has grabbed a significant share of the advertising market and has built a highly profitable business, because its ad placements are highly targeted and because advertisers only pay when ads are clicked.","Finally, the last few years have seen emergence of another new category of web-based entity, the virtual community. A well-known emerging category of virtual community is social networks. Already there are thousands of these, ranging from the very large operators such as MySpace or Facebook to very small, highly verticalized players. There are even companies selling platforms for launching new social networks quickly and inexpensively. And social networking has quickly become one of the major outlets for user-generated content (in fact, one can view each subscribers profile page as a form of UGC). As is typical in web trends, the original social networking pioneers offered \u201csomething for nothing\u201d, and most social networking sites continue to offer a wide range of free services. But soon after, people began seeking ways to develop profitable business models to monetize the large numbers of loyal users that had been created in a very short time. Much as Google did in search, these pioneers are looking to advertising to satisfy the need to generate revenue from highly visited social networking sites, and they are typically adopting the methods used by Google\u2014allowing users to provide advertisers access to their profile pages in return for a small slice of the advertising revenue. This is by now a well-understood business model\u2014the site operator, the user whose profile page is used, the media buyer and others each take a piece of the total advertising spend committed by the advertisers (these by and large are the same kinds of companies as in all of the previous ages plus the new web-based companies).","Beyond social networks, other forms of virtual communities have become commonplace in the art. Among these are online gaming communities in which large numbers of individuals cooperate and compete in network-hosted gaming systems. Many of these are typified by games that are indefinite in nature, and it is common for complex social structures similar to social networks to arise intentionally or merely as a result of actions taken by many people in pursuit of their goals. Many online gaming communities include a strong element of user-generated content, with similar challenges and opportunities for monetization of this content. Other forms of virtual communities typified by widespread adoption and propagation of user-generated content, and the concomitant need for means to monetize that content, include \u201cvirtual worlds\u201d and file sharing communities. All of these are merely exemplary of a strong shift away from static content to user-generated content in the online world, and these examples should not be considered to be limiting for the purposes of the present invention. All virtual communities in which user-generated content plays a prominent role provide background for, and will benefit from, the present invention.","Additionally, a vigorous new e-commerce market category has emerged recently commonly referred to as content aggregators. These sites, which resemble virtual communities and may be considered a subset of that category, allow users (whether individual consumers, boutique content creation companies, or major media outlets) to upload content that can then be searched and viewed freely by users of the content aggregator sites. Importantly, these sites generally also provide rich functionality for tagging, rating and commenting about content by any and all users. These sites are actively experimenting in methods for monetizing their sites, generally by placing ads on their page that are targeted based on the content viewing selections of individual users or groups of users. Additionally, these sites have enabled the embedding of advertising within the content on their sites, such as at predefined insertion points (or times) in streaming videos. In the art at the time of the present invention, the methods known to the inventors all involve the selection of advertisements for insertion by the content aggregator or a partnered advertising network.","One limitation of the currently emerging model of allowing advertisers to place ads on users' profile pages and other user-controlled or user-generated content hosted in virtual communities is that it is a largely passive affair from the users' point of view. A user can, for instance, subscribe to one of the many affiliate advertising services and make a space available for ads to be displayed, but the user has no control over what ads are displayed. Advertisers will display ads that seem to correlate well with the content of the page (for instance, a user's blog on \u201cthe new physics\u201d will likely show ads from a science magazine, whereas one that focuses on a particular sports team would likely show ads promoting sports apparel or memorabilia). But the user cannot choose, and certainly the user cannot block undesirable advertisers from her page.","This limitation, besides providing for the possibility of incongruous and occasionally counterproductive ad placements, also leads to an inability of mainstream advertisers to take advantage of the most powerful aspect of virtual communities\u2014which is precisely that virtual communities are self-organized market segments. People who network together whether in a broad \u201cnetwork of friends\u201d sense or in a narrow \u201cnetwork of first edition enthusiasts\u201d sense, automatically define segments of great interest to advertisers, as these virtual communities generally will share much in common, including buying habits. But since the essence of virtual communities is their self-organization and, accordingly, their dynamic nature, the traditional advertising model falls short.","This problem is exacerbated by the challenges faced by content aggregators. As with virtual communities, advertisement placement is largely a passive targeting function performed either by a content aggregator or by an advertising network that partners with a content aggregator. Ads can be targeted based on the tagging and commentary associated with given media content, and can be inserted in the content or on the page around the content while it is being viewed. But there is no provision in the art today for the users to select advertisements and thereby to endorse products that they prefer. Additionally, content aggregators generally only have access to advertising revenues while users are actually on their sites; if the content is allowed to be embedded and displayed on third-party sites (such as a user's profile page in a virtual community), the content creator and content aggregator have no way to make money except by inserting ads into the media itself without any knowledge of where the content is being viewed, or by whom.","What is clearly needed in the art is a way to bring together the worlds of advertising, virtual communities, and content aggregation in a way that serves the best interests of all of the key constituents\u2014those who wish to advertise, those who wish to monetize their content, those who aggregate content from others, those who manage virtual communities, and those to whom advertisements are directed. Users of virtual communities, should they be able to influence what is advertised to them, and when and how it is advertised to them, would be able to achieve the reasonable goal of having ads that address their particular needs and preferences, at a particular point in time or generally, and to share in the benefits thus created. And, in a continuation of the trend away from mass advertising that the search-based ad illustrates, advertisers would be able to precisely target content at those virtual networks that are most predisposed to favorably react to the message, and to do so at a remarkably low cost thus driving revenue per ad dollar up dramatically. Content creators would be able to enjoy much greater and more targeted revenue-generating distribution channels, and content aggregators would be able to greatly expand their opportunities for monetizing user-generated content (UGC) that is hosted on their sites.","It is an aim of the present invention to provide a system and a method for monetizing the user-generated content that dominates virtual community sites, and to provide advertisers a method to \u201cride the user-generated content\u201d wave in order to achieve improved levels of targeting specificity and return on investment. It is a further aim of the present invention to provide a system and method for monetizing third-party content by enabling endorsing users to select third-party content for display on pages or sites they control, to select products or services they wish to endorse, and to associate their endorsements with the third-party content.","Internet content is often accessed by users employing various reader applications such as Google Reader which collects related content from many sources into one convenient place using the Really Simple Syndication (RSS) standard. This has become a very efficient and convenient way to peruse multiple publications. There is thus a need for the published content that is accessed by RSS technology to have endorsed product placements pass through to the viewer along with the featured content. An embodiment of this invention enables the viewer to click on specific endorsed products through an RSS accessed content page and be routed directly to a universal shopping cart for check out. This ability vastly expands the potential market for an authors endorsed product. Endorsers can offer their content pages on RSS feeds and still retain the potential revenue shares for sales of products endorsed in their publications that are ultimately viewed from an RSS reader.","The value of targeting a specific product or marketing campaign to a specific group of potential buyers is well documented. Advertisers, merchants and virtual community organizers all have much to gain by understanding what works and what doesn't work with a specific target audience. Yet in the past it has not been possible to collect, in one place, all the data concerning the products promoted, the context in which such promotions are viewed, the personal characteristics of the endorsers of the products, and the personal characteristics of the viewer of the promotion. Furthermore it has not generally been possible to monitor all behavioral events from ad placement, to ad display and viewing, to \u201cclick through\u201d on ads, and finally to actual transactions, especially when (as is common) these events take place in different online locations. For instance, ad placement decisions are made in one place generally using a specialized tool. Ads are viewed in association with content that could be hosted anywhere, and when a user clicks through an ad she is generally taken to yet another location. Actual purchases are often conducted on yet another online location. There exists a very real need for a comprehensive data collection facility to aggregate data on products, content, endorsers, and viewers\/purchasers, with the data encompassing all activities from ad selection to ad placement, ad viewing, ad click through, product viewing and selection, and shopping cart\/checkout transactions. Furthermore, it is desirable to make all of this data available in business intelligence user interfaces to allow users who are merchants\/advertisers, virtual community managers, content owners or creators, and endorsers to analyze the effectiveness of their previous decisions and to optimize their online merchandising activities.","Furthermore, a parallel set of trends has developed in the area of business-to-business (B2B) e-commerce, including supply chain or eProcurement technologies. More and more businesses routinely procure the raw, processed and finished goods needed to satisfy the needs of their customers from business partners via electronic networks. Early progress in this direction took place through use of electronic data interchange (EDI), which allowed a limited number of typically very large enterprises to coordinate ordering and logistics of commodities and financial instruments. For example, manufacturers would use then-new technology of enterprise resource management software to coordinate purchase of raw materials in order to achieve dramatic productivity improvement through use of \u201cjust in time\u201d and related management methodologies. With emergence of the Internet and the World Wide Web globally, the breadth and depth of activities performed using EDI expanded, and moved to the new massively interconnected world of the Web.","At the time of the invention, many B2B marketplaces have emerged in which communities of enterprises coordinate and compete with much greater speed and flexibility than was ever possible before. These changes have greatly improved resilience of the global market system, enabling it to withstand multiple shocks with surprisingly little disruption, since inventory levels are lower and more fluid and since disruptions are known and can be accommodated far more rapidly than before.","Unfortunately, these gains in B2B e-commerce have proceeded in relatively complete isolation from equally profound changes in how consumers communicate, and in particular from phenomena of virtual communities such as social networks. This is unfortunate, since virtual communities perform a natural and important function of filtering the vast complexity of human social interactions. In the past businesses have invested untold billions in a quest to understand natural groupings, or segmentations, of consumer populations, and to understand what consumers want. Most such activities are still performed using tools developed early in the age of mass media and advertising, which is to say during the period between 1920 and 1950. These tools include surveys, focus groups, data mining of consumer purchases, and the like. Social networks and similar virtual communities make it possible to engage consumers actively in answering timeless questions (\u201cwho are they?\u201d and \u201cwhat do they want?\u201d). Today relatively little e-commerce leverages the extraordinary growth of the virtual community phenomenon described above, and partly this is because of its novelty. But also, businesses struggle because, while they can easily procure what they need from global networks of competing suppliers, they enjoy no such easy access to the highly fragmented\u2014but also highly segmented\u2014world of virtual communities of consumers.","Moreover, the roles of \u201cmerchants\u201d (or producers, distributors and other participants in the \u201csupply side\u201d) and \u201ccustomers\u201d (consumers, or in other words, participants in the \u201cdemand side\u201d) have become increasingly blurred since the emergence of ecommerce. Well-known companies including Amazon.com and eBay make it possible for individuals and small businesses to participate side-by-side with major retailers and manufacturers selling directly to consumers, and frequently the same actors participate as both buyers and sellers actively. For instance, many users of eBay sell very large numbers of items and buy other items (and, sometimes, they buy items on eBay or elsewhere on the web solely in order to resell them on eBay).","Accordingly, it is an aim of the present invention to provide a system and a method for linking B2B eProcurement markets with processes for selling through virtual communities, for example by monetizing user-generated content that dominates these communities, and to provide vendors and advertisers a method to promote and sell products into and through virtual communities using marketing events and promotions, community-generated and user-generated content, and targeted advertisements. It is a further aim of the present invention to enable end users to act as buyers, sellers, endorsers, or agents who propagate endorsements of others to reach larger buying audiences (and to take a slice of the associated revenue), as the need arises, while using a single unified user interface means that is adapted for easy deployment anywhere on the web.","In an effort to solve the problems described above of monetizing user-generated content and third-party content, the inventors conceived of a fundamental shift in the longstanding paradigm of advertising. Specifically, they conceived of the notion of shifting from the model of vendors hawking their own wares through various advertising means involving the pushing of vendor materials to potential consumers to the model of users promoting and selling products that they personally find valuable or useful. Accordingly, the inventors provide a system for the monetization of user-generated or third party content using user-controlled product placements within, adjacent to, or near the content.","In a preferred embodiment of the invention, an e-commerce system, comprising an endorsement engine, a first interface software coupled to the endorsement engine and adapted to interact with one or more content sources connected over a network and adapted to enable subscriptions from users using a protocol, and a second interface software coupled to the endorsement engine and adapted to interact with one or more merchants to receive information about products, is disclosed. In an embodiment, the first interface software enables an endorsing user to browse the content sources and select a content item, to enter code associated with the selected content element, to view product information provided by merchants, to select a product for endorsement, and to enter code associated with the selected product. Upon retrieval of content by a viewing user who previously subscribed to the content source using the protocol, at least one of the content-specific code and the product-specific code is also provided to the viewing user via the protocol. Upon activation of the content-specific code, the viewing user is connected to the selected content and is able to view the selected content, and upon activation of the product-specific code by a viewing user, the viewing user is connected to a network-connected shopping cart, and is thereby enabled to buy the product.","In another preferred embodiment, a method for monetizing online content using a subscription protocol, is disclosed. The method comprises the steps of receiving information from a plurality of merchants related to products at a network-connected server, transmitting information and code related to a specific product from a network-connected server to an endorsing user, retrieving information and code related to a specific content element suitable for online display from a third party and making it available to the endorsing user, and embedding the product-related code and content-related code into a software module executing on a network-attached server on request from the endorsing user. Furthermore the method comprises the additional steps of enabling subscription to the specific content element or its source via a protocol by a viewing user and, upon the content-related code being activated by the viewing user following retrieval of the content element according to the subscription, enabling the viewing user to view the retrieved content element and, upon the product-related code being activated by the viewing user while viewing the retrieved content, connecting the viewing user to a network-connected shopping cart, thereby enabling the viewing user to purchase the product.","The inventors provide, in one embodiment, a system and a method for monetization of content in which endorsers are enabled to select from a variety of products (wherever products are referred to herein, it should be understood to include not only physical products, but also virtual products such as game items for online games, and services, without departing from the scope of the present invention), from a variety of merchants, and to make them available for viewing and purchase entirely within, or associated with, their own or another's content. That is, it is an object of the present invention that endorsers are able to choose product information about products of their choosing and to embed that information, in a variety of ways, into their own or another's content. \u201cContent\u201d as used herein should be understood to include any content capable of being associated with arbitrary additional content, either by having the additional content embedded within it or closely associated with it at the time the content is consumed. For instance, the emergence of portable electronic readers and highly functional smartphones means that content including (but not limited to) books, audio selections, or short videos (or even feature-length movies) can be propagated to, and consumed using, these devices. Thus content, as used herein, would include an electronic book viewed offline, as long as the electronic book and the associated viewing device make it possible for endorsements to be either embedded in the book (by its publisher or by another), or to be associated with it at the time the content is \u201cconsumed\u201d (read, in this case). Thus, the term \u201ccontent\u201d should be construed quite broadly when considering the scope of the instant invention. It is an object of this invention that viewers content that has been prepared using the instant invention will be able to view the images or information associated with the products being promoted by an endorser, and to purchase such promoted products, or to mark them for potential future purchase, as desired. It is yet another object of this invention to provide a monetary reward to endorsers and to creators of content that is used to successfully promote products for sale; it should be understood, however, that rewards other than money may also be given to endorsers, content creators and others, according to the invention. For example, \u201cloyalty points\u201d such as frequent flyer miles could be rewarded as a proxy for monetary reward, without departing from the spirit of the invention. Where \u201cmonetization\u201d and \u201cmoney\u201d are used in this specification, they should be understood to mean \u201cmonetization or the like\u201d and \u201cmoney or an equivalent reward\u201d; the form of the reward provided is not an essential element of the invention and the invention accordingly should not be limited to cases involving actual monetary transfers.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0050","num":"0049"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["120","111","110","111","120","110","111","100","101","120","103","111","102","111","104","103","104","101","102","100","111"]},"Virtual communities  are common on the Internet today, and typically provide their members ( and through ) with a variety of services intended to enable them to establish their own social groupings dynamically in a content-rich way. Among these services, virtual communities  typically provide some form of authoring component , where a publishing user  can create and edit content  and, when satisfied, make that content available as published UGC  to other users (through ) via consuming components (through ). Without loss of generality, it should be noted that in a preferred embodiment the authoring component  is a web page where publishing users may create and edit content  such as blogs, profile pages, photos, videos, personal web pages and the like. Also without loss of generality, it should be noted that in preferred embodiment the consuming components (through ) are web browsers, and the published user-generated content  consists of pages within a social network's  web site that contain the UGC  created by user  in authoring component .","While in an embodiment the virtual community  is one of the many familiar social networks available on the Internet, it should be understood that the invention can be used to market goods and services to any human network , for example (but not limited to) console or online gaming systems where gamers create UGC  and the gaming industry operates the universal shopping cart  of the invention, kiosks where UGC is delivered to malls or stores using the method of the invention (the universal shopping cart  in this case could be operated by an operator of a chain of malls, or a chain of stores, or by a specialist third party who places kiosks in prominent places to allow consumption of content  by network members), virtual worlds where groups or entire virtual societies are formed and the universal shopping cart  is operated either by the host of the virtual world or by a third party service provider, or even offline networks such as groups of \u201cfriends and family\u201d who subscribe to a value-added mobile phone service that allows users to create and post content that can be viewed on mobile phone service that allows users to create and post content that can be viewed on mobile phones, and where the mobile phone carrier or one of its partners operates the universal shopping cart . An important element of the invention is provision of a universal shopping cart  whereby members of a human network can incorporate product information from merchants  into their published user-generated content  in order to promote the sale of those products, and the fact that the consumers (through ) of the published content  can view product promotions and product information as an integral part of the user-generated content, and that they can purchase products or mark them for later review and possible purchase, entirely within the published content  via the consuming component (through ). Only when finished and ready to check out does the consuming user (now a Buyer) (through ) interact with the universal shopping cart , specifically by going through the shopping cart's checkout procedure.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0053","num":"0052"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":["201","120","111","111","123","123","110","123","123"]},"In step , virtual community members create user-generated content for posting or publishing as published content . As mentioned above, this step could comprise many possible actions by members of the virtual community, including but not limited to posting a blog entry, creating a video, adding content to a personal web page, updating a personal profile page, or adding a comment or essay in a public forum section of the virtual community. The virtual community member then selects products from the universal shopping cart and adds them to her user-generated content posting . The user actually inserts or embeds a block of code downloaded from the universal shopping cart  into her user-generated content ; this embedded code block could for example be hypertext markup language (HTML), extensible markup language (XML) or the like. The code could contain a link to an image or a video, such that when a viewer of the content  clicks on the link they can view the image or watch the video. Such techniques are well established in the art. The embedded code can also contain means for executing a purchase or for marking an item for later review and purchase. These means could be, but are not limited to, a \u201cBuy\u201d button viewable by the user (\u201cuser\u201d herein refers to the consumer (through ) of user-generated content), a \u201chot spot\u201d in an image or a video which, when moused over, displays a \u201cbuy this item\u201d tag, or other similar means.","After the creating user has created her content and added products from the universal shopping cart , other virtual community members view the newly published posting  and may optionally choose to view or buy products that are promoted in the new posting. In particular, in step  some virtual community members buy products directly from the posting member's user-generated content posting. The user may choose to continue viewing content  of the same user, or indeed may move on to other network members' content . This is an important advantage of the present invention: users may continue browsing the same or other users' content  as desired, and thereby they may accumulate several purchase decisions (or tentative decisions) before deciding to check out and complete purchases. Users can move to checkout at any time or they may be prompted, if they elect to leave the social network, to go to checkout. Optionally, a virtual community member's product selections may be kept on hold and revisited on a subsequent visit to the virtual community; this functionality is implicit in the universal shopping cart, which receives (through the mechanism of the embedded code) a notification each time a user selects a product for viewing or purchase and can store this information for use when the user returns. When a user ultimately does decide to purchase, they proceed to the universal shopping cart checkout  where they can choose to add or drop products, add or change method of payment, select shipping options, and so forth. Note, however, that in embodiments where the virtual community is not an online network, but is a network of humans conducting offline interactions, the checkout feature will still be present. As is discussed below, there will be a communications means of some sort, typically internet protocol (IP) based, between the user-generated content and the universal shopping cart, and this communications means would be used as well for checkout.","Once a purchase has been made, the merchant (or merchants; a single checkout can be conducted to purchase products from a plurality of merchants, and indeed from a plurality of content promotions) receives notification of the order and payment arrangements from the service provider  that operates the universal shopping cart (step ; recall that this service provider could in fact be the operator of the virtual community as well, but need not be). Finally, the member from whose content  each purchase decision was made receives an endorsement fee or other monetary reward from the service provider  in step . Again, from a single \u201cbrowsing expedition\u201d or web session, multiple purchases from multiple content promotions could be made. And the products could be from multiple merchants. Accordingly, each transaction is tracked in the universal shopping cart as a tuple, record, or set of data elements containing at least the buyer's identity, the content creator's identity, and the product's identity (which can be tied to the merchant based on the data provided in step ).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0057","num":"0056"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":["123","300","301","302","303","123"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0058","num":"0057"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":["400","401","402","403","404","404","403","123","123","404","404"],"i":["a ","n","a ","n"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0059","num":"0058"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 5"],"b":["123","500","500","111","514","520","520","502","501","502","501","111","503","501","514","506","504","520","520","514","500","514","123"],"i":["a ","n","a ","n","a ","n"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0060","num":"0059"},"figref":"FIG. 6","b":["120","125","125","601","602","613","1","604","1","605","2","606","607","123","3","608","609","611","4","610","5","611"],"i":["a ","n"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0061","num":"0060"},"figref":"FIG. 7","b":["701","702","703","704","123"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0062","num":"0061"},"figref":"FIG. 8","b":["123","801","120","501","801","802","803","804","120","110","803","100","804","803","110","803","111"]},"In a subsequent step (), users of an embodiment of the invention choose whether to make third party content accessible outside of the current online location. Alternatively, when users are conducting monetization of third party content within a virtual community, steps  through  are performed on a suitable page or in a suitable software module hosted by service provider , which as before could either be the operator of a virtual community  or could be providing services on behalf of a virtual community , and step  is the service provider's or virtual community's selection of whether users will be allowed to make third party content accessible outside of the virtual community . The decision in step  may optionally be made based on specific rules or terms enforced by the owner or aggregator of the content selected in step . Such rules or terms may be contractual or may be enforced through the inclusion in embedded code downloaded in step  of software routines which prevent redistribution of content beyond the location for which it was originally released. For example, a content aggregator or content owner can embed code which is rendered at the time of the selection in step  and which only allows selected content to be hosted at or viewed from the location from which a user selected the content. Alternatively, a content aggregator or content owner could provide a list of online properties or domains within embedded code provided in step  to users, and only content hosted at one of the online properties or domains specified in a list so provided would be functional. In another example, a content aggregator or content owner could include code means in embedded code provided to users in step  that, when users attempt to view content associated with the embedded code, communicates over a network such as the Internet with a specified service or server connected to the network and requests permission to display the content to the requesting user. In this example, the provision of permission, and possibly the attachment of usage conditions to such permission, can be based on a number of factors that could be included in the request, including but not limited to the identity of the requesting user, the membership status of the requesting user in some group or demographic segment, the time of day, and so forth. It will be appreciated that quite sophisticated mechanisms can be established by content owners or content aggregators, or both, to control when and how their content is displayed, and to control whether product endorsements are to be allowed to be inserted into or associated with their content, how those endorsements can be performed, who can endorse products, and what products or vendors can be endorsed. For instance, a content owner could prevent competing content creators from advertising their content to potential buyers from within or adjacent to the content owner's content. If content export is not allowed in step , then in step  the content is displayed within Mugzy-enabled pages within the virtual community  or within the website or domain to which the content was limited in step , and in step  other users of the virtual community or domain in which the content is hosted view the content and associated product endorsements and can optionally purchase products from within the hosting user's pages or locations. If content export is allowed in step , then in step  the user posts or uploads embed code for the MyMugzy widget, or equivalent software modules or widgets adapted to contain the embed code from step  and suitable product endorsements, to one or more target external sites or online locations adapted to receive such embed code. The embed code can be in JavaScript or any other suitable form that is commonly accepted by online properties such as virtual communities, blogging networks or sites, consumer feedback sites, and the like. Note that the decision in step  is not necessarily an either\/or decision; in some cases users will be allowed to export the third party content and associated product endorsements and also to host them within the virtual community or service provider or user-controlled location at which the decision  was executed. For example, a user may desire to display a video from a favorite coffeehouse musician and endorsements for one or more of the musician's published CDs. The user can do this from her profile page in a social network or other virtual community, for example by following a link provided by the social network and then browsing third party content to find a suitable video. The user can then select products for endorsement, in this case CDs from the favorite musician, using the Mugzy third party engine provided by the social network. Once the third party embed code and product endorsement code is obtained and linked one to the other, the user can add the video for viewing under a \u201cmusic I have recently found\u201d heading on her Mugzy-enabled profile page within the social network, and she can also obtain the equivalent MyMugzy embed code, which in effect wraps around the full functionality provided on the Mugzy-enabled personal profile page in an embeddable software object that is invoked when the MyMugzy embed code is itself invoked from an external location. She can then post or upload this MyMugzy embed code on her profile pages in one or more additional virtual communities, as well as on her own personal home page and her own personal blog. In fact, the MyMugzy embed code can be embedded in media files provided with insertion points for embedded code and distributed on a CD or removable storage device to particular individuals. Those receiving individuals could then, when playing the content on the CD or storage device at their leisure, view and purchase product endorsements from the endorsing user whenever the viewing is conducted while online (the MyMugzy embed code, like all embed code, requires access over the Internet to one or more locations specified in the embed code; in this case the original virtual community's third party engine). Once MyMugzy code embed code is uploaded to a suitable external web site, virtual community page or other online location (or it is loaded into a suitable network-connected playback device if the code is loaded on a CD or portable storage device), visitors to the external site (or users of the CD or portable storage device) can view the hosted third party content and view and optionally purchase, recommend, rate or comment on products endorsed in or adjacent to the hosted content. In a preferred embodiment of the invention, viewing users do not need to leave the hosted content in order to view or purchase endorsed products; the code necessary to connect back to the universal shopping cart is included in the MyMugzy embed code and the entire viewing, selection and checkout process (or any portion thereof) can be performed from within the control of the MyMugzy widget without leaving the associated third party content.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0064","num":"0063"},"figref":["FIG. 9","FIG. 9"],"b":["900","902","902","901","910","904","911","910","911","900","911","910","902","900","901","111","903","905","904","903","904","901","905","913","900","902","904","913","903","905","901"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0065","num":"0064"},"figref":["FIG. 10","FIG. 10"]},"In one such embodiment of the invention illustrated in , a service provider  provides a universal shopping cart  to enable merchants  to make product placements , passing product information about products that are available for sale through the service provider  using interface  to the universal shopping cart , as well as a means for receiving sales transactions  from the universal shopping cart  via another interface . It should be noted that the interfaces  and  need not be separate, but the functions of product placement  and sales transactions  could be carried out over a single interface between the merchant's  systems and the universal shopping cart . This is in general true of the many interfaces described in various embodiments of the invention\u2014the precise arrangement of interfaces is not integral to the invention, but rather the exemplary combinations of functionality enabled to be made through use of the interfaces is essential to the invention.","Service providers  are common on the Internet today and could include one or more of virtual communities, web hosting facilities, internet service providers, and the like. Service providers  provide endorsers  with a variety of services intended to enable them to monetize third party content by endorsing products within or associated with the third party content. Among these services, service providers  provide in an embodiment of the invention the capability to endorsers, using endorsement engine  via interface , to incorporate third party content obtained from hosting site  operated by content aggregator  into user-managed pages ,  or . The third party content is generally created separately from the content aggregator , with content creators  creating content according to their goals and desires. Content creators create content optionally using an offline content creation tool  and then uploading the content to one or more content aggregators  using an authoring and uploading tool  that is connected via interface . Alternatively, content creators can use an online authoring and uploading tool  to create content directly online and to submit it to one or more content aggregators  using interface . There are a multitude of well-known offline and online content creation tools, and many content aggregators, and the creation, uploading and hosting (in a content aggregator) of user-generated content is very well known in the art. Service providers  also provide services directly to viewers  of hosted third party content by enabling them, when viewing user-generated pages ,  or  using a consuming component , to receive and view product endorsements embedded in or adjacent to third party content that is provided as part of user-generated pages ,  or , to view product details, add products to their personal universal shopping cart , and purchase items directly through the MyMugzy or equivalent widget utilizing the services of the universal shopping cart  without leaving the page they are viewing.","While not shown in , which is exemplary but not limiting, endorsers can also obtain content directly from content creators without using the services of a content aggregator , in one of several ways. Content creators often make their content available for download from their own web pages or personal blogs; content from these sources can be downloaded either in the form of media files that can be loaded directly into readily available streaming media hosting software that can in turn be embedded into user-generated pages ,  or . Alternatively embed code can be obtained from the content creator directly in a process directly analogous to that used to host content that resides on content aggregator sites. And, as discussed above, there are many means for delivery of third party content directly to endorsers, such as on storage devices or via email.","Endorsers  are thus provided with a rich variety of means of obtaining and hosting third party content and monetizing that content by embedding or closely associating (by adjacent or close placement on user-controlled pages) product or service endorsements. In an embodiment of the invention, endorsers  use authoring components  to generate pages ,  or , or combinations thereof. Endorsers connect via interface  from an authoring component to an endorsement engine provided by service provider . Endorsers can obtain third party content directly from content creators  or content aggregators , and obtain embed code or media files which are then uploaded to the third party engine  of service provider . Endorsers may, according to the invention, browse products that are eligible for endorsement or promotion in service provider 's environment either by connecting directly to a universal shopping cart  provided by the service provider or by browsing available products in the third party endorsement engine if service provider  chooses to configure the third party monetization system accordingly. Endorsers, after selecting third party content and appropriate content embed code, and after selecting products or services to endorse, receive complete embed code to enable the embedding of a MyMugzy or equivalent software module directly into a finished external page  or a personal home page ; alternatively the endorser receives embed code adapted for inclusion in pages belonging to, or managed by, the endorsing user within the service provider's environment (in these cases the use of an embedded software widget is optional, as the endorsement engine, the universal shopping cart and the user page  are all within the domain, or technical and business operating environment, of the service provider ). According to an embodiment of the invention, endorsing users  are able to monitor and change their endorsement settings directly through the same user interface embedded in pages ,  or  as is used by viewers ; since viewers who want to buy products and endorsers who want to modify endorsements will need to be identified before they can conduct such transactions, the universal shopping cart provides an authentication service that is accessed directly by user pages within the service provider environment, or via the MyMugzy or equivalent widget (under control of the embed code) when viewers access product endorsements from external pages  or . Thus endorsing users are able to view, monitor and modify their endorsements and third party content from within the hosting page, and viewers are able to view, rate, comment on, and purchase endorsed products from within the user-managed pages ,  or .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0070","num":"0069"},"figref":["FIG. 11","FIG. 10"],"b":["1101","1025","1104","1103","1101","1102"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0071","num":"0070"},"figref":"FIG. 12","b":["1200","1011","1200","1201","1202","1203"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0072","num":"0071"},"figref":["FIG. 13","FIG. 6","FIG. 6","FIG. 13","FIG. 7"],"b":["1050","1030","1010","1020","1010","1301","1010","1012","1302","1010","1030","1012","1303","1030","1050","1020","1012","1030","1304","1010","1305","1306","1013","1025","1026","1307"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0073","num":"0072"},"figref":"FIG. 14","b":["1401","1402","1403","1301","1404","1405"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0074","num":"0073"},"figref":"FIG. 15","b":["1500","1501","1502","1503","1504","1505","1508","1506","1506","1508"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0075","num":"0074"},"figref":"FIG. 16","b":["1600","1601","1602","1603","1604","1608","1605","1606","1609"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0076","num":"0075"},"figref":"FIG. 17","b":["1708","1700","1701","1702","1703","1700","1701","1702","1701","1702","1700","1703","1705","1704","1707","1706","1709"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0077","num":"0076"},"figref":["FIG. 18","FIG. 12"],"b":["1802","1850","1801","1802","1802","1850","1802","1860","1801","1851","1801"],"i":["a ","n"]},"Mugzy Merchant widget software  is, in am embodiment of the invention, operable either as a standalone software package that can be installed permanently on a computing device such as a personal computer, a mobile phone, or a handheld computing device. It is also, in some embodiments, comprised of software that is downloaded each time it is used from a server via a network  such as the Internet; in some embodiments universal shopping cart  is capable of downloading Mugzy Merchant widget software  to a user on demand, but it is not necessary for this function to be performed by universal shopping cart . It is well-known in the art for compact software to be delivered on demand to a client device over a network by a server, and any of the many means for doing this known in the art may be used according to the invention. In some embodiments, embed code adapted to trigger a download of Mugzy Merchant widget software  (when content in which it is embedded is loaded) is made available to merchants or content creators. For example, a merchant can download the Mugzy Merchant widget software embed code from a universal shopping cart  or other server or website, and embed the embed code into her own personal website (which may not even be accessible to other users from the Internet, although it needs to be able to connect to at least one universal shopping cart  in order to carry out its functions). Thus when such a merchant is carrying out routine business from a personal website (which could be on an Intranet, and could include modules for popular hosted business applications), she will be able to manage her sales through the virtual community channel, loading new products for sale, adding or changing product promotions and survey instructions, and managing orders. Because of the compact form (this is what is commonly meant by the term \u201cwidget\u201d), and the on-demand nature of the Mugzy Merchant widget software , it may be accessed from virtually anywhere, by any registered user. For instance, merchants may in some cases access the full merchant functionality of the invention from a kiosk, for example where cell phones are sold in an office supply store. In this example, a merchant not necessarily associated with the office supply store could use an in-store kiosk to review orders and to make changes to product descriptions, pricing, promotional materials, or available inventory. In another example, a consumer may add items for sale by taking pictures of the items using a mobile phone and uploading them using Mugzy Merchant widget software, along with price and delivery terms, to a shopping cart . The same consumer could, in the same session, also act as an endorser (preparing and uploading, or changing, product endorsements associated with content) and as a content and endorsement viewer and possible purchaser. It is envisioned by the inventors that many small business merchants and consumers will choose to sell products using Mugzy Merchant widget software  rather than well-known online sales means such as eBay or Amazon.com. The benefit is that each time a consumer uploads a product for sale using Mugzy Merchant widget software (which will in many cases be distinguishable from MyMugzy widget software only by the features being used at a particular moment; in many cases the same software will serve both functions for qualified users), the product is available to be endorsed and promoted by any number of virtual community members. Moreover, according to embodiments of the invention, users may choose (typically when accessing a virtual community via a third party such as service provider ) to make the product available for endorsement or sale in multiple virtual communities. Thus, small businesses, consumers, and large businesses are able to obtain access using a simple user interface to a potentially vast network of net promoters who will promote and sell their products.","Mugzy Merchant widget software  is connected via data network  (which can be, but need not be, the Internet) to Universal Shopping Cart , which carries out all the functions of shopping carts ,  and Portal\/Shopping Cart . Specifically, members (through ) of the virtual community are provided the ability to buy products placed in the universal shopping cart  by the plurality of merchants  using Mugzy Merchant widget software , and to do so from within the familiar user interfaces of the virtual community . Interactions with the universal shopping cart are via data network connections , which can be the Internet but are not required to be so; any packet-based networking technology known in the art can fulfill the function of data network connections . Information concerning products to be marketed through the virtual community is provided to universal shopping cart  from the Mugzy Merchant widget software  via data network , and transactional data from the universal shopping cart  is passed back to Master B2B Console  via also data network . In most embodiments, data network  is the Internet, but this need not be the case; any data network adapted to allow communication from a merchant-used B2B Master Console It should be noted that data connections can be combined, or subdivided into special-purpose data connections such as for reporting, without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention; two data connections are shown for clarity and as an exemplary embodiment.","The interactions that take place between Mugzy Merchant widget software  and universal shopping cart  in an embodiment of the invention encompass all functions normally associated with making products available for sale and promoting their sale in a marketplace, with the marketplace being the virtual community in which universal shopping cart  is embedded, or with which universal shopping cart  is associated. Traditional B2B functions are carried out by merchants  via specific modules of the Mugzy Merchant widget software , including but not limited to buying, selling, product promotion placement, customer survey management, order management, and the like.","Users  of the virtual community also interact with several distinct modules within the universal shopping cart  of the invention, including receiving served ads while viewing content from within the virtual community from an ad serving module, responding to surveys provided by a survey content module, viewing product information and options provided via a product offers module, and checking out to complete purchases made using the universal shopping cart using a checkout module. It should be understood that these are exemplary functions, and there may be more or less functions provided by the universal shopping cart , or by equivalent virtual community-hosted software applications, in embodiments of the invention. Furthermore, merchants may promote products through virtual communities from the Mugzy Merchant widget software  using applications other than the universal shopping cart, for example by placing context-sensitive ads within content hosted by the virtual community using a promotion module and a software application other than a universal shopping cart that provides a corresponding ad management module.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0082","num":"0081"},"figref":"FIG. 19","b":["1901","1902","1801","1851","1903","1850","1851","1801","1904","1851","1905","1801","1851"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0083","num":"0082"},"figref":"FIG. 20","b":["1850","2001","2002","2003","1851","1801","2004","2005","2006","1851","1851","1851","110","2007","110"]},"e2VC networks can operate with virtual communities other than the familiar online examples such as online social networks. For example, using internet protocol television (IPTV), virtual communities can be formed in a manner analogous to, but different than, what happens on the Internet. Viewers of highly targeted programming can establish \u201cvirtual channels\u201d that may consist of, for example, a mix of user-generated and professionally-generated content, and may include a high degree of interactivity. Mobile phone users may form \u201cfriends and family\u201d and similar types of social networks. Members of an organization may agree to establish an \u201calways on\u201d conference bridge using conventional telephony, and members may join and leave the conference at will. Multilevel marketing companies, or network marketing companies, often use networks of associates who conduct home parties centered on particular products or services. In each of these non-traditional cases, a virtual community is established whose membership is self-organized and dynamic, and in each case the virtual community constitutes a highly desirable, if sometimes ephemeral, target market segment for appropriate product and service vendors. The e2VC concept is applicable in all of these cases. What is needed is a data communications channel from the universal shopping cart to at least one of the members of the virtual community (for example, the person leading a home party) for the passing of product and promotion data from the shopping cart to the group and for executing orders in the shopping cart.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0085","num":"0084"},"figref":["FIG. 21","FIG. 21"],"b":["2100","2110","2160","2101","2111","2112","2100","2100","1851","2120","2140","2140","2160","2100","2120","2140","2110","2100","2100","2160","2100","2160","2112","2112","2113","2100"],"i":["a","b","a","c","a","c ","a","c","b ","a","c ","a","c ","a","c ","a","c"]},"It is an important attribute of the instant invention that one or a plurality of external ecommerce facilities  can separately or jointly upload product information, promotional material, commercial information such as pricing, quantities, contractual requirements, lists of banned consumer endorsers, lists of products or web sites with which a given product is not to be associated, and the like, using one or more instances of Mugzy Merchant widget software . Endorsing users can access this information in order to make informed selections of products they wish to endorse (from the set of products which they are allowed to see based on rules established by respective merchants), from within a virtual community such as MySpace , or another social network , or a content aggregator such as YouTube, or a gaming community such as a massively multiplayer online role-playing game , or any virtual community , or indeed any website adapted to interoperate with the Mugzy Merchant widget software  via the Internet .","User endorsements or promotions of products can be viewed by other users via Mugzy components that are provided by virtual communities -or other online services -, or they can embedded within a user's own homepage , a user's personal blog , or any personal web page or other online content controlled by the user, or indeed via Mugzy Mobile  interfaces on a mobile phone or via IP TV. Similarly, merchants (or consumers of virtual community members desiring to sell or promote one or more items through the action of third-party endorsers, or even through their own endorsements), can access all of the functionality (such as placing products in shopping carts to make them available to endorsers and buyers, or managing product promotions, surveys, orders, and the like) of the invention from instances of Mugzy Merchant widget software  that can be located anywhere that MyMugzy can be, and particularly on any website, blog or other online property capable of receiving inserted embed code, or kiosks or other computing devices such as mobile phones connected to the Internet or another suitable network  and thereby adapted to communicate with a shopping cart in a virtual community -or even in a dedicated third-party Mugzy service provider . In an embodiment of the invention, standalone Mugzy server  is operated as a service to a plurality of virtual communities and merchants. According to the embodiment, virtual communities  provide access to server  to their members for the purposes of reviewing products and endorsing them within the respective virtual communities, and when a member of such a virtual community  views content with endorsements embedded or associated, the member does so via server  and is thus enabled to purchase products. Similarly, potentially a very large number of large and small merchants may choose to list products for endorsement and possible sale directly with server  so that the products are accessible to a large number of users in a potentially large number of virtual communities . In another embodiment of the invention, an IP TV provider  interacts with a Mugzy Merchant widget software  or a dedicated Mugzy server  to obtain information about products and promotions available for endorsement in user content, and makes this information available in its own Brand Bazaar , which in effect enables a plurality of users to use instances of Mugzy Merchant widget software  hosted by the IP TV service provider  to manage products, promotion, surveys, orders and the like for the IP TV channel. In this example, the IP TV service provider  may choose to operate a shopping channel that directly sells products made available through the use by many merchants of Merchant Mugzy widget software  (thus gaining access to a large variety of products made available by sources such as manufacturers with whom the IP TV service provider  may have no formal business relationship), or that allows consumers to sell products by providing content and associated product endorsements (for example, a funny home videos show with consumer-generated product endorsements could be hosted by the IP TV service provider  in which viewers would be able to interactively view detailed information and purchase endorsed products using the IP TV Brand Bazaar  without leaving the show or having to use their computer to go online).","It can be seen that a wide variety of arrangements of product suppliers, content providers, and content hosters are possible under the invention, with a key element being the ability of end users to select content of their own or another's creation for use as a vehicle within which, or associated with which, to endorse products they believe in, such that other users may view the selected content and the associated endorsements and optionally view more information or purchase endorsed products without leaving the endorsing user's content.","All of the embodiments outlined in this disclosure are exemplary in nature and should not be construed as limitations of the invention except as claimed below."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWING FIGURES","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0034"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"figref":"FIG. 9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0037","num":"0036"},"figref":"FIG. 10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0037"},"figref":"FIG. 11"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0039","num":"0038"},"figref":"FIG. 12"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0040","num":"0039"},"figref":"FIG. 13"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0041","num":"0040"},"figref":"FIG. 14"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0042","num":"0041"},"figref":"FIG. 15"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0043","num":"0042"},"figref":"FIG. 16"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0044","num":"0043"},"figref":"FIG. 17"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0045","num":"0044"},"figref":"FIG. 18"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0046","num":"0045"},"figref":"FIG. 19"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0047","num":"0046"},"figref":"FIG. 20"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0048","num":"0047"},"figref":"FIG. 21"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
