---
title: Apparatuses, methods and systems for advancement path candidate cloning
abstract: The APPARATUSES, METHODS AND SYSTEMS FOR ADVANCEMENT PATH CANDIDATE CLONING (“CLONER”) provides mechanisms allowing advancement seekers to identify, map out, structure and interact with various advancement paths to the seeker's goals. In one embodiment, the seekers are career advancement seekers, and the CLONER provides mechanisms allowing the seeker to explore various career paths and opportunities. In one embodiment, the CLONER interacts with a statistical engine, which allows seekers to map their experiences to various advancement states in the statistical engines state structure. By so doing, it allows seeker to explore multiple paths based on various criteria, and allows seekers to plan their career goals. In the process, the CLONER allows interested parties (e.g., an employer) to supply a good known seeker (e.g., a great current employee) and identify other candidates that have similar and/or identical experience in an attempt to “clone” the known seeker's abilities. In other embodiments, the seekers may be students wishing to advance their academic advancements. In yet other embodiments, the seekers are financial seekers who wish to achieve their financial goals.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08244551&OS=08244551&RS=08244551
owner: Monster Worldwide, Inc.
number: 08244551
owner_city: New York
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20090421
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["RELATED APPLICATIONS","FIELD","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["Applicant hereby claims priority under 35 USC \u00a7119 for United States provisional patent application Ser. No. 61\/046,767 filed Apr. 21, 2008, entitled \u201cAPPARATUSES, METHODS AND SYSTEMS FOR CAREER PATHING,\u201d.","The entire contents of the aforementioned application is herein expressly incorporated by reference.","The present invention is directed generally to an apparatuses, methods, and systems of human resource management, and more particularly, to APPARATUSES, METHODS AND SYSTEMS FOR ADVANCEMENT PATH CANDIDATE CLONING.","People seeking employment traditionally have looked to job listings in printed media such as newspapers or through employment and\/or career services bureaus. More recently internet web services have come about, providing the ability to search through job postings and\/or unstructured job bulletins. For example, job seekers can look to printed listings, university career websites and company websites in order to find information about the required and\/or recommended qualifications needed for specific jobs. To acquire a sense of which jobs a job seeker may be suited for and what advancement actions to take to acquire those jobs, job seekers may turn to career counselors or job-hunting books for recommendations or advice.","The APPARATUSES, METHODS AND SYSTEMS FOR ADVANCEMENT PATH CANDIDATE CLONING (\u201cCLONER\u201d) provides mechanisms allowing advancement seekers to identify, map out, structure and interact with various advancement paths to the seeker's goals. In one embodiment, the seekers are career advancement seekers, and the CLONER provides mechanisms allowing the seeker to explore various career paths and opportunities. In one embodiment, the CLONER interacts with a statistical engine, which allows seekers to map their experiences to various advancement states in the statistical engines state structure. By so doing, it allows seeker to explore multiple paths based on various criteria, and allows seekers to plan their career goals. In the process, the CLONER allows interested parties (e.g., an employer) to supply a good known seeker (e.g., a great current employee) and identify other candidates that have similar and\/or identical experience in an attempt to \u201cclone\u201d the known seeker's abilities. In other embodiments, the seekers may be students wishing to advance their academic advancements. In yet other embodiments, the seekers are financial seekers who wish to achieve their financial goals.","The leading number of each reference number within the drawings indicates the figure in which that reference number is introduced and\/or detailed. As such, a detailed discussion of reference number  would be found and\/or introduced in . Reference number  is introduced in , etc.","Career Statistical Engine",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0048","num":"0047"},"figref":"FIGS. 1-14B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0049","num":"0048"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["101","1","2","105","110","115","115","120","120","125","105","120","135","120","138","140","130","137","120","145","1","2","150"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0050","num":"0049"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":["201","230","240","201","205","230","232","234","236","240","242","244","246","201","250","255","205","210","220","215","222","224","226","228"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0051","num":"0050"},"figref":["FIG. 3A","FIG. 3B"],"b":["301","305","310","315","320","321","325","330","335","340","345","350","325"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0052","num":"0051"},"figref":["FIG. 3B","FIG. 3A","FIG. 3A","FIG. 3A","FIG. 5"],"b":["355","360","335","365","370","375","380","385","390","395","355"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0053","num":"0052"},"figref":["FIG. 4A","FIGS. 3A-3B"],"b":["401","401","403","406","409","412","415","418","421","424","401","431","424","401","428","429","431","424","409","412","406","436","439","409","412","401"]},"Furthermore, an attributes model  may receive and\/or process other resume information, such as that external to the work experience listing , to generate elements of a data record configured to analysis and\/or use by other CSE components. The attribute model  may further be configured to consider education  and\/or relational taxonomy  inputs, in addition to the other resume information, in generating those elements. In one implementation, the attribute model may map resume information to elements of a pre-set listing of attributes. Thus, the skills , education , languages spoken , and\/or the like extracted from the resume  may be converted into an attributes listing  comprising a plurality of attributes  corresponding to various elements of the resume information. Other resume information may also be included in a resume data record , such as may be collected in an \u201cOther\u201d category  for subsequent reference and\/or use. The resume data record  may be associated with a unique resume identifier (ID) , based on which the record may be queried and\/or otherwise targeted.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0055","num":"0054"},"figref":["FIG. 4B","FIGS. 3A-3B","FIG. 4B"],"b":["451","460","454","451","460","451","460","451","454","23418","451","457","460","454","52154","460","466"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0056","num":"0055"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00001","num":"00001"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","pgwide":"1"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"259pt","align":"left"}},"thead":{"row":{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":"<states>"},{"entry":"\u2003<state id=\u201c0\u201d njobs=\u201c3712\u201d ntokens=\u201c90708\u201d>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003<title>cna, certified nursing assistant, caregiver<\/title>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003<jobtitles>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<jobtitle count=\u201c260\u201d pct=\u201c7.0\u201d>cna<\/jobtitle>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<jobtitle count=\u201c142\u201d pct=\u201c3.8\u201d>certified nursing assistant<\/jobtitle>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<jobtitle count=\u201c104\u201d pct=\u201c2.8\u201d>[no title]<\/jobtitle>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<jobtitle count=\u201c83\u201d pct=\u201c2.2\u201d>caregiver<\/jobtitle>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<jobtitle count=\u201c67\u201d pct=\u201c1.8\u201d>home health aide<\/jobtitle>"},{"entry":"..."},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<jobtitle count=\u201c15\u201d pct=\u201c0.4\u201d>residential counselor<\/jobtitle>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003<\/jobtitles>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003<topics>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<topic id=\u201c494\u201d n=\u201c32601\u201d words=\u201ccare residents home daily living patients"},{"entry":"personal nursing aide activities \u201d \/>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<topic id=\u201c696\u201d n=\u201c1719\u201d words=\u201cpatients patient medical insurance appointments"},{"entry":"charts doctors doctor procedures care \u201d \/>"},{"entry":"..."},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<topic id=\u201c205\u201d n=\u201c544\u201d words=\u201cdaily basis needed reports activity log assist"},{"entry":"interacted complete schedule \u201d \/>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003<\/topics>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003<next>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<state id=\u201c0\u201d pct=\u201c10.5\u201d titles=\u201ccna, certified nursing assistant, caregiver\u201d"},{"entry":"topics=\u201ccare patients treatment career care unit medical activities children daily\u201d \/>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<state id=\u201c268\u201d pct=\u201c4.6\u201d titles=\u201ccna, certified nursing assistant, caregiver\u201d"},{"entry":"topics=\u201ccare cleaning job job assist helped shift duties clean food\u201d \/>"},{"entry":"..."},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<state id=\u201c45\u201d pct=\u201c1.1\u201d titles=\u201cmedical records clerk, medical"},{"entry":"transcriptionist, file clerk\u201d topics=\u201cmedical records answered phones office answer"},{"entry":"office patients data data\u201d \/>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003<\/next>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003<prev>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<state id=\u201c999\u201d pct=\u201c23.0\u201d titles=\u201c[First job]\u201d topics=\u201c[First job]\u201d \/>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<state id=\u201c0\u201d pct=\u201c10.2\u201d titles=\u201ccna, certified nursing assistant, caregiver\u201d"},{"entry":"topics=\u201ccna, certified nursing assistant, caregiver\u201d \/>"},{"entry":"..."},{"entry":"<state id=\u201c243\u201d pct=\u201c0.9\u201d titles=\u201cadministrator, executive director, director of"},{"entry":"nursing\u201d topics=\u201cadministrator, executive director, director of nursing\u201d \/>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003<\/prev>"},{"entry":"\u2003<\/state>"},{"entry":"\u2003<state id=\u201c1\u201d njobs=\u201c3570\u201d ntokens=\u201c113569\u201d>"},{"entry":"..."},{"entry":"\u2003<\/state>"},{"entry":"<states>"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}},"The XML form including a title, other analogue job titles and related frequency counts and likelihood percentages, topics, next states and previous states with frequency occurrences, and\/or the like.","Job listings with different job titles may also be mapped to the same state by a CSE state model . The listing at  includes a job title of \u201cFacilities Manager\u201d, which matches one of the titles for the state \u201cManufacturing Operations Manager\u201d (though possibly other states as well) in the CSE state model . The listing  further includes a job description comprising the keywords \u201cshipping\u201d and \u201creceiving\u201d, which match topics associated with the state \u201cManufacturing Operations Manager\u201d, so the listing  is mapped to the unique state , which is the same as the state at  despite the different job title in the original listing.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0059","num":"0058"},"figref":["FIG. 4C","FIG. 4C","FIG. 4C"],"b":["476","477","478","479"]},"If one or more matches are established at , a determination may be made as to whether there are multiple matching states . If there is only one matching state, then the CSE may immediately map the input listing to the matching state . Otherwise, the CSE may query and\/or extract a job description from the input listing  and parse key terms from that description . Parsing of key terms may be accomplished by a variety of different methods in different implementations and\/or embodiments of CSE operation. For example, in one implementation, the CSE may parse all terms from the description having more than a minimum threshold number of characters. In another implementation, the CSE may filter all words in the description that match elements of a listing of common words\/phrases and extract the remaining words from the description. The parsed key terms may then be compared at  to state model topics corresponding to the matching states determined at -. A determination is made as to whether there exist any matches between the job description terms and the state topics  and, if not, then one or more error handling procedures may be undertaken to distinguish between the matching states . For example, in one implementation, the CSE may choose a state randomly from the matching job states and map the input listing thereto. In another implementation, the CSE may present a job seeker, system administrator, and\/or the like with a message providing a selectable option of the various matching states, to allow for the selection of a desired match.","If a match exists at  between description key terms and state topics in the CSE state model, then a determination may be made as to whether there exists more than one matching state . In one implementation, this determination may only find that multiple matches exist if the number of key terms matching state topics is the same for more than one state (i.e., if one state has more matching topics than another, then the former may be deemed the unique matching state). If there are not multiple matching states, then the input listing may be matched to the unique matching state . If, on the other hand, multiple matches still exist, then the CSE may, in various implementations, undertake any of a variety of different methods of further discerning a unique matching state for the input listing. For example, in one implementation, the CSE may choose randomly between the remaining states. In another implementation, the CSE may provide a list of remaining states in a message to a job seeker, system administrator, and\/or the like to permit selection of a desired, unique state. In another implementation, the CSE may map the job listing to all of the multiple matching states.","In one implementation, logic flow similar to that described in  may be employed to map other resume information, such as education experiences, skills, languages spoken, honors and\/or awards, travel, and\/or the like to one or more attribute states stored in and\/or managed by the CSE, a CSE state model, a CSE attribute model, and\/or the like.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0063","num":"0062"},"figref":"FIG. 4D","b":["490","491","492","493","494","495","496","493","497","498"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0064","num":"0063"},"figref":"FIG. 5A","b":["501","502","503","504","505","506","507"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0065","num":"0064"},"figref":["FIG. 5B","FIGS. 6A-6B"],"b":["508","509","510","515","520","501"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0066","num":"0065"},"figref":"FIG. 6A","b":["601","605","610","615","620","601","625"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0067","num":"0066"},"figref":"FIG. 6B"},"For each state data record , the CSE may analyze the record using any of a variety of statistical analysis tools. Numerous methods of topic modeling may be employed as discussed in: \u201cLatent Dirichlet Allocation,\u201d D. Blei, A. Ng, M. Jordan, \u201cThe Journal of Machine Learning Research\u201d, 2003. Markov models may also be employed as discussed in: \u201cA tutorial on hidden Markov models and selected applications in speech recognition,\u201d L. Rabiner, Proceedings of the IEEE, 1989. In one embodiment, Mallet Processing tools  may also be employed, such as may be found at http:\/\/mallet.cs.umass.edu. The analysis may include aggregation and\/or analysis of user individual state records , aggregation and\/or analysis of user state chain records , and\/or aggregation and\/or analysis of user historical parameter(s) . User historical parameters  may, for example, comprise salary, location, state experience duration, subjective experiences associated with job states, benefits, how the job was obtained, other benchmarking and\/or user generated content, and\/or the like. The statistics associated with the state record may be summed  and added to the state statistical records in one or more state models stored in a state model database . A determination may be made as to whether additional statistical analysis of state data records is to be undertaken . If so, then the CSE may return to  to proceed with additional analysis of the state data record and\/or to move to the next state data record. Otherwise, the state model may be provided for path modeling , benchmarking , and\/or the like applications.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0069","num":"0068"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIGS. 4A-D"],"b":["701","705","710","715","720","715","725","730","735","740","745"],"sub":["n","p","p ","n ","n ","n ","n ","n","n ","n ","n "]},"The CSE may also determine whether Jexists in the state record, such as in a listing of common previous job states corresponding to the state under consideration . If so, then a number of occurrences, N(J), of Jas a previous state for the state under consideration may be incremented . Otherwise, Jmay be appended to the listing of previous states for the state under consideration  and a value for the number of occurrences of Jinitialized . The CSE may then increment a total number, N, associated with the number of resumes used to update the particular state entry of the path-independent statistical model . The CSE may then determine probabilities corresponding to Jand Jby dividing N(J) and N(J) each respectively by N. These probabilities may, for example, provide an indication to job to seekers of the likelihood of changing to or from a job from another job, based on the accumulated resume records of other job seekers who have held those jobs. The state record with the updated probability values may be persisted at , such as by being stored in a database.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0071","num":"0070"},"figref":["FIG. 8","FIG. 8","FIG. 7","FIG. 7"],"b":["801","805","810","815","820","825","810","820"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0072","num":"0071"},"figref":["FIG. 9","FIGS. 4A-D"],"b":["901","905","910","915","920","925","930","935"],"sub":["n","p","n ","p "]},"Then, for each attribute in the resume , the CSE may determine whether Jexists in the state record in correspondence with that attribute , such as in a listing of common next job states corresponding to the state and attribute under consideration. If so, then a number of occurrences, N(J), of Jas a next state for the state and attribute under consideration may be incremented . Otherwise, Jmay be appended to the state record in association with the particular attribute  and a value for the number of occurrences of Jinitialized . A determination may then be made as to whether Jexists in the state record in correspondence with the attribute under consideration . If so, then the number of occurrences, N(J), of Jas a previous state for the state and attribute under consideration may be incremented . Otherwise, Jmay be appended to the state record in association with the particular attribute  and a value for the number of occurrences of Jinitialized . A total number of instances may then be incremented , and probabilities for Jand J, corresponding to the proportion of resumes having the attribute under consideration and those job states respectively before and after the job state under consideration, may be determined as the ratio of each of N(J) and N(J) with N. The state record, with updated probability values, may then be persisted at , such as by storing the record as part of a CSE state model in a database.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0074","num":"0073"},"figref":["FIG. 10","FIG. 10","FIG. 9","FIG. 9"],"b":["1001","1005","1030","1010","1020","1015","1025"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0075","num":"0074"},"figref":["FIG. 11","FIG. 11","FIGS. 7-10"],"b":["1","1105","2","1110","3","1115","4","1120","5","1101","1125","6","1130","5","1101","1135","1","1105","2","1110","3","1115","4","1120","5","1101","6","1140"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0076","num":"0075"},"figref":["FIG. 12","FIG. 12","FIGS. 9-10"],"b":["1201","1205","1220","1225","1230","1235","1240","1245","1250","1255","1260","1265","1270","1235","1220","1275"],"sub":["1","2","i","i ","m ","i ","i . . . m ","i ","m","m ","i . . . m","i "]},"To further illustrate the embodiment described in , the following example may be considered. A resume may include a work experience history comprising a sequence of three jobs: J, J and J. The logic in  would first update a CSE state model based on the job sequence J to J, specifically updating the probability associated with J in a J state record. Next, the CSE state model would update a probability associated with J to J in the J state record. Then, the CSE state model would retrieve the J state model and update a probability associated with J therein. In this manner, the CSE state model will contain information pertaining to probabilities of all the sequences and sub-sequences of the work experience listings in the resumes that it analyzes (in this exemplary case, those sequences and sub-sequences are: J, J; J, J, J; and J, J).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0078","num":"0077"},"figref":["FIG. 13","FIG. 13","FIG. 12","FIG. 13","FIG. 13"],"b":["1301","1305","1310","1315","1315"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0079","num":"0078"},"figref":["FIGS. 14A-B","FIGS. 14A-B","FIG. 14A","FIG. 14B","FIGS. 4A-D"],"b":["1401","1","2","1405","1410","1420","1415","1420","1425","1430","1435","1440","1401","1405","1445","1415"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0080","num":"0079"},"figref":"FIG. 14B","b":["1450","1455","1457","1459","1461","1463","1459","1457","1459"]},"The CSE may also want to ensure that the sequence exists in the proper order. For example, if a common user ID exists in the (A, B) and (B, C) records, this does not necessarily imply that a user has the specific job sequence A to B to C in their resume and\/or profile data. The user may, instead, have a sequence such as B to C to A to B. The CSE may, therefore, query results for proper JS chain sequence ordering , such as may be based on the JS sequence number (n) stored at .","The CSE may thus obtain  and count  the non-targeted results, that is the single-resume job sequence matches to the JS existing chain from , but not including the target state from . The CSE may then search the state model  to obtain \u201cgoal results\u201d  comprising couplets of the last state in the JS existing chain with the target state. A filter process similar to that shown at - may then be applied to the sequence comprising the non-targeted results plus the goal results . The number of filtered goal results are counted  and the ratio of the number of goal results to the number of targeted results may be computed , stored, and\/or the like. This ratio may be interpreted as the proportion of analyzed resumes having the sequence of jobs corresponding to the JS existing chain from  leading into the target job state from .","Cloner",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0083","num":"0082"},"figref":"FIG. 15","b":["1501","1533","1502","1533","1513","1533","1533","1505","1506","1507","1533","1533","1501","1510","1502","1509"],"i":["a ","b ","a ","b ","a ","b "]},"Upon obtaining the user advancement experience information , the CLONER may analyze the experience information (e.g., and perhaps other information associated with the user found in the user's profile) against a state structure . By analyzing the advancement seeker's experiences and goals against a statistical state structure, the CLONER may determine what next states  may form the advancement seeker's next advancement milestone(s) and\/or paths to their desired milestones and\/or advancement goals . It should be noted that in one embodiment, the state structure may take the form of generated by the CSE. In one embodiment, the state structure is stored in CLONER state structure database table(s); as such, the state structure may be queried with advancement experience information, advancement information, experience information, state identifier (e.g., state_ID), proximate state identifier (e.g., next state_ID), topics\/terms, topic_ID, and\/or the like. When queried, the state structure may return state records (i.e., states) that best match the query select commands, and those states may themselves further refer to other proximate states; where the proximate sates are related advancement states (hereinafter \u201cadjacent state,\u201d \u201cadvancement state,\u201d \u201cnext state,\u201d \u201cproximate state,\u201d \u201crelated state,\u201d and\/or the like) that may include likelihoods of moving from the state to the related advancement state. Upon determining what next states may form the advancement path and\/or milestone for the seeker , the CLONER may generate a user path topology showing the user their advancement path. This topology may be used to update the seeker's client display  with an interactive (e.g., career) advancement path.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0085","num":"0084"},"figref":["FIG. 16","FIG. 24"],"b":["1601","1601","2405","1602","1602"]},"Depending on the information supplied by the seeker and the seeker's desire to see advancement path variations, the CLONER may provide at least three different types of advancement path analysis : targeted paths  (see  for examples), iteration-wise paths  (see  for examples), and N-part open-ended paths  (see  for examples). Upon obtaining selections from a seeker for one of the types of analysis , or upon making a determination that the seeker provided advancement experience information best suitable for only one of the types of analysis , and upon performing the respective analysis , , , the CLONER will construct an advancement path based on the seeker's advancement experience information and present it based on a selected visualization style . The visual style may be selected by the seeker from a set of visualization template styles, or selected by the CLONER and\/or administrator.","Upon applying the visualization style to the determined advancement path , this visualization of the advancement path is provided to the client for display . It should be noted that, e.g., career, advancement paths may be stored and shared as between users. In one embodiment, regardless of how the path is determined. The seeker may then interact with the visualized path and the CLONER may obtain the user interactions . The CLONER may then determine if any of the user interactions provided new experience information, advancement information, or modifications to the constructed path such that new paths need to be generated If the interactions are such that require providing more information  then the seeker is allowed to again provide more advancement experience information or otherwise modify factors affecting the generated path . Otherwise , the CLONER will determine if the user interactions  require that the display is updated . If the user modified or provided inputs, indicia and\/or otherwise operated on path objects or values that require that the path visualization and\/or screen is updated, the data obtained from the user interactions  is then used by the CLONER to effect updates the career path display . Otherwise, the CLONER may conclude  and\/or wait for further interactions.","Path-Independent Targeted CLONER",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0089","num":"0088"},"figref":["FIG. 17","FIGS. 18","FIG. 17","FIG. 16"],"b":["19","20","21","1602","1604","1714"]},"In one embodiment, the seeker experience advancement information may be provided by the seeker by way of a web form as shown in , , . The web form may be served by an information server, and the web form fields may serve as a vessel into which the seeker may provide structure information, attach a resume, specify advancement experience information, or otherwise provide both experience information and specify the desired advancement milestone and\/or goal. In one embodiment, this information is submitted to the CLONER and is stored as field entries in the CLONER database table for the seeker, e.g., in a seeker profile record. In another embodiment, this information is provided in XML message format such as the following:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0091","num":"0090"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00002","num":"00002"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"left"}},"thead":{"row":{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":"<Advancement Experience Information ID = \u201cexperience12345\u201d>"},{"entry":"\u2003<Experience Information>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003<Job 1>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<Title 1> Assistant to the Management Consultant <\/Title 1>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<Start_Date> 03\/14\/89 <\/Start_Date>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<End_Date> 5\/15\/03 <\/End_Date>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<DescriptionTerms>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<Term1> training <\/Term1>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<Term2> process <\/Term2>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<Term3> development <\/Term3>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<Term4> costs <\/Term4>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<Term5> coffee <\/Term5>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<\/DescriptionTerms>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003<\/Job 1>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003<Job 2>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<Title 1> Assistant Management Consultant <\/Title 1>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<Start_Date> 05\/16\/03 <\/Start_Date>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<End_Date> 6\/15\/09 <\/End_Date>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<DescriptionTerms>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<Term1> training <\/Term1>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<Term2> process <\/Term2>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<Term3> development <\/Term3>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<Term4> costs <\/Term4>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<\/DescriptionTerms>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003<\/Job 2>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003<Job 3> ... <\/Job 3>"},{"entry":"\u2003<\/Experience Information>"},{"entry":"\u2003<Advancement Information>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003<DescriptionTerms>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<Term1> Executive <\/Term1>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<Term2> Consultant <\/Term2>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003<\/DescriptionTerms>"},{"entry":"\u2003<\/Advancement Information>"},{"entry":"\u2003<Filter Information>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003<DescriptionTerms>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<Filter1> Salary > $100,000 <\/Filter1>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<Filter2> Region Zipcode [e.g., 10112] < 25 miles <\/Filter2>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<Filter3> Degree < Masters <\/Filter3>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<Filter4> Growth > 20% <\/Filter4>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<Filter5> Relocation Expenses = TRUE <\/Filter5>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<Filter6> Expected Next Year Occupation Demand Level > "},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u200320,000 jobs"},{"entry":"<\/Filter6>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<Filter7> Signing Bonus > $10,000 <\/Filter7>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<Filter8> Annual Technology Stipend > $5,000 <\/Filter8>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<Filter9> Annual Health Insurance Stipend > $25,000 <\/Filter9>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<Filter10> Regular Travel = False <\/Filter10>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<Filter11> Salary Level > [Top] 10% [in field] <\/Filter11>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003<\/DescriptionTerms>"},{"entry":"<\/ Advancement Experience Information ID >"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}},"Turning for a moment to , the Figures show alternative example embodiments of how start states and target states may be selected. In another embodiment, the seeker may navigate a state structure topology such as may be seen in  of . This may be achieved by clicking on advancement topics  that will zoom in to show various advancement states , which the user may specify as being start state, intermediate state, and end state  of . In yet another embodiment, the seeker may enter a topic, career choice, title or other information indicative of a desired state  in a field, which will be submitted as a query to the state structure; the state structure in return will return states that most closely match the supplied search term , which the user in turn may select  and which may be displayed, zoomed in on, and further manipulated in a topology display area  of . In yet another embodiment, the user may similarly supply terms to identify both a start state and target state , , , which will form the basis of a path between start state and target state  of ; in this embodiment, the CLONER similarly identify potential matching states for each of the supplied terms  and constructed various paths that match the results form those terms  of . The seeker may then select form the list of paths  and the path topology display area  will be updated to reflect the selected path  of . So for example, the seeker may specify their current position an Assistant Administrator in a retail hardware store and that they have a goal of becoming a Regional Manager of a chain of hardware stores. In such an embodiment, the CLONER may use the provided seeker advancement information as a basis with which to query the state structure to identify the current advancement state, and the target advancement state. For example, for the starting state, the CLONER may use the most current job information, e.g., the employer name, the title, and description describing the current job, and query the state structure for states that most closely match current job information; for example, a select command may be performed on the state structure for stats that most closely match all the supplied terms, and use the highest ranking match as the selected current state. Similarly, the target job information may be used to find a target state.","Turning back to , upon establishing a start state and a target state , the CLONER prepares to search for paths connecting the start and target states , .","It should be noted that no target state need be selected, and in such an instance, the CLONER will use the start state to query the state structure for potential states that may be of interest to a seeker with no particular target as will be discussed later in  regarding iteration-wise implementations. Such iteration-wise implementations allow a seeker to gauge and possibly forge their own pathways after being presented with the various likelihoods of those adjacent and potential advancement states.","Continuing with the description of a targeted implementation, it should be noted that while the CLONER may make use of a start and target state, specification of intermediate states are also contemplated. However, it should be noted that intermediate paths may be constructed by pair-wise re-processing of paths as discussed in ; for example, if a seeker initially chooses a start state of Janitor and target state of CEO, the CLONER may construct a path of Janitor state->Manager state->CEO. However, seekers may themselves change and\/or specify an intermediate state of Regional Administrator. This intermediate state of Regional Administrator may be used by the CLONER as a target state with Janitor state being the starting state; from which a first path may be constructed as between the two states, e.g., Janitor state->Facilities Administrator state->Regional Administrator state. In turn, the CLONER will then use the target Regional Administrator state as a starting state and CEO as target state to construct a second path, e.g., Regional Administrator state->Regional Manager state->CEO state. Thereafter, the CLONER may join the first resulting path together with the second resulting path, as the intermediate Regional Administrator state is the same for both paths, and result in a new seeker directed path, e.g., Janitor state->Facilities Administrator state->Regional Administrator state->Regional Manager state->CEO state. A practically limitless number of pair-wise re-processing operations may be employed as a seeker seeks out and selects intermediate states for a path.","In preparing to search for connecting paths as between a start state and target state, the CLONER may use specified minimum likelihood thresholds, P, and a maximum number of path state nodes N. In one embodiment, an administrator sets these values. In an alternative embodiment, a seeker may be presented with a user interface where they are allowed to specify these values; such an embodiment allows the seeker to tighten and\/or loosen search constraints that will allow them to explore more \u201cwhat if\u201d advancement (e.g., career) advancement path scenarios. The CLONER may then establish an iteration counter, \u201ci\u201d, and initially set it to equal \u201c1\u201d . Using the start state, the CLONER may query the state structure for the next most likely states . In an alternative path-dependent embodiment, the CLONER may use the seeker's provided experience information, i.e., the entire state path, as a starting point and query the state structure for next most likely states following the seeker's last experience state (more information about path-dependant traversal may be seen in ).","As the state structure maintains the likelihood of moving from any one state to another state, the CLONER may query for the top most likely next states having likelihoods greater than the specified minimum probability P. For example, if a Pis set to be 50% probability, i.e., 0.5, and the start state  has the following partial list of related next states: state A with P=0.5 , state B with P=0.7 , state C with P=0.9, and state Z with P=0.1 ; then of next states A, B, C and Z, only states A, B, and C have likelihoods above the Pthreshold, and as such, only those states will be provided to the CLONER . In an alternative embodiment, instead of specifying a likelihood threshold, Pinstead may specify the minimum number of results for the state structure to return (e.g., Pmay be set to 10, such that the top 10 next states are returned, regardless of likelihood\/probability). The CLONER may then determine if any and\/or enough matches resulted  from the query . If there are not enough (or any) matches that result , then the CLONER may decrease the Pthreshold by a specified amount (e.g., from 0.5 to 0.25, from 10 to 5, etc.); alternatively, the CLONER (or a seeker) may want to try again  by loosening constraints , or otherwise an error may be generated  and provided to the CLONER error handling component .","If there are matching  next states (e.g., A , B , C ) proximate to the start state , then the CLONER may pursue the following logic, in turn, as to each of the matched next states (i.e., whereby each of the next states (e.g., A , B , C ) will form the basis for alternative advancement paths (e.g., Path , , Path , , Path  , respectively) .","Upon identifying matching next states , , the CLONER may append  a next state (e.g., A )  to the start state. Upon appending a next state to the start state , the CLONER will then determine if appended next state (e.g., A ) matches any of the target state (e.g., ) criteria . In one embodiment this may be achieved by determining if the next state has the same state_ID as the target state. In an alternative embodiment, the state structure provides the state record of the target state to the CLONER, and the CLONER uses terms from the target state as query terms to match to the state record of the next state; when enough term commonality exists, the CLONER may establish that the next state is equivalent to, and\/or close enough to the target state to be considered a match.","If the appended next state  does not match the target state , then the CLONER will continue to seek out additional intermediate  state path nodes (e.g., D  and F ) until it reaches the target state (e.g., ). In so doing, the CLONER will determine if the current state node path length \u201ci\u201d has exceeded the maximum specified state node path length N. If not , the current state node path length \u201ci\u201d is incremented by one . Thereafter the last appended state (e.g., A ) will become the basis for which the query logic  may recur (i.e., the appended state effectively becomes the starting state from which proximate nodes may be found by querying the state structure as has already been discussed ) For example, in this way next state A  becomes appended to the start state , and then the appended  state A  becomes a starting point for querying , where the state structure, may in turn, identify a state node proximate to the appended state, e.g., state D ; in this manner state D  becomes the next state to state A . By this recurrence , , , , the CLONER grows the current path (e.g., Path  ).","If the current state node path length \u201ci\u201d has exceeded the maximum specified state path length, N, then the CLONER may check to see if there is another next state for which a path may be determined . For example, if the maximum allowable state path length is set to N=2, and the CLONER has iterated ,  to reach state F  along Path  , then the current state path length (i.e., totaling  for each of states A , D , and F ) would exceed the specified N; in such a scenario where Nhas been exceeded , if the CLONER determines there are additional states next to the start state  (e.g., B , C ), then the CLONER will pursue and build, in turn, a path stretching from each of the remaining next states (e.g., Path   from next state B , and Path   from next state C ). If there is no next state  (e.g., each of stats A , B , and C  have been appended to the start state ), the CLONER may then move on to determine if any paths have been constructed that reached the target state . If no paths reaching the target have been constructed , then the CLONER (e.g., and\/or the seeker) may wish to try again  by loosening some of its constraints . In one embodiment, the maximum state path length Nmay be increased, or minimum likelihoods Pmay be lowered  and the CLONER may once again attempt to find an advancement path . If there is no attempt to try again , the CLONER may generate an error  that may be passed to a CLONER error handling component , which in one embodiment may report that no paths leading to a target have been found.","However, if paths have been constructed , then the CLONER may determine the likelihoods of traversing each of the resulting paths . For example, if we have a start state  and a target state of , the CLONER may have found three states next to the start state with a sufficient P(e.g., over 0.5); e.g., next states including: state A with P=0.5 1751, B with P=0.7 , and state C with P=0.9 . Continuing this example, if the CLONER continues to search for states proximate to each next state (as has already been discussed), it may result three different state paths: Path  , Path  , and Path  , all arriving at the target state . Each of the paths may have a probability or likelihood of being reached from the start state ; in one embodiment, the likelihood may be calculated as the product of the likelihood of reaching each of the states along the path. For example, the Path   calculation would be P*P*P, (i.e., 0.5*0.9*0.9=0.405). Similarly, for Path  , the calculation would be P*P(i.e., 0.7*0.5=0.35). Similarly, for Path  , the calculation would be P*P*P*P, (i.e., 0.9*0.9*0.9*0.9=0.6561).","As such, the CLONER may determine the likelihoods for each of the paths connecting to the target state(s) . Upon determining the path likelihoods , the CLONER may then select path(s) in a number of manners . In the example three paths , , , the most likely path is Path  having a likelihood of ., the next most likely path is Path  having a likelihood of ., and the least likely path is Path  having a likelihood of 0.35. In one embodiment, the CLONER may select the path having the greatest likelihood, e.g., Path  . In another embodiment, a threshold may be specified, such that the CLONER will provide\/present only the top paths over the threshold (e.g., if we used Pas the threshold and set it to 0.5, only Path  would be selected with its likelihood of 0.6561 exceeding that threshold). In another embodiment, all paths are presented to the user (e.g., in ranked order) so that the seeker may explore each of the paths. Upon selecting  determined paths , the CLONER may store the paths in memory, and\/or otherwise return  the resulting paths  for further use by the CLONER, e.g., provide the resulting paths for visualization to the seeker ,  of .","Path-Independent Iteration-wise CLONER",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0105","num":"0104"},"figref":["FIG. 18","FIG. 16"],"b":["1602","1604","1832"]},"As has already been discussed in , in one embodiment, the seeker experience information may be provided by the seeker by way of a web form as shown in , , . Unlike in the targeted embodiments discussed in  where a seeker may supply both a start state and target state  of , a iteration-wise approach allows a seeker to identify a starting state in any number of ways as has already been discussed in  (e.g., identifying a category , and zooming into a related state , and making selections  of  to add a selected state to a path ,  of ; typing in a search term  to find matching states from a state structure  of , and selecting those matching states to act as a starting state for a path; and\/or the like).","In preparing to search for states proximate to a starting state, the CLONER may obtain a starting state (e.g., from experience information, from selection\/indication obtained form a seeker via a user interface, and\/or the like) and use a specified minimum likelihood thresholds for considering proximate states P, as has already been discussed above. Upon obtaining a start state and a minimum likelihood , a seeker may also provide state filter information In one embodiment, state filter information may comprise: salary requirements, geographic region and\/or location requirements, education requirements, relocation expense requirements, minimum occupational growth rates, expected demand levels for a state, and\/or the like. This information may be supplied to the web interfaces discussed in , ,  and used as has already been discussed in . For example, additional criteria  may be specified and supplied into text fields . In one embodiment, these attributes may stored in an attributes database table, that table may have a state_ID field that makes those attributes associated with a particular state; as such the attributes may selected by a state, and may be used as criteria for filtering. Although in one embodiment, when selecting a state  will show additional information associated with that state , in an alternative embodiment, upon indicating that filtering should be used , a user is able to place filtering criteria into fields  of  that will be made part of the query to the state structure, which may have an associated attributes database, and such filtering criteria will be used to filter out unwanted states. These filter criteria may be part of the XML query structure as has already been described in . Upon obtaining a start state and minimum threshold  and filter information , a query is provided to the state structure and any associated attribute database . The CLONER then obtains states next states proximate to the starting state having a minimum likelihood threshold and whose associated attribute information also satisfies the requirements of the supplied filter selections . In another embodiment, a threshold may be based upon minimum likelihood and maximum number of results. If there are no matches , the seeker may adjust the starting point and minimum thresholds and attempt to identify next states again In another embodiment, an error may be generated indicating no matches . If there are matching states , in one embodiment, those matching states  may be appended to the starting state and made a part of the advancement path . Those matching next states  may then be displayed . It should be noted that when making a selection of a state , and supplying any filter criteria , the CLONER may obtain matching  states that may be tenuously appended as potential next states  of . Seekers may make such appending more permanent by indicting they would like to add a state to a path they are constructing ,  of , which may result in the updating and\/or modification of the path depiction that is displayed . Upon updating the display , the CLONER may allow a seeker to continue on from the last selected\/added state and iterate and continue to build a desired path further ; otherwise operations may return to  . It should be noted in one embodiment, this path-dependant iteration-wise mechanism may be use to select intermediate states in the targeted path-dependant mechanism described in .","Path-Dependent Iteration-wise CLONER",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0109","num":"0108"},"figref":["FIG. 19","FIG. 22","FIG. 16"],"b":["1602","1604","1832"]},"As has already been discussed in , in one embodiment, the seeker experience information may be provided by the seeker by way of a web interfaces as shown in , , . Unlike in the targeted embodiments discussed in  where a seeker may supply both a start state and target state  of , a iteration-wise approach allows a seeker to identify a starting state in any number of ways as has already been discussed in . In an alternative embodiment, the CLONER take into account all the seeker's experience information. While in , examples were provided where a single experience state was provided and\/or otherwise selected by the seeker, however, in this path-dependant embodiment, a seeker's full experience information may used as a basis of path discovery. Some seekers may have no experience history or a single entry, and in such instances, this path-dependant embodiment will look much like that path-independent embodiment. In one embodiment, a seeker may supply this experience information into structured web forms, which may be stored as structured data in a seeker profile associated with the seeker (e.g., a seeker may enter their resume job experiences into a web form). In an alternative embodiment, a seeker may provide their resume, which in turn may be parsed into structured data, the resulting structured data serving as experience information.","In preparing to search for states proximate to a path-dependent starting state, the CLONER may use a specified minimum likelihood threshold for considering a state proximate to the latest state in their experience information P. In one embodiment, a seeker may supply experience information, which will serve as path-dependant (\u201cPD\u201d) criteria , which as described in  (for example a state structure as may be represented, in one embodiment, by way of the XML structure), may include a temporal sequence and description of advancement progression (e.g., jobs , jobs , etc.). The CLONER may determine a state for each of these advancement progression entries and crate a path describing the seeker's past state path progression and use that path as a basis to search the state structure (e.g., as has been described above the last progression entry (e.g., the latest job held by a seeker) may be used as a basis from which the seeker will further build out their advancement (e.g., career) path. In one embodiment, the state structure may return state, which may be used by the CLONER as state advancement experience information. For example, the job entries (e.g., Job , Job , etc.) from the structured (e.g., XML) advancement experience information in  may be supplied to the state structure, which in turn may return equivalent job states. Instead of using the  advancement experience information, a state version of that information may be used by the CLONER, for example:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0112","num":"0111"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00003","num":"00003"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"left"}},"thead":{"row":{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":"<State Advancement Experience Information ID = \u201cexperience12345\u201d>"},{"entry":"\u2003<Experience Information>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003<State ID 1> 111111 <\/State ID 1>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003<State ID 2> 222222 <\/State ID 2>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003<State ID 3> 333333 <\/State ID 3>"},{"entry":"\u2003<\/Experience Information>"},{"entry":"\u2003<Advancement Information>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003<DescriptionTerms>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<Term1> Executive <\/Term1>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<Term2> Consultant <\/Term2>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003<\/DescriptionTerms>"},{"entry":"\u2003<\/Advancement Information>"},{"entry":"\u2003<Filter Information>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003<DescriptionTerms>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<Filter1> Salary > $100,000 <\/Filter1>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<Filter2> Region Zipcode [e.g., 10112] < 25 miles <\/Filter2>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<Filter3> Degree < Masters <\/Filter3>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<Filter4> Growth > 20% <\/Filter4>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<Filter5> Relocation Expenses = TRUE <\/Filter5>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<Filter6> Expected Next Year Occupation Demand Level > "},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u200320,000 jobs"},{"entry":"<\/Filter6>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<Filter7> Signing Bonus > $10,000 <\/Filter7>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<Filter8> Annual Technology Stipend > $5,000 <\/Filter8>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<Filter9> Annual Health Insurance Stipend > $25,000 <\/Filter9>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<Filter10> Regular Travel = False <\/Filter10>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<Filter11> Salary Level > [Top] 10% [in field] <\/Filter11>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003<\/DescriptionTerms>"},{"entry":"<\/State Advancement Experience Information ID >"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}},"In the above state version of advancement experience, the state structure provided state equivalents of the job entries in the  experience information, and this state experience information may be supplied to the state structure as a path comprising State ID , State ID , and State ID  representing Job , Job  and Job  from the XML description in . Results from querying the state structure with an existing state progression path will provide the CLONER and use the latest advancement progression entry as a starting point; e.g., from the above state advancement experience information, State ID  would be the state from which a further advancement path would be build by the CLONER, i.e., State ID  would be the path-dependant start state to which additional path advancement states would be appended .","Upon populating the CLONER with path-dependant criteria (e.g., with experience advancement experience information, state advancement experience information, and\/or the like)  and obtaining a minimum likelihood threshold , a seeker may also provide state filter information , which may be used to modify the path-dependent criteria  (as has already been discussed in ). In one embodiment, state filter information may comprise: salary requirements, geographic region and\/or location requirements, education requirements, relocation expense requirements, minimum occupational growth rates, expected demand levels for a state, and\/or the like. These filter criteria may be part of the XML query structure as has already been described in .","Upon obtaining a minimum threshold , populating the CLONER with path-dependant criteria  and filter information , a query may be provided to the state structure and any associated attribute database . For example, the state advancement experience information (or subset thereof) may be provided to the state structure as a query. Upon obtaining query results from the state structure, the CLONER may determine which of the returned states to use that satisfy the filter selections  and minimum thresholds specified and retrieve the state records (and any associated attributes) related to the determined state(s) . The CLONER may then determine if any state results match ; if not, the seeker may adjust the parameters of the search by starting over , or alternatively an error is generated .","If there are matching states , in one embodiment, those matching states  may be appended to the path-dependant starting state and made a part of the advancement path . Those matching next states  may then be displayed . It should be noted that when making a selection of a state , and supplying any filter criteria , the CLONER may obtain matching  states that may be visually appended as potential next states  of , providing highlighting to show potential path connections. Seekers may make such appending appear more permanent  by indicting they would like to add a state to a path they are constructing ,  of , which may result in the updating and\/or modification of the associations between states and generation of a path depiction that is displayed . Upon updating the display , the CLONER may allow a seeker to continue  on from the last selected\/added state . If no continuation is desired or needed, operations may return to  . Otherwise, if continuation is desired , the CLONER may allow a user to update their previous experience information , . If a user wishes to append or add states representing past experience (e.g., if the seeker did not initially supply all of their experience information as path dependent criteria )  and specifies such, the CLONER will allow them to append such experience states as path-dependence criteria . In one non-limiting example, a seeker may build up ,  of  states representing their experiences in this manner. Alternatively, the seeker may not wish to append experience states , yet the CLONER may determine if any changes to any of the path-dependence criteria was affected by the seeker (e.g., a seeker may have changed an originally supplied experience state to another, the other perhaps showing a promotion in their most current work employment) . If no changes to path-dependant criteria were determined , the CLONER may continue to iterate and build a path based on the last appended state , . However, if there has been a change in the path dependant criteria , this changed criteria will form the basis of iterated path dependent criteria .","Path-Independent N-Part Open-Ended CLONER",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0118","num":"0117"},"figref":["FIG. 20","FIG. 18","FIG. 2"],"b":["202","204","2065"]},"As has already been discussed in ,  and , in one embodiment, the seeker experience information may be provided by the seeker by way of a web form as shown in , , . Unlike in the iteration-wise embodiments discussed in , an open-ended approach allows a seeker to identify a starting state in any number of ways as has already been discussed in ; it also allows the seeker to specify desired path length N. As such, the CLONER, an administrator, another system, or the seeker may specify the desired number of states to comprise an advancement path, that length being \u201cN\u201d .","In preparing to search for states proximate to a starting state, the CLONER may obtain a starting state (e.g., from experience information, from selection\/indication obtained form a seeker via a user interface, and\/or the like) and use the specified path length limit N, as has already been discussed above. Upon obtaining a start state and limit , a seeker may also provide state filter information . In one embodiment, state filter information may comprise: salary requirements, geographic region and\/or location requirements, education requirements, relocation expense requirements, minimum occupational growth rates, expected demand levels for a state, and\/or the like. This information may be supplied to the web interface discussed in , ,  and used as has already been discussed in . For example, additional criteria  may be specified and supplied into text fields . Although in one embodiment, when selecting a state  will show additional information associated with that state , in an alternative embodiment, upon indicating that filtering should be used , a user is able to place filtering criteria into fields  of  that will be made part of the query to the state structure, which may have an associated attributes database, and such filtering criteria will be used to filter out unwanted states. In another embodiment, browsing an associated hierarchy through nested pop-up menus  of  or traversal and selection of nodes in a topography ,  of  provide another mechanism for identifying states and building paths. These filter criteria may be part of the XML query structure as has already been described in . Upon obtaining a path limit and filter information , the CLONER may set the current path length \u201ci\u201d to equal \u201c1\u201d . The CLONER may then provide a query to the state structure and any associated attribute database , including filter criteria, as has already been discussed. The CLONER then obtains states next states proximate to the starting state having a minimum likelihood threshold and whose associated attribute information also satisfies the requirements of the supplied filter selections, and may append those next states to the current advancement path . I an alternative embodiment, a seeker may traverse by categorical hierarchy selections as show in  of , whereby a seeker can iteratively make state selections by identifying states through hierarchical selections. Thereafter, the CLONER may increment the path length counter \u201ci\u201d by one  to track the growth of the path length resulting from the appending . If the maximum path length N has not been reached , the CLONER may iterate and similarly conduct queries on the appended next states, to extend the path . If the path length has been reached , operations may return to  .","Path-Independent N-Part Open-Ended CLONER",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0122","num":"0121"},"figref":["FIG. 21","FIG. 19","FIG. 16"],"b":["1602","1604","2174"]},"As has already been discussed in , ,  and , in one embodiment, the seeker experience information may be provided by the seeker by way of a web form as shown in , , . Unlike in the iteration-wise embodiments discussed in , an open-ended approach allows a seeker to identify a starting state in any number of ways as has already been discussed in ; it also allows the seeker to specify desired path length N. As such, the CLONER, an administrator, another system, or the seeker may specify the desired number of states to comprise an advancement path, that length being \u201cN\u201d . While in , examples were provided where a single experience state was provided and\/or otherwise selected by the seeker, however, in this path-dependant embodiment, a seeker's full experience information may used as a basis of path discovery. Some seekers may have no experience history or a single entry, and in such instances, this path-dependant embodiment will look much like that path-independent embodiment. In one embodiment, a seeker may supply this experience information into web structured web forms, which may be stored as structured data in a seeker profile associated with the seeker (e.g., a seeker may enter their resume job experiences into a web form). In an alternative embodiment, a seeker may provide their resume, which in turn may be parsed into structured data, the resulting structured data serving as experience information.","In preparing to search for states proximate to a path-dependent starting state, the CLONER may discern a path-dependent starting state as has already been discussed in , and use the specified path length limit N , as has already been discussed above. Upon obtaining a path limit N, the CLONER may set the current path length \u201ci\u201d to equal \u201c1\u201d . A seeker may then provide state filter information , which may be used to obtain resulting states matching the filter criteria . In one embodiment, state filter information may comprise: salary requirements, geographic region and\/or location requirements, education requirements, relocation expense requirements, minimum occupational growth rates, expected demand levels for a state, and\/or the like. This information may be supplied to the web forms discussed in , ,  and used as has already been discussed in . For example, additional criteria  may be specified and supplied into text fields . Although in one embodiment, when selecting a state  will show additional information associated with that state , in an alternative embodiment, upon indicating that filtering should be used , a user is able to place filtering criteria into fields  of  that will be made part of the query to the state structure, which may have an associated attributes database, and such filtering criteria will be used to filter out unwanted states. These filter criteria may be part of the XML query structure as has already been described in . Upon obtaining a path limit  and filter information  and obtaining the filtered states , a seeker may supply experience information, which will serve as path-dependant criteria  as has already been described in  of , and in . The CLONER will then return states matching the aforementioned criteria and may then create associations between states that appear to append those matching next states the path-dependant starting state, which are thereby made a part of the associated states representing the advancement path .","Seekers may make such appending  more permanent by indicting  they would like to add a state to a path they are constructing ,  of . As such, the CLONER may allow a user to update their previous experience information , . If a user wishes to append or add states representing past experience (e.g., if the seeker did not initially supply all of their experience information as path dependent )  and specifies such, the CLONER will allow them to append such experience states as path-dependence criteria . In one non-limiting example, a seeker may build up ,  of  states representing their experiences in this manner. Alternatively, the seeker may not wish to append experience states , and then the CLONER may increment the path length by one  to indicate that the current path has grown by one. Upon incrementing the current state, it may result in the updating and\/or modification of the path depiction that is displayed . Upon updating the display , the CLONER may determine if the maximum path length N is less than the current path length i; if the current length of \u201ci\u201d is longer, then operations may return  to  . Otherwise , the CLONER may continue to grow to set lengths N by iterating .","Path Gap Analysis",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0127","num":"0126"},"figref":["FIG. 22","FIG. 21","FIG. 23","FIG. 23","FIG. 23","FIG. 26"],"b":["2285","2286","2287","2208","2209","2208","2288","2288","2289","2286","2290","2289","2290","2291","2290","2292","2299","2293","2296","2293","2294","2295","2286","2295","2647","2666"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0128","num":"0127"},"figref":"FIG. 23","b":["2310","2301","2305","2341","2351","2361","2320","2361","2363","2364","2351","2353","2354","2356","2341","2343","246"]},"A state may have a certain set of attributes associated with it that is exclusive to that state. The difference between state A and B, in one embodiment, may be represented as the features of B subtract out the same duplicative features of A. For example, there is a $10,000 difference in salary as between state A ,  and state B , . There also are indicators driving people from state A to B, e.g., like years of experience, the obtainment of a specific degree, and or the like. In one example it make take 5 years of experience for a transition to occur on average, e.g., AB=5 , BC=5 ; these are indicators of change between states. As such, in one embodiment gap indicators as between states A and B may be calculated as follows:\n\n2399, or\n","Salary: $10,000; Skill: Photoshop, Team Management; 5 years transition,","As such, gap indicators as between states B  and C  may be calculated as follows:\n\nG2398, or\n","Salary: $15,000; Skill: Administration, -Paint, -Photoshop; 5 years transition and a Masters Degree.","The gap analysis may work as an additive between any two states. So the state change drivers takes drivers of change between two states and identifies them as subtractive features as well as indicators. As a consequence, gap indicators as between state A  and C  may be calculated as follows:\n\n2397, or\n","Salary: $25,000; Skill: Team Management, Administration, -Paint; 10 years transition and a Masters Degree.","Interaction Displays",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0136","num":"0135"},"figref":["FIGS. 24-26","FIGS. 24A-24G","FIGS. 25E and 25F","FIG. 25G","FIG. 25"],"b":["2401","2405","2407","2409","2409","2412","2414","2555","2544","2547","2545","2411","2416","2418","242","2422"],"i":"o "},"In another embodiment, a seeker may enter a search term they believe relates to a (e.g., career) state they have an interest in , which will result in the CLONER showing its top matches  in the information panel as well as highlighting relevant identified experience states in the topology itself . It should be noted that in one embodiment, the topography will adjust its overall view (e.g., zoom level) to show the path results, and when making selections of states, the topography will traverse and provide a fly-by depiction of the topography on to to selected states.","In , the CLONER allows a seeker to provide both start and target query terms  (as well as additional options  that would allow the seeker to provide additional attribute filter criteria). In one embodiment, the additional filter criteria may be entered in the CLONER information panel  and be used as part of the basis of a query to find matches in a state structure. As a seeker types , suggested terms and topics are displayed . If a state is selected , other related states are pointed to and highlighted . In an alternative embodiment, upon providing and determining start and target states , , , the CLONER may determining a path with intermediary states (e.g., ) as between the start and target states ; and provide the seeker with the ability to choose as between multiple paths that have differing numbers of intermediary states and likelihoods of attainment by the seeker . For example, in one embodiment a seeker may make selections  as among the various available paths between the start and target states, and the topology display area will be updated to reflect the different paths . It should be noted that the CLONER allows a seeker to either build up or modify a path. In one embodiment this may be achieved by selecting adjacent states  to states in a path  and making selections to add the selected state to the path . In one embodiment, a path list  may show the current set of states that comprises the current path such that a seeker may be apprised of the current path even if it is not fully visible in the topography display area.","In , the CLONER allows a seeker to vary visualizations in numerous ways. For example, a user may elect to vary the visual depiction of the display topology by engaging an option widget , which may in turn show a dialogue box that allows the user to turn on\/off the ability to show, e.g., common next states, show most common paths, show tips, show trace, and\/or the like . For example, selecting the show tips option will highlight potential and\/or likely next states for consideration for a seeker. In another embodiment, if the seeker selects show trace, a breadcrumb trail of their path is highlighted. Another option is \u201cfind jobs in path,\u201d which when selected will allow a seeker to apply for one or more jobs that are identified along a constructed path. In another view upon selecting a state, the user may be presented with options to find a job and inform the user that the state is a common path state , . Another embodiment shows that upon selecting a \u201cfind a job\u201d option , the user may be presented with job listings  and sponsored ads . In one embodiment, occupational profile tags may be used with sponsored ads. In one embodiment, profile ad tags may be called as follows:","http:\/\/ads.monster.com\/html.ng\/site=mons&affiliate=mons&app=op&size=728\u00d790&pp=1&opid=****&path=(DynamicPathValue)&dcpc=#####&ge=#&dcel=#&moc=######&dcc=##&mil=#&state=##&tile=","http:\/\/ads.monster.com\/html.ng\/site=mons&affiliate=mons&app=op&size=300\u00d7250&pp=1&opid=****&path=(DynamicPathValue)&dcpc=#####&ge=#&dcel=#&moc=######&dccl=##&mil=#&state=##&tile=","http:\/\/ads.monster.com\/html.ng\/site=mons&affiliate=mons&app=op&size=(TBD)&pp=1&opid=****&path=(DynamicPathValue)&dcpc=#####&ge=#&dcel=#&moc=######&dccl=##&mil=#&state=##&ti le=","#####: These values are set by the user's cookie.","In another example embodiment, in , job listings may be presented as part of a job carousel, as illustrated, where a user may view job listings  in a \u201clazy susan\u201d format ; the user may spin job widgets  to the left  or right  by click-dragging or selecting \u201cspin\u201d arrows ,  and rotating jobs out of view , . For example, if a user clicks on the left spin arrow , job listing   will spin into view and job listing   will spin out of view. It should also be noted that the job carousel may also be used for job ads outside the context of the CLONER; in one embodiment, a user may click on a job listing  and an apply for job menu\/button\/widget may appear , which would allow a user to move on to apply for the job. In an alternative embodiment, the CLONER may prompt or otherwise request user identifying information  (e.g., a unique identifier, a user name and password, a cookie having same, and\/or the like), which may be used to obtain a seeker's experience information and begin a job application process. Moving back to , it should be noted that a seeker may engage and save a desired path to their profile . Also, it should be noted that a user may select a tab pane that provides information to help a seeker advance\/continue their education, including educational listings and ad space . The CLONER also provides the opportunity for the seeker to select path segments , which in turn will provide the seeker with opportunity to select a path, overwrite the path, modify the path, and\/or the like , .","Interaction Interface Component",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0142","num":"0141"},"figref":["FIG. 28","FIGS. 24-26","FIG. 25"],"b":["2803","2805","2807","2544","2547","2544","2533","2807","2809"]},"Upon loading the template interface view , the CLONER may then begin generating a representation of a given path for display in accordance with a given CLONER interaction interface template. For each node representing a state to be rendered to display , the CLONER may query a CLONER database for seeker advancement states . In one embodiment, this may be a seeker's advancement experience information. In another embodiment, it may be a clean state with no state topography, where a seeker may begin searches for job states, as has already been discussed earlier in . Upon obtaining states from the CLONER, the state may be loaded into the interface element representing the state . For example, in a topography map, a user's start state may be loaded as starting node in that topography. In one embodiment, a user may filter results ; the filters may be defined by the CLONER or the seeker. In one embodiment, a user may, for example, specify likelihood thresholds, salary levels, and\/or the like. So for example, if a user starts with a blank topography and performs a search for a starting state, the user may specify filter attributes, which may be supplied as SQL query selects, and which will act to narrow the returned states. The CLONER may continue to iterate if there are additional interface widgets that need to be put into effect , , otherwise, the CLONER may then move on to determine the type of analysis to be used for path determination . In one embodiment, the CLONER may allow a seeker to examine paths independent of their own advancement experiences in a path-independent approach, in a path dependant approach, perform gap analysis, examine seeker's status at a given state relative to the aggregate (e.g., comparing the aggregate salary for a state to the seeker's salary at a given state), and\/or the like . Upon having obtained an initial set of seeker states , and selecting an analysis type , the CLONER may perform a next-state and\/or path determination analysis by using selected states as starting and\/or target states and using that to query the state structure . Upon obtaining analysis results , the CLONER may provide user interface elements along with widgets representing states for display on the seeker's client . Upon displaying the pathing interface , the CLONER may monitor for seeker interaction with the pathing interface and\/or for further information , as has already been discussed with regard to . If there is no interaction , then the CLONER may continue to cycle looking for additional input . If there is seeker interaction , then the CLONER may check if a new display set type has been requested ; for example, if a user selects to view a path linearly  instead of as a topography  of . If a seeker elects to change the display set type , then the CLONER will load in a corresponding template through which reimaging of the display may continue. If there is no indication of changing the display type , then the CLONER may determine if the interaction interface is being dismissed and\/or terminated; if so, termination will ensue and execution will come to an end. Otherwise, the CLONER will go on to determine if what changes need to take place  as a result of user interaction . For example, if a widget node is right-clicked upon, or other selection indicia is provided where a selection indicator (e.g., a cursor) intersects with a widget (e.g., a node representing an experience state), then the CLONER may determine if it needs to query its CSE component . For example, if a user decides to change an experience path by adding a state to the path, changing one, and\/or the like ,  of , then the CLONER would need to obtain updated state and\/or path information by querying the CSE component for updated data . If no query is required  or upon obtaining the results form the query, the CLONER will determine if re-drawing the display is required . If no re-draw is required, the CLONER may continue to monitor for user input. If updates are required, e.g., to account for updated state information obtained from the state structure , then the interface may be re-drawn to account for the update , and then the CLONER may continue to monitor for interactions .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0144","num":"0143"},"figref":["FIG. 29","FIG. 29","FIG. 30","FIG. 24","FIG. 24","FIG. 25","FIG. 29"],"b":["2952","3001","3003","3005","2424","2426","2427","3010","3030","3030","3005","3015","3035","3020","2407","2418","3020","3020","3025","2543","3040","3040","3045","3050","3060","3055","2952"]},"Upon associating feedback with topic and\/or job related information , the CLONER may then track the users view and interaction with any given job profile . In one embodiment, tracking may take place by doing the following for each viewing of a job\/advancement profile by a seeker . For each such interaction by a seeker with a job profile , the CLONER may load in an appropriate feedback widget when a job profile is loaded for the user . For example, when a job profile is loaded to represent a state in the path topology, various feedback widgets may be loaded; for example, a database table may contain various attributes that are associated with a given state and\/or job and also are associated with various user interface templates and\/or widgets, which may be loaded by the CLONER. Once the feedback widgets are loaded for an associated job profile , the CLONER may then monitor for interaction with the feedback widgets  (for example, as already discussed in ). If no interaction is detected, the CLONER may continue to monitor  until the interface is terminated. If the user does interact with the feedback widget(s) , the values obtained from that interaction are stored in the CLONER database record associated with job profile . The CLONER then determines if the user supplying the feedback has authority to do so ; for example, if the user is not currently employed for the selected type of job for which the feedback is proffered, and it was not previously an experience of the user, then such feedback may be deprecated (e.g., given low weight, may not be stored, and\/or the like). The CLONER may then determine the weight to be given based on the user authority; for example, feedback from users whose most current employment is the same state for which they are offering feedback will have higher weight than for feedback from users who had such experience further back in their career; which in turn may have higher weight than feedback from a user who has no such experience and\/or less related equivalent job state experience. In one embodiment, users with current experience in the equivalent state receive a weight of 1.0, while users having experience in the past receive a weight of 0.5, while users having no experience receive a weight of 0.1. Optionally, the CLONER may then collect behavioral (e.g., usage frequency), demographic, psychographic, and\/or the like information and store it as associated attribute information . For example, a user's profile may include their geographic region, and as such, feedback from users in one region may be analyzed distinctly from users in differing regions. The CLONER may then store the feedback as records entered as attributes in a CLONER database, which is associated with job information, state information, and\/or the like and the CLONER may continue to cycle for any selected job profiles , .","In one embodiment, as the CLONER continues to track feedback information relating to job profiles , it may periodically query its database for the feedback for purposes of analysis . In one embodiment, a cron job may be executed at specified periods to perform an SQL select for unanalyzed feedback from the CLONER database. The CLONER may determine if any filter (e.g., demographic and\/or other selection criteria) should be used for the analysis . If so, such modifying selectors may be supplied as part of the query . The returned feedback records are analyzed , in one embodiment, using statistical frequency. For example, if a substantial number of seeker provide low confidence ratings for search results of a particular state, e.g., Systems Programmer, resulting from a particular query term, e.g., programmer; then this information may be used to demote state structure associations. In one example embodiment, each demotion may act to subtract the occurrence of a state traversal link. The CLONER may then allow a user to make additional subset selections , which result in further results narrowing through more queries . Otherwise the CLONER may determine if there is any indication to terminate  and end, or otherwise continue on tracking user interactions with the job profile .","Benchmarking",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0148","num":"0147"},"figref":["FIG. 31","FIG. 25","FIG. 25","FIG. 25","FIG. 32","FIG. 32"],"b":["3105","2543","2543","3110","3110","3115","3115","3122","3122","3122","3125","2543","3250","3127","3127","3135","3252","3254","3256","3137","3137","3130","3137","3127","3138","3115","3138","3140","3145","3120","3138","3140"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0149","num":"0148"},"figref":"FIG. 32","b":["3250","3252","3254","3256","3260","3261","3263","3266","3267","3270","3280","3290","3296","3294","3298"]},"Cloning",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0151","num":"0150"},"figref":["FIG. 33","FIGS. 15"],"b":["3301","3301","3301","3303","3305","16","3308","3319","3312","3305","3301"]},"In so doing, all seeker's paths become available for analysis. In one embodiment, the CLONER provides an interface and a mechanism to identify and \u201cclone\u201d a specified seeker, by finding another seeker with identical and\/or similar, e.g., career, state path. In one embodiment, the CLONER provides a web interface  where an interested party, e.g., an employer, may provide the experience information of a source candidate to be cloned. The CLONER may allow the interested party to enter a search for a specific candidate , where results to the search terms may be listed  for selection by the interested party . In one embodiment the interested party enters terms into a search field , engages a \u201cfind\u201d button , and the CLONER will query for matching candidates and list the closest matching results  from which the interested party may make selections . In another embodiment, the interested party may search their file system for a source candidates experience information (e.g., a resume) or provide such . In one embodiment, the CLONER allows the interested party to search their computer's file structure and list files for selections by engaging a \u201csubmit resume\u201d button , which will bring up the a file browser window through which the interested party may specify (e.g., drag-n-drop a resume document ) the source experience information. After the interested party selects what experience information it wishes to be the source , the interested party may ask the CLONER to \u201cmake a clone,\u201d i.e., to identify another seeker having similar background and\/or experiences.","As such, the CLONER may analyze the source's experience information and generate an experience path as has already been discussed. In one embodiment, upon obtaining a source experience path , the CLONER may display the source's path . The CLONER may then query its database for other seekers having the same experience information . In one embodiment this may be achieved by using the source's state_IDs for each entry comprising its experience state path as a basis to select from its database. Then for the query results, for each candidate having all the matched states, the CLONER may further filter and rank the results . It should be noted that an interested party may also apply attributes as a filter , ; for example, by searching for other candidates with the same career path, but that have a set salary expectation (e.g., less than $50,000); one embodiment, the filter attributes may be provided in a popup menu , a text field, a slider widget, and\/or the like mechanism. In one embodiment, the CLONER may provide higher ranks for matches from the same regions, having experiences in the same order, and having other associated attributes (e.g., salary) that are most similar to the source seeker. In one embodiment, the CLONER may provide a pop-up menu interface to select the manner in which results are ranked . In one embodiment, the rank clones  may be displayed showing their matching paths , , . The CLONER may rank the results by listing the paths that have the greatest number of states in common with the source more prominently than those having less matching states. The CLONER may then display the next closet \u201cclone\u201d or list of clones , , ,  for review by the interested party. In one embodiment, the interested party may send offers, propositions, solicitations, and\/or otherwise provide a clone with information about advancement opportunities. In one embodiment, a user may make checkbox selections  of the desired clones and request to see the resumes of those selected clones , upon which the CLONER will provide access to those clones. In another embodiment, an offer may be made by selecting the button . In this way, interested parties may identify qualified individuals for advancement. It should be noted that a seeker's experience information may also include a state experience path comprising their education history. As such, in one embodiment, the CLONER may clone not only a seeker's, e.g., career, path experience, but also their education path experience.","Advancement Taxonomy",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0155","num":"0154"},"figref":"FIG. 34","b":["3419","3410","3419","3419","3401","3419","3403","3419","3419","3422","3423","3419","3411","3433","3434","3433","3423","3434","3422","3419","3422","3423","3433","3434"],"i":["f","j","h","h ","b ","j ","f ","a ","a ","f","b ","b ","i "]},"In one embodiment, the CLONER  may use the experience table's title, job description, skills, category, keyword and other field values as basis to discern and map to a matching state in the state structure, as has already been discussed in  et seq. In one embodiment, the CSE  may similarly use values stored in the attributes table . However, in an alternative embodiment, attribute information and experience information may be related by being assigned by administrators who will fine tune said associations.","In another embodiment, attributes that are related to experience information assume a relationship that is discerned as between the experience information and a state . For example, a career system, such as Monster.com, may track attributes for various job listings that may be stored in a job listing table  of . Such job listings often have numerous attributes and many other attributes may be discerned through statistical analysis of seekers that interacted with job listings. These job listings often have an OC_code, and as such may already be related to experiences of  in an experience structure of . As has already been discussed, the CLONER may associate unmapped experiences , to states , , and when so doing, it may relate attribute information that has already been associated to the unmapped experience to states in the same process. In another embodiment, structured resume information, i.e., experiences may be mapped to an OC codes as described in patent applications: Ser. No. 11\/615,765 filed Dec. 22, 2006, entitled \u201cAPPARATUSES, METHODS AND SYSTEMS FOR AN INTERACTIVE EMPLOYMENT SEARCH PLATFORM,\u201d and Ser. No. 11\/615,768 filed Dec. 22, 2006, entitled \u201cA METHOD FOR INTERACTIVE EMPLOYMENT SEARCHING AND SKILLS SPECIFICATION,\u201d; the entire contents of both applications is hereby expressly incorporated by reference.","In one embodiment, the entities in  correspond to CLONER Controller's database component tables , in that they correspond to FIG. 's last two digit reference numbers, i.e., corresponds to table of .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0159","num":"0158"},"figref":["FIG. 35","FIG. 34","FIG. 35","FIG. 36","FIG. 34","FIG. 35"],"b":"3619"},"In one embodiment, the entities in  correspond to CLONER Controller's database component tables , in that they correspond to FIG. 's last two digit reference numbers, i.e., corresponds to table of .","Cloner Controller",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0161","num":"0160"},"figref":"FIG. 36","b":["3601","3601"]},"Typically, users, which may be people and\/or other systems, may engage information technology systems (e.g., computers) to facilitate information processing. In turn, computers employ processors to process information; such processors  may be referred to as central processing units (CPU). One form of processor is referred to as a microprocessor. CPUs use communicative circuits to pass binary encoded signals acting as instructions to enable various operations. These instructions may be operational and\/or data instructions containing and\/or referencing other instructions and data in various processor accessible and operable areas of memory  (e.g., registers, cache memory, random access memory, etc.). Such communicative instructions may be stored and\/or transmitted in batches (e.g., batches of instructions) as programs and\/or data components to facilitate desired operations. These stored instruction codes, e.g., programs, may engage the CPU circuit components and other motherboard and\/or system components to perform desired operations. One type of program is a computer operating system, which, may be executed by CPU on a computer; the operating system enables and facilitates users to access and operate computer information technology and resources. Some resources that may employed in information technology systems include: input and output mechanisms through which data may pass into and out of a computer; memory storage into which data may be saved; and processors by which information may be processed. These information technology systems may be used to collect data for later retrieval, analysis, and manipulation, which may be facilitated through a database program. These information technology systems provide interfaces that allow users to access and operate various system components.","In one embodiment, the CLONER controller  may be connected to and\/or communicate with entities such as, but not limited to: one or more users from user input devices ; peripheral devices ; an optional cryptographic processor device ; and\/or a communications network .","Networks are commonly thought to comprise the interconnection and interoperation of clients, servers, and intermediary nodes in a graph topology. It should be noted that the term \u201cserver\u201d as used throughout this application refers generally to a computer, other device, program, or combination thereof that processes and responds to the requests of remote users across a communications network. Servers serve their information to requesting \u201cclients.\u201d The term \u201cclient\u201d as used herein refers generally to a computer, program, other device, user and\/or combination thereof that is capable of processing and making requests and obtaining and processing any responses from servers across a communications network. A computer, other device, program, or combination thereof that facilitates, processes information and requests, and\/or furthers the passage of information from a source user to a destination user is commonly referred to as a \u201cnode.\u201d Networks are generally thought to facilitate the transfer of information from source points to destinations. A node specifically tasked with furthering the passage of information from a source to a destination is commonly called a \u201crouter.\u201d There are many forms of networks such as Local Area Networks (LANs), Pico networks, Wide Area Networks (WANs), Wireless Networks (WLANs), etc. For example, the Internet is generally accepted as being an interconnection of a multitude of networks whereby remote clients and servers may access and interoperate with one another.","The CLONER controller  may be based on computer systems that may comprise, but are not limited to, components such as: a computer systemization  connected to memory .","Computer Systemization","A computer systemization  may comprise a clock , central processing unit (\u201cCPU(s)\u201d and\/or \u201cprocessor(s)\u201d (these terms are used interchangeable throughout the disclosure unless noted to the contrary)) , a memory  (e.g., a read only memory (ROM) , a random access memory (RAM) , etc.), and\/or an interface bus , and most frequently, although not necessarily, are all interconnected and\/or communicating through a system bus  on one or more (mother)board(s)  having conductive and\/or otherwise transportive circuit pathways through which instructions (e.g., binary encoded signals) may travel to effect communications, operations, storage, etc. Optionally, the computer systemization may be connected to an internal power source . Optionally, a cryptographic processor  may be connected to the system bus. The system clock typically has a crystal oscillator and generates a base signal through the computer systemization's circuit pathways. The clock is typically coupled to the system bus and various clock multipliers that will increase or decrease the base operating frequency for other components interconnected in the computer systemization. The clock and various components in a computer systemization drive signals embodying information throughout the system. Such transmission and reception of instructions embodying information throughout a computer systemization may be commonly referred to as communications. These communicative instructions may further be transmitted, received, and the cause of return and\/or reply communications beyond the instant computer systemization to: communications networks, input devices, other computer systemizations, peripheral devices, and\/or the like. Of course, any of the above components may be connected directly to one another, connected to the CPU, and\/or organized in numerous variations employed as exemplified by various computer systems.","The CPU comprises at least one high-speed data processor adequate to execute program components for executing user and\/or system-generated requests. Often, the processors themselves will incorporate various specialized processing units, such as, but not limited to: integrated system (bus) controllers, memory management control units, floating point units, and even specialized processing sub-units like graphics processing units, digital signal processing units, and\/or the like. Additionally, processors may include internal fast access addressable memory, and be capable of mapping and addressing memory  beyond the processor itself; internal memory may include, but is not limited to: fast registers, various levels of cache memory (e.g., level , , , etc.), RAM, etc. The processor may access this memory through the use of a memory address space that is accessible via instruction address, which the processor can construct and decode allowing it to access a circuit path to a specific memory address space having a memory state. The CPU may be a microprocessor such as: AMD's Athlon, Duron and\/or Opteron; ARM's application, embedded and secure processors; IBM and\/or Motorola's DragonBall and PowerPC; IBM's and Sony's Cell processor; Intel's Celeron, Core () Duo, Itanium, Pentium, Xeon, and\/or XScale; and\/or the like processor(s). The CPU interacts with memory through instruction passing through conductive and\/or transportive conduits (e.g., (printed) electronic and\/or optic circuits) to execute stored instructions (i.e., program code) according to conventional data processing techniques. Such instruction passing facilitates communication within the CLONER controller and beyond through various interfaces. Should processing requirements dictate a greater amount speed and\/or capacity, distributed processors (e.g., Distributed CLONER), mainframe, multi-core, parallel, and\/or super-computer architectures may similarly be employed. Alternatively, should deployment requirements dictate greater portability, smaller Personal Digital Assistants (PDAs) may be employed.","Depending on the particular implementation, features of the CLONER may be achieved by implementing a microcontroller such as CAST's R8051XC2 microcontroller; Intel's MCS  (i.e., 8051 microcontroller); and\/or the like. Also, to implement certain features of the CLONER, some feature implementations may rely on embedded components, such as: Application-Specific Integrated Circuit (\u201cASIC\u201d), Digital Signal Processing (\u201cDSP\u201d), Field Programmable Gate Array (\u201cFPGA\u201d), and\/or the like embedded technology. For example, any of the CLONER component collection (distributed or otherwise) and\/or features may be implemented via the microprocessor and\/or via embedded components; e.g., via ASIC, coprocessor, DSP, FPGA, and\/or the like. Alternately, some implementations of the CLONER may be implemented with embedded components that are configured and used to achieve a variety of features or signal processing.","Depending on the particular implementation, the embedded components may include software solutions, hardware solutions, and\/or some combination of both hardware\/software solutions. For example, CLONER features discussed herein may be achieved through implementing FPGAs, which are a semiconductor devices containing programmable logic components called \u201clogic blocks\u201d, and programmable interconnects, such as the high performance FPGA Virtex series and\/or the low cost Spartan series manufactured by Xilinx. Logic blocks and interconnects can be programmed by the customer or designer, after the FPGA is manufactured, to implement any of the CLONER features. A hierarchy of programmable interconnects allow logic blocks to be interconnected as needed by the CLONER system designer\/administrator, somewhat like a one-chip programmable breadboard. An FPGA's logic blocks can be programmed to perform the function of basic logic gates such as AND, and XOR, or more complex combinational functions such as decoders or simple mathematical functions. In most FPGAs, the logic blocks also include memory elements, which may be simple flip-flops or more complete blocks of memory. In some circumstances, the CLONER may be developed on regular FPGAs and then migrated into a fixed version that more resembles ASIC implementations. Alternate or coordinating implementations may migrate CLONER controller features to a final ASIC instead of or in addition to FPGAs. Depending on the implementation all of the aforementioned embedded components and microprocessors may be considered the \u201cCPU\u201d and\/or \u201cprocessor\u201d for the CLONER.","Power Source","The power source  may be of any standard form for powering small electronic circuit board devices such as the following power cells: alkaline, lithium hydride, lithium ion, lithium polymer, nickel cadmium, solar cells, and\/or the like. Other types of AC or DC power sources may be used as well. In the case of solar cells, in one embodiment, the case provides an aperture through which the solar cell may capture photonic energy. The power cell  is connected to at least one of the interconnected subsequent components of the CLONER thereby providing an electric current to all subsequent components. In one example, the power source  is connected to the system bus component . In an alternative embodiment, an outside power source  is provided through a connection across the I\/O  interface. For example, a USB and\/or IEEE 1394 connection carries both data and power across the connection and is therefore a suitable source of power.","Interface Adapters","Interface bus(ses)  may accept, connect, and\/or communicate to a number of interface adapters, conventionally although not necessarily in the form of adapter cards, such as but not limited to: input output interfaces (I\/O) , storage interfaces , network interfaces , and\/or the like. Optionally, cryptographic processor interfaces  similarly may be connected to the interface bus. The interface bus provides for the communications of interface adapters with one another as well as with other components of the computer systemization. Interface adapters are adapted for a compatible interface bus. Interface adapters conventionally connect to the interface bus via a slot architecture. Conventional slot architectures may be employed, such as, but not limited to: Accelerated Graphics Port (AGP), Card Bus, (Extended) Industry Standard Architecture ((E)ISA), Micro Channel Architecture (MCA), NuBus, Peripheral Component Interconnect (Extended) (PCI(X)), PCI Express, Personal Computer Memory Card International Association (PCMCIA), and\/or the like.","Storage interfaces  may accept, communicate, and\/or connect to a number of storage devices such as, but not limited to: storage devices , removable disc devices, and\/or the like. Storage interfaces may employ connection protocols such as, but not limited to: (Ultra) (Serial) Advanced Technology Attachment (Packet Interface) ((Ultra) (Serial) ATA(PI)), (Enhanced) Integrated Drive Electronics ((E)IDE), Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) 1394, fiber channel, Small Computer Systems Interface (SCSI), Universal Serial Bus (USB), and\/or the like.","Network interfaces  may accept, communicate, and\/or connect to a communications network . Through a communications network , the CLONER controller is accessible through remote clients (e.g., computers with web browsers) by users . Network interfaces may employ connection protocols such as, but not limited to: direct connect, Ethernet (thick, thin, twisted pair 10\/100\/1000 Base T, and\/or the like), Token Ring, wireless connection such as IEEE 802.11a-x, and\/or the like. Should processing requirements dictate a greater amount speed and\/or capacity, distributed network controllers (e.g., Distributed CLONER), architectures may similarly be employed to pool, load balance, and\/or otherwise increase the communicative bandwidth required by the CLONER controller. A communications network may be any one and\/or the combination of the following: a direct interconnection; the Internet; a Local Area Network (LAN); a Metropolitan Area Network (MAN); an Operating Missions as Nodes on the Internet (OMNI); a secured custom connection; a Wide Area Network (WAN); a wireless network (e.g., employing protocols such as, but not limited to a Wireless Application Protocol (WAP), I-mode, and\/or the like); and\/or the like. A network interface may be regarded as a specialized form of an input output interface. Further, multiple network interfaces  may be used to engage with various communications network types . For example, multiple network interfaces may be employed to allow for the communication over broadcast, multicast, and\/or unicast networks.","Input Output interfaces (I\/O)  may accept, communicate, and\/or connect to user input devices , peripheral devices , cryptographic processor devices , and\/or the like. I\/O may employ connection protocols such as, but not limited to: audio: analog, digital, monaural, RCA, stereo, and\/or the like; data: Apple Desktop Bus (ADB), IEEE 1394a-b, serial, universal serial bus (USB); infrared; joystick; keyboard; midi; optical; PC AT; PS\/2; parallel; radio; video interface: Apple Desktop Connector (ADC), BNC, coaxial, component, composite, digital, Digital Visual Interface (DVI), high-definition multimedia interface (HDMI), RCA, RF antennae, S-Video, VGA, and\/or the like; wireless: 802.11a\/b\/g\/n\/x, Bluetooth, code division multiple access (CDMA), global system for mobile communications (GSM), WiMax, etc.; and\/or the like. One typical output device may include a video display, which typically comprises a Cathode Ray Tube (CRT) or Liquid Crystal Display (LCD) based monitor with an interface (e.g., DVI circuitry and cable) that accepts signals from a video interface, may be used. The video interface composites information generated by a computer systemization and generates video signals based on the composited information in a video memory frame. Another output device is a television set, which accepts signals from a video interface. Typically, the video interface provides the composited video information through a video connection interface that accepts a video display interface (e.g., an RCA composite video connector accepting an RCA composite video cable; a DVI connector accepting a DVI display cable, etc.).","User input devices  may be card readers, dongles, finger print readers, gloves, graphics tablets, joysticks, keyboards, mouse (mice), remote controls, retina readers, trackballs, trackpads, and\/or the like.","Peripheral devices  may be connected and\/or communicate to I\/O and\/or other facilities of the like such as network interfaces, storage interfaces, and\/or the like. Peripheral devices may be audio devices, cameras, dongles (e.g., for copy protection, ensuring secure transactions with a digital signature, and\/or the like), external processors (for added functionality), goggles, microphones, monitors, network interfaces, printers, scanners, storage devices, video devices, video sources, visors, and\/or the like.","It should be noted that although user input devices and peripheral devices may be employed, the CLONER controller may be embodied as an embedded, dedicated, and\/or monitor-less (i.e., headless) device, wherein access would be provided over a network interface connection.","Cryptographic units such as, but not limited to, microcontrollers, processors , interfaces , and\/or devices  may be attached, and\/or communicate with the CLONER controller. A MC68HC16 microcontroller, manufactured by Motorola Inc., may be used for and\/or within cryptographic units. The MC68HC16 microcontroller utilizes a 16-bit multiply-and-accumulate instruction in the 16 MHz configuration and requires less than one second to perform a 512-bit RSA private key operation. Cryptographic units support the authentication of communications from interacting agents, as well as allowing for anonymous transactions. Cryptographic units may also be configured as part of CPU. Equivalent microcontrollers and\/or processors may also be used. Other commercially available specialized cryptographic processors include: the Broadcom's CryptoNetX and other Security Processors; nCipher's nShield, SafeNet's Luna PCI (e.g., 7100) series; Semaphore Communications' 40 MHz Roadrunner 184; Sun's Cryptographic Accelerators (e.g., Accelerator 6000 PCIe Board, Accelerator 500 Daughtercard); Via Nano Processor (e.g., L2100, L2200, U2400) line, which is capable of performing 500+ MB\/s of cryptographic instructions; VLSI Technology's 33 MHz 6868; and\/or the like.","Memory","Generally, any mechanization and\/or embodiment allowing a processor to affect the storage and\/or retrieval of information is regarded as memory . However, memory is a fungible technology and resource, thus, any number of memory embodiments may be employed in lieu of or in concert with one another. It is to be understood that the CLONER controller and\/or a computer systemization may employ various forms of memory . For example, a computer systemization may be configured wherein the functionality of on-chip CPU memory (e.g., registers), RAM, ROM, and any other storage devices are provided by a paper punch tape or paper punch card mechanism; of course such an embodiment would result in an extremely slow rate of operation. In a typical configuration, memory  will include ROM , RAM , and a storage device . A storage device  may be any conventional computer system storage. Storage devices may include a drum; a (fixed and\/or removable) magnetic disk drive; a magneto-optical drive; an optical drive (i.e., Blueray, CD ROM\/RAM\/Recordable (R)\/ReWritable (RW), DVD R\/RW, HD DVD R\/RW etc.); an array of devices (e.g., Redundant Array of Independent Disks (RAID)); solid state memory devices (USB memory, solid state drives (SSD), etc.); and\/or other devices of the like. Thus, a computer systemization generally requires and makes use of memory.","Component Collection","The memory  may contain a collection of program and\/or database components and\/or data such as, but not limited to: operating system component(s)  (operating system); information server component(s)  (information server); user interface component(s)  (user interface); Web browser component(s)  (Web browser); database(s) ; mail server component(s) ; mail client component(s) ; cryptographic server component(s)  (cryptographic server); CSE component(s) ; the CLONER component(s) ; and\/or the like (i.e., collectively a component collection). These components may be stored and accessed from the storage devices and\/or from storage devices accessible through an interface bus. Although non-conventional program components such as those in the component collection, typically, are stored in a local storage device , they may also be loaded and\/or stored in memory such as: peripheral devices, RAM, remote storage facilities through a communications network, ROM, various forms of memory, and\/or the like.","Operating System","The operating system component  is an executable program component facilitating the operation of the CLONER controller. Typically, the operating system facilitates access of I\/O, network interfaces, peripheral devices, storage devices, and\/or the like. The operating system may be a highly fault tolerant, scalable, and secure system such as: Apple Macintosh OS X (Server); AT&T Plan 9; Be OS; Unix and Unix-like system distributions (such as AT&T's UNIX; Berkley Software Distribution (BSD) variations such as FreeBSD, NetBSD, OpenBSD, and\/or the like; Linux distributions such as Red Hat, Ubuntu, and\/or the like); and\/or the like operating systems. However, more limited and\/or less secure operating systems also may be employed such as Apple Macintosh OS, IBM OS\/2, Microsoft DOS, Microsoft Windows 2000\/2003\/3.1\/95\/98\/CE\/Millenium\/NTNista\/XP (Server), Palm OS, and\/or the like. An operating system may communicate to and\/or with other components in a component collection, including itself, and\/or the like. Most frequently, the operating system communicates with other program components, user interfaces, and\/or the like. For example, the operating system may contain, communicate, generate, obtain, and\/or provide program component, system, user, and\/or data communications, requests, and\/or responses. The operating system, once executed by the CPU, may enable the interaction with communications networks, data, I\/O, peripheral devices, program components, memory, user input devices, and\/or the like. The operating system may provide communications protocols that allow the CLONER controller to communicate with other entities through a communications network . Various communication protocols may be used by the CLONER controller as a subcarrier transport mechanism for interaction, such as, but not limited to: multicast, TCP\/IP, UDP, unicast, and\/or the like.","Information Server","An information server component  is a stored program component that is executed by a CPU. The information server may be a conventional Internet information server such as, but not limited to Apache Software Foundation's Apache, Microsoft's Internet Information Server, and\/or the like. The information server may allow for the execution of program components through facilities such as Active Server Page (ASP), ActiveX, (ANSI) (Objective-) C (++), C# and\/or .NET, Common Gateway Interface (CGI) scripts, dynamic (D) hypertext markup language (HTML), FLASH, Java, JavaScript, Practical Extraction Report Language (PERL), Hypertext Pre-Processor (PHP), pipes, Python, wireless application protocol (WAP), WebObjects, and\/or the like. The information server may support secure communications protocols such as, but not limited to, File Transfer Protocol (FTP); HyperText Transfer Protocol (HTTP); Secure Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTPS), Secure Socket Layer (SSL), messaging protocols (e.g., America Online (AOL) Instant Messenger (AIM), Application Exchange (APEX), ICQ, Internet Relay Chat (IRC), Microsoft Network (MSN) Messenger Service, Presence and Instant Messaging Protocol (PRIM), Internet Engineering Task Force's (IETF's) Session Initiation Protocol (SIP), SIP for Instant Messaging and Presence Leveraging Extensions (SIMPLE), open XML-based Extensible Messaging and Presence Protocol (XMPP) (i.e., Jabber or Open Mobile Alliance's (OMA's) Instant Messaging and Presence Service (IMPS)), Yahoo! Instant Messenger Service, and\/or the like. The information server provides results in the form of Web pages to Web browsers, and allows for the manipulated generation of the Web pages through interaction with other program components. After a Domain Name System (DNS) resolution portion of an HTTP request is resolved to a particular information server, the information server resolves requests for information at specified locations on the CLONER controller based on the remainder of the HTTP request. For example, a request such as http:\/\/123.124.125.126\/myInformation.html might have the IP portion of the request \u201c123.124.125.126\u201d resolved by a DNS server to an information server at that IP address; that information server might in turn further parse the http request for the \u201c\/myInformation.html\u201d portion of the request and resolve it to a location in memory containing the information \u201cmyInformation.html.\u201d Additionally, other information serving protocols may be employed across various ports, e.g., FTP communications across port , and\/or the like. An information server may communicate to and\/or with other components in a component collection, including itself, and\/or facilities of the like. Most frequently, the information server communicates with the CLONER database , operating systems, other program components, user interfaces, Web browsers, and\/or the like.","Access to the CLONER database may be achieved through a number of database bridge mechanisms such as through scripting languages as enumerated below (e.g., CGI) and through inter-application communication channels as enumerated below (e.g., CORBA, WebObjects, etc.). Any data requests through a Web browser are parsed through the bridge mechanism into appropriate grammars as required by the CLONER. In one embodiment, the information server would provide a Web form accessible by a Web browser. Entries made into supplied fields in the Web form are tagged as having been entered into the particular fields, and parsed as such. The entered terms are then passed along with the field tags, which act to instruct the parser to generate queries directed to appropriate tables and\/or fields. In one embodiment, the parser may generate queries in standard SQL by instantiating a search string with the proper join\/select commands based on the tagged text entries, wherein the resulting command is provided over the bridge mechanism to the CLONER as a query. Upon generating query results from the query, the results are passed over the bridge mechanism, and may be parsed for formatting and generation of a new results Web page by the bridge mechanism. Such a new results Web page is then provided to the information server, which may supply it to the requesting Web browser.","Also, an information server may contain, communicate, generate, obtain, and\/or provide program component, system, user, and\/or data communications, requests, and\/or responses.","User Interface","The function of computer interfaces in some respects is similar to automobile operation interfaces. Automobile operation interface elements such as steering wheels, gearshifts, and speedometers facilitate the access, operation, and display of automobile resources, functionality, and status. Computer interaction interface elements such as check boxes, cursors, menus, scrollers, and windows (collectively and commonly referred to as widgets) similarly facilitate the access, operation, and display of data and computer hardware and operating system resources, functionality, and status. Operation interfaces are commonly called user interfaces. Graphical user interfaces (GUIs) such as the Apple Macintosh Operating System's Aqua, IBM's OS\/2, Microsoft's Windows 2000\/2003\/3.1\/95\/98\/CE\/Millenium\/NT\/XPNista\/7 (i.e., Aero), Unix's X-Windows (e.g., which may include additional Unix graphic interface libraries and layers such as K Desktop Environment (KDE), mythTV and GNU Network Object Model Environment (GNOME)), web interface libraries (e.g., ActiveX, AJAX, (D)HTML, FLASH, Java, JavaScript, etc. interface libraries such as, but not limited to, Dojo, jQuery(UI), MooTools, Prototype, script.aculo.us, SWFObject, Yahoo! User Interface, any of which may be used and) provide a baseline and means of accessing and displaying information graphically to users.","A user interface component  is a stored program component that is executed by a CPU. The user interface may be a conventional graphic user interface as provided by, with, and\/or atop operating systems and\/or operating environments such as already discussed. The user interface may allow for the display, execution, interaction, manipulation, and\/or operation of program components and\/or system facilities through textual and\/or graphical facilities. The user interface provides a facility through which users may affect, interact, and\/or operate a computer system. A user interface may communicate to and\/or with other components in a component collection, including itself, and\/or facilities of the like. Most frequently, the user interface communicates with operating systems, other program components, and\/or the like. The user interface may contain, communicate, generate, obtain, and\/or provide program component, system, user, and\/or data communications, requests, and\/or responses.","Web Browser","A Web browser component  is a stored program component that is executed by a CPU. The Web browser may be a conventional hypertext viewing application such as Microsoft Internet Explorer or Netscape Navigator. Secure Web browsing may be supplied with 128 bit (or greater) encryption by way of HTTPS, SSL, and\/or the like. Web browsers allowing for the execution of program components through facilities such as ActiveX, AJAX, (D)HTML, FLASH, Java, JavaScript, web browser plug-in APIs (e.g., FireFox, Safari Plug-in, and\/or the like APIs), and\/or the like. Web browsers and like information access tools may be integrated into PDAs, cellular telephones, and\/or other mobile devices. A Web browser may communicate to and\/or with other components in a component collection, including itself, and\/or facilities of the like. Most frequently, the Web browser communicates with information servers, operating systems, integrated program components (e.g., plug-ins), and\/or the like; e.g., it may contain, communicate, generate, obtain, and\/or provide program component, system, user, and\/or data communications, requests, and\/or responses. Of course, in place of a Web browser and information server, a combined application may be developed to perform similar functions of both. The combined application would similarly affect the obtaining and the provision of information to users, user agents, and\/or the like from the CLONER enabled nodes. The combined application may be nugatory on systems employing standard Web browsers.","Mail Server","A mail server component  is a stored program component that is executed by a CPU . The mail server may be a conventional Internet mail server such as, but not limited to sendmail, Microsoft Exchange, and\/or the like. The mail server may allow for the execution of program components through facilities such as ASP, ActiveX, (ANSI) (Objective-) C (++), C# and\/or .NET, CGI scripts, Java, JavaScript, PERL, PHP, pipes, Python, WebObjects, and\/or the like. The mail server may support communications protocols such as, but not limited to: Internet message access protocol (IMAP), Messaging Application Programming Interface (MAPI)\/Microsoft Exchange, post office protocol (POP3), simple mail transfer protocol (SMTP), and\/or the like. The mail server can route, forward, and process incoming and outgoing mail messages that have been sent, relayed and\/or otherwise traversing through and\/or to the CLONER.","Access to the CLONER mail may be achieved through a number of APIs offered by the individual Web server components and\/or the operating system.","Also, a mail server may contain, communicate, generate, obtain, and\/or provide program component, system, user, and\/or data communications, requests, information, and\/or responses.","Mail Client","A mail client component  is a stored program component that is executed by a CPU . The mail client may be a conventional mail viewing application such as Apple Mail, Microsoft Entourage, Microsoft Outlook, Microsoft Outlook Express, Mozilla, Thunderbird, and\/or the like. Mail clients may support a number of transfer protocols, such as: IMAP, Microsoft Exchange, POP3, SMTP, and\/or the like. A mail client may communicate to and\/or with other components in a component collection, including itself, and\/or facilities of the like. Most frequently, the mail client communicates with mail servers, operating systems, other mail clients, and\/or the like; e.g., it may contain, communicate, generate, obtain, and\/or provide program component, system, user, and\/or data communications, requests, information, and\/or responses. Generally, the mail client provides a facility to compose and transmit electronic mail messages.","Cryptographic Server","A cryptographic server component  is a stored program component that is executed by a CPU , cryptographic processor , cryptographic processor interface , cryptographic processor device , and\/or the like. Cryptographic processor interfaces will allow for expedition of encryption and\/or decryption requests by the cryptographic component; however, the cryptographic component, alternatively, may run on a conventional CPU. The cryptographic component allows for the encryption and\/or decryption of provided data. The cryptographic component allows for both symmetric and asymmetric (e.g., Pretty Good Protection (PGP)) encryption and\/or decryption. The cryptographic component may employ cryptographic techniques such as, but not limited to: digital certificates (e.g., X.509 authentication framework), digital signatures, dual signatures, enveloping, password access protection, public key management, and\/or the like. The cryptographic component will facilitate numerous (encryption and\/or decryption) security protocols such as, but not limited to: checksum, Data Encryption Standard (DES), Elliptical Curve Encryption (ECC), International Data Encryption Algorithm (IDEA), Message Digest 5 (MD5, which is a one way hash function), passwords, Rivest Cipher (RC5), Rijndael, RSA (which is an Internet encryption and authentication system that uses an algorithm developed in 1977 by Ron Rivest, Adi Shamir, and Leonard Adleman), Secure Hash Algorithm (SHA), Secure Socket Layer (SSL), Secure Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTPS), and\/or the like. Employing such encryption security protocols, the CLONER may encrypt all incoming and\/or outgoing communications and may serve as node within a virtual private network (VPN) with a wider communications network. The cryptographic component facilitates the process of \u201csecurity authorization\u201d whereby access to a resource is inhibited by a security protocol wherein the cryptographic component effects authorized access to the secured resource. In addition, the cryptographic component may provide unique identifiers of content, e.g., employing and MD5 hash to obtain a unique signature for an digital audio file. A cryptographic component may communicate to and\/or with other components in a component collection, including itself, and\/or facilities of the like. The cryptographic component supports encryption schemes allowing for the secure transmission of information across a communications network to enable the CLONER component to engage in secure transactions if so desired. The cryptographic component facilitates the secure accessing of resources on the CLONER and facilitates the access of secured resources on remote systems; i.e., it may act as a client and\/or server of secured resources. Most frequently, the cryptographic component communicates with information servers, operating systems, other program components, and\/or the like. The cryptographic component may contain, communicate, generate, obtain, and\/or provide program component, system, user, and\/or data communications, requests, and\/or responses.","The CLONER Database","The CLONER database component  may be embodied in a database and its stored data. The database is a stored program component, which is executed by the CPU; the stored program component portion configuring the CPU to process the stored data. The database may be a conventional, fault tolerant, relational, scalable, secure database such as Oracle or Sybase. Relational databases are an extension of a flat file. Relational databases consist of a series of related tables. The tables are interconnected via a key field. Use of the key field allows the combination of the tables by indexing against the key field; i.e., the key fields act as dimensional pivot points for combining information from various tables. Relationships generally identify links maintained between tables by matching primary keys. Primary keys represent fields that uniquely identify the rows of a table in a relational database. More precisely, they uniquely identify rows of a table on the \u201cone\u201d side of a one-to-many relationship.","Alternatively, the CLONER database may be implemented using various standard data-structures, such as an array, hash, (linked) list, struct, structured text file (e.g., XML), table, and\/or the like. Such data-structures may be stored in memory and\/or in (structured) files. In another alternative, an object-oriented database may be used, such as Frontier, ObjectStore, Poet, Zope, and\/or the like. Object databases can include a number of object collections that are grouped and\/or linked together by common attributes; they may be related to other object collections by some common attributes. Object-oriented databases perform similarly to relational databases with the exception that objects are not just pieces of data but may have other types of functionality encapsulated within a given object. If the CLONER database is implemented as a data-structure, the use of the CLONER database  may be integrated into another component such as the CLONER component . Also, the database may be implemented as a mix of data structures, objects, and relational structures. Databases may be consolidated and\/or distributed in countless variations through standard data processing techniques. Portions of databases, e.g., tables, may be exported and\/or imported and thus decentralized and\/or integrated.","In one embodiment, the database component  includes several tables -(wherein the first listed field in each table is the key field and all fields with an \u201cID\u201d suffix are fields having unique values), as follows:","A seeker_profiles table may include fields such as, but not limited to: user_ID, name, address, contact_info, preferences, friends, status, user_description, attributes, experience_info_ID, path_ID(s), attribute_ID(s), and\/or the like.","A seeker_experience table (aka \u201cexperience\u201d or \u201cresume\u201d table) may include fields such as, but not limited to: experience_info_ID, experience_item_ID(s), education_item_ID(s), resume_data, skills, awards, honors, languages, current_salary_prefrences, user_ID(s), path_ID(s), and\/or the like.","A experience_item table may include fields such as, but not limited to: experience_item_ID, institution_ID, job_title, job_description, job_dates, job_salary, skills, awards, honors, satisfaction_ratings, state_ID, OC_code(s), attribute_ID(s), and\/or the like.","A education_item table may include fields such as, but not limited to: education_item_ID, institution_ID, education_degre_subject_matter, education_item_description, education_degree, education_item dates, skills, awards, honors, satisfaction_ratings, state_ID, attribute_ID(s), and\/or the like.","A state_structure table may include fields such as, but not limited to: state_structure_ID, state_structure_data, state_ID(s), and\/or the like.","A states table may include fields such as, but not limited to: state_ID, state_name, job_titles, topics, next_states_ID, previous_states_ID, state_transition_probabilities, job_title_count, total_count, topic_count, transition_weights, OC_code(s), attribute_ID(s), user_ID(s), and\/or the like. A experience_structure table may include fields such as, but not limited to: experience_structure_ID, experience_structure_data, OC_code(s), and\/or the like.","A experiences table (aka \u201cOC\u201d table) may include fields such as, but not limited to: OC_code, parent_OC_code, child_OC_code(s), title(s), job_description(s), educational_requirement(s), experience_requirement(s), salary_range, tasks_work_activities, skills, category, keywords, related occupations, state_ID(s), attribute_ID(s), and\/or the like.","An attributes table may include fields such as, but not limited to: attribute_ID, attribute_name, attribute_type, attribute_weight, attribute_keywords, confidence_value, rating_value, comment, comment_thread_ID(s), salary, geographic_location, hours_of_work, vacation_days, benefits, attribute_transition_value, attribute_transition_weight, education_level, degree, years_of_experience, state_ID(s), OC_code(s), user ID(s), and\/or the like.","A paths table may include fields such as, but not limited to: path_ID, state_path_sequence, state_ID(s), attribute_ID(s), user_ID(s), attribute_key_terms, and\/or the like.","A templates table may include fields such as, but not limited to: template_ID, state_ID, job_ID, employer_ID, attribute_ID, template data, and\/or the like.","A job_listing table l may include fields such as, but not limited to: job_listing_ID, institution_ID, job_title, job_description, educational_requirements, experience_requirements, salary_range, tasks_work_activities, skills, category, keywords, related occupations, OC_code, state_ID, attribute_ID(s), user_ID(s), UI_ID(s), and\/or the like.","A institution table (aka \u201cemployer\u201d table) may include fields such as, but not limited to: institution_ID, name, address, contact_info, preferences, status, industry sector, description, experience_ID(s), template_ID(s), state_ID(s), attributes, attribute_ID(s), and\/or the like.","In one embodiment, the CLONER database may interact with other database systems. For example, employing a distributed database system, queries and data access by search CLONER component may treat the combination of the CLONER database, an integrated data security layer database as a single database entity.","In one embodiment, user programs may contain various user interface primitives, which may serve to update the CLONER. Also, various accounts may require custom database tables depending upon the environments and the types of clients the CLONER may need to serve. It should be noted that any unique fields may be designated as a key field throughout. In an alternative embodiment, these tables have been decentralized into their own databases and their respective database controllers (i.e., individual database controllers for each of the above tables). Employing standard data processing techniques, one may further distribute the databases over several computer systemizations and\/or storage devices. Similarly, configurations of the decentralized database controllers may be varied by consolidating and\/or distributing the various database components -. The CLONER may be configured to keep track of various settings, inputs, and parameters via database controllers.","The CLONER database may communicate to and\/or with other components in a component collection, including itself, and\/or facilities of the like. Most frequently, the CLONER database communicates with the CLONER component, other program components, and\/or the like. The database may contain, retain, and provide information regarding other nodes and data.","The CLONERs","The CLONER component  is a stored program component that is executed by a CPU. In one embodiment, the CLONER component incorporates any and\/or all combinations of the aspects of the CLONER that was discussed in the previous figures. As such, the CLONER affects accessing, obtaining and the provision of information, services, transactions, and\/or the like across various communications networks.","The CLONER component enables the management of advancement path structuring, and\/or the like and use of the CLONER.","The CLONER component enabling access of information between nodes may be developed by employing standard development tools and languages such as, but not limited to: Apache components, Assembly, ActiveX, binary executables, (ANSI) (Objective-) C (++), C# and\/or .NET, database adapters, CGI scripts, Java\u00ae, JavaScript, mapping tools, procedural and object oriented development tools, PERL, PHP, Python, shell scripts, SQL commands, web application server extensions, web development environments and libraries (e.g., Microsoft's ActiveX; Adobe AIR, FLEX & FLASH; AJAX; (D)HTML; Dojo, Java; JavaScript; jQuery(UI); MooTools; Prototype; script.aculo.us; Simple Object Access Protocol (SOAP); SWFObject; Yahoo! User Interface; and\/or the like), WebObjects, and\/or the like. In one embodiment, the CLONER server employs a cryptographic server to encrypt and decrypt communications. The CLONER component may communicate to and\/or with other components in a component collection, including itself, and\/or facilities of the like. Most frequently, the CLONER component communicates with the CLONER database, operating systems, other program components, and\/or the like. The CLONER may contain, communicate, generate, obtain, and\/or provide program component, system, user, and\/or data communications, requests, and\/or responses.","The CSEs","The CSE component  is a stored program component that is executed by a CPU. Similarly as discussed regarding CLONER in , in one embodiment, the CSE component incorporates any and\/or all combinations of the aspects of the CSE that was discussed in the previous . The CSE component may communicate to and\/or with other components in a component collection, including itself, and\/or facilities of the like. Most frequently, the CSE component communicates with the CLONER database, particularly the state structure database table, operating systems, other program components, and\/or the like. The CSE may contain, communicate, generate, obtain, and\/or provide program component, system, user, and\/or data communications, requests, and\/or responses. It should be noted in one embodiment, the CSE component may have its own database component, including a state structure table. As such, the CSE affects accessing, generation obtaining and the provision of information, services, advancement states, transactions, and\/or the like across various communications networks.","Distributed CLONERs","The structure and\/or operation of any of the CLONER node controller components may be combined, consolidated, and\/or distributed in any number of ways to facilitate development and\/or deployment. Similarly, the component collection may be combined in any number of ways to facilitate deployment and\/or development. To accomplish this, one may integrate the components into a common code base or in a facility that can dynamically load the components on demand in an integrated fashion.","The component collection may be consolidated and\/or distributed in countless variations through standard data processing and\/or development techniques. Multiple instances of any one of the program components in the program component collection may be instantiated on a single node, and\/or across numerous nodes to improve performance through load-balancing and\/or data-processing techniques. Furthermore, single instances may also be distributed across multiple controllers and\/or storage devices; e.g., databases. All program component instances and controllers working in concert may do so through standard data processing communication techniques.","The configuration of the CLONER controller will depend on the context of system deployment. Factors such as, but not limited to, the budget, capacity, location, and\/or use of the underlying hardware resources may affect deployment requirements and configuration. Regardless of if the configuration results in more consolidated and\/or integrated program components, results in a more distributed series of program components, and\/or results in some combination between a consolidated and distributed configuration, data may be communicated, obtained, and\/or provided. Instances of components consolidated into a common code base from the program component collection may communicate, obtain, and\/or provide data. This may be accomplished through intra-application data processing communication techniques such as, but not limited to: data referencing (e.g., pointers), internal messaging, object instance variable communication, shared memory space, variable passing, and\/or the like.","If component collection components are discrete, separate, and\/or external to one another, then communicating, obtaining, and\/or providing data with and\/or to other component components may be accomplished through inter-application data processing communication techniques such as, but not limited to: Application Program Interfaces (API) information passage; (distributed) Component Object Model ((D)COM), (Distributed) Object Linking and Embedding ((D)OLE), and\/or the like), Common Object Request Broker Architecture (CORBA), local and remote application program interfaces Jini, Remote Method Invocation (RMI), SOAP, process pipes, shared files, and\/or the like. Messages sent between discrete component components for inter-application communication or within memory spaces of a singular component for intra-application communication may be facilitated through the creation and parsing of a grammar. A grammar may be developed by using standard development tools such as lex, yacc, XML, and\/or the like, which allow for grammar generation and parsing functionality, which in turn may form the basis of communication messages within and between components. For example, a grammar may be arranged to recognize the tokens of an HTTP post command, e.g.:\n\n","where Value1 is discerned as being a parameter because \u201chttp:\/\/\u201d is part of the grammar syntax, and what follows is considered part of the post value. Similarly, with such a grammar, a variable \u201cValue1\u201d may be inserted into an \u201chttp:\/\/\u201d post command and then sent. The grammar syntax itself may be presented as structured data that is interpreted and\/or other wise used to generate the parsing mechanism (e.g., a syntax description text file as processed by lex, yacc, etc.). Also, once the parsing mechanism is generated and\/or instantiated, it itself may process and\/or parse structured data such as, but not limited to: character (e.g., tab) delineated text, HTML, structured text streams, XML, and\/or the like structured data. In another embodiment, inter-application data processing protocols themselves may have integrated and\/or readily available parsers (e.g., the SOAP parser) that may be employed to parse communications data. Further, the parsing grammar may be used beyond message parsing, but may also be used to parse: databases, data collections, data stores, structured data, and\/or the like. Again, the desired configuration will depend upon the context, environment, and requirements of system deployment.","Additional alternative embodiments of the CLONER include:","100. An experience sequence frequency analyzing processor-implemented method, comprising:\n\n","101. The method of claim 100, wherein the updated at least one experience state is stored in the state structure.","102. The method of claim 100, wherein the updated at least one experience state is stored in queue for subsequent use.","103. A statistical career state structure updating processor-implemented method, comprising:\n\n","104. An experience trend structure updating processor-implemented method, comprising:\n\n","105. The method of claim 104, wherein the experience summary data structure comprises resume data.","106. The method of claim 105, wherein the resume data is received as entries to a structured form.","107. The method of claim 105, wherein the resume data is received as parsed data from a free-form document.","108. The method of claim 104, wherein each experience of the ordered sequence of experiences comprises at least a job title and a description.","109. The method of claim 108, wherein mapping further comprises:\n\n","110. The method of claim 109, wherein the comparing the description only occurs if there are more than one state in the first set of matching pre-set experience states.","111. The method of claim 109, wherein comparing the description further comprises:\n\n","112. The method of claim 109, further comprising:\n\n","113. The method of claim 112, wherein the state disambiguation comprises a random selection among states of the second set of matching experience states.","114. The method of claim 112, wherein the state disambiguation comprises:\n\n","115. The method of claim 104, wherein mapping further comprises:\n\n","116. The method of claim 104, wherein the connected experience states comprise a nearest previous experience state and a nearest next experience state.","117. The method of claim 104, wherein the connected experience states comprise all previous experience states in the ordered sequence of experience states.","118. The method of claim 104, wherein the experience summary further comprises a plurality of attributes, and further comprising:\n\n","119. The method of claim 118, wherein the plurality of attributes comprise at least a salary level, a location, and an employment benefit.","120. The method of claim 104, wherein updating experience state data structures further comprises:\n\n","121. An experience trend model generating apparatus, comprising:\n\n","122. An experience trend model generating system, comprising:\n\n","The entirety of this application (including the Cover Page, Title, Headings, Field, Background, Summary, Brief Description of the Drawings, Detailed Description, Claims, Abstract, Figures, and otherwise) shows by way of illustration various embodiments in which the claimed inventions may be practiced. The advantages and features of the application are of a representative sample of embodiments only, and are not exhaustive and\/or exclusive. They are presented only to assist in understanding and teach the claimed principles. It should be understood that they are not representative of all claimed inventions. As such, certain aspects of the disclosure have not been discussed herein. That alternate embodiments may not have been presented for a specific portion of the invention or that further undescribed alternate embodiments may be available for a portion is not to be considered a disclaimer of those alternate embodiments. It will be appreciated that many of those undescribed embodiments incorporate the same principles of the invention and others are equivalent. Thus, it is to be understood that other embodiments may be utilized and functional, logical, organizational, structural and\/or topological modifications may be made without departing from the scope and\/or spirit of the disclosure. As such, all examples and\/or embodiments are deemed to be non-limiting throughout this disclosure. Also, no inference should be drawn regarding those embodiments discussed herein relative to those not discussed herein other than it is as such for purposes of reducing space and repetition. For instance, it is to be understood that the logical and\/or topological structure of any combination of any program components (a component collection), other components and\/or any present feature sets as described in the figures and\/or throughout are not limited to a fixed operating order and\/or arrangement, but rather, any disclosed order is exemplary and all equivalents, regardless of order, are contemplated by the disclosure. Furthermore, it is to be understood that such features are not limited to serial execution, but rather, any number of threads, processes, services, servers, and\/or the like that may execute asynchronously, concurrently, in parallel, simultaneously, synchronously, and\/or the like are contemplated by the disclosure. As such, some of these features may be mutually contradictory, in that they cannot be simultaneously present in a single embodiment. Similarly, some features are applicable to one aspect of the invention, and inapplicable to others. In addition, the disclosure includes other inventions not presently claimed. Applicant reserves all rights in those presently unclaimed inventions including the right to claim such inventions, file additional applications, continuations, continuations in part, divisions, and\/or the like thereof. As such, it should be understood that advantages, embodiments, examples, functional, features, logical, organizational, structural, topological, and\/or other aspects of the disclosure are not to be considered limitations on the disclosure as defined by the claims or limitations on equivalents to the claims."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The accompanying appendices and\/or drawings illustrate various non-limiting, example, inventive aspects in accordance with the present disclosure:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0008","num":"0007"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 3A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 3B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 4A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 4B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 4C"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 4D"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 5A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 5B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 6A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 6B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 11"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 12"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":"FIG. 13"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":"FIGS. 14A-B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIG. 15"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":"FIG. 16"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":"FIG. 17"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":"FIG. 18"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":"FIG. 19"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":"FIG. 20"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"figref":"FIG. 21"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0034"},"figref":"FIGS. 22 and 23"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"figref":"FIGS. 24A-24H","b":["25","25","26","26"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0037","num":"0036"},"figref":"FIG. 27"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0037"},"figref":"FIG. 28"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0039","num":"0038"},"figref":"FIG. 29"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0040","num":"0039"},"figref":"FIG. 30"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0041","num":"0040"},"figref":"FIG. 31"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0042","num":"0041"},"figref":"FIG. 32"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0043","num":"0042"},"figref":"FIG. 33"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0044","num":"0043"},"figref":"FIG. 34"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0045","num":"0044"},"figref":"FIG. 35"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0046","num":"0045"},"figref":"FIG. 36"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
