---
title: Transport apparatus
abstract: A transporter may move a payload along a linear path. The transporter may include a stationary base and a first arm assembly. The first arm assembly may include a first gear coupled to the stationary base, an idler gear that meshes with the first gear, and a second gear that meshes with the idler gear. The transporter may include a driver for rotating the first arm assembly around the axis of the first gear. A second arm assembly may be rigidly coupled to the second gear such that rotation of the second gear rotates the second arm assembly around the axis of the second gear. The second arm assembly may include a third axis that is parallel to the axes of the first and second gears. A payload engager may be disposed at the third axis, for engaging and disengaging the payload.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08079459&OS=08079459&RS=08079459
owner: The Unites States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 08079459
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20091119
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"GOVINT":[{},{}],"heading":["STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENT INTEREST","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS"],"p":["The inventions described herein may be manufactured, used and licensed by or for the U.S. Government for U.S. Government purposes.","The invention relates, in general, to apparatus for moving objects, and, in particular, to apparatus for moving objects along a linear path.","It is an object of the invention to provide an apparatus for moving objects along a linear path.","An aspect of the invention is a transporter for moving a payload along a linear path. The transporter may include a stationary base and a first arm assembly. The first arm assembly may include a first gear coupled to the stationary base, an idler gear that meshes with the first gear, and a second gear that meshes with the idler gear. The first and second gears may include parallel axes. A gear ratio of the first gear to the second gear may be 2:1.","The transporter may include a driver for rotating the first arm assembly around the axis of the first gear. A second arm assembly may be rigidly coupled to the second gear such that rotation of the second gear rotates the second arm assembly around the axis of the second gear. The second arm assembly may include a third axis that is parallel to the axes of the first and second gears wherein a distance between the first gear axis and the second gear axis is a same distance as a distance between the second gear axis and the third axis. A payload engager may be disposed at the third axis, for engaging and disengaging the payload.","Another aspect of the invention is a payload storage and transport system. The payload storage and transport system may include a transporter and a storage assembly disposed adjacent the transporter. The storage assembly may include at least one retention slot disposed at a first end of a track.","The invention will be better understood, and further objects, features, and advantages thereof will become more apparent from the following description of the preferred embodiments, taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.","Embodiments of the invention may be useful for moving or transporting objects along a defined path. The objects may be anything, including containers with or without contents therein. In the description of the various embodiments herein, the objects being moved are referred to as \u201cpayloads.\u201d",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":["FIG. 1","FIGS. 1 and 2"],"b":["100","1","45","43","49","43","1","45","43","45","1","45","1","45","45","47","43","43","47","45","49","1","71","47","1","43","51","49","47","71","51"]},"In , the storage assembly  may have a curved shape. That is, the retention slots  may be arranged in a circular manner.  is a perspective view of another embodiment of a payload storage and transport system , including a transporter , payloads , and a storage assembly  which may retention slots  arranged in a linear fashion. Mechanisms (not shown in the Figs.) for moving the retention slots  of storage assemblies ,  are known. For example, for a curved storage assembly , retention slots  may be mounted on a large bearing that is attached to a large gear. The large gear may mesh with a small pinion gear. The small pinion gear may be driven by a servo motor.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIGS. 4 and 5","FIG. 3","FIGS. 14(","FIGS. 15("],"b":["1","1","3","7","3","3","5","7","3","1","61","3","1","63"],"i":["a","b","a","b"]},"Referring again to , worm gear  may have an axis . A first arm assembly  may include first and second ends , . First arm assembly  may be rigidly connected to worm gear  adjacent end  of first arm assembly . First arm assembly  may include a gear  having an axis . Gear  may be rigidly connected to a stationary base  via a shaft . Thus, gear  may be stationary, with respect to base , throughout the operation of the transporter .","A gear , having an axis , may be disposed in rotatable communication with gear  via idler gear . Idler gear , having an axis , may be disposed between and engage gears  and . A second arm assembly  may be rigidly connected to gear  via shaft . The second arm assembly  may include first and second ends , . Rotation of gear  may rotate the second arm assembly  about its axis . This rotation may move the end  of the second arm assembly  in a circular arc of travel.","Worm  may be operable to drive worm gear  about its axis , thereby rotating the first arm assembly . First arm assembly  may be rigidly attached to worm gear . In one embodiment, worm gear  may be formed integrally with the first arm assembly . Rotation of the first arm assembly  about the axis  of gear  may rotate idler gear , which meshes with and rotates around stationary gear . Rotation of the idler gear  may thereby rotate the gear  in a direction opposite to that of idler gear .","Maintaining the distance between the axis  of gear  and the axis  of gear  substantially equal to the distance between the axes  and  of the second arm assembly  may enable travel of the axis  of the second arm assembly  in a linear path. The gear ratio of gear  to gear  may be 2:1.","A payload engager  may be disposed concentric with the axis  of the second arm assembly . Payload engager  may be extended or retracted via a solenoid  to engage and disengage with a payload . )-() are perspective and partially cutaway perspective views, respectively, of the second arm assembly  and solenoid . In )-(), the solenoid  is energized to retract the payload engager . )-() are perspective and partially cutaway perspective views, respectively, of the second arm assembly  and solenoid . In )-(), the solenoid  is de-energized to extend the payload engager  into engagement with a payload. In one embodiment, the payload engager  may be, for example, a pin, as shown in . Payload engager  may have a form other than a pin, for example, any form suitable for engaging with a particular payload may be used.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0037"},"figref":["FIGS. 19(","FIG. 1)"],"i":["a","b"],"b":["43","43","55","67","53","55","43","43","49","43","69","51","53","65","49"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0039","num":"0038"},"figref":["FIGS. 8-11","FIGS. 8("],"b":["1","73","71","47","71","47","65","53","11","33","49","73","71"],"i":["a","b"]},"Moving from the start position to a second position shown in ) and (), rotation of worm gear  may rotate first arm assembly  upwards, thereby rotating gear  and second arm assembly . Rotation of second arm assembly  may cause payload engager  to be positioned beneath an opening  in payload , as in )-(). When engager  is beneath opening , solenoid  may be de-energized (see )-()) to thereby engage the payload . The second arm assembly  may then be parallel to rails  and below the user slot .","Worm gear  may then be rotated in an opposite direction by worm , thereby swinging second arm assembly  downwards, and causing the payload engager  to slide the payload  partially down the track , as in )-(). Worm gear  may continue to rotate, causing the second arm assembly  to reach a position parallel to rails  and adjacent the retention slot  at the end of track , as in )-().","In , the payload  may be moved a distance along the tracks  equal to the full range of travel of the payload engager . Depending upon the application, it may be desired to move a payload a distance greater than the full range of travel of the payload engager . This may be achieved by using a stop mechanism  () to retain the payload along track  at a location between the ends of the track . Stop mechanism  may include one or more supports . The payload may bear against a support  to thereby retain the payload in a position between the ends of track . The stop mechanism may be activated by a second solenoid .","When the second solenoid  is actuated, the stop mechanism  may rotate upwardly so that the supports  are adjacent the payload. After the stop mechanism  retains the payload, the payload engager  may disengage from a first point on the payload. Transporter  may then be rotated to move the payload engager  to a different location. Then, the payload engager  may re-engage with the payload at a second point on the payload. The stop mechanism  may then be rotated downward, and the transporter  may continue moving the payload along the track  until reaching a final position.","As seen in , stop mechanism  may be disposed adjacent track . The solenoid  may be disposed in communication with the stop mechanism . Solenoid  may removably engage the stop mechanism  with the payload  during travel of the payload  along the track . Payload  may include one or more payload slots  ()) for removable engagement with the payload engager . Compared to the distance of travel without a stop mechanism , the total distance of travel of the payload  may be increased by the distance L ()) between the payload slots .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0045","num":"0044"},"figref":["FIGS. 12(","FIGS. 12(","FIGS. 12(","FIGS. 13("],"i":["a","b","a","b","a","b","a","b"],"b":["1","41","39","41","47","71","65","53","55","43","1","43","71","49","39","41","43","75","12","53","55","43","1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0046","num":"0045"},"figref":["FIGS. 13(","FIGS. 12(","FIGS. 13("],"i":["a","b","a","b","a","b"],"b":["53","55","43","41","39","75","43","1","43","47"]},"In transporter , gear  may be rigidly fixed and stationary with respect to stationary base  (). That is, gear  may not move or rotate with respect to base . In another embodiment, gear  may rotate with respect to base . That is, gear  may be rigidly fixed to shaft  and shaft  may rotate with respect to base .  show an embodiment of a transporter  in which gear  may rotate with respect to base .","Transporter  may include an actuator  that may rotate gear  via a drive arm . Actuator  is shown in  as a linear actuator, but, a rotational actuator, such as motor, could also be used. Actuator  may control movement of second arm assembly  independent of the movement of first arm assembly . In this manner, the payload engager  may move not only parallel to rails , but also lateral to rails .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0049","num":"0048"},"figref":["FIGS. 16(","FIG. 16("],"i":["a","b","a"],"b":["77","79","81","53","101","53","81","77","101","12","53"]},"As shown in )-(), drive arm  may be attached at one end to gear  and at the other end to actuator . Using the actuator , gear  may rotate about its axis . Actuator  may rotate gear  via the drive arm  to slide the payload engager  into a slot  on the bottom of the payload , as seen in )-(). Actuator  and gear  may remain in the position shown in )-(), and the motor  may then rotate the worm gear . Rotation of the worm gear  may rotate the first arm assembly , thereby rotating the idler gear  and the gear . Gear  may then rotate the second arm assembly , such that the payload engager  may move the payload  down the track , as shown in )-().","Transporters ,  are linear transport systems that are compact and may move a payload over a relatively large distance. The amount of space required by the transporters ,  at the ends of its range of movement (use slot  and retention slot ) is minimal. There is no permanent intrusion of the transporters ,  into the areas of the use slot  and the retention slot . In a \u201chome\u201d position, where the first and second arm assemblies ,  are perpendicular to the linear path of movement of a payload, the mechanisms of the transporters ,  may be totally contained within a volume between the use slot  and the retention slot . Thus, the volume available for the use slot , retention slot , and their associated mechanisms is greater than in other linear transport systems.","The stop mechanism  increases the transport distance even more. The stop mechanism  further reduces the presence of the transporter mechanism into the areas at either end of its movement. The openings  () in payload  may be located at the ends of the payload , rather than the midsection of the payload . Thus, the second arm assembly  does not have to extend very far under the payload  to engage an opening  in the payload . This is the case whether the payload  is in the use slot  or the retention slot .","The lateral motion of the payload engager  of transporter  simplifies the construction of the first and second arm assemblies , . That is, the solenoid  and its associated linkages, that may be part of transporter , may not be required in transporter .","While the invention has been described with reference to certain preferred embodiments, numerous changes, alterations and modifications to the described embodiments are possible without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined in the appended claims, and equivalents thereof."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["In the drawings, which are not necessarily to scale, like or corresponding parts are denoted by like or corresponding reference numerals.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIGS. 6(","i":["a","b"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIGS. 7(","i":["a","b"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIGS. 8(","i":["a","b"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIGS. 9(","i":["a","b"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIGS. 10(","i":["a","b"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIGS. 11(","i":["a","b"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIGS. 12(","i":["a","b"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":["FIGS. 13(","FIGS. 12("],"i":["a","b","a","b"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIGS. 14(","i":["a","b"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIGS. 15(","i":["a","b"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIGS. 16(","i":["a","b"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":["FIGS. 17(","FIGS. 16("],"i":["a","b","a","b"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":["FIGS. 18(","FIGS. 16("],"i":["a","b","a","b"],"b":"18"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIGS. 19(","i":["a","b"]}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
