---
title: Parallel plate antenna
abstract: The invention as disclosed is a parallel plate antenna having a number of stacked horizontal plates and two vertical plates. Alternating ones of the horizontal plates are electrically coupled to one vertical plate such that the horizontal plates coupled to one vertical plate are interleaved with the horizontal plates coupled to the other vertical plate. The assembled antenna is mounted on a planar mounting flange. The height/width of the antenna is approximately 1/30of a wavelength at the frequency of operation.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08228243&OS=08228243&RS=08228243
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 08228243
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20090930
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"GOVINT":[{},{}],"heading":["STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENT INTEREST","CROSS REFERENCE TO OTHER PATENT APPLICATIONS","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION"],"p":["The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefore.","None.","(1) Field of the Invention","The present invention is directed to compact antennas. In particular, the present invention is directed to a compact antenna that has the ability to operate on or near electrically conducting surfaces.","(2) Description of the Prior Art","The shielding effectiveness (SE) of a metallic enclosure is an important figure of merit that describes the degree of protection against electromagnetic field leakage into or out of the structure. It is defined by a ratio in dB units by equation (1) as follows:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0008","num":"0007"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00001","num":"00001"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mi":"SE","mo":"=","mrow":{"mn":"20","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mi":"log","mrow":{"mo":["\uf603","\uf604"],"mfrac":{"msub":[{"mi":["E","t"]},{"mi":["E","i"]}]}}}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"1"}}]}}}},"br":{},"sub":["i ","i "]},"It is a general purpose and object of the present invention to provide an antenna design that operates on or near electrically conducting surfaces.","The above object is accomplished with the present invention through the use of a parallel plate antenna having a number of stacked horizontal plates and two vertical plates. Alternating ones of the horizontal plates are electrically coupled to one of the vertical plates such that the horizontal plates coupled to one vertical plate are interleaved with the horizontal plates coupled to the other vertical plate. The assembled antenna is mounted on a planar mounting flange. The height\/width of the antenna is approximately 1\/30of a wavelength at the frequency of operation.","Referring to  there is illustrated multiple views of the antenna  of the present invention. The antenna  is comprised of multiple conducting plates arranged in parallel both horizontally and vertically and referred to as horizontal plates  and vertical plates . The conducting plates  and  can be made from a conducting metal such as copper or a plastic material that is then plated with electrically conducting material. The height and width of the antenna  is approximately one-thirtieth of a wave length (w\u2248h\u2248\u03bb\/30) at a selected frequency of operation. The depth of the antenna is also of the same proportions relative to the wavelength, that is (d\u2248\u03bb\/30). In a preferred embodiment the multiple conducting plates that are arranged horizontally  and parallel to each other are all rectangular shape and have the same spatial dimensions. In a preferred embodiment, the two vertical plates  are parallel to each other and are rectangular in shape. However, one is slightly larger than the other. The smaller vertical plate allows for an aperture  at the top of the antenna . The horizontal plates  are connected at right angles alternately on each side of and between the two parallel vertical plates . The horizontal plates  are spaced an equal distance apart from each other. The horizontal plates  serve to tune the antenna  to the selected operating frequency. In a preferred embodiment, six horizontal plates  are sufficient to enable tuning to the selected frequency. The two vertical conducting plates  are mounted perpendicular on a mounting flange . A coaxial feed  is joined to the base of antenna  at the center of the mounting flange . The center pin or feed probe  of the coaxial feed  protrudes from the mounting flange  to the lowest horizontal plate .","Referring to , there is illustrated an approximate electrical equivalent circuit of the antenna  as presented, wherein the feed-point is denoted by F. In the circuit, inductances L, L, Lrepresent inductances of the vertical conducting plates  and the feed probe  respectively. Inductance Land capacitance Care associated with the feed connection . The series circuit comprising resistor R, capacitor Cand inductance Lrepresent the effects of the ohmic resistance of the horizontal plates , the capacitance between the plates , and the self and mutual inductance of the plates  respectively. The conductance Grepresents the conductance due to the radiating portion of the antenna , located in the region of the aperture  at the top of the antenna .","With the coaxial feed probe  at the base of the antenna , an alternating electromagnetic field is established between the adjacent horizontal parallel plates  that permit the propagation of electromagnetic field to the aperture . The power flow in the horizontal parallel plates  energizes the aperture , setting up an electromagnetic field that is radiated outward and away from the antenna . The power of the electromagnetic field is proportional to the radiation conductance Gr, which depends on the physical dimensions of the aperture .","The effectiveness of antenna  is demonstrated in its performance when situated near a conducting surface. Referring to , there is illustrated the X-Y plane radiation pattern of the antenna  based on the orientation of the antenna in . When antenna  is situated on a conducting plane , as illustrated in , the pattern is hemispherical in shape as illustrated in .","The advantage of the present invention is that this antenna design provides a compact antenna capable of operation near a metallic surface, and amenable to fabrication techniques such as molding or extrusion.","While it is apparent that the illustrative embodiments of the invention disclosed herein fulfill the objectives of the present invention, it is appreciated that numerous modifications and other embodiments may be devised by those skilled in the art. Additionally, feature(s) and\/or element(s) from any embodiment may be used singly or in combination with other embodiment(s). Therefore, it will be understood that the appended claims are intended to cover all such modifications and embodiments, which would come within the spirit and scope of the present invention."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["A more complete understanding of the invention and many of the attendant advantages thereto will be more readily appreciated by referring to the following detailed description when considered in conjunction with the accompanying drawings, wherein like reference numerals refer to like parts and wherein:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 7"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
