---
title: Fuel-cooled flexible heat exchanger with thermoelectric device compression
abstract: An apparatus includes a thermoelectric (TE) device, a gas flow conduit proximate to one side of the thermoelectric device, a plurality of flexible tubes proximate to a second side of the thermoelectric device, and a spring to control contact force between the flexible tubes and the thermoelectric device. The spring comprises a coil spring at least partially circumscribing the gas flow conduit. The thermoelectric device converts a temperature differential between the flexible tubes and the gas flow conduit into electrical energy.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08453456&OS=08453456&RS=08453456
owner: United Technologies Corporation
number: 08453456
owner_city: Hartford
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20090828
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATION(S)","STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENT INTEREST","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["The present application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Pat. App. Ser. No. 61\/211,013 entitled FUEL-COOLED HEAT EXCHANGER WITH THERMOELECTRIC DEVICE COMPRESSION filed Mar. 25, 2009, which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.","The Government may have certain rights in this invention pursuant to Contract No. FA8650-07-C-7721 awarded by the United States Air Force.","Hypersonic vehicles hold potential for future military application by shortening the time-to-target and thereby extending global reach. These vehicles are anticipated to be powered by scramjet (supersonic combustion ramjet) engines during hypersonic flight conditions. The structure which forms the hypersonic flow path in a scramjet engine is referred to in the art as a heat exchanger (HEX), which is a reference to the dual use of the flow conduit structure as a heat exchanger. Hypersonic HEXs are commonly fuel-cooled because air-cooling is not practical in hypersonic flight conditions. Fuel cooling also serves to preheat the combustion fuel, thereby adding energy to the fuel for combustion. In conventional jet engines, fuel pumps, on-board electric systems, and other accessory systems parasitically draw power from the engine's main power plant to function. However, unlike conventional jet engines, scramjet engines have no rotating mechanical elements. Hypersonic vehicles are therefore currently envisioned to rely on auxiliary power units (APUs) and\/or batteries to meet the vehicle power requirements. However, both APUs and battery systems add significant weight, volume and system complexity.","An apparatus according to the present invention includes a thermoelectric (TE) device, a gas flow conduit proximate to one side of the thermoelectric device, a plurality of flexible tubes proximate to a second side of the thermoelectric device, and a spring to control contact force between the flexible tubes and the thermoelectric device. The spring comprises a coil spring at least partially circumscribing the gas flow conduit. The thermoelectric device converts a temperature differential between the flexible tubes and the gas flow conduit into electrical energy.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":["FIG. 1","FIG. 1"],"b":["10","12","14","16","18","20","10","14","16","12","18","20","12","24","26","18","28","30"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIGS. 1-3"],"b":["18","20","18","32","34","32","10","34","32","10"]},"In , a portion of air flow  can be directed along flow path  into turbine , while another portion of flow  can be directed along flow path  into ramjet . Flow path  carries a flow through ramjet  between forward inlet\/intake  and aft outlet . Along flow path , ramjet  may include a forebody , an isolator (often integrated therewith), and a combustor . During operation, air is scooped into ramjet  through forebody and compressed along isolator before entering combustor . The compressed air is mixed with fuel in combustor and ignited. The products of combustion are exhausted through outlet  to produce useful thrust used to power vehicle  in flight. As shown in , engine  may also include control system  configured to control operation of combustor in response to one or more of sensor input, operator input, and the like. Control system  may optionally be included as a portion of the avionics of vehicle .","Gas turbine  is located along air flow path  carrying flow between a forward inlet\/intake  and an aft outlet  inboard of ramjet flow path (e.g., partially recessed into fuselage  above cowl ). Ramjet and turbine inlet flaps  and , respectively, can selectively block ramjet and turbine inlets ,  and flow paths ,  when ramjet  or turbine , respectively, is not in operation. Similarly, turbine outlet flap  may selectively block turbine flow path  when turbine  is not in use so as to provide an efficient nozzle for ramjet .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":["34","26","26","60","34","60","26","34","60","26","26","60","60","60","62","64","62","34","26","60","34","34","66","34","68","70","62","64","72","74","34","74"],"i":["b","b ","b ","b","b","c ","b","c ","c","c"]},"In addition to pre-heating combustion fuel, heat exchanger  thermoelectrically generates electricity. Accordingly, exchanger  can be coupled to an electrical power conditioning, storage, and distribution system, such as system  shown schematically in . System  can receive raw electrical input from heat exchanger  and output appropriate electricity (e.g., of a constant and proper voltage) to drive, for example, control system , fuel pump , distribution valves of the network , similar components associated with turbine , and additional loads schematically shown as .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":["FIGS. 4A-4C","FIG. 4A","FIGS. 4B and 4C","FIGS. 4A-4C","FIGS. 2 and 3"],"b":["34","34","60","34","60","60","60","80","82","84","86","88","90","80","26","80","82","80","84","60","80","82","82","84","82","80","84","82","60"],"i":["b ","b ","b "]},"Generally speaking, TE devices produce a voltage in the presence of a temperature difference between two different electrically conductive materials. The voltage causes a continuous electrical current to flow in the conductors if they form a complete loop. The electrical current generated may be used to, for example, power accessory systems on an aircraft as discussed with reference to  above. TE devices function best with optimal thermal contact, and thereby thermal conduction, between the TE device and, for example, a gas flow conduit of a fuel-cooled heat exchanger. However, manufacturing and assembly tolerances, variations in position and size in components during operation, and other factors may degrade contact between the TE device and the conduit. Therefore, embodiments of the present invention employ one or more springs  to bias TE devices  into contact with the relatively hot gas flow conduit  and the relatively cool fuel-cooled tubes  between which the TE devices  are arranged. The load placed on TE devices  by the springs , directly or indirectly, helps ensure substantially continuous physical contact, while remaining below the structural limits of TE devices . For example, a functional range for TE devices  used in embodiments of the present invention is approximately 140 to 350 kPa (20 to 50 psi).","In practice, TE devices  exhibit dimensional variations caused by both manufacturing tolerances and operational effects, e.g. thermal expansion during flight. For instance, dimensional variations in TE devices  may adversely affect thermal conduction by varying the amount of contact between fuel-cooled tubes  and TE devices  over which tubes  are arranged. Embodiments of the present invention therefore employ individual flexible fuel-cooled tubes , as opposed to, for example, sets of multiple interconnected rigid tubes, that can better accommodate dimensional variations in TE devices . Furthermore, the individual fuel-cooled tubes  can have a width dimension that is smaller that a corresponding dimension of each TE device , thereby allowing for compensation in dimensions across a single TE device .","In , gas flow conduit  has an annular, generally cylindrical shape through which gas flow can pass. In the illustrated embodiment, conduit  provides primary structural support for heat exchanger . Conduit  is surrounded by TE devices , which are in turn surrounded by fuel-cooled tubes . As shown in , heat exchanger  can include many individual TE devices  and fuel-cooled tubes  arranged in combination to substantially cover gas flow conduit . In the illustrated embodiment, fuel-cooled tubes  extend generally axially from a first to a second end of the isolator section of heat exchanger . The first and second ends of fuel-cooled tubes  are each fluidically connected to one of two annular manifolds , which are configured to carry pre-combustion fuel to and from tubes . Fuel-cooled tubes  can be arranged substantially perpendicular to each manifold , and can have a substantially rectangular cross-sectional profile to provide increased surface area exposure for thermal energy transfer. Manifolds can each have a substantially rectangular cross-sectional profile. Fuel-cooled tubes  are flexible, in part, because they are individual tubes with a high length to width ratio. Thermo-structural analysis predicts that a wall thickness of 0.38 mm (0.015 inches) will be sufficient for tubes  made of INCONEL alloy (available from Special Metals Corporation, Huntington, West Va.) at 6.9 MPa (1 ksi) internal pressure operating in a temperature range of approximately 20-650\u00b0 C. (68-1202\u00b0 F.) which are typical of the conditions in a hypersonic HEX application.","At least partially circumscribing gas flow conduit , TE devices , and fuel-cooled tubes  are one or more springs  spaced from one another. In the illustrated embodiment, the springs  extend circumferentially to at least partially circumscribe the flow path , and are axially spaced from one another. Casing  encases and helps compress springs  in order to help keep TE devices  in contact with fuel-cooled tubes  and gas flow conduit . In that way, inwardly-directed compressive loading is provided. Controlled pressure can be applied to the back of each individual fuel-cooled tube  by springs , which are in compression between tubes  and casing . Canted coil springs can be selected for the springs , as shown in the illustrated embodiment, because they can provide a relatively constant load over a large displacement. A relatively constant load over a large displacement reduces a risk of overloading the TE devices as dimensional variations in the heat exchanger occur during operation. Custom designed Canted-Coil\u2122 springs suitable for use as springs  are available from Bal Seal Engineering, Inc. of Foothill Ranch, Calif.","Casing  can be made of a metallic material. In the illustrated embodiment, casing  has a generally corrugated configuration that defines circumferentially-extending channels to accommodate springs .","Embodiments of the present invention can also be applied to a 2-D type heat exchanger application as shown in , which is a schematic section view of a portion of alternative heat exchanger  including gas flow conduit , thermoelectric (TE) devices , fuel-cooled tubes , one or more springs  (e.g., canted coil springs), supports , casing , fasteners , and insulation . As shown in , gas flow conduit  surrounds a gas flow path and is formed as a 2-D conduit, i.e., a conduit with a generally rectangular cross-section. In order to withstand the extreme operating temperatures of hypersonic flight, gas flow conduit  can be manufactured from, for example, high temperature alloys or ceramics, or a CMC material. Conduit  is arranged between gas flow path and TE devices . Adjacent to (e.g., radially outward from) TE devices  are fuel-cooled tubes . TE devices  are therefore arranged between the relatively hot gas flow conduit  and the relatively cool fuel-cooled tubes  to enable generation of electricity from a thermal differential therebetween. Supports  extend between casing  and gas flow conduit . Springs  are arranged between fuel-cooled tubes  and casing . Casing  is attached to supports  by fasteners , which are configured to help compress springs  against fuel-cooled tubes  to bring TE devices  into contact with fuel-cooled tubes  and gas flow conduit . In that way an inwardly-directed compressive force is provided. At corners of heat exchanger , insulation  can be provided to form a junction between banks of TE devices , fuel-cooled tubes , and springs  that are arranged generally perpendicular to each other. It should be noted that as used herein, springs  are described as circumscribing the flow path in the embodiment of , even though springs  do not have a circular arrangement.","Those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that embodiments of the present invention provide numerous advantages over prior heat exchangers employing TE devices. For example, heat exchangers according to the present invention help increase thermal conduction of the TE device by employing one or more generally circumferentially extending coil springs to bias the TE device into contact with the hot gas flow conduit and the cool fuel-cooled tubes between which the TE device is arranged. The load placed on the TE device by the springs is sufficient to ensure substantially continuous physical contact, while remaining below the structural limits of the TE device. Dimensional variations in the TE devices can be tolerated with the present invention because a width of the individually loaded fuel-cooled tubes can be significantly smaller than a corresponding width of the TE devices and therefore the pressure load will dynamically adjust to dimensional changes. The coil springs and flexible fuel-cooled tubes employed in embodiments of the present invention can also accommodate differential thermal growth between the various components in both steady state and transient conditions. Assembly time and manufacturing complexity is also relatively low.","Embodiments of the present invention employing the annular or 3-D type configuration have additional benefits. Weight, complexity, and part count are reduced by employing a sealed casing that can help reduce or eliminate a need for fastener hardware, which can provide a weight savings of approximately 4 kg\/maccording to inventor calculations. Furthermore, in prior art heat exchangers TE devices can suffer from oxidative degradation. With the present invention, the flow of oxidizing gases around the TE devices can be minimized by sealing them between the continuous gas flow conduit and the casing.","While the invention has been described with reference to an exemplary embodiment(s), it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes may be made and equivalents may be substituted for elements thereof without departing from the scope of the invention. In addition, many modifications may be made to adapt a particular situation or material to the teachings of the invention without departing from the essential scope thereof. Therefore, it is intended that the invention not be limited to the particular embodiment(s) disclosed, but that the invention will include all embodiments falling within the scope of the appended claims. For example, the present invention can be utilized with a variety of types of engines for electrical power generation. Moreover, the springs of the heat exchanger can be arranged in a helical pattern."],"GOVINT":[{},{}],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0006","num":"0005"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0007","num":"0006"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0008","num":"0007"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 2"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":["FIGS. 4A-4C","FIG. 2","FIG. 3"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 5"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
