---
title: Temporally synchronized video display unit screensaver or wallpaper based on user preferences
abstract: A method of generating an audiovisual object such as a wallpaper or screensaver keyed to a user's preferences, local time, and location, comprising: collecting a set of user preferences for a user; providing a metadata stream associated with an audiovisual input; comparing elements within the metadata stream with the set of user preferences to form a comparison; and outputting an audiovisual object to the user's video display unit if the comparison indicates that the metadata stream matches one or more elements of the set of user preferences. User preferences may be collected from user habits based on metadata streams associated with the audiovisual input, or may be directly input by the user. The methods above may also be stored on a computer readable medium.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08266690&OS=08266690&RS=08266690
owner: Sony Electronics Inc.
number: 08266690
owner_city: Park Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20090123
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS","STATEMENT REGARDING FEDERALLY SPONSORED RESEARCH OR DEVELOPMENT","INCORPORATION-BY-REFERENCE OF MATERIAL SUBMITTED ON A COMPACT DISC","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","BRIEF SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION","DEFINITIONS","1.0 INTRODUCTION","1.1 Wandering Object","1.1 Wandering Object\u2014Example","1.2 Implementation Aspects","1.3 Operational Sequence for Internet TV","2.0 USER PREFERENCE METHOD","2.1 Form Recommendations from an Input Assets List","2.2 User Preference Acquisition","2.3 User Preference Restrictions","2.4 Metadata Widget","3.0 RESTRICTION OVERVIEW","3.1 Accessing Restricted Programming","3.2 Restriction Release Widget","4.0 RECOMMENDATIONS","4.1 Recommendation Sorting","4.2 Recommendation Messaging","5. FURTHER IMPLEMENTATION DETAILS","5.1 User Interface (UI)","5.1.1 User Interface Recommendations","5.1.2 Help","5.1.3 Incorrect Key Response","6. USER PREFERRED TEMPORALLY SYNCHRONIZED VDU AUDIOVISUAL OBJECTS","6.1 METHOD OF APPLICATION","6.2 IMPLEMENTATION","6.3 EXAMPLES","Homer Simpson Example","Aquarium Example","Beach Example","7. CONCLUSION"],"p":["Not Applicable","Not Applicable","Not Applicable","1. Field of the Invention","This invention generally relates to video background, more particularly to video screensavers, backgrounds, or wallpapers that change through periodic updates from a background server, even more particularly to television screensavers, backgrounds, or wallpapers that change through periodic updates from a remote server, and still more particularly to video display unit screensavers, backgrounds, or wallpapers that correlate with the current time.","2. Description of Related Art","Traditional background user interfaces are typically static, and do not change. Those backgrounds that do change, only periodically change with content stored locally.","However, what appears to be lacking are screensaver, background, or wallpaper images that periodically change to track user interests.","An aspect of this invention is a method of providing a displayed video object synchronized to local user time on a video display unit, comprising: reading a system clock of a video display unit to determine a local time for a user; collecting a set of video objects synchronized to the local time into a local video object collection; and displaying to the user one of the set of video objects correlated to the local time.","By synchronized, it is meant that the audiovisual object temporally relates to the current user time. This synchronization is within the granularity of the setting of the audiovisual object refresh rate.","The video object may be a wallpaper, a screensaver, or other video, audio, or audiovisual construct. The video object may also be animated or otherwise software driven.","The collecting step in the method above may comprise: uploading to a server the local time, a local time zone, a location, and an identifier describing the video display unit; and downloading one or more audiovisual objects from the server into the set of audiovisual objects synchronized to the local time.","By knowing a location, the latitude of the user may be ascertained. This, along with the time zone and local time, allows a calculation of day light time, night time, collection of local weather events, local videos, and local tidal events when the user is somewhat close to a body of water capable of tides. If the user is next to a reservoir, the level of the reservoir may be used to generate an audiovisual object relating to the reservoir.","The one or more of the audiovisual objects may be selected from a group of audiovisual objects consisting of: a wallpaper; a screensaver; a video; and an animated widget.","The video display unit may be selected from a group of video display units consisting of: a television, a digital billboard, a computer monitor, a laptop monitor, a game console, a cell phone with a display, a personal digital assistant (PDA), and a smart phone with a display.","The collecting step may comprise: a. determining whether the server, or one or more alternate servers are an accessible server; b. if a server is accessible, then: 1. uploading to the accessible server the local time, the local time zone, the location, and an identifier describing the video display unit; 2. downloading one or more audiovisual objects loosely correlated to the local time into the set of video objects present within the local video object collection; c. otherwise, if there is no accessible server, then selecting from the set of video objects within the local video object collection the video object most correlated with the local time.","The downloading step may comprise: determining a local light condition from a latitude corresponding to the location, the local time, and the local time zone.","The local time may comprise a clock time and a local date.","The uploading step may comprise: uploading one or more user preferences. Such preferences may be located in a user preference database.","The set of audiovisual objects synchronized to the local time may also be correlated with user preferences as presented in the user preference database.","The user preferences may be determined by: a. collecting a set of user preferences for a user into a user preference database; b. providing a metadata stream associated with an audiovisual input; c. comparing the metadata stream with the set of user preferences to form a comparison; and d. outputting to the user the user preference if the comparison indicates that the metadata stream matches one or more elements of the set of user preferences.","Another aspect of the invention is a method of interacting with a user, comprising: collecting a set of user preferences for a user; providing a metadata stream associated with an audiovisual input; comparing the metadata stream with the set of user preferences to form a comparison; and outputting a message to the user if the comparison indicates that the metadata stream matches one or more elements of the set of user preferences. The metadata stream may comprise direct metadata associated and conveyed with content programming (audio, video, or audiovisual content), or may be processed from audio, video, or both audio and video streams for a particular program being accessed. If an internet connection is present, additional metadata may be downloaded from a remote server relating to the particular content being accessed.","By accessing, we generally mean that a strictly video program is viewed, an audio program is heard, and an audiovisual program may be both seen and heard by a user. Thus, the invention is applicable to those who are deaf or blind, or have those senses significantly impaired.","In another aspect of the invention, the user may perceive the message acoustically or visually, or both acoustically and visually, or visually by viewing a displayed text bubble. Any combination of these methods may be used.","The method of collecting the set of user preferences for the user may comprise: determining a percentage of time the audiovisual input was perceived by the user prior to changing to a different audiovisual input. The amount of time viewed may be calculated by allocating a time variable to each channel asset (typically a song for an audio asset, a slide show for a strictly video asset, and a movie for an audiovisual asset), and incrementing the time while each channel is being accessed by using a clock or other timing source.","Alternatively, interrupt programming may be used to store a start of use time, and an end of use time, from which an increment of time may be added to the time variable. In this aspect, a clock may be used to read the time. In this manner, a plurality of channels may be monitored until the particular program has terminated. When the channel has terminated, the total time the user has accessed the program may be divided by the total time the program was available.","The collecting the set of user preferences for the user may comprise: collecting from the user a set of preferences by selecting from various categories of interests.","The percentage of time the audiovisual input was accessed may be calculated by dividing an amount of time that the audiovisual input was perceived by the user by a total length of time the audiovisual input was available. It may be determined that the user was actually perceiving the input by determining that actions have occurred on the part of the user within a certain period of time. For instance, as audiovisual commercials occur with very frequent regularity, the user muting the device, or otherwise changing the volume, or changing the channel, could be used to indicate that the user is actually physically present. This may be useful for calculating the total amount of time a particular user has been at an entertainment device, such as a TV. In this case, a parent may choose to limit the amount of time a particular child may use the TV over a period of time, regardless of the content viewed.","The perception by the user may be: a physically present perception by the user, a not necessarily physically present perception by the user, or a mixture of the two. It may be inferred that a user is not really physically present when a substantially long time has occurred since the last user input. For instance, if a user is viewing a movie of three hours length, and makes no input for the entire three hours, it may be implied that the user was not actively accessing the program. Few people can sit still without taking a break that long. Such behavior is uncommon, and may be used in a rating algorithm to discard any such rating as unreliable. This behavior may be exemplified by a viewer going to sleep or otherwise becoming occupied with another activity.","The percentage of time the audiovisual input was perceived may be maintained for one or more concurrently available audiovisual inputs, thereby providing for partial perceiving of the audiovisual inputs. Thus, if a user were intent on viewing two or more programs simultaneously, either with split screen or by channel flipping (frequent changing of channels), the portions spent on the particular audiovisual streams could be used as an indication of relative preference. This may be used further to infer, with past user preferences, that if a user has already viewed a particular program, and rated it highly, that when the program was again shown while overlapping with another different program, if the other different program was viewed more than the highly rated program, then it might have assigned to it the same rating or higher than the particular program.","Perception by the user may be by viewing an active window in a potentially multi-windowed device. In a typical multi-windowed device, some indication is made of the window that is active. This may be the sound (audio stream) associated with the active window, subtitles or other closed captioning, highlighting of the window, or impressing a highlighted box or other graphic indicating at least some of the window.","The active window in the potentially multi-windowed device may also be just a single window with overlays. In this instance, a television set may only have the ability to display one audiovisual input, however, text boxes may be superimposed over the audiovisual display in the overlay layer. In such a context, it may be taken that the text boxes would be the active window when highlighted, and the background programming the active window otherwise. This might be the case when a programming guide is viewed, and a wandering widget is brought into existence obscuring the programming guide. In such an instance, it would be taken that the wandering widget object would be the active window. Thus, input directed to the active window would be passed to the wandering widget object.","The audiovisual input may be selected from a group of audiovisual inputs consisting of: an audio input, a video input, a video input with an associated audio input (such as a typical movie), an audio input with a corresponding video display (such as a radio or other audio program), and one or more of the foregoing. Thus, it is envisioned that traditional television, traditional radio, slide shows with music, audio programming with associated video, or combinations of the foregoing might be used as suitable audiovisual inputs. Each of these inputs has an associated information stream, so an audio input has an audio stream, video input a video stream, and an audiovisual input may have an audio stream and a video stream. Each input may have an associated metadata stream that is either superimposed upon the input stream, or substantially contemporaneously transmitted with the input stream. The metadata stream may include a description of the programming content.","The input metadata stream may comprise a closed caption data stream for the audiovisual input. Thus, the text of the specific program may be one component of the metadata stream of the program. For instance, in the 2008 Beijing Olympics, the word \u201cPhelps\u201d occurs quite frequently in the swimming competitions, and consequently in the closed captioning of the programming. Thus, a search for \u201cPhelps\u201d in a database of previously viewed user database would give rise to recommendations of these various swimming competitions in upcoming programs that have this search term present.","The metadata stream may comprise a speech recognition output stream for an audio component of the audiovisual input. When there is no closed captioning present, a speech recognition component may be used to generate the closed captioning, thus providing input to the metadata stream as previously described. Although this may not quite be a contemporaneous device, it would appear feasible with sufficient processing power.","The metadata stream may comprise a video recognition output stream for a video component of the audiovisual input. Thus, if a face of Phelps were recognized in a video segment, then the metadata may have added to it the term \u201cPhelps\u201d.","The method of interacting with a user may comprise: using the percentage of time the audiovisual input was perceived by the user to select a binned segment of the user preferences; and inputting the metadata associated with the audiovisual input into the binned attribute within the user preference database. These binned attributes may comprise a 5-star, 3-star, or 0-star respectively associated with highly liked, partially liked, and disliked programming content. Finer binning may also be used at the expense of increased complexity in the user preferences, and greater memory storage requirements.","An additional bin may be a bin that is Restricted. Such a bin may be particular content unsuitable for a small child.","The selecting of the binned attribute may comprise: allowing the user to override the binned attribute. Thus, if the previous bin attribute was selected based on a percentage of time a user accessed the program, regardless of the bin selection otherwise automatically made, the user may instead select another bin attribute. An example of this may be that the user watched an entire movie start to finish, which resulted in an assignment of \u201chighly liked\u201d or the 5-star bin. Upon later reflection, the user may determine that while it was acceptable to watch this movie once, he or she never wanted to see it again, resulting in a \u201cdisliked\u201d or 0-star rating.","The method of interacting with a user may comprise: loading a list of assets available for user perception, where each of the assets has an independent metadata stream; and comparing at least one of the metadata streams of the assets with the set of preferences for the user to create one or more user recommendations. For instance, in a programming guide with a long list (some new cable stations allow 999 channels, and internet programming may have a much wider programming ability) of available content, the screen view of the currently listed programs may have their metadata downloaded. The metadata for each of the currently listed programs (even those perhaps not initially displayed in a guide list) is then compared to those found in the user preference database. If one of the metadata elements for a particular program corresponds to an element in the user preference database, then the corresponding particular program having the metadata element would be recommended with the user preference rating level of the common user preference term.","Thus, when a highly liked program is shown on a programming guide, a wandering widget may be invoked to indicate that a particular program appears to be highly liked. The programming guide may be made to scroll through the entire guide in sequential fashion, serially showing the highly liked programs.","The user recommendations may be created by: ordering the one or more user recommendations; and forming the message regarding the audiovisual input corresponding to the user recommendation. By ordering, it is meant that the list of messages is sorted into an ascending or descending list, typically with the most preferred programming occurring first.","In another aspect of the invention, an audiovisual device may comprise: an audio, video, or audiovisual output device capable of receiving and processing a respective audio, video, or audiovisual stream; means for processing an associated metadata stream associated with a respective audio, video, or audiovisual stream; and means for generating user preferences; means for outputting to a user, one or more messages based on one or more comparisons of the user preferences and associated metadata stream.","In the audiovisual device above, the means for outputting may comprise: a wandering widget object that fades into existence when invoked to communicate one or more messages to the user.","The method of interacting with a user may comprise: ordering the one or more user recommendations; and forming the message regarding the audiovisual input corresponding to the user recommendation as a restriction message. The restriction message may indicate the suitable audience for the particular program, such as NC-17, PG-13, particular children, etc.","The audiovisual input that corresponds to a restriction message may be blocked from access, thereby forming a blocked input.","Such blocked input may be released upon a successful user response to a password query. This release may be temporary in nature, or permanent for a particular program. Otherwise, the release may be for programming such as PG-13 when a parent believes the child becomes sufficiently mature to understand the programming.","A user preference apparatus may comprise the methods described above.","In another aspect of the invention, an audiovisual device may comprise: a. an audio, video, or audiovisual output device capable of receiving and processing a respective audio, video, or audiovisual input signal; b. means for processing an associated metadata stream associated with the respective audio, video, or audiovisual input signal; c. means for generating user preferences; and d. means for outputting to a user, one or more audiovisual objects based on one or more comparisons of the user preferences and associated metadata stream.","The means for outputting may comprise: a wandering widget that fades into existence when one or more messages are to be communicated to the user. The means for blocking the respective audio, video, or audiovisual input signal may be based on one or more of the messages.","The means for selectively unblocking the blocked respective audio, video, or audiovisual input signal may be based on a successful password query.","The methods above may be stored on a computer readable medium comprising a programming executable capable of being performed on a computer.","A user preference apparatus may comprise the methods disclosed above.","In still another aspect of the invention, an apparatus may comprise: means for generating user preferences; and means for outputting to a video display unit, one or more audiovisual objects based on one or more comparisons of the user preferences and an input metadata stream.","In another aspect of the invention, an apparatus may comprise: an audio, video, or audiovisual device configured for receiving and processing a respective audio, video, or audiovisual input signal; means for processing an associated metadata stream associated with the respective audio, video, or audiovisual input signal; means for generating user preferences; and means for outputting to a video display unit, an audiovisual object based on a local time for a user and their user preferences.","In the apparatus above, the means for outputting may comprise a wandering widget that fades into existence when one or more messages are to be communicated to the user.","Alternatively, the apparatus may further comprise means for blocking the respective audio, video, or audiovisual input signal based on a restriction of one or more of the elements of metadata associated with the input signal. The apparatus may further comprise means for selectively unblocking the blocked respective audio, video, or audiovisual input signal based on a successful password query.","In another aspect of the invention, an apparatus may comprise: means for reading a system clock of a video display unit to determine a local time for a user; means for collecting a set of video objects synchronized to the local time into a local video object collection; and means for displaying to the user one of the set of video objects correlated to the local time.","Alternatively, an apparatus may comprise: a computer readable medium accessible by a computer; and a set of instructions stored on the computer readable medium and executable on a computer, wherein the set of instructions performs steps comprising: reading a system clock of a video display unit to determine a local time for a user; collecting a set of audiovisual objects synchronized to the local time into a local audiovisual object collection; and displaying to the user, on a video display unit connected with the computer, one or more of the set of audiovisual objects correlated to the local time.","In the apparatus described above, the collecting step may comprise: uploading to a server the local time, either a local time zone or a location, and an identifier describing the video display unit; and downloading one or more audiovisual objects from the server into the set of audiovisual objects synchronized to the local time.","The one or more of the audiovisual objects may be selected from a group of audiovisual objects consisting of a wallpaper, a screensaver, a video, and an animated widget.","In the apparatus above, the video display unit may be selected from a group of video display units consisting of a television, a digital billboard, a computer monitor, a laptop monitor, a game console, a cell phone with a display, a personal digital assistant (PDA), and a smart phone with a display.","In another aspect of the invention described above, the apparatus collecting step may comprise: (a) determining whether the server, or one or more alternate servers are an accessible server; (b) if a server is accessible, then: (i) uploading to the accessible server the local time, the location, and an identifier describing the video display unit; and (ii) downloading one or more audiovisual objects loosely correlated to the local time into the set of video objects present within the local video object collection; (c) otherwise, if there is no accessible server, then selecting from the set of video objects within the local video object collection the video object most correlated with the local time.","In the apparatus above, the downloading step may comprise determining a local light condition from a latitude corresponding to the location, the local time, and the local time zone. The local time may comprise a clock time and a local date. In this aspect, the local conditions of lighting experienced by the user may be calculated, thus enabling a portrayal of accurate ambient lighting conditions experienced by the user.","In the apparatus above, in another aspect of the invention, the uploading step may comprise uploading one or more user preferences. In this manner, the set of audiovisual objects may be synchronized to the local time and may also be correlated with user preferences.","In the apparatus above, the user preferences may be determined by: collecting a set of user preferences for a user into a user preference database; providing a metadata stream associated with an audiovisual input; comparing the metadata stream with the set of user preferences to form a comparison; and outputting to the user the user preference if the comparison indicates that the metadata stream matches one or more elements of the set of user preferences.","The collecting the set of user preferences for the user step may comprise: determining a percentage of time the audiovisual input was perceived by the user prior to changing to a different audiovisual input. Alternatively, the collecting the set of user preferences for the user may comprise collecting from the user a set of preferences by selecting from various categories of interests.","The percentage of time the audiovisual input was perceived may be calculated by dividing an amount of time that the audiovisual input was perceived by the user by a total length of time the audiovisual input was available. Here, the perception by the user may be a physically present perception by the user, or may be an availability for perception by the user, but not necessarily a physically present perception by the user.","In another aspect of the apparatus above, the percentage of time the audiovisual input was perceived is maintained for one or more concurrently available audiovisual inputs, thereby providing for partial viewing of the inputs. Here, the perception by the user may be viewing an active window in a potentially multi-windowed device, or alternatively the active window in the potentially multi-windowed device may be a single window.","In another aspect of the apparatus above, the audiovisual input may be selected from a group of audiovisual inputs consisting of an audio input, a video input, a video input with an associated audio input (such as a typical movie), an audio input with a corresponding video display (such as a radio or other audio program), and any combination of the foregoing.","In the apparatus above, the metadata stream may comprise a closed caption data stream for the audiovisual input. Alternatively, the metadata stream may comprise a speech recognition output stream for an audio component of the audiovisual input. Or, as still another alternative, the metadata stream may comprise a video recognition output stream for a video component of the audiovisual input.","In another aspect of the apparatus above, the set of instructions perform steps may comprise: using the percentage of time the audiovisual input was perceived by the user to select a binned attribute in the user preference database; and inputting the metadata associated with the audiovisual input into the user preference database as associated with the binned rating attribute. Here, the set of instructions may perform steps comprising allowing the user to override the binned rating attribute of the user preferences.","In another aspect of the apparatus above, the set of instructions may perform steps comprising: loading a list of assets available for user perception wherein each of the assets has an independent metadata stream; and comparing at least one of the metadata streams of the assets with the set of preferences for the user to create one or more user recommendations.","In another aspect of the apparatus above, the set of instructions may perform steps comprising: ordering the one or more user recommendations; and forming the message regarding the audiovisual input corresponding to the user recommendation as a restriction message. The set of instructions may additionally perform steps comprising blocking one of the audiovisual inputs that corresponds to restriction message, thereby forming a blocked input, and may also additionally perform steps comprising releasing the blocked input upon a successful user response to a password query.","Further aspects of the invention will be brought out in the following portions of the specification, wherein the detailed description is for the purpose of fully disclosing preferred embodiments of the invention without placing limitations thereon.","Referring more specifically to the drawings, for illustrative purposes aspects of the present invention are embodied in the methods and apparatus generally shown in  through . It will be appreciated that the apparatus may vary as to configuration and as to details of the parts, and that the method may vary as to the specific steps and sequence, without departing from the basic concepts as disclosed herein. In particular, while the description below only discusses a single user, persons skilled in the art will have little difficulty adapting to multiple users.","The following terms are used herein and are thus defined to assist in understanding the description of the invention(s). Those having skill in the art will understand that these terms are not immutably defined and that the terms should be interpreted using not only the following definitions but variations thereof as appropriate within the context of the invention(s).","\u201cActive Window\u201d means the currently focused window in a current window manager or explorer or other display device. Different window managers indicate the currently-active window in different ways and allow the user to switch between windows in different ways. For example, clicking on a window in \u201cback\u201d of a foreground window will cause the selected background window to become active, and the previous active window to move back. The active window may be indicated by having a different colored title bar or other indicia. Clicking with a mouse is not the only way of selecting an active window, however: some window managers make the window under the mouse pointer active\u2014simply moving the mouse is sufficient to switch windows; a click or double-click is not needed.","Window managers often provide a way to select the active window using a keyboard or other input device as an alternative to a mouse. One typical key combination is \u201cAlt+Tab\u201d, used by Windows\u00ae; another is \u201cFunction-Tab\u201d, used by Macintosh\u00ae. Pressing the appropriate key combination typically cycles through all visible windows in some order, though other actions are possible.","Many, though not all, window managers provide a region of the screen containing some kind of visual control (often a button) for each window on the screen. Each button typically contains the title of the window and may also contain an icon. This area of the screen generally provides some kind of visual indication of which window is active\u2014for example, the active window's button may appear \u201cpushed in\u201d. It is also usually possible to switch the active window by clicking on the appropriate button. This area of the screen may be called the taskbar; the dock, or some other similar term.","It is important to note that the active window may not always lie in front of all other windows on the screen. The active window is simply the window to which keys typed on the keyboard are sent or to which other actions are directed; the active window may be visually obscured by other windows. This is especially true in window managers which do not require a click to change active windows.","Finally, with audiovisual display devices, there may be only one active window. Instructions entered into a remote control or other device may generate further windows, e.g. clicking the \u201cMENU\u201d, \u201cGUIDE\u201d, or similar button would then spawn a MENU window or a GUIDE window.","\u201cAudio stream\u201d means a collection of a sound recordings played successively in time. In an analog example, a phonograph record is a physical embodiment of an audio stream, having one continuous groove physically representing amplitudes of the acoustic sound pressure of a recorded audio track. Similarly, a compact disc may contain digitized amplitude of a recorded sound, sampled at a given sampling frequency. This may be expanded to a digital versatile disc, or DVD, as a sound track for an associated video stream (defined below). Finally, analog or digital sound information may be associated in a common audiovisual stream with suitable analog or digital television broadcasts, resulting in black and white television, color television, and more recently high definition television.","\u201cVideo stream\u201d means a collection of frames of images typically obtained with a video recorder sequentially played in time. The successive playing of the collection of frames of such images may also be referred to as a video image stream, or video stream. Such video stream may comprise a movie, a slide show, or other time-evolving photomontage. There may also be an audio stream associated with the video stream, e.g. the sound track of a movie.","\u201cMetadata\u201d means information about data. In the definition derivation \u201cmeta\u201d means \u201cabout,\u201d so metadata means \u201cabout data,\u201d or, more specifically, \u201cinformation about data.\u201d There is metadata that describes the fields and formats of databases and data warehouses. There is metadata that describes documents and document elements, such as Web pages, research papers, and so on. Herein, metadata will refer to information about an audio, video, or audiovisual stream, or information referenced by the audio, video, or audiovisual stream.","For instance, in the movie \u201cCitizen Kane\u00ae\u201d, there appears near the end a scene with a now famous sled, with the name \u201cRosebud\u201d painted on it. Metadata for the scene may comprise information that actor Orson Welles played the part of \u201cCharles Foster Kane\u201d, and was also the director, as well as one of the screenplay writers along with Herman J. Mankiewicz. Metadata may also comprise the significance of the sled, symbolizing the last remaining shred of a mother's love. Such metadata, in a very full example may include a director's analysis of the psychological significance of the burning sled as the final loss of a mother's love, or the last memory of a mother's love.","\u201cMetadata stream\u201d means a flow of metadata, including without limitation metadata as associated with either an audio stream, a video stream, or both such streams.","\u201cWidget\u201d means a component of a graphical user interface (GUI) with which a user interacts. The GUI is generally supported by underlying processing specific to that particular GUI","\u201cWandering Widget Object\u201d means a widget that disappears and appears at various locations on the display when evoked or disposed.","\u201cStill image\u201d means a single image that is not normally part of a video image. Still image may also be referred to as a still picture.","\u201cComputer\u201d means any device capable of performing the steps, methods, or producing signals as described herein, including but not limited to: a microprocessor, a microcontroller, a video processor, a digital state machine, a field programmable gate array (FPGA), a digital signal processor, a collocated integrated memory system with microprocessor and analog or digital output device, a distributed memory system with microprocessor and analog or digital output device connected by digital or analog signal protocols.","\u201cComputer readable medium\u201d means any source of organized information that may be processed by a computer to perform the steps described herein to result in, store, perform logical operations upon, or transmit, a flow or a signal flow, including but not limited to: random access memory (RAM), read only memory (ROM), a magnetically readable storage system; optically readable storage media such as punch cards or printed matter readable by direct methods or methods of optical character recognition; other optical storage media such as a compact disc (CD), a digital versatile disc (DVD), a rewritable CD and\/or DVD; electrically readable media such as programmable read only memories (PROMs), electrically erasable programmable read only memories (EEPROMs), field programmable gate arrays (FPGA), flash random access memory (flash RAM); and information transmitted by electromagnetic or optical methods including, but not limited to, wireless transmission, copper wires, and optical fibers.","\u201cUser Preference Database\u201d means a data structure (database) that maintains choices that a user has made that relate to their interests, including without limitation examples such as Star Wars\u00ae, action, romance, George Clooney, George Orwell, 1941, William Randolph Hearst, James Bond\u00ae, 007\u00ae, drama, horror, PG17, and Sean Connery. Interests may contain things a person rates as highly likes, partially likes, and dislikes. The database may contain a collection of organized preferences for more than one user or category of user. Categories of user preferences may comprise without limitation: children, teens, \u201cguy\u201d movies, \u201cchick flicks\u201d, etc. Conceivably, preconstructed databases of such broad categories may be downloaded to initiate a user preference database. It is envisioned that the user preference database would have linkages between entries and their ratings, thus, when a comparison is made with an entry, if a match is found, then the rating given to the entry may be retrieved. Similarly, all entries with a given rating may be found.","A very simple user preference database would simply be lists associated with each rating attribute, such as a 0-star, 3-star, or 5-star list. An element found in one of the lists would have the rating attribute of the list itself.","\u201cDatabase\u201d means a structured collection of data which is structured according to a database model. Without limitation, the most commonly used structure is a relational model. Ultimately, a database allows a response to an input query to be generated with meaningful data. For example, a user preference database may comprise vectors of 0-star, 3-star, and 5-star video or audio sources, respectively corresponding to disliked, partially liked, and highly like entertainment sources relative to a particular user. Each entertainment source may additionally have other linkages to actors, actresses, directors, set locations, etc. resulting from a full data mining of user preferences.","When referring to a 0-star entry, what one means is that the entry has a linkage to a rating that has a 0-star value, and is disliked by the user. Thus, when an element of metadata is added to the user preference database, both the element, and suitable linkages to the rating value are added. These latter linkages are traditionally supplied by background database maintenance mechanisms (SQL and the like), or may be directly coded for compactness.","\u201cTV\u201d means television, or remote viewing. A typical TV may be a standalone receiver that receives an analog or digital signal, and processes it for viewing or listening by a user. In an alternate definition, it is a set of hardware capable of displaying the video, audio, or both signals to a viewer. Such hardware may be limited only to the viewing, hearing, or both of video signals, or may be part of a computer system capable of other uses beyond that of television reception and displaying of video, audio, or both. The television may also comprise a video monitor, an audio monitor, and a means for processing an input video stream. Shortly, all television in the United States will be broadcast in High Definition TV (HDTV). Further, such programming may be broadcast, transferred by digital or analog cable signal, or repackaged into TCPIP packets for transmission over the internet.","\u201cVideo Display Unit\u201d or \u201cVDU\u201d means a display unit capable of displaying an image. The image may either be static (a picture), or dynamically changing (a video clip). Sound may or may not be present, as in an audio track where one is present. A television set (TV) may be a video display unit, as may be a smart phone display, a computer monitor, a digital billboard, a personal digital assistant (PDA), a game console, a laptop monitor, or the like. Even though a video may have an audio track, it is not necessary for the video display unit to play the audio track to the user.","\u201cSystem clock\u201d means a component or attribute of a VDU capable of determining and outputting the VDU local time.","\u201cWallpaper\u201d means the last visible image on a video display unit when all other active windows have been closed. Wallpaper may be partially or wholly visible when one or more active windows partially obscure it. Wallpaper may be either static (as in a picture), quasi-dynamic (as in a slide show), or dynamic (as in a video clip). Sound may or may not accompany a video clip as an audio track. Wallpaper may be used interchangeably with the term \u201cbackground\u201d.","\u201cAudiovisual\u201d input means audio input, a video input, a video input with an associated audio input (such as a typical movie), an audio input with a corresponding video display (such as a radio or other audio program), and one or more of the foregoing.","One aspect of this invention allows for the updating of a user interface reflecting the past experiences of a user. For instance, if a user has previously determined that the jazz trumpeter Wynton Marsalis is an excellent performer, then a guide to upcoming programming including Wynton Marsalis in the title or metadata would be accordingly indicated by a wandering widget object. The indication by the wandering widget object might be visual within a video programming guide, or may be auditory in an audio guide. In still another mode, the wandering object may be a video widget reflecting information in the audio guide, or an audio widget reflecting video information.","As a particular user interacts with this invention, preferences may be generated either by direct rating by the particular user, or by determining the amount of time a particular video is played in proportion to its entire play length.","Video is typically used as an example of the source material a user is sensing. However, strictly audio material may be used instead, and a video interface to audio material may also be used. It is to be understood that video is really comprised typically of both a video signal stream and one or more audio streams, and potentially one or more metadata streams. The term audiovisual comprises all audio, video or audio and video sources, along with all associated metadata.","In one aspect of the invention, a wandering object understands the user's favorites and compares it with the metadata of the video or audio available content, and provides recommendations after analyzing the results of comparisons with a user preference database. If there is a positive result, the wandering object wanders over to the video (or audio) clip or channel and offers suggestions either verbally through the audio output or visually through a speech bubble so as to indicate the positive result to the user.","The wandering object method makes content recommendations interesting and interactive for the user, as opposed to reading textboxes that typically appear on the viewing screen.","This wandering widget object feature can be implemented as a special wandering widget that has access to appropriate data on a TV and may reside on the overlay layer of a dual layer widget platform.","As one example, perhaps a particular user has abiding passion to view and listen to anything relating to Kelly Clarkson, the first American Idol\u00ae finalist. Thus, when viewing a programming schedule guide of upcoming events, a user may scroll through many pages of different offerings, in some cases as many as a thousand or more channels for perhaps a 14 day or longer span. Each of these offerings would be termed an asset, and metadata relating to the asset would be downloaded and compared with the user preference database.","If metadata in a programming asset is found with the entry \u201cKelly Clarkson\u201d, a widget would fade into being, with a text bubble, color change, or other indicator showing that \u201cKelly Clarkson\u201d was to be shown on the particular program, and describe the programming choices available. Alternatively, only some sort of interest might be displayed, without any indication of the search term \u201cKelly Clarkson\u201d.","After each recommendation entry is indicated, a variable time is spent waiting for a user input. If the user makes no input, then the next recommendation is in turn indicated. At the end of the recommendation list, the wandering object may either fade away, or continue looping.","The user may control how much of the recommended programming is to be displayed, only the strong recommendation, both strong and weak, or all, including those that are negative recommendations. Additionally, the user may indicate only those recommendations that have been personally viewed and rated.","In another alternative embodiment, the user may have ceased scrolling in a long list of program offerings. At that point, the asset metadata for programs further in the future might be downloaded, and the next available show with \u201cKelly Clarkson\u201d would then be indicated on the screen by moving the guide to the time and channel where \u201cKelly Clarkson\u201d was appearing.","Similarly, for audio programming, metadata may be downloaded from the channel that includes a song including \u201cKelly Clarkson\u201d scheduled for a specific date and time. The guide, now indicating audio programming, would be moved, and a widget faded in to indicate that \u201cKelly Clarkson\u201d would be performing. With either the audio or video example, the widget would fade in, center the schedule, and allow for easy marking for recording or viewing of the event.","The wandering widget object concept makes audiovisual interactions more interesting and interactive for the user, as opposed to simply reading textboxes that appear on the screen in a static fashion.","The wandering widget object can be implemented as a special widget that has access to appropriate data on the audiovisual device and may reside on an overlay of a dual layer widget platform.","The wandering widget object invention may, without exclusion, be targeted to internet videos or other premium content as a form of value-added content.","In one aspect of the invention, the wandering widget object may be turned on or off by the user. Any administrative actions (e.g. enabling or disabling of the wandering widget, setting of restriction levels, etc.) could be configured to require a pass word entry.","The wandering widget object may be able to be used in conjunction with video programming guides, cable TV audiovisual channels, input videos from peripherals such as CD, DVD and Blu-ray players or other video sources found on the TV, such as programming resident on external hard disc drives (HDDs), HDD-based devices (e.g. TIVO\u00ae), and other streaming devices, etc.","The method of comparing an asset's metadata with the user preference database is done by a recommendation search engine, which may have advanced data mining algorithms to delve into the connections between the metadata (which can be from within the movie content itself) of the movies that users watch, and the user preference database, to form a basis for future recommendations. Other simpler, but likely not as accurate algorithms, could be based only on user favorites as established by their viewing habits.","The following steps would likely occur to implement one set of aspects of this invention, specifically with regards to an Internet TV (IPTV), Sony's \u201cBest Resolution Audio Visual Integrated Architecture\u201d (BRAVIA) Internet Link (BIVL) or Apple TV, etc.","Initially, the user selects a service that provides programming content from the internet. A list of programming assets is downloaded from the corresponding service and a first portion of the list is displayed as an asset program guide; this would be the assets list.","The recommendation engine then processes the assets list and determines by comparison with the user preference database a list of successful (highly or partially liked) results and a list of failed results (definitely disliked). With each result found, the rating attribute of the element is found and used. The animated wandering widget object then sequentially proceeds to each of the recommended assets one after the other, and sends a message to the user recommending the listing, whereupon the user may select (on a remote or other signaling device) the asset for accessing or recording. At the end of the queued list of recommended assets, the screen reverts to the first page of the displayed list of programming assets.","With regards to the definitely disliked results, the wandering widget object may either point these out to the user, or may remove the disliked asset from the program list, or may move such entries to the last few pages of the asset programming guide. Similarly with highly liked programs, the wandering widget object may also reposition the highly recommended video listings to the first page.","Channel Recommendation","Another type of recommendation the wandering widget object may present is current programming channel recommendation. For example, if one or more favorite TV shows are currently being transmitted, and the wandering widget object has determined that the user likes or may like the program, then the wandering widget object may recommend it to the user. If the user agrees with the wandering widget object recommendation, then the user may select the program for viewing or recording as desired. Such a recommendation may be made on a one-by-one basis, visually, audibly, or both.","When the wandering widget object is otherwise idle, the wandering widget object may perform idle activities, such as wandering around the active screen without undue obstruction of the active screen, hiding on the side with only a small visible portion, or fading to obscurity.","The wandering widget object may be turned on and off upon the user's choice.","Additionally, if the wandering widget object is covering an asset when the navigation focus is in its proximity, the wandering widget object will wander away from the navigation focus.","Wandering Widget Communication with Other Widgets or Objects","The wandering widget object has access to the asset recommendation results, and also may have communication with other widgets and information known by these other widgets.","The wandering widget object will generally reside on a topmost (or overlay) layer of a dual layer screen, with other background viewing concurrently taking place. Such background viewing may be the current audiovisual program playing. Thus, if the user chooses to hide the wandering widget, the user may do so at the click of a button, to better view the background program. This topmost overlay layer may also contain other widgets such as a clock, weather forecasts, stock reports, etc. By hiding the topmost display layer, all the other displayed widgets may simultaneously be hidden as well. Alternatively, the wandering widget object making recommendations, or other individual widgets, may separately be hidden by user command.","Alternatively, the wandering widget object may reside on a separate layer reserved specifically for it and other widgets residing on the layer. Regardless of the layer of residence, the wandering widget object must also know the screen coordinates of the recommended asset so that it may be able to move to the coordinates of the program to be recommended, and thereby provide the interactive recommendation.","When a user's selection tool moves to the proximity of the wandering widget object, the wandering widget object may move away so as not to block the view of the windows displayed behind the widget.","As an asset's metadata is processed, each element that corresponds to the user preference database may be pushed onto a recommendation queue for that particular rating attribute, or may be pushed with the rating attribute onto a common recommendation queue.","Refer now to , which details how the asset list is loaded . An assets list is a list of available programming information that could be accessed by the user. This may be a list of recordings previously made, available web-based programming, and a guide of current broadcast or cable programming currently playing or playing in the future.","The assets list, regardless of its contents or source, must be made available to be read, so is loaded .","The assets list is read  until an end of the list is reached , when this process exits .","When the assets list is not at its end , the next asset on the list is read, and metadata associated with the current item is read . This metadata associated with the asset would then be termed the asset metadata.","The asset metadata is then compared with the ranking found in the user preference database  (otherwise referred to as the user preferences in short). If, among all the elements of the asset metadata, there is no corresponding element in the user preference database, then the comparison is said to have Failed . Otherwise, the comparison is said to have Passed .","Where comparisons have Passed , the resultant metadata and its associated n-database ranking are pushed into a Recommendation Queue .","Further processing of the Recommendation Queue may use colors associated with each level of the 0-, 3-, and 5-star attribute rating levels, such as red, yellow, and green, respectively for content that is disliked, partially liked, and highly liked. Thus, if an asset list is displayed to the user, highlights such as the red, yellow, and green previously discussed may indicate programming that is disliked, somewhat liked, and highly liked. In this manner, users may quickly navigate programming that would be of interest to them based on their prior experiences and ratings.","Refer now to , which together are a flow chart showing a user preference acquisition method for an operating device that has already been initialized , and is currently running. Here, the device is in operation , and has already been initialized. Nearly all of the time spent in this method is a loop that determines whether a video is being played . If it is not, then the process waits  until video is being played . While this technique is shown as a software or hardware loop , it may be interrupt driven from an external event clock, or other interrupt source, such as receipt of a user signal.","The external event clock (not shown here, since this technique has been widely used in the past) may simply be a periodic sample clock, or may be timed by some user preference to intervals of seconds, minutes, or longer. When other activities, such as channel flipping occur, the event may be triggered to determine whether a program is being played .","In the event that a program is being played , the Yes branch  is taken, and the Wait Flag is unset . This Wait Flag will be used to determine whether the user has been interrupted from accessing the program, which will be described in further detail below. The next test is whether the program has been played for a relatively short time, here for less than 30%. This level of short time may be either fixed, or user configurable to be a percentage or an absolute amount, e.g. 25% or 2 minutes.","The determination of the percentage of time played may be based on the expected running time of a particular program, e.g. 2 hours, 3 hours, etc. including commercials. The determination of when a commercial is being played may be found from either changes in sound levels, or changes in luminance or chrominance data, or by data provided by the programming stream in the associated metadata stream as to when there is programming and not commercial present.","If the program was played for less than 30% , then the Yes branch  is taken. The Yes branch  assumes that the user may not like the program . At this point, the Wait Flag is set . The Wait Flag acts to delay application of enqueued changes to the User Preference Database as will be described further below.","After setting the Wait Flag , it is assumed that the user dislikes the currently accessed program, and program metadata written into a queue for storage into the User Preference Database as a 0-star entry .","Next, the Wait Flag is tested to see if it is set  for all program ratings as described later. If the Wait Flag is set , then the Yes exit is taken , and the program loops  for a variable amount of time prior to exit. If the device is in the meantime powered down, then any such queued changes are not posted, and will never be posted to the User Preference Database.","If the device is not powered down, then the Wait Flag Set  loop continues in the Yes loop  until a prescribed time or action occurs. For instance, if the programming channel is changed, the loop  is exited with the Wait Flag unset , next proceeding to post  any pending changes to the User Preference Database.","If, during the looping of the set Wait Flag , a timeout occurs prior to any channel change or the device powering down, it is assumed that the user has stopped accessing the device, and any queued changes may be selected to not be implemented in the User Preference Database. Thus, it may be inferred that the user was otherwise interrupted from accessing the program due to some other external event.","After posting of any pending queued changes to the User Preference database , we return again to determine if a Program is Accessing .","For simplicity, the Wait Flag set loop  is simply indicated as a loop. However, alternative testing and delayed writing mechanisms may be used by using various system clocks and timers, or interrupt processing. These methods implement the same general actions shown in the flowchart of , but with somewhat more complexity.","Returning to the  block for 0-star entry for a more detailed description, the program metadata is marked for entry with a 0-star rating attribute for the User Preference Database. Information contained in the metadata, such as descriptive keywords, genre, cast, etc. may thereby be queued for linkage with the 0-star rating attribute in the user preference database. Identical metadata elements placed with the 0-star rating attribute are queued for removed from the 3-star and 5-star rating attributes. In this manner, conflicting entries may be removed. If each element in the User Preference Database is only linked to a single rating attribute, where an element is already present in the user preference database, just its rating attribute may need updating by a queued instruction for the User Preference Database.","Alternatively, when a specific preference is determined to have a 0-star rating preference in the User Preference Database, for a given entry, for instance \u201cBarney\u00ae\u201d, the \u201cBarney\u00ae\u201d character count may be queued for incrementing analogous to a \u201chit\u201d on a web page. Thereby, perhaps there are 37 0-star entries, 5 3-star entries, and 1 5-star entry in the User Preference Database. This would indicate that the user has frequently disliked metadata associated with the \u201cBarney\u00ae\u201d character as a member of the cast. Young children might have such ratings inverted, with 1 0-star, 5 3-star, and 37 5-star entries.","Regardless of which User Preference Database update method is used (which also might be user configurable) the above methods for delayed queued posting of updates to the User Preference Database may similarly be used for the 3-star and 5-star entries.","The User Preference Database here contains entries from 0 to 5 stars, where 5 is most liked, and 0 is least liked. Although not detailed here, the 1-star and 4-star ratings may be further used to provide finer granularity to user preferences in a straightforward fashion.","After the 0-star entry is queued for the update, the method posts the queued changes to the User Preference Database , and then returns to determining whether a program is being accessed .","Continuing on, if the accessed program has been not played for more than 30% , then the No branch  is taken.","Next, it is determined whether the program is partially liked , by determining whether the program has been played for less than 70% (or some user configurable percentage). If so, the Yes branch  is taken, the Wait Flag is set  as previously described, and it is determined that the user partially likes the program . The program metadata is then queued for storage as a 3-star entry (with the other entries accordingly updated) in the User Preference Database, and the process loops back to determining if the Wait Flag has been set .","If the program has not been played for less than 70%, then it has been played between 70-100% by the law of trichotomy, and the No branch  is taken. In this case, it is assumed that the program has been played to completion .","At this point, it is determined whether the user would like to rate the program . If the user does not want to rate the program, then the No branch  is taken and it is determined that the user likes the program  by virtue of having accessed the program greater than 70%, using the assumption that the program was played to completion . In this case, the program metadata is queued for storage as a 5-star entry (with the other entries accordingly updated) , and the process continues back to determining whether the Wait Flag is set  as previously described. At this point, the Wait Flag has not been set, although the algorithm could be changed so as to set the Wait Flag as well.","If the user does wish to give a rating , then the Yes branch  is taken for ratings determination. First, it is determined whether the user wishes a low rating .","If the user wishes to give a low rating to the program , then the Yes branch  is taken, and the program metadata is queued for storage under a 0-star entry  (with the other entries accordingly updated) in the User Preference Database. Processing continues with determining whether the Wait Flag is set . In this instance, the Wait Flag is not set, and the queued changes are posted  to the User Preference Database.","If the user does not wish to give a low rating to the program , then the No branch  is taken, and it is determined whether the user wishes a medium rating . If a medium rating  is desired, then the Yes branch  is taken, and the program metadata is queued for storage under a 3-star entry  (with the other entries accordingly updated) in the User Preference Database. Processing continues with determining whether the Wait Flag is set . Here, the Wait Flag continues to be unset from step , so queued changes are posted  to the User Preference Database. Processing continues with determining if there is a program being accessed .","If the user decided to rate the program , then the Yes exit  was taken. If the user decided not to rate the program as disliked  or partially liked , then by default, the user must have decided that the program was highly liked, and exit  was taken.","In this example, it was shown that only 0, 3, and 5 stars were ascribed as attributes to a certain program. For further discrimination, the 1, 2, and 4 star rating attributes could additionally be used. Furthermore, a simple slider could be used as input to grant the user preference in a rating attribute, reflecting in the storage of the program metadata under the appropriate n-star database.","Previously, only 0, 3, and 5 stars were ascribed as attributes to a certain program, with provisions for 1, 2, and 4 stars also being possible. However, there may be additional categories of program may be suitable only for classes or certain individuals, such as children, teens, or even specific children (Suzie may be more emotional than her twin Johnny at age 12, for instance). Thus, additional ratings categories may be used in addition to the 0, 3, and 5-star method.","Current parental control ratings limitations are transmitted by various service providers for video programming. In the United States, the V-Chip is used for parental control depending on the ratings given by the organization releasing the programming material. However, this limits user's flexibility because either the programs of a specific category are totally removed, or totally available for all users. The user does not have the choice of having the videos available for some users but not others, unless the user specifically set the option on the home menu which enables or disables parental control.","Here, one or more additional categories may be added to the 0, 3, 5-star categories of the User Preference Database. Such categories may have restrictions as to their accessing by certain individuals or classes of individuals. These restriction categories allow users to exercise detailed parental control through the use of a widget that blocks out videos with ratings that are unsuitable for young kids, specific children, while making it available to users who are of age or maturity.","If the user wishes to watch the program (either video or audio), a password code will need to be entered if the user wishes to view the content. This allows the video to be always available for viewing yet restricts child and other restricted personnel access at the same time.","Refer now to , which are a flow chart  of one embodiment of a user preference restriction. Here, a new category to the 0, 3, 5-star categories of the User Preference Data has been added, this category is called the \u201cRestricted\u201d category.  take the flow chart previously described in , and add one embodiment of a video restriction method. As previous  were described in detail, the unchanged portions of  remain as previously labeled.","After the Set Wait Flag  is acted upon after the program has been accessed for less than 30%, a test is made to see whether the user wishes to Restrict the Program . If Yes, then the  branch is followed to block , where the User restricts the program and any program metadata is enqueued for storage as a Restricted Entry in the User Preference Database. After block , the program continues to the checking of the Wait Flag , and continues as previously described. If the No branch  is taken from the Restrict Program test , then the program continues unchanged as previously described to block .","Similarly, after the Set Wait Flag  is acted upon after the program has been accessed for less than 70%, a test is made to see whether the user wishes to Restrict the Program . If Yes, then the  branch is followed to block , where the user restricts the program and any program metadata is enqueued for storage as a Restricted Entry in the User Preference Database. After block , the program continues to the checking of the Wait Flag , and continues as previously described. If the No branch  is taken from the Restrict Program test , then the program continues unchanged as previously described to block .","Finally, after the user has assumedly played the program to completion, the user is asked if the program should be rated . If the program should be rated , then a test is made to see whether the user wishes to Restrict the Program . If Yes, then the  branch is followed to block , where the user restricts the program and any program metadata is enqueued for storage as a Restricted Entry in the User Preference Database. After block , the program continues to the checking of the Wait Flag , and continues as previously described. If the No branch  is taken from the Restrict Program test , then the program continues unchanged as previously described to block .","In another embodiment, the user may choose to associate the defined V-chip (or any other existing parental control solution) rating levels to the local user-defined rating levels. If this were so, then when the test of whether or not to restrict the program  is made, there is already an expected value available from the V-chip, upon which the user could choose to agree or disagree. In this case, the V-chip rating would act as a default selection value. If the user does not agree with the V-chip rating, then the user would instead select to independently rate the video. This process would reduce the user interaction time required, if the user agrees with the recommended rating, and would also give the user a basis upon which to initially judge the rating of the program.","In another embodiment, metadata gathered from a first program could be applied as a test against the metadata of other programs, so that a user-defined rating for a first program could be extended or recommended to other programs. If the metadata of two such programs had a significant degree of correlation (perhaps greater than 50% with nouns and verbs), then it would be assumed that they would be of similar nature, which could possibly invoke the same user-defined rating of the first program that might be in disagreement with the V-chip's ratings. The user would then need to explicitly allow the recommendation of the first program to be applied on another program.","Refer now to , which is a flow chart  of a metadata widget after a list of available programs has been built. Initially, there are no recommendations, so the Recommendation queue is empty. However, after some time of processing has been available, there may be a non-empty Recommendation queue.","Initially, the Recommendation queue is loaded . Then, the Recommendation queue is sorted  into the Restricted, 0, 3, and 5-star categories.","If  there is no recommendation present in the Recommendation queue for a program in the list of available programs, then the No branch  is taken, and the procedure exits .","If  there is a recommendation present in the Recommendation queue for a program in the list of available programs then the Yes branch is taken  and a Recommendation Message is sent . The process then continues looping  until there are no more recommendations to process.","At this point, these Recommendation messages may be processed by a display module that, for instance, would color code program scheduling guides with the current user preferences. Additionally, restricted programs could also be indicated.","Restriction, either of video or audio programming, is an important option for parental control over programming content available to minors. Typically, the only video restriction possible is through use of the V-Chip. However, programs may not be rated, thus resulting in no V-Chip rating. Audio programming will have no V-Chip rating whatsoever, as it is not a video source.","Further, parents may disagree with the rating standards as applied to their particular children. In this case, additional metadata may be placed into the User Preference Database within a Restriction category, and indeed, a variety of such Restriction categories may be used, as applicable to more than one child.","In one embodiment, the restriction method will be utilized on an overlay of a dual widget platform. These dual widgets would be the Restriction Widget Blocking Procedure (the Blocking Widget), and the Restriction Widget Release Widget (Release Widget).","Upon device startup, restriction is automatically enabled, unless specifically otherwise set by the user in a device option menu.","Upon selection of a restricted program, a password code prompt would appear to prompt the user for the password. If successful, the programming restriction will be disabled until it is once again enabled, or when the AV device reboots. If the password response is unsuccessful, the program may not be accessed.","To manipulate the programming restriction settings, the user may view the settings on an overlay level of the widget platform and configure the settings for the Restriction Widget as required. With these configurations, the user may choose to restrict access to audio content, video content, video guides, or external source content with any desired rating.","With this overview in mind, now the detailed process widgets may be described.","Refer now to , which details the procedure  used to access restricted programming. Here, a Recommendation is loaded  for a particular program that is sought to be accessed. If the program is Restricted , then the Yes branch is taken , and the current User Rating is compared  with the Restriction Level. This assumes that both the User Rating and Restriction Levels may take on one or more values, similar to the PG-13, R, etc. previously described.","If the User Level is less than the Restriction Level , then the Fail  branch is taken, and access to the program blocked though a blocking process .","If the User Level is greater than or exceeds the Restriction Level , then the Pass branch  is taken, program access is allowed , and the process exits .","If the program rating is more restrictive than the current level, e.g. if the video rating is \u201cR\u201d and the current level is only \u201cNC-16\u201d, the result is regarded as \u201cfail\u201d. In this case, the blocking procedure is applied . If the video rating is less restrictive than the current level, the program should not be blocked and is allowed access.","Returning back to the test  of whether the program is restricted, if the program is not restricted, the No branch  is taken. Next, it is determined whether the Metadata of the program can be accessed . If the program metadata can be accessed , then the program metadata is compared with the User Preference Database to determine an ad-hoc rating , and the rating level of the user and any restriction tested  as before.","In the ad-hoc rating step, the device compares the metadata, and any available V-Chip input (that will not be present for audio programming), of the program with the User Preference Database and determines the rating of the program based on the comparison. The comparison is done via matching of keywords in the metadata and those in the User Preference Database. If the result shows more of an \u201cR\u201d rating, the video is regarded as R-rated. If the result shows more of an \u201cNC-16\u201d rating, the video is regarded as NC-16. A negative result will label the video as \u201cNot Rated\u201d, the least restricted rating. In the result of different outcomes between the V-Chip input and User Preference Database comparison, the latter would govern. This allows parents to better control the content of programming for their children.","If the program metadata cannot be accessed , then the No branch is taken  and program access is allowed .","The blocking procedure  may replace the restricted video with a still thumbnail image or other default blocking image, and set a blocking flag. Alternatively, any metadata associated with the program may be written to the User Preference Database as Restricted. Thus, when the video is later selected, it is known a restricted video is attempted to be accessed, and would offer a password challenge to unblock the video.","This entire procedure  is completed with each program change, so as to appropriately screen users who have insufficient access rights to certain programming content.","Referring now to , a flow chart for temporarily accessing otherwise restricted programming content  is shown.","Here, a program asset is selected . Next, it is determined  whether the program has been blocked.","It may be determined whether a program is blocked by inspecting the thumbnail image and determining whether the blocking flag is set.","If the program is blocked , then a password challenge  is issued. The user must enter the correct pre-configured password in order to unblock the program. If the password challenge is successful, then the Pass  branch is taken, the User Preference Database is updated  to rerate the program as the Current rating arrived at by comparing the User Preference Database with the program metadata, and the restriction to the program is deleted. The corresponding program thumbnail images are replaced with corresponding unblocked thumbnail images and the blocking flag unset.","In one embodiment, previously described, access is now allowed for successful password entry for just the current program. Alternatively, all programs with this Restriction level may be accessed for either this user session, or all such user sessions in the future.","Finally, the program is Unblocked , the Program Accessed , and the widget exited .","If the program was previously not blocked , then the No branch was taken , and the Program was Accessed .","If the user was unsuccessful in the Password Challenge , then the Fail branch  would be taken, and the widget exits  without allowing access to the program (as it was previously blocked).","Note that a variation or extension of the password challenge may be implemented to accept multiple passwords which correspond to different rating groups. In the password challenge, a successful challenge may be any pre-configured password that respectively corresponds to different groups. E.g., if password A is entered, and it corresponds to a group with rating restriction up to NC 16, the new current rating will be NC-16. If Password B is entered and it corresponds to no restriction, then the new current rating will become no restriction. Additional checks and blocking procedures will have to be made to take care of the case whereby the new rating is more restrictive than the old rating, e.g. the old rating is NC-16 and the new rating is PG.","Refer now to , which shows how further processing of the Recommendation Queue may be accomplished . This process is executed after the assets list is loaded as shown previously in .","In , the recommendation queue is first loaded and processed . Then, the recommendation queue is sorted into separate categories of highly liked, partially liked, and disliked categories . Next, if  no recommendation is in the queue , then the process exits .","If there is a recommendation in the queue , then the recommendation sends a message to the user , whereupon it is again determined if there is a recommendation in the queue .","One way of sorting the recommendation queue  is to sort all recommendations at once into 3 separate queues of highly liked, partially liked, and disliked recommendations.","Another way of sorting the recommendation queue is to read the recommendations for relevant results and push irrelevant ones again to the back of the queue. E.g., if the user is searching for highly liked recommendations, programs with weak or negative recommendations will be pushed back onto recommendation queue, with those with highly liked recommendations being processed. This method may save much more memory space. Thus, those recommendations with weak and negative results will remain in the recommendation queue, and are still available.","Negative recommendations (as previously retained) may provide information to the user, such as telling the user to avoid these programs, or simply push these programs to the bottom of a presentation list so that those with better recommendations are presented first.","In another embodiment, only programs with highly liked recommendations are processed, and nothing is done with programs having partially liked or disliked recommendations, although these programming recommendations may also be used for other recommendation purposes. In this embodiment, partially liked or disliked recommendations are simply deleted.","The wandering widget object performs its recommendation message  when there is a recommendation to be made. In one embodiment, an interactive cartoon figure will move to the corresponding asset on the screen and inform the user that that this program is recommended according to the user's preference. A verbal recommendation could also be included here with the cartoon figure, or separate from the cartoon figure. The recommended program is not limited to what is currently shown on the first page of the screen as the entire video list can be much too large to be shown on the screen in its entirety without scrolling. In this case, the screen will move to a page that contains the recommended program.","At this point, the user may simply \u201cselect\u201d the program on their remote to access the program. The user does not need to navigate to the program in another manner simply to access it. A directional button press at any time in this process could be used to stop the recommendation process and the previous programming guide.","Upon exiting the wandering widget object, the navigation focus is returned to the first program on the screen so that the user may continue navigation from there.","It should be noted that because of the nature of a queue, program recommendations will be shown in chronological order, i.e., recommended programs on earlier pages will be recommended before those on later pages absent sorting of the recommendation queue. Alternatively, colors may be associated with each level of the 0-, 3-, and 5-star levels, such as red, yellow, and green, respectively for disliked, partially liked, and highly liked recommendations. Thus, if an asset list is displayed to the user, highlights such as the red, yellow, and green previously discussed may indicate programming that is respectively disliked, somewhat liked, and highly liked. In this manner, users may quickly navigate programming that would be of interest to them based on their prior experiences and ratings.","There are two layers that may be related to the wandering widget object feature: the user Interface (UI) layer and the background working layer. The background working layer has been described above in section 2 as the processing used to generate recommendations and generate the wandering widget object.","In the User Interface, an animated video object moves around the screen (hence called the wandering widget object) to provide: a) suggestions and recommendations (based on user's preferences and metadata of the currently accessed program); b) help; c) courteous \u201cIncorrect Key\u201d or \u201cFeature Not Available\u201d responses; d) other interactive UI purposes such as enlarging a thumbnail of a video preview, idle entertainment, reminders, a favorite TV program that is shortly up next in a TV channel, etc.","For example, if there is a match between the upcoming assets on sports and basketball with the user preferences for such programming, the animated object would then move towards that content and inform (visually, audibly, or both visually and audibly) the user that the content is related to sports and basketball.","When the animated object is recommending a specific program, the navigation focus may appear on that program, so that the user only has to press \u201cSelect\u201d on the remote to access the program. For this user interaction to occur successfully, the duration of each recommendation has to be of a reasonable length, perhaps 5-60 seconds. This duration may also be user configurable.","The recommendation sequence stops when it reaches the end of the list of recommended programs, or if the user presses any key on the remote, thereby returning navigation control to the user.","If the list of recommendations is exhausted, and there is no user input, the navigation focus may be returned to the first item on the screen.","When a \u201cHelp\u201d key is depressed, the wandering widget object may offer a help message related to the active window, or object on the window. The message may be given visually, audibly, or both visually and audibly to the user.","Other pop-up displays, such as weather, email, other application alerts, RSS (Really Simple Syndication) feeds, etc. may also utilize the wandering widget object manner of interactive User Interface (UI) display.","For example, if the user is in the video guide, a \u201cHelp\u201d request may bring up help topics like \u201cPress Home for the Graphical User Interface. Press \u201c+\u201d to select. Press \u201cDisplay\u201d to display the message contents of a video content. Press \u201cOptions\u201d to bring up the Options Menu\u201d.","If the user is in the Options Menu, a \u201cHelp\u201d request will tell the user the purpose of each item on the list, e.g., the sort feature, etc.","The user can switch the \u201cHelp\u201d feature on and off anytime, by pressing a button on the remote. If the \u201cHelp\u201d feature is turned on, it will remain \u201con\u201d until it is turned off.","The recommendation feature may generally have priority over the \u201cHelp\u201d feature.","The user can also scroll through the \u201cHelp\u201d options to quickly move to one of interest or to redisplay one that has passed.","If the user enters a set of nonsensical commands, the \u201cHelp\u201d feature aspect of the wandering widget object may be triggered to assist the user with their current predicament.","If an incorrect key is pressed, the wandering widget object may tell the user that an incorrect key has been pressed, or the feature is not yet available.","If help is turned on, the available keys may be redisplayed. If help is turned off, the animated object will suggest the user to turn on \u201cHelp\u201d to look at available options.","Current video displays tend to be static and isolated entertainment devices that only display programs that the user wishes to access. A more interactive and real-life display device is needed to maintain display device appeal, or video displays may soon fall behind the rate of overall advancement of desktop and laptop computers.","Another aspect of the invention makes use of the display system clock to schedule downloads of different audiovisual objects for a corresponding widget from a server at different times of the day so that the display world, including its animations, appears to be synchronized with the external world. This widget may produce audio output from time to time corresponding to different time periods of the day, such as roosters crowing at sunrise, 5 PM horns blowing, or other temporally related audio clips related.","The synchronization between the display and the external real world will provide a user with a much more temporally realistic display experience. In this manner, a user, perhaps working underground, in a windowless cubicle, or with an exceedingly high level of concentration, would not unwittingly work through poor weather, an earthquake, sundown, or other external event.","Updates to the audiovisual object could be set by the user for any desired constant frequency, say from once a minute to every, 10, 20, 30, 45, 60, 120, 180 minutes. Alternatively, updates may be variable, so as to closer track changes in outside conditions, such as sunsets or sunrises, eclipses and the like.","The updating of the audiovisual object (typically, but not limited to acting as a wallpaper or screen saver) gives the user a more realistic and interesting viewing experience, especially when the user is alone or has children about.","For example, a hypothetical \u201cThe Simpsons\u201d themed screen saver may be used. In the morning, Homer may be still snoring in bed or having breakfast.","During meal times, Homer may exclaim \u201cLunchtime!\u201d or \u201cTime for Dinner!\u201d","During bed times, Homer may tell the viewer to go to bed.","All such Homer Simpson audiovisual object themes may be static, short clips, with or without accompanying audio, or may be animations based on random number generators. Any of these audiovisual objects may be set to provide a single sound, then loop the clip any number of times.","Depending on the time of the day, a wallpaper\/screen saver widget would connect with, download, and use different temporally consistent images from the server. This download would preferably be from a server or perhaps less preferably from a local storage drive at different times of the day, according to the system clock.","In order to know, anywhere in the world, the time of day the user is experiencing; the user local time is input. However, the time of day experience for people in the Arctic Circle will greatly vary from those in the tropics. For instance, in the Arctic Circle, a day may never end for months (the \u201cmidnight sun\u201d effect), or may indeed never start (the \u201cpolar night\u201d). Whereas those in the tropics may still have normal sunrises and sunsets of various times.","Similarly, users situated overlooking the end of the Bay of Fundy may see local sea water levels pass through 17 meter variations. To tie users to local water, weather, or other information, the location of the user must be known.","User location may be roughly determined by the local time and the time zone the user inhabits. This gives a rough slice of the world that the user inhabits, but does not solve the Arctic Circle versus tropics problem for the same time zone. Further, time zones are manmade, and do not strictly follow longitudinal lines.","Thus, it is more informative to give a location, such as a zip code, a nearby city, or a latitude and longitude coordinate.","The functionality of the wallpaper\/screen saver widget may differ corresponding to different times of the day. For example, the wall paper widget may simply present different wallpapers corresponding to the time, while a screen saver widget may cause any background characters to behave differently during different periods of the day.","The content to be downloaded may be pre-selected by the user or controlled by the server (if the server is used as the content source). The wallpaper\/screen saver widget may even access the user's favorites as found in the user preference database, and inform the user of any upcoming TV programs in which the user may have an interest. This type of functionality relies on the system clock as well as video metadata access. The metadata may be accessed contemporaneously with audiovisual accessing, or may be accessed as previously stored favorites in a locally resident database.","The wallpaper\/screen saver widget may exist on any device with an operating system and a User Interface (UI), such as the computer, TV, cell phones, game consoles, PDAs, etc.","Initial Configuration","Initially, the user selects a set of screensaver\/wallpapers to use for different times of the day. This selection may also be controlled by a hosting server or supplied as one full themed package (downloaded from the internet or distributed in the form of CDs, DVDs, or Blu-ray Discs), so that the user does not have to expend any effort whatsoever in the initial configuration. This preconfigured mode may be appropriate for the very young, very old, or otherwise not particularly computer-competent user, or simply those who prefer such a mode.","The themed package or hosting server would then supply all screensavers\/wallpapers that would be used at different times of the day, as well as for different days, weeks, months or years. There could be special arrangements for festive occasions: holidays, days off work, birthdays, calendar reminders, etc. Lunch schedules could be input, with audiovisual objects keyed to starting and ending lunch. Similarly, work breaks, stretch breaks, and the like may be used as well.","Once the configuration process is done, the video display unit automatically plays the screensaver\/wallpaper in the background. At different times, a different screensaver\/wallpaper would be used according to the configuration supplied.","Content Loading","The screensaver\/wallpaper audio, video, or audiovideo image or clip may be downloaded from a local storage drive or from a server that hosts such content. If the content comes from a local storage drive, the VDU would automatically use local files when unable to connect to any remote server(s).","If the audiovisual content originates from a server, the VDU automatically downloads them from the server. However, if the VDU is not connected to the network or is unable to access the server for any reason, the VDU would then automatically switch over to the local storage for content. This feature would also be configured by the user as to which content to load as backup, so that it is more robust.","The wallpaper\/screensaver widget would reside on the desktop of the operating system. For computers, it would be the desktop. For TVs, it would be the settings menu for the TV, or on a separate application which is launched by the user, or when the system is idle (e.g. not playing any videos. The user may be listening to music on the TV). For other devices such as personal digital assistants (PDAs), cell phones, etc., it would be the main or \u201cHome\u201d page where the user selects applications to launch.","Further Details","For the screen savers, animations could be pre-recorded (e.g. fixed) or randomized (e.g. there is no fixed path or actions taken by the subjects, similar to random filler characters in a video game.)","The screensaver\/wallpaper content, if controlled by a host server, could also reflect actual life situations, such as an economic recession, a significant oil price surge, a presidential election, or the like. These life situations can be depicted in the screensaver through either the video, or through the audio portion of the screensaver, or both.","In the morning, Homer may be still snoring in bed or having breakfast, with screensaver\/wallpaper content related to such activities.","During meal times, Homer may drool and exclaim \u201cLunchtime!\u201d, \u201cHog fat\u201d, or \u201cTime for Dinner!\u201d","During bed time, Homer may tell the viewer to go to bed.","During festive seasons like Christmas and Thanksgiving, the Simpsons family may be preparing for a party in the morning and having the party at night.","During the week before Halloween, various clips of Simpson's Halloween sketches may be played in their abbreviated or full forms.","Fish are randomly swimming around in the aquarium. It is bright in the day with more activity (fish swims around more actively), and darker at night with less activity. (Sharks and other nocturnal creatures may have a more active night, and a relatively soporific day.)","When keyed to the locality of the user, e.g. next to a bay, the fish may be those locally found, and the water level may mimic the tidal variations locally found throughout the day.","The fish may be sick on certain days or hyper-active on other days. At feeding time, the fish may go into frenzy, for instance devouring a cow by fish that resemble piranha.","The beach may be crowded with people playing volleyball or people surfing in the sea in the weekends and on festive occasions, and peaceful and serene in the weekdays.","Similar, more activity can be seen in the day and less activity at night. Lunar phases in the audiovisual object may match those of the contemporaneous lunar phases.","The waves can be rough and choppy on stormy days, and peaceful and calm on sunny days. Similarly, tides may go in and out according to tidal activity at a locale preferred by a user.","Either the widget or the hosting server, or both, may access local weather and seas reports to better represent external contemporaneous events. For instance, if a hurricane is passing by, objects may be flying by the beach, or boats may be breaching upon the shore. Additionally, wind driven water may be simulated.","Refer now to , which is a flow chart  for updating an audiovisual object on a periodic basis from either a remote server, or a local database, where the audiovisual object may be a wallpaper, a screensaver, or an animated construct.","Initially, it is determined whether or not a Remote Server is accessible  for the downloading of audiovisual objects. If the Remote Server is accessible, the Yes branch  is taken, and the user preferences from the user preference database, the local time, and the location are uploaded to the server . The user preferences would only be those terms in the user's preference database that the user most likes, or is at least neutral about, but not terms the user dislikes. The user preferences could also be uploaded with their relative strength of \u201cHighly Liked\u201d, \u201cPartially Liked\u201d or other analogous numerical weighting.","The server then selects the best audiovisual object  from its available content by comparing metadata from the audiovisual objects with the user preferences previously uploaded.","At this point, the server downloads the audiovisual object that most closely correlates with the users preferences .","Now, the audiovisual object is activated, if permissible . The audiovisual object, with any associated metadata is tested as any other potential media by the Restriction Widget Blocking Procedure previously described. For instance, a child may accumulate metadata descriptors indicating that \u201csex\u201d is a preferred term, but it may be overridden by the parent as forbidden. Thus, if an audiovisual object of pornographic nature is downloaded, activation would consist of informing the child to try again, against a blank or otherwise innocuous wallpaper. Additionally, the Restriction Widget Release Procedure may be made available for parental override, also as previously described. Should the audiovisual object not be forbidden, then it would be passed to an appropriate widget for handling, such as a wallpaper widget or an animated widget.","Should the remote server not be accessible , then the \u201cNo\u201d branch is taken , and instead the local audiovisual object database is instead accessed .","Using the locally stored information of user preferences as stored in the user preference database, local time, and location, the local store is searched for an optimal audiovisual object . The optimal audiovisual object is then output , and activation  proceeds as previously described.","After activation, a wait state is entered  for some period of time. To minimize complexity, this is shown as a simple loop  of the \u201cYes\u201d branch of the wait state, although interrupt or other clock driven method could readily be used. After the wait state  has terminated, the \u201cNo\u201d branch is taken , and it is again determined whether the remote server is accessible.","Although the description above contains many details, these should not be construed as limiting the scope of the invention but as merely providing illustrations of some of the presently preferred embodiments of this invention. Therefore, it will be appreciated that the scope of the present invention fully encompasses other embodiments which may become obvious to those skilled in the art, and that the scope of the present invention is accordingly to be limited by nothing other than the appended claims, in which reference to an element in the singular is not intended to mean \u201cone and only one\u201d unless explicitly so stated, but rather \u201cone or more.\u201d All structural, chemical, and functional equivalents to the elements of the above-described preferred embodiment that are known to those of ordinary skill in the art are expressly incorporated herein by reference and are intended to be encompassed by the present claims. Moreover, it is not necessary for a device or method to address each and every problem sought to be solved by the present invention, for it to be encompassed by the present claims. Furthermore, no element, component, or method step in the present disclosure is intended to be dedicated to the public regardless of whether the element, component, or method step is explicitly recited in the claims. No claim element herein is to be construed under the provisions of 35 U.S.C. 112, sixth paragraph, unless the element is expressly recited using the phrase \u201cmeans for.\u201d"],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE SEVERAL VIEWS OF THE DRAWING(S)","p":["The invention will be more fully understood by reference to the following drawings which are for illustrative purposes only:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0078","num":"0077"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0079","num":"0078"},"figref":"FIGS. 2A and 2B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0080","num":"0079"},"figref":["FIGS. 3A and 3B","FIGS. 2A and 2B"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0081","num":"0080"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0082","num":"0081"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0083","num":"0082"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0084","num":"0083"},"figref":"FIG. 7"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
