---
title: Synthetic environment character data sharing
abstract: Synthetic environment character data sharing is described, including retrieving data from a plurality of sources configured to store the data, the data being generated from an interaction between a character and a synthetic environment, generating a feed comprising dynamic content associated with the character and the synthetic environment, the feed being configured to present the data to one or more clients associated with the synthetic environment in substantially real time, transmitting the feed to the one or more clients, extracting the data from the feed and presenting the data on the one or more clients after being extracted from the feed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08661073&OS=08661073&RS=08661073
owner: Trion Worlds, Inc.
number: 08661073
owner_city: Redwood City
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20090306
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS-REFERENCES TO RELATED APPLICATIONS","FIELD","BACKGROUND","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["This application is related to co-pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12\/259,902, filed Oct. 28, 2008 and entitled \u201cPersistent Synthetic Environment Message Notification,\u201d U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12\/399,902, filed Mar. 6, 2009 and entitled \u201cCross-Interface Communication,\u201d and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12\/399,903, filed Mar. 6, 2009 entitled \u201cSynthetic Environment Character Data Sharing,\u201d all of which are herein incorporated by reference for all purposes.","The present invention relates generally to computer software, computer program architecture, synthetic environments, and data communication and networking. More specifically, techniques for synthetic environment character data sharing are described.","In conventional computer or online gaming, users (i.e., players or person playing a game, whether a PC\/desktop, online, massively multiplayer online (e.g., MMO), or console game) typically create a character for interaction within a virtual world or game. During game play or within a game environment, users typically use characters represented visually by avatars to form or join guilds (e.g., an organized group of players working together), groups, temporary parties, units, or other social organizations to complete a specified quest, function, or goal. Formation of a guild or party assists users with game play, promotes camaraderie, and serves as a social networking and interactive tool for users. While playing a game or quest, guild or party members typically need to be cognizant or made aware of events, activities, or actions of other users within a virtual world. However, conventional solutions for sharing data or information between characters and users accounts are limited in features and functionality, often restricting or altogether prohibiting types, amounts, and the manner in which information and data associated with other characters are exchanged with other users and user accounts.","Some conventional solutions for sharing character data related to a computer or online game are limited in scope. Typically, a user is required to login (e.g., entering a user name, password, or performing another type of authentication in order to enter a game or other synthetic environment) to a game environment to access information regarding events or other players' activities. Although logged into a game, conventional solutions are typically not configured to dynamically share content such as real time character or user data, information, actions, and events. Other conventional solutions provide limited information regarding other users or character accounts. Typically, shared data related to a character is limited to a designation of whether or not the character is logged in or logged out of a game environment. Conventional solutions are also limited because readily available or useful geographic information cannot be shared with other users. Still further, conventional solutions are often inefficient, requiring manual configuration, entry of individual parameters, and time and labor-intensive efforts to establish filters, rules, or other mechanisms that determine how and when specific types of information are shared.","Further, conventional solutions often prevent users from sharing game, character, or other types of data or information outside of a game environment, often requiring users to be logged into the game environment. Typically, when users are logged into a game environment, conventional solutions are not configured to allow observation of another user's activities or events of other users (e.g., a battle occurring in another part of a virtual world of a game that may not involve both users). Still further, conventional games and gaming applications allow game data to be used only within a particular title, game, or shard.","Thus, what is needed is a solution for sharing character data and information without the limitations of conventional techniques.","Various embodiments or examples may be implemented in numerous ways, including as a system, a process, an apparatus, a user interface, or a series of program instructions on a computer readable medium such as a computer readable storage medium or a computer network where the program instructions are sent over optical, electronic, or wireless communication links. In general, operations of disclosed processes may be performed in an arbitrary order, unless otherwise provided in the claims.","A detailed description of one or more examples is provided below along with accompanying figures. The detailed description is provided in connection with such examples, but is not limited to any particular example. The scope is limited only by the claims and numerous alternatives, modifications, and equivalents are encompassed. Numerous specific details are set forth in the following description in order to provide a thorough understanding. These details are provided for the purpose of example and the described techniques may be practiced according to the claims without some or all of these specific details. For clarity, technical material that is known in the technical fields related to the examples has not been described in detail to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the description.","In some examples, the described techniques may be implemented as a computer program or application (\u201capplication\u201d) or as a plug-in, module, or sub-component of another application. The described techniques may be implemented as software, hardware, firmware, circuitry, or a combination thereof. If implemented as software, the described techniques may be implemented using various types of programming, development, scripting, or formatting languages, frameworks, syntax, applications, protocols, objects, or techniques, including ASP, ASP.net, .Net framework, Ruby, Ruby on Rails, C, Objective C, C++, C#, Adobe\u00ae Integrated Runtime\u2122 (Adobe\u00ae) AIR\u2122), ActionScript\u2122, Flex\u2122, Lingo\u2122, Java\u2122, Javascript\u2122, Ajax, Perl, COBOL, Fortran, ADA, XML, MXML, HTML, DHTML, XHTML, HTTP, XMPP, PHP, and others. Design, publishing, and other types of applications such as Dreamweaver\u00ae, Shockwave\u00ae, Flash\u00ae, Drupal and Fireworks\u00ae may also be used to implement the described techniques. The described techniques may be varied and are not limited to the examples or descriptions provided.","Techniques for synthetic environment character data sharing of data generated inside or outside of a virtual world, game, or other type of synthetic environment (\u201csynthetic environment\u201d) are described. The described techniques may be implemented using a network of nodes, node processes, game servers and game sub-process servers such as those described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11\/715,009, entitled \u201cDistributed Network Architecture for Introducing Dynamic Content into a Synthetic Environment,\u201d filed Sep. 6, 2007, which is herein incorporated by reference for all purposes. Techniques for synthetic environment character data sharing may also include retrieving data from a number of sources, game platforms or titles (i.e., regardless of whether supported by a single game platform or implementation (e.g., console, MMO, MMORPG, MMOG, PC, desktop, and others)), storing data generated from an interaction between a character and a synthetic environment, and modifying the data to present information (e.g., visual, textual, audio, animated, or other type of content) for various types of clients, including web, mobile, desktop, or other types of end points and devices. In some examples, a synthetic environment may be a virtual world, game, or other simulated environment that, when implemented, provides a persistent virtual world (i.e., continuous forum for various purposes (e.g., gaming, combat simulation, social networking, community or world development, and others)) in which users may interact with various aspects, features, activities, and events using characters and avatars. As used herein, a \u201cuser\u201d may refer to a profile, file, document, data, or data construct or structure that is configured to represent an account of a person using a synthetic environment, regardless of whether the person has accessed her account and if a login status indicates the user is logged into (i.e., entering a user name and password or other secure information to gain access to her profile) a synthetic environment. While a person generally accesses a synthetic environment by logging into her user account (i.e., user), it is foreseeable that a user can automatically, semi-automatically, or manually log into a synthetic environment, in some examples. Further, a user's login status (i.e., a data indication as to whether a user is logged in (i.e., \u201cin game\u201d) or logged out of (i.e., \u201cout of game\u201d) a synthetic environment. Conversely, \u201cuser,\u201d in some examples, does not refer to a person or entity (e.g., an organization, institution, or others), living, dead, fictitious, or otherwise, but instead to the instantiation of data used by a computer to represent a person or entity.","In some examples, a synthetic environment may be implemented using a shard or shardless computing environment. In other words, a synthetic environment implementing techniques such as those described herein may be implemented with or without shards that provide one or more instances of the synthetic environment. A synthetic environment, in some examples, may be implemented using one, some, few, many, or no shards (i.e., shardless). As an example, a virtual world (i.e., synthetic environment) may be implemented using a single shard. As another example, a synthetic environment may be implemented using multiple shards. As a further example, a synthetic environment providing the described techniques may be implemented using a shardless computing environment. In other examples, a synthetic environment may be implemented using a cross-shard (i.e., transmitted, or communicated between shards (i.e., server-based instances of a synthetic environment), servers or operating systems) platform. The described techniques may be used to generate a data feed (hereinafter \u201cfeed\u201d) comprising dynamic content (e.g., content, data, or information generated from game play or character interaction with a synthetic environment (i.e., virtual world) in real time) associated with the character and the synthetic environment. As an example, a feed may be transmitted between shards to one or more \u201cclients\u201d (e.g. mobile phones, smart phones, personal digital assistants (PDAs), desktop computers, servers, notebooks, or other data communication device, without limitation) and configured to present the data to end devices or clients associated with the synthetic environment in substantially real time.","In other examples, data and information associated with a synthetic environment, character, account, avatar, character, or any other aspect of a synthetic environment may be transmitted to end devices or clients (e.g., mobile phone, smart phone, PDA, mobile computing device, desktop computer, notebook computer, server, computing network, or any other type of client, server, node, terminal, or other networking element) configured to receive data inside or outside of a synthetic environment on the Internet, World Wide Web (\u201cweb\u201d), or other data network, for various purposes. As an example, feed data may be used to locate other users or \u201cfriends\u201d (i.e., users associated with a given user and identified on, for example, a list) within a synthetic environment using a radar-like mechanism that allows a user to view the real-time or substantially real-time game, grid, world, or environmental locations associated with each user or friend. As another example, a \u201cticker tape\u201d-like feed may be used to provide information associated with a user's friends while the user is logged in or out of the synthetic environment using a web, mobile, desktop, or any other type of client. The appearance, content, format, layout, or other aspects of a feed may be varied (e.g., adapting a feed to appear on a web browser on a mobile phone or smart phone as opposed to being fed and displayed on a display associated with a desktop computer). A user does not need to be logged into an account within a game, virtual, or synthetic environment in order to receive data associated with the synthetic environment. The described techniques may be varied in design, function, implementation, order, configuration, layout, format, or other technical aspects and are not limited to the examples provided.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["120","122","124","126","128","130","132","136","138","140","144","146","148","150","150","128","148","128","148","124","148","148","122","148","148","148","148","124","124","124","120","122","128","148","124"]},"Here, any of clients - and server  may access network  using interface . In some examples, interface  may be associated with a common, shared, or otherwise connected (\u201cconnected\u201d) application that allows users to view, read, and access other users' generated data. In other examples, network application  and the above-described elements may be implemented differently and are not limited to the descriptions provided.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":["202","204","206","208","210","212","214","216","218","220","218","218"]},"Here, communications module  is configured to manage logic module , account\/profile management system , input module , network management module , communications interface , graphics module , and repository  by generating and transmitting control signals and data over bus . In some examples, bus  may be implemented using any type of messaging mechanism, without limitation. For example, bus  or any type of messaging mechanism may be implemented using any type of messaging protocol, system, object classes, or, in some examples, transitory storage mechanisms (e.g., cache), or the like. In other examples, bus  may be replaced by using messaging mechanisms (e.g., protocols, systems, or classes) implemented with storage facilities, databases, or repositories, such as using a database management system or repository (e.g., repository ), distributed memory system or cache (e.g., Memcached, or others), or others. In still other examples, other messaging mechanisms that may be used instead of bus  include HTTP, Berkeley sockets based APIs, or others. As described below, communications module , in association with some, none, or all of logic module , account\/profile management system , input module , network management module , communications interface and protocol determination module , graphics module , and repository , may be used to implement the described techniques.","In some examples, communications module  provides data input from and output to an operating system, display, network or other application configured to implement application . In some examples, data input to communications module  may be a parameter, data, or other input (e.g., RSS structured data, unstructured data) associated with a synthetic environment (e.g., a persistent virtual world, game environment, or the like may be implemented using any type of computing system architecture configured to implement an artificial environment in which users (e.g., players) may interact using characters, avatars, or other virtual, multimedia-implemented constructs). In other examples, data input to or information output from communications module , logic module , account\/profile management system , input module , network management module , and graphics module  may be received or sent using communications interface .","In some examples, data associated with an interaction between a character and a synthetic environment may be generated by account\/profile management system , input module  and graphics module . The data may be configured for transmission using network management module  and communications interface . Communications module  and communications interface  may be configured to receive, interpret, handle, or otherwise manage input received from the internet of other network. In other examples, application  and the above-described elements may be implemented differently and are not limited to the descriptions provided.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"figref":"FIG. 3A","b":["300","302","308","314","302","304","306","308","310","312","316","318","320","322","300"]},"Each of input data module , output data module , input\/output data module , in-game session & location , web & mobile session , friends list & member presence , community (guild) & member presence , map viewer , friend presence overlay , notification system  and game map tiles  may be implemented as a computer program, application, software, hardware, circuitry, or a combination thereof. Further, input data module , output data module , input\/output data module , in-game session & location , web & mobile session , friends list & member presence , community (guild) & member presence , map viewer , friend presence overlay , notification system  and game map tiles  may also be portions of software code that are discretely identified here for purposes of explanation. Application  and the above-described modules may be implemented differently are not limited to the features, functions, configuration, implementation, or structures described above.","Here, input data module  includes in-game session & location  and web & mobile session . In some examples, input data module  and input\/output data module  may be configured to generate character, event or activity data associated with an interaction between a character and a synthetic environment. Input data module  may be configured to transmit data to output data module  in real time or substantially real time. In some examples, in-game session & location  may be configured to generate, store and communicate data associated with a character account when the character account is logged into and interacting with or within the synthetic environment. In other examples, web & mobile session  may be configured to generate, store and communicate data associated with a character account when the character account is not logged into the synthetic environment. Web & mobile session  may be configured to implement character feed through the Internet through various data communication protocols (e.g., XMPP\/Jabber, OSCAR, protocol for synchronous conferencing (PSYC), wireless application protocol (WAP), Really Simple Syndication (RSS), HTTP\/REST, XML-RPC, Internet control message protocol (ICMP), Internet relay chat (IRC), Property Class\u2122 as developed by Trion World Network\u00ae, Inc. of Redwood Shores, Calif., short messaging system (SMS), simple message transfer protocol (SMTP), or others) and configured to implement character feed through mobile communication devices through various mobile communication protocols (e.g. WAP (i.e., wireless application protocol, or others). Input data module  and the described elements may be varied in function, quantity, configuration, layout, appearance, design, or other aspects or attributes and are not limited to the examples shown and described.","Here, input\/output data module  includes map viewer , friend presence overlay , notification system  and game map tiles . In some examples, input\/output data module  may be configured to transmit data to and receive data from output data module  in real time or substantially real time. Input\/output data module  may be configured to extract and present data to an operating system, display, network or other application configured to implement application . Input\/output data module  and the described elements may be varied in function, quantity, configuration, layout, appearance, design, or other aspects or attributes and are not limited to the examples shown and described.","In some examples, map viewer  may be configured to generate, extract and present data associated with an interaction between a character and a synthetic environment. Map viewer  may be configured to send data to and receive data from friends presence overlay , notification system  and game map tiles . Map viewer  may be configured to represent a virtual geographic layout of the synthetic environment. In some examples, the location of character accounts within the synthetic environment may be depicted on map viewer . In some examples, friend presence overlay  and game map tiles  may be configured to transmit data to and receive data from map viewer . Game map tiles  may be configured to represent a segment of the virtual layout of the synthetic environment. The configuration, layout, appearance, design, or other aspects or attributes of map viewer  may be varied and are not limited to the examples shown and described.","In some examples, notification system  may be configured to receive character data and generate messages for transmission in various output formats. Notification system  may be configured to transmit data to friends list & member presence , community list (guild) and member presence  and map viewer . Notification system  may also be configured to communicate across various types of data communication interfaces (e.g., application programming interface (\u201cAPI\u201d), which may be configured for communicating data and information between a synthetic environment and another application, operating system, or operating system). Notification system  may be implemented differently and is not limited to the description or examples provided.","Here, output data module  includes friends list & member presence  and community list (guild) & member presence . In some examples, output data module  may be configured to receive data from input data module  and transmit data to and receive data from input\/output data module . Output data module  may be configured to extract and present data to an operating system, display, network or other application configured to implement application . In some examples, friends list & member presence  and community list (guild) & member presence  may be configured to be presented as a news ticker, an email, a chat dialogue, RSS feed, or others. In other examples, the presentation of friends list & member presence  and community list (guild) & member presence  may be varied and are not limited by the descriptions provided.","In some examples, friends list & member presence  may be configured to present data or information associated with a designated character account. For example, a user may specify other character accounts for inclusion in their friends list. Once included on a user's friends list, information related to the designated character account may be dynamically updated to reflect the real time activity of the designated character within the synthetic environment. For example, information such as weaponry status, geographic location or quest status may be communicated to and presented by friends list & member presence . In other examples, community list (guild) & member presence  may be configured to present data or information associated with a designated guild (e.g., an organized group of players working together). Output data module  and the described elements may be varied in function, quantity, configuration, layout, appearance, design, or other aspects or attributes and are not limited to the examples shown and described.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0044","num":"0043"},"figref":["FIG. 3B","FIG. 3A"],"b":["340","314","340","340","350","314","352","354","356","350","314","354","356","340"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0045","num":"0044"},"figref":"FIG. 4A","b":["402","404","406","408","410","420","422","424","426","430","440","442","420","422","424","426","430","440","442","404","420","422","424","426","430","440","442","402"]},"As shown here, synthetic environment  is a persistent virtual world populated by virtual users - and virtual users -. In some examples, virtual users -, friends list , virtual users - and map viewer  are associated with synthetic environment . In other examples, virtual users -, friends list , virtual users - and map viewer  may be associated with other network communication systems (e.g. mobile communication device, distributed data network, or others). In still other examples, virtual users -, friends list , virtual users - and map viewer  may be associated with other communication systems and are not limited to the description provided.","Here, data associated with character feed may be presented in friends list  and map viewer . In other examples, data associated with character feed may be presented in another communication application (e.g. electronic mail, instant messenger, mobile text messenger, peer-to-peer chat, or others). In other examples, data associated with character feed may be presented in another communication application and is not limited to the descriptions provided. In some examples, the data associated with character feed may include a presence status (e.g. whether or not a user is logged into or logged out of synthetic environment ), or geographical location (e.g., the virtual physical location of a user within synthetic environment ). In other examples, the data associated with character feed may include another status associated with a user account or other characteristics related to a user account. In still other examples, the data associated with character feed may include other data and is not limited to the descriptions provided.","As shown in friends list , friends - are users associated with synthetic environment . In some examples, friend ,  and  may be logged into the game (i.e., \u201conline\u2014in-game\u201d), friend  may be logged out of the game (i.e., \u201coffline\u2014out-of-game\u201d) and friend  may be logged out of the game but associated with another communication system (e.g., mobile communication device, distributed data network, or others) as described above. As another example, real-world locations of devices used by users associated with friends - may be presented on interface  using any type of visual, graphical, or other type of display. In other words, user \u201cpresence\u201d may be implemented using various techniques, including displaying a user's login status, location within a synthetic environment, real-world location, or other data associated with a given user. In other examples, users associated with synthetic environment  may be associated with other communication systems, either within or outside a synthetic environment, and are not limited to the descriptions provided. In some examples, users may configure friends list  by inputting rules, filters, preferences, parameters, or other attributes in order to receive data or information associated with other accounts. In other examples, users may configure their accounts by inputting rules, filters, preference, other attributes to specify or limit the data or information available to others regarding their account. In still other examples, friends list  may be configured, implemented, designed or function differently and is not limited to the examples provided.","Here, the geographic locations of virtual users - within synthetic environment  are depicted in map viewer . In some examples, the different quadrants of map viewer  may represent different shards (i.e., server-based instances of a synthetic environment), servers or operating systems) within synthetic environment . In other examples, map viewer  may be varied in design, function, implementation, order, configuration, layout, format, or other technical aspects and is not limited to the examples provided.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0050","num":"0049"},"figref":"FIG. 4B","b":["402","404","406","408","410","450","452","454","450","452","454","404","450","452","454","402"]},"Here, data associated with character feed is presented in email  and news ticker . As shown here, internet application , email  and news ticker  may be associated with a distributed data network. In other examples, internet application , email  and news ticker  may be associated with other network communication systems (e.g. mobile communication device, or others). In still other examples, internet application , email  and news ticker  may be associated with other communication systems and are not limited to the descriptions provided. The described techniques may be varied in design, function, implementation, order, configuration, layout, format, or other technical aspects and are not limited to the examples provided.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0052","num":"0051"},"figref":"FIG. 4C","b":["460","402","404","406","450","454","450","454","404","450","454","402"]},"Here, data associated with character feed is presented in news ticker . As shown here, internet application , and news ticker  may be associated with a mobile communication device. In other examples, internet application , and news ticker  may be associated with other network communication systems (e.g. distributed data network, or others). In still other examples, internet application , and news ticker  may be associated with other communication systems and are not limited to the description provided. The described techniques may be varied in design, function, implementation, order, configuration, layout, format, or other technical aspects and are not limited to the examples provided.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0054","num":"0053"},"figref":["FIG. 5A","FIG. 5B","FIG. 5C"],"b":["502","504","506","508","510"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0055","num":"0054"},"figref":"FIG. 5B","b":["512","514"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0056","num":"0055"},"figref":"FIG. 5C","b":["516","518"]},"Once identified, a determination is made as to the type of data communication protocol being used by the one or more intended recipients (e.g., destinations) (). Based on the determined data communication protocols, a feed may be formatted according to one or more protocols determined for transmitting data to a recipient using various techniques. In some examples, a feed may be formatted by modifying the data encapsulation scheme (i.e., method), algorithm, or structure associated with message data packets, segments, frames, or the like (). Further, a feed may also be modified by adding, deleting, or modifying data included in, for example, headers, footers, trailers, error correction checksum numbers, payload data, and others. In other examples, the above-described techniques may be varied based on the type of protocol and are not limited to any specific protocol. Using the techniques described above, a feed may be sent by a user to multiple recipients who may be logged into an account associated with a synthetic environment, or who are outside of the synthetic environment, but able to receive a feed using, for example, email, instant messages, web tickers, news feeds, Really Simple Syndication (\u201cRSS\u201d), Atom, or other types of content syndication fees. The above-described process may be varied in function, processes and performed in any arbitrary order and is not limited to the examples shown and described.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0058","num":"0057"},"figref":"FIG. 6A","b":["602","604","606","608"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0059","num":"0058"},"figref":["FIG. 6B","FIG. 3B"],"b":["610","612","614"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0060","num":"0059"},"figref":["FIG. 6C","FIG. 6B"],"b":["620","622","624"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0061","num":"0060"},"figref":"FIG. 7","b":["700","702","708","710","716","714","716","718","720","724","700","702","708","720","724","714","716","718"]},"In some examples, state events resulting from user\/player action may include logging into a synthetic environment (), logging out of a synthetic environment (), changing location (i.e., in or out of a synthetic environment) , or changing player status (e.g., active, inactive, live, dead, and others), player mode (e.g., movement, combat, planning, buying, selling, and others), stance (e.g., sitting, standing, defensive, offensive, and others), page (e.g., changing views within a web client to view a web page or site), or others. State events generated by user\/player action (e.g., -) may be input to game or web system  along with historical events generated from user\/player action  (i.e., archived or past state events resulting from user\/player action) and calculated historical events . For example, calculated historical events generated and evaluated by game or web system  may include the day and time within a synthetic environment, changing weather, altered terrain, battles, auctions, or other aspects of a synthetic environment that are not generated by user or player interaction. Taking into account one or more of events -, game or web system  generates state data that is sent to persistent synthetic environment message notification system  that may be configured to transmit data for various types of clients  (e.g., web, mobile, PDA, HTML, XML, HTTP, RSS, and others). Data generated by synthetic environment message notification system  for further use by various applications (e.g., friends list  (i.e., an application that lists users as being \u201cfriends\u201d of another user; this is distinguished from a guild list, which may be a list of users who are aggregated based on membership in an organization such as a guild that has common attributes among its members (e.g., trade or professional guilds based on a given skill set such as an archer, ranger, paladin, warrior, magician, cleric, other types of occupations or skills, or others), a friend radar or map (i.e., synthetic environment mapping application) that is configured to locate other users (e.g., friends, guild members, and others) within a synthetic environment. A synthetic environment mapping application may be configured to locate users' characters (e.g., avatars, icons, or other virtual representations of a player) within a synthetic environment. In some examples, a synthetic environment application may also be configured to locate one or more computers being used by a user in order to locate users outside of a synthetic environment (i.e., in a real-world environment). As an example, users may use a synthetic environment mapping application to identify the location of a given client device using various types of technologies (e.g., global positioning system (GPS), cell network triangulation using differential GPS or other technologies that may be used to provide a latitude\/longitude or other coordinate for graphically presenting a location on a map, calculating a geographical proximity to an internet service provider's servers or a telecommunication service provider's central office, or others). In other examples, a synthetic environment mapping application may be configured to present a user's location within a synthetic environment or the user's location in the \u201creal-world\u201d using a displayed map. As an example of another application that may be configured to use state data as shown in diagram , friend feed  may be used to provide data associated with one user to another user using various types of formats (e.g., a \u201cticker-tape\u201d-like feed), which may include information such as accomplishment-related events (e.g., User X has leveled up to Level , Character B has slain the Evil Dragon, Player W has successfully assaulted and taken Remagen using an airborne assault, User  has completed the Quest, and others) or state events (e.g., Player Erin has logged out of the Game, User Peter has moved to Castle Bay, User Lars has changed from movement mode to combat mode, Player Jon has logged into the Game, and others). In other examples, more, fewer, or different types of applications may be implemented apart from those shown and described. Further, diagram  and the described state events and applications may be described, designed, or otherwise implemented differently and are not limited to the examples shown and described.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0063","num":"0062"},"figref":"FIG. 8","b":["800","800","802","804","806","808","810","812","814","816","818"]},"According to some examples, computer system  performs specific operations by processor  executing one or more sequences of one or more instructions stored in system memory . Such instructions may be read into system memory  from another computer readable medium, such as static storage device  or disk drive . In some examples, hard-wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions for implementation.","The term \u201ccomputer readable medium\u201d refers to any tangible medium that participates in providing instructions to processor  for execution. Such a medium may take many forms, including but not limited to, non-volatile media and volatile media. Non-volatile media includes, for example, optical or magnetic disks, such as disk drive . Volatile media includes dynamic memory, such as system memory .","Common forms of computer readable media includes, for example, floppy disk, flexible disk, hard disk, magnetic tape, any other magnetic medium, CD-ROM, any other optical medium, punch cards, paper tape, any other physical medium with patterns of holes, RAM, PROM, EPROM, FLASH-EPROM, any other memory chip or cartridge, or any other medium from which a computer can read.","Instructions may further be transmitted or received using a transmission medium. The term \u201ctransmission medium\u201d may include any tangible or intangible medium that is capable of storing, encoding or carrying instructions for execution by the machine, and includes digital or analog communications signals or other intangible medium to facilitate communication of such instructions. Transmission media includes coaxial cables, copper wire, and fiber optics, including wires that comprise bus  for transmitting a computer data signal.","In some examples, execution of the sequences of instructions may be performed by a single computer system . According to some examples, two or more computer systems  coupled by communication link  (e.g., LAN, PSTN, or wireless network) may perform the sequence of instructions in coordination with one another. Computer system  may transmit and receive messages, data, and instructions, including program, i.e., application code, through communication link  and communication interface . Received program code may be executed by processor  as it is received, and\/or stored in disk drive , or other non-volatile storage for later execution.","Although the foregoing examples have been described in some detail for purposes of clarity of understanding, the invention is not limited to the details provided. There are many alternative ways of implementing the invention. The disclosed examples are illustrative and not restrictive."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["Various embodiments or examples (\u201cexamples\u201d) are disclosed in the following detailed description and the accompanying drawings:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 3A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 3B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 4A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 4B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 4C"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 5A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 5B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 5C"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 6A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 6B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 6C"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 8"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
