---
title: Active material actuated headrest utilizing bar linkage deployment system
abstract: An active headrest for selectively supporting the head of an occupant, includes a shell, and an actuator disposed within the shell, including a bar linkage system drivenly coupled to the shell, so as to adjust the distance or engagement between the shell and head when displaced, and an active material element drivenly coupled to the system, so as to cause or enable the displacement of the system, and preferably further including a ratchet sector/pawl and latch cooperating to present plural achievable deployment positions.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08109567&OS=08109567&RS=08109567
owner: GM Global Technology Operations LLC
number: 08109567
owner_city: Detroit
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20090603
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["RELATED APPLICATIONS","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","BRIEF SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["This patent application claims priority to, and benefit from U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61\/059,561, entitled \u201cACTIVE MATERIAL ACTUATED HEADREST HAVING BAR LINKAGE DEPLOYMENT SYSTEM,\u201d filed on Jun. 6, 2008, and is a continuation-in-part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11\/554,753, entitled \u201cACTIVE MATERIAL ACTUATED HEADREST ASSEMBLIES\u201d and filed on Oct. 31, 2006, both of which are hereby incorporated by reference herein.","1. Field of the Invention","The present disclosure relates to adjustable headrest assemblies, and more particularly, to an adjustable headrest having an active material actuator and bar-linkage deployment system.","2. Discussion of Prior Art","As is known in the art, headrest assemblies adapted for use with a seatback are commonly used to provide comfort and protection to a user. More particularly, when an occupant is properly positioned within the associated seat, the headrest is preferably aligned with and functions to support the head of the occupant. In an automotive setting, for example, the headrest may function to protect the head during an accident by minimizing the rearward displacement and attainable acceleration of the head resulting from impact.","Autonomously manipulable (or \u201cactive\u201d) headrests have been developed that change absolute positioning, so as to selectively reduce the intermediate distance between the headrest and head. In an automotive setting, for example, manipulation may be effected when a crash event is detected or predicted. Conventional active headrests typically employ electrical, mechanical, or pneumatic actuators and complex architecture, which present various concerns in the art. For example, it is appreciated that a measurable load upon the vehicle charging system, a crowded interior headrest region, and a large plurality of moving parts resulting in greater manufacturing, repair and replacement costs are just a few of the concerns.","The present invention addresses these concerns, and presents a headrest that employs active material actuation and a bar linkage system to selectively manipulate (e.g., adjust the positioning or compliance of) the headrest. As such, the headrest described herein is useful for alternatively providing increased comfort and protection autonomously or on demand.","In general, an active headrest adapted for use with a seat, and to selectively support the head of an occupant is presented. The headrest includes an exterior shell defining an interior space and outer surface configured to engage the head of the occupant. An actuator is disposed within the space, and operable to adjust the distance between the surface and head. The actuator includes a bar linkage system presenting at least one selectively deployable swing arm pivotally coupled to the seat and shell, such that pivoting the arm causes the shell to translate relative to the seat. The actuator further includes an active material element operable to cause or enable the arm to pivot, when exposed to or occluded from an activation signal. Finally, the headrest, and more particularly, the actuator is communicatively coupled to a power source operable to generate the signal.","The above described and other features are exemplified by the following figures and detailed description.","Disclosed herein is an active headrest  adapted to selectively support the head  of an occupant () that continues-in-part from the '753 application (particularly,  and associated description therein). The active headrest  disclosed herein can be employed in front seats, back seats, child seats, and the like, and in association with various applications, such as vehicle transportation, airlines, entertainment seats, etc. The headrest  includes an active (or \u201csmart\u201d) material actuator  and bar linkage system  that cooperate to manipulate (e.g., translate, reposition, etc.) at least a portion of the headrest  ().","Active Material Discussion and Functionality","As used herein the term \u201cactive material\u201d is defined as those materials or composites that exhibit a reversible change in a fundamental (i.e., chemical or intrinsic physical) property when subjected to an activation signal. Suitable active materials for use herein include, without limitation, shape memory alloys (SMA), and ferromagnetic SMAs (FSMA). Other active materials that may be utilized, with some changes to the proffered embodiments, include, but are not limited to, piezoelectric materials, electroactive polymers (EAP), magneto- and electrostrictives, and the like. Depending on the particular active material, the activation signal can take the form of, without limitation, an electric current, a temperature change, a magnetic field, a mechanical loading or stressing, or the like.","More particularly, shape memory alloys exist in several different temperature-dependent phases. The most commonly utilized of these phases are the so-called martensite and austenite phases. In the following discussion, the martensite phase generally refers to the more deformable, lower temperature phase whereas the austenite phase generally refers to the more rigid, higher temperature phase. When the shape memory alloy is in the martensite phase and is heated, it begins to change into the austenite phase. The temperature at which this phenomenon starts is often referred to as austenite start temperature (As). The temperature at which this phenomenon is complete is called the austenite finish temperature (Af). When the shape memory alloy is in the austenite phase and is cooled, it begins to change into the martensite phase, and the temperature at which this phenomenon starts is referred to as the martensite start temperature (Ms). The temperature at which austenite finishes transforming to martensite is called the martensite finish temperature (Mf). Generally, the shape memory alloys are softer and more easily deformable in their martensitic phase and are harder, stiffer, and\/or more rigid in the austenitic phase. In view of the foregoing, a suitable activation signal for use with shape memory alloys is a thermal activation signal having a magnitude to cause transformations between the martensite and austenite phases.","Shape memory alloys can exhibit a one-way shape memory effect, an intrinsic two-way effect, or an extrinsic two-way shape memory effect depending on the alloy composition and processing history. Annealed shape memory alloys typically only exhibit the one-way shape memory effect. Sufficient heating subsequent to low-temperature deformation of the shape memory material will induce the martensite to austenite type transition, and the material will recover the original, annealed shape. Hence, one-way shape memory effects are only observed upon heating.","The temperature at which the shape memory alloy remembers its high temperature form when heated can be adjusted by slight changes in the composition of the alloy and through heat treatment. In nickel-titanium shape memory alloys, for instance, it can be changed from above about 130\u00b0 C. to below about \u2212100\u00b0 C. The shape recovery process occurs over a range of just a few to several degrees and the start or finish of the transformation can be controlled to within a degree or two depending on the desired application and alloy composition. It is appreciated that the mechanical properties of the shape memory alloy vary greatly over the temperature range spanning their transformation.","SMA materials exhibit a modulus increase of 2.5 times and a dimensional change of up to 8% (depending on the amount of pre-strain) when heated above its so-called martensite to austenite phase transition temperature. The SMA can be embedded within the headrest in wire form to provide the desired amount of contraction or change in stiffness properties, wherein the term \u201cwire\u201d is non-limiting and shall incorporate other suitable geometric shapes, such as cables, bundles, braids, ropes, straps, etc. SMA changes are also one-way so that a biasing force return mechanism (such as a spring) may be included within the headrest to return the SMA (and the headrest) to its starting configuration once the applied field\/heat is removed. Other return mechanisms may include mechanical, pneumatic, hydraulic, or pyrotechnic technology, or be based on one of the aforementioned smart materials.","Suitable shape memory alloy materials include, but are not intended to be limited to, nickel-titanium based alloys, indium-titanium based alloys, nickel-aluminum based alloys, nickel-gallium based alloys, copper based alloys (e.g., copper-zinc alloys, copper-aluminum alloys, copper-gold, and copper-tin alloys), gold-cadmium based alloys, silver-cadmium based alloys, indium-cadmium based alloys, manganese-copper based alloys, iron-platinum based alloys, iron-palladium based alloys, and the like. The alloys can be binary, ternary, or any higher order so long as the alloy composition exhibits a shape memory effect, e.g., change in shape orientation, changes in yield strength, and\/or flexural modulus properties, damping capacity, superelasticity, and the like. Selection of a suitable shape memory alloy composition depends on the temperature range where the component will operate.","Ferromagnetic SMA's exhibit rapid dimensional changes of up to several percent in response to (and proportional to the strength of) an applied magnetic field. The changes are one-way changes and require the application of either a biasing force or a field reversal to return the ferromagnetic SMA to its starting configuration. Otherwise, for the intents and purposes of the present invention, FSMA functions equivalently to SMA.","Similarly, magnetostrictives are solids that develop a large mechanical deformation when subjected to an external magnetic field. This magnetostriction phenomenon is attributed to the rotations of small magnetic domains in the materials, which are randomly oriented when the material is not exposed to a magnetic field. The shape change is largest in ferromagnetic or ferrimagnetic solids. Terfinol D is the most thoroughly explored form of magnetostrictive. Magentisricgtvies exhibit a relatively high frequency capability, strain is proportional to the strength of the applied magnetic field, and these types of materials return to their starting dimension upon removal of the applied field.","Shape memory polymers (SMP) exhibit a dramatic drop in modulus when heated above the glass transition temperature of that of their constituents that has a lower glass transition temperature. If loading\/deformation is maintained while the temperature is dropped, the deformed shape will be set in the SMP until it is reheated while under no load under which condition it will return to its as-molded shape. When heated their modulus drops by a factor of 30 or more and in this flexible state the stored energy could no longer be blocked by the SMP and would thus be released in this manner allowing the front surface of the headrest to be displaced toward the head of the seated occupant.","Most SMPs exhibit a \u201cone-way\u201d effect, wherein the SMP exhibits one permanent shape. Generally, SMPs are phase segregated co-polymers comprising at least two different units, which may be described as defining different segments within the SMP, each segment contributing differently to the overall properties of the SMP. As used herein, the term \u201csegment\u201d refers to a block, graft, or sequence of the same or similar monomer or oligomer units, which are copolymerized to form the SMP. Each segment may be crystalline or amorphous and will have a corresponding melting point or glass transition temperature (Tg), respectively. The term \u201cthermal transition temperature\u201d is used herein for convenience to generically refer to either a Tg or a melting point depending on whether the segment is an amorphous segment or a crystalline segment. For SMPs comprising (n) segments, the SMP is said to have a hard segment and (n\u22121) soft segments, wherein the hard segment has a higher thermal transition temperature than any soft segment. Thus, the SMP has (n) thermal transition temperatures. The thermal transition temperature of the hard segment is termed the \u201clast transition temperature\u201d, and the lowest thermal transition temperature of the so-called \u201csoftest\u201d segment is termed the \u201cfirst transition temperature\u201d. It is important to note that if the SMP has multiple segments characterized by the same thermal transition temperature, which is also the last transition temperature, then the SMP is said to have multiple hard segments.","When the SMP is heated above the last transition temperature, the SMP material can be shaped. A permanent shape for the SMP can be set or memorized by subsequently cooling the SMP below that temperature. As used herein, the terms \u201coriginal shape\u201d, \u201cpreviously defined shape\u201d, and \u201cpermanent shape\u201d are synonymous and are intended to be used interchangeably. A temporary shape can be set by heating the material to a temperature higher than a thermal transition temperature of any soft segment yet below the last transition temperature, applying an external stress or load to deform the SMP, and then cooling below the particular thermal transition temperature of the soft segment.","The permanent shape can be recovered by heating the material, with the stress or load removed, above the particular thermal transition temperature of the soft segment yet below the last transition temperature. Thus, it should be clear that by combining multiple soft segments it is possible to demonstrate multiple temporary shapes and with multiple hard segments it may be possible to demonstrate multiple permanent shapes. Similarly using a layered or composite approach, a combination of multiple SMPs will demonstrate transitions between multiple temporary and permanent shapes.","For SMPs with only two segments, the temporary shape of the shape memory polymer is set at the first transition temperature, followed by cooling of the SMP, while under load, to lock in the temporary shape. The temporary shape is maintained as long as the SMP remains below the first transition temperature. The permanent shape is regained when the SMP is once again brought above the first transition temperature. Repeating the heating, shaping, and cooling steps can repeatedly reset the temporary shape.","Most SMPs exhibit a \u201cone-way\u201d effect, wherein the SMP exhibits one permanent shape. Upon heating the shape memory polymer above a soft segment thermal transition temperature without a stress or load, the permanent shape is achieved and the shape will not revert back to the temporary shape without the use of outside forces.","As an alternative, some shape memory polymer compositions can be prepared to exhibit a \u201ctwo-way\u201d effect, wherein the SMP exhibits two permanent shapes. These systems include at least two polymer components. For example, one component could be a first cross-linked polymer while the other component is a different cross-linked polymer. The components are combined by layer techniques, or are interpenetrating networks, wherein the two polymer components are cross-linked but not to each other. By changing the temperature, the shape memory polymer changes its shape in the direction of a first permanent shape or a second permanent shape. Each of the permanent shapes belongs to one component of the SMP. The temperature dependence of the overall shape is caused by the fact that the mechanical properties of one component (\u201ccomponent A\u201d) are almost independent from the temperature in the temperature interval of interest. The mechanical properties of the other component (\u201ccomponent B\u201d) are temperature dependent in the temperature interval of interest. In one embodiment, component B becomes stronger at low temperatures compared to component A, while component A is stronger at high temperatures and determines the actual shape. A two-way memory device can be prepared by setting the permanent shape of component A (\u201cfirst permanent shape\u201d), deforming the device into the permanent shape of component B (\u201csecond permanent shape\u201d), and fixing the permanent shape of component B while applying a stress.","It should be recognized by one of ordinary skill in the art that it is possible to configure SMPs in many different forms and shapes. Engineering the composition and structure of the polymer itself can allow for the choice of a particular temperature for a desired application. For example, depending on the particular application, the last transition temperature may be about 0\u00b0 C. to about 300\u00b0 C. or above. A temperature for shape recovery (i.e., a soft segment thermal transition temperature) may be greater than or equal to about \u221230\u00b0 C. Another temperature for shape recovery may be greater than or equal to about 20\u00b0 C.","Another temperature for shape recovery may be greater than or equal to about 70\u00b0 C. Another temperature for shape recovery may be less than or equal to about 250\u00b0 C. Yet another temperature for shape recovery may be less than or equal to about 200\u00b0 C. Finally, another temperature for shape recovery may be less than or equal to about 180\u00b0 C. Suitable polymers for use in the SMPs include thermoplastics, thermosets, interpenetrating networks, semi-interpenetrating networks, or mixed networks of polymers. The polymers can be a single polymer or a blend of polymers. The polymers can be linear or branched thermoplastic elastomers with side chains or dendritic structural elements.","Suitable polymer components to form a shape memory polymer include, but are not limited to, polyphosphazenes, poly(vinyl alcohols), polyamides, polyester amides, poly(amino acid)s, polyanhydrides, polycarbonates, polyacrylates, polyalkylenes, polyacrylamides, polyalkylene glycols, polyalkylene oxides, polyalkylene terephthalates, polyortho esters, polyvinyl ethers, polyvinyl esters, polyvinyl halides, polyesters, polylactides, polyglycolides, polysiloxanes, polyurethanes, polyethers, polyether amides, polyether esters, polystyrene, polypropylene, polyvinyl phenol, polyvinylpyrrolidone, chlorinated polybutylene, poly(octadecyl vinyl ether) ethylene vinyl acetate, polyethylene, poly(ethylene oxide)-poly(ethylene terephthalate), polyethylene\/nylon (graft copolymer), polycaprolactones-polyamide (block copolymer), poly(caprolactone) dimethacrylate-n-butyl acrylate, poly(norbornyl-polyhedral oligomeric silsesquioxane), polyvinyl chloride, urethane\/butadiene copolymers, polyurethane block copolymers, styrene-butadiene-styrene block copolymers, and the like, and combinations comprising at least one of the foregoing polymer components. Examples of suitable polyacrylates include poly(methyl methacrylate), poly(ethyl methacrylate), poly(butyl methacrylate), poly(isobutyl methacrylate), poly(hexyl methacrylate), poly(isodecyl methacrylate), poly(lauryl methacrylate), poly(phenyl methacrylate), poly(methyl acrylate), poly(isopropyl acrylate), poly(isobutyl acrylate) and poly(octadecyl acrylate). The polymer(s) used to form the various segments in the SMPs described above are either commercially available or can be synthesized using routine chemistry. Those of skill in the art can readily prepare the polymers using known chemistry and processing techniques without undue experimentation.","II. Exemplary Active Headrests and Methods of Use","As shown in , the headrest  includes a shell  preferably formed of a front contact portion and a back portion , which cooperate to form an interior space . For example, a one-piece outer folding clam shell may be used, wherein the front portion is the portion of the headrest  proximate to the head . As shown in , it is appreciated that the shell  may present an integral structure, so as to be moved in unison. In lieu of displacing the headrest , it is appreciated that the system  and actuator  may be alternatively configured to bear against, so as to provide additional resistance or energy absorption capability to, an otherwise stationary front surface of the headrest . That is to say the system  and actuator  may also be used to adjust the engagement between the headrest  and head . In this configuration, the shell  defines a conformable outer front surface operable to transfer the additional resistance or absorption capability.","The headrest  is supported by at least one structural support post  slidably disposed within the seatback , and fixedly secured relative thereto via locking means (not shown). To enable movement relative to the posts , the shell  defines a lower opening through which each post  enters the space and is able to translate. More preferably, the shell  defines slotted openings having a width congruent to the post diameter, so as to effect linear translation. A removable trim cover clip  is provided to otherwise cover and selectively allow access to the space . The preferred headrest  further includes a padding material  exterior to and forming superjacent layers with the shell , and an outer covering  (of soft durable material) encasing the padding material  to define the overall shape of the headrest .","The shell  may be in pivotal communication with the structural support post , or as illustrated, fixedly secured thereto (). The structural support posts  can take many forms and are not intended to be limited to that shown. For example, it is appreciated that a wishbone or goal type post structure can be used. Moreover, more or less than two posts  can be employed. Finally, the fixed structure of the preferred headrest  further includes a main carrier plate  that is secured to the posts  and provides a flat planar surface, which serves as a base for the actuator , and bar-linkage system .","The preferred bar-linkage deployment system (i.e., \u201cbar linkage\u201d)  comprises at least one, and more preferably, a plurality of laterally paired swing arms . As shown in , the swing arms  are pivotally coupled to the shell  and fixed structure (e.g., posts , plate , etc.), preferably at or near their distal ends. The arms  are inter-linked to effect congruent motion. More preferably, a parallel four-bar linkage system  may be employed, consisting of cross-bars  between lateral swing arms , and lateral vertical braces (not shown) between vertically spaced arms . In the illustrated embodiment, the preferably rigid structure of the shell  supplants the vertical braces. For each set of lateral arms , the pivot axis defined by the fixed structure and arms  is translatably fixed, while the outer pivot axis connected to the shell  is free to translate. As such, when the swing arms  are caused to pivot counter-clockwise, the shell  and headrest  are driven outward (e.g., away from the posts ) and upward towards a deployed position, as shown by hidden-line type in .","In the illustrated embodiment, deployment is provided by releasing energy stored within upper and\/or lower torsion springs , (). The spring(s) , are preferably sized such that deployment is performed in a controlled manner. More preferably, and as shown in , the lower spring  also serve as the lower link arm. In this configuration, when deployed a normally closed lower spring  may be configured to store energy that is later used to assist return to the stowed position when released. Alternatively, it is appreciated that other types of spring (e.g., extension springs, etc.), or biasing elements may be used.","In the preferred embodiment, the linkage system  includes a pawl  and ratcheting sector (or \u201cratchet\u201d)  that cooperate to prevent back-drive. That is to say, the pawl  and sector  define pluralities of sloped teeth that slidingly slip past each other in one direction but inter-lock in the other. As such, it is appreciated that the headrest  will support the head  at any point along its translation, irrespective of where it is engaged. The sector  is pivotally coupled to the carrier plate  and caused to swing within a cutout defined thereby, when the arms , which are fixedly coupled to the sector , are caused to pivot. The pawl  is also pivotally coupled to the plate  and engages the sector  within the cutout. The pawl  is preferably spring biased towards the sector .","A manual or autonomous reset mechanism is further provided to disengage the pawl  and sector , and allow the headrest  to return to the stowed condition (i.e., back-drive). For example, and as shown in , the reset mechanism may include an over-travel cam  pivotally coupled to the rear end of the pawl  and a channel  defined by the sector . The cam  is configured to be received within, and is preferably spring biased towards the channel . During deployment, the cam  slidingly rides along the channel  bearing against the floor of the channel . At a distal end of the floor, a depression is defined, which location corresponds to the overshoot of maximum deployment. That is to say, the floor of the channel  deepens (or terminates) when the channel , which is integral with the arms , is caused to travel past the maximum deployment position. At this location, the biased cam  toggles past center (i.e., \u201cflip\u201d) before coming to rest in a more vertical orientation. In this configuration, when the headrest  is manually caused to travel back towards the stowed position, the cam  causes the pawl  and sector  to separate thereby allowing motion. -illustrate this process.","Whereas, the ratchet  and pawl  cooperatively prevent motion in only one direction, a latch , integrated, for example, into the carrier plate  and outer shell , is configured to prevent direction in both the fore and aft directions. As such, the latch  is configured to lock the headrest  in a desired position. In the illustrated embodiment, the latch  is configured to engage, so as to retain the shell  in the stowed or deployed position, and consists of a prong  biased towards a member (e.g., pin, etc.)  fixed relative to the shell . The latch  is selectively caused to disengage the pin , so that deployment is enabled. As illustrated in , the latch  and pin  inter-engage through another cut-out defined by the carrier plate .","The preferred carrier plate  also defines at least one travel stop  configured to engage the arms , so as to prevent further motion thereby, when in the fully deployed position. In , two travel stops  project forwardly from the plate , and within cut-outs defined by the upper arm and sector . The sector  presents two rear wings  () that are configured to catch the stops , when in the fully deployed position.","As previously stated, the actuator  overcomes many of the disadvantages of conventional active headrest actuators. For example, a relatively smaller volume, lower power requirement, and increased distributed actuation capability are some of the solutions offered by the inventive actuator . The actuator  includes an active material element that may be drivenly coupled to the bar-linkage system  (as optionally shown in ), or configured to cause the release of energy that results in the displacement of the swing arms . With respect to the latter and as show in , a single shape memory (e.g., SMA) bowstring wire may be used to release the latch , after energy is manually stored within the spring(s) , by pushing the headrest  back to the stowed position.","More particularly, the shape memory wire when activated (i.e., exposed to an activation signal sufficient to cause a transformation in state) pulls the biased latch  away from the pin . As installed, an SMA wire is preferably pre-stretched up to 8% based on commercially available shape memory alloys, to remove slack and provide more instantaneous action. The length of the shape memory alloy wire is chosen such that when partially (e.g., 50%, more preferably 25%, most preferably 10%) activated (e.g., through resistive thermal heating, and the like) the change in length causes the latch  to completely lift from the pin . The latch  may define multiple recesses (not shown) within each of which the pin  is insertable, so as to result in a plurality of achievable fixed deployed positions.","Finally, it is appreciated that a power source  is communicatively coupled to the actuator , and operable to generate the activation signal (). In an automotive application, for example, the source  may be the vehicle charging system or a capacitor (also not shown) operable to effect a sufficient discharge of energy. Moreover, the preferred actuator  is autonomously triggered upon determining a condition to reduce the spacing between the headrest  and head  and\/or change the compliance of the headrest. For example, the headrest  may be configured to respond to a dynamic load of the occupant generated by the inertial transfer during an automotive sudden stop event or to an otherwise determined pre-crash condition. As such, a controller  and sensor  may communicatively coupled to the actuator  and source  (). The controller  and sensor  are cooperatively configured to cause the actuator  to become exposed to the signal.","In one embodiment, a position sensor (capacitance, ultrasonic, radar, camera, and the like)  may be provided on the vehicle, e.g., near or within the seatback  to determine the position of the head . Here, the controller  may be designed to adjust the position of the headrest  based on the determined position of the head . The change in spatial distance provided by active material actuation can also allow the headrest  to be selectively tuned based on the sensor input. For example, the anthropometry properties of the occupant, e.g., weight, height, size, weight distribution, and the like, as well as seated geometry, e.g., leaning back, leaning forward, head location with respect to the headrest , and the like can be input variables for displacing the headrest  at an appropriate time and amount. Other exemplary sensors, including pressure sensors, displacement sensors, velocity sensors, accelerometers, and the like can be located in and about the vehicle seat and headrest  and in operative communication with the controller . Lastly, a pre-set occupant identification feature could be used equivalent to the seat memory selection switch to autonomously position the headrest  on demand.","While the disclosure has been described with reference to an exemplary embodiment, it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes may be made and equivalents may be substituted for elements thereof without departing from the scope of the disclosure. In addition, many modifications may be made to adapt a particular situation or material to the teachings of the disclosure without departing from the essential scope thereof. Therefore, it is intended that the disclosure not be limited to the particular embodiment disclosed as the best mode contemplated for carrying out this disclosure, but that the disclosure will include all embodiments falling within the scope of the appended claims. Further description, explanation, and exemplary embodiments offered by the various appendices attached hereto are hereby incorporated by reference, as exemplary but non-limiting teachings of the present invention."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["Preferred embodiments of the invention are described in detail below with reference to the attached drawing figures of exemplary scale, wherein:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 2","FIG. 2"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 4","i":"a "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 4"],"i":["b ","a"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIGS. 4"],"i":["c ","a,b"]}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
