---
title: Method and system for maintaining response center information
abstract: A system for and method of maintaining response center information is presented. In one exemplary embodiment, the system for and method of maintaining response center information may comprise receiving, via an electronic interface, electronic data associated with emergency communications handling, processing, using a processor, the electronic data to associate a portion of the electronic data with a geographical boundary, identifying a modification to geographical boundary, and determining a communication address associated with the modification to the geographical boundary.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08311547&OS=08311547&RS=08311547
owner: Verizon Patent and Licensing Inc.
number: 08311547
owner_city: Basking Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20091020
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["BACKGROUND INFORMATION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS"],"p":["Callers or other communicators to response centers are directed to a response center based on their geographic proximity to such a center. For example, a Public Safety Answering Point (PSAP) is a call center responsible for handling emergency communications such as 9-1-1 calls requesting an ambulance, fire, or police response for a particular geographic area. The geographic boundaries associated with response centers frequently change. For example, a response center, such as a city response center, may be consolidated with a county response center. An additional response center may be added and the boundaries for existing response centers may be redrawn to allow the new response center to handle a certain geographic area. Network equipment must be provisioned so that calls from a particular geographic area are directed to the appropriate call center. For example, routing a call to a correct PSAP improves emergency response times and call handling. Identifying changes to network equipment provisioning based on changes to geographical boundaries is a complex and challenging task.","Reference will now be made in detail to exemplary embodiments, examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying drawings. It should be appreciated that the same reference numbers will be used throughout the drawings to refer to the same or like parts. It should be appreciated that the following detailed description are exemplary and explanatory only and are not restrictive.","An exemplary embodiment provides a response center information maintenance system for one or more networks. The response center information maintenance system may facilitate maintenance and network administration associated with response center information.","Referring to , a response center information maintenance system in accordance with an exemplary embodiment is illustrated. As illustrated, the system  may include one or more networks, such as network . Network elements, such as network elements , , , and  and storage  may be communicatively coupled to network . One or more telecommunication devices  and  may be communicatively coupled to network  via network elements  and . Other devices such as computer  may also be communicatively coupled to network . Provisioning system  may also be communicatively coupled to network .","The telecommunication devices  and  may be wireline phones, wireless phones, satellite phones, Personal Digital Assistants (PDAs), computers, or other telecommunication capable devices. The telecommunication devices  and  may be communicatively coupled to the network . The telecommunication devices  and  and network elements , , , and  may send and receive data using one or more protocols. For example, data may be transmitted and received using Wireless Application Protocol (WAP), Multimedia Messaging Service (MMS), Enhanced Messaging Service (EMS), Short Message Service (SMS), Global System for Mobile Communications (GSM) based systems, Time Division Multiplexing (TDM) based systems, Code Division Multiple Access (CDMA) based systems, Transmission Control Protocol\/Internet (TCP\/IP) Protocols, or other protocols and systems suitable for transmitting and receiving data. Data may be transmitted and received wirelessly or may utilize cabled network connections or telecom connections such as an Ethernet RJ45\/Category 5 Ethernet connection, a fiber connection, a traditional phone wireline connection, a cable connection or other wired network connection. Network elements , , , and  may use standard wireless protocols including IEEE 802.11a, 802.11b and 802.11g. Network elements , , , and  may also be communicatively coupled via protocols for a wired connection, such as an IEEE Ethernet 802.3.","Network  may be one or more of a wireless network, a wired network or any combination of wireless network and wired network. For example, network  may include one or more of a fiber optics network, a passive optical network, a cable network, an Internet network, a Public Switched Telephone Network (PSTN), a satellite network (e.g., operating in Band C, Band Ku or Band Ka), a wireless LAN, a Global System for Mobile Communication (\u201cGSM\u201d), a Personal Communication Service (\u201cPCS\u201d), a Personal Area Network (\u201cPAN\u201d), D-AMPS, Wi-Fi, Fixed Wireless Data, WEE 802.11a, 802.11b, 802.15.1, 802.11n and 802.11g or any other wired or wireless network for transmitting and receiving a data signal. In addition, network  may include, without limitation, telephone line, fiber optics, IEEE Ethernet 802.3, a wide area network (\u201cWAN\u201d), a local area network (\u201cLAN\u201d), or a global network such as the Internet. Also network  may support an Internet network, a wireless communication network, a cellular network, or the like, or any combination thereof. Network  may further include one, or any number of the exemplary types of networks mentioned above operating as a stand-alone network or in cooperation with each other. Network  may utilize one or more protocols of one or more network elements to which they are communicatively coupled. Network  may translate to or from other protocols to one or more protocols of network devices. Although network  is depicted as a single network, it should be appreciated that according to one or more embodiments, network  may each comprise a plurality of interconnected networks, such as, for example, a service provider network, the Internet, a service provider's network, a cable television network, corporate networks, and home networks.","Network elements , , , and  may each be one or more servers (or server-like devices), such as a Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) server. Network elements , , , and  may be telecom switches, Private Branch Exchanges (PBXs), routers, Voice Response Units (VRUs), announcement servers, voice mail servers or voice portals. Network elements , , , and  may be VoIP (Voice Over Internet Protocol) enabled devices. Network elements , , , and  may include one or more processors (not shown) for recording, transmitting, receiving, and storing data. Although network elements , , , and  are depicted as individual servers, it should be appreciated that the contents of network elements , , , and  may be combined into fewer or greater numbers of servers (or server-like devices) and may be connected to one or more data storage systems such as storage .","Storage  may be network accessible storage and may be local, remote, or a combination thereof to network elements , , , and , and computer . Storage  may utilize a redundant array of inexpensive disks (\u201cRAID\u201d), tape, disk, a storage area network (\u201cSAN\u201d), an internet small computer systems interface (\u201ciSCSI\u201d) SAN, a Fibre Channel SAN, a common Internet File System (\u201cCIFS\u201d), network attached storage (\u201cNAS\u201d), a network file system (\u201cNFS\u201d), or other computer accessible storage. In one or more embodiments, storage  may be a database, such as an Oracle database, a Microsoft SQL Server database, a DB2 database, a MySQL database, a Sybase database, an object oriented database, a hierarchical database, or other database. Storage  may utilize flat file structures for storage of data. Storage  may utilize XML (eXtensible Markup Language) data structures.","Provisioning system  may be a network provisioning system that may provide automated provisioning of one or more network elements, such as network elements , , , and . Provisioning system  may provide provisioning of circuit switched based technology, VoIP based technology and other telecommunications equipment. Provisioning system  may provision, query, and verify routers, switches, network servers, redirect servers, SIP servers, trunk groups, and other network elements. Although depicted as a single system, provisioning system  may be a plurality of systems which may be interfaced, integrated, separate, or managed by a provisioning management system. For example, one provisioning system may be associated with VoIP equipment and one may be associated with circuit switched equipment.","Provisioning system  may also contain or be integrated with other components or systems such as a workflow management system. The workflow management system may handle sequencing and flow between provisioning tasks (e.g., ensuring that a switch is configured prior to configuring a SIP server or a redirect server to transfer calls to that switch). Provisioning system  may use telnet, SNMP (Simple Network Management Protocol), or other protocols to communicate with one or more network elements. Provisioning system  may use Service Oriented Architecture (SOA), TCL\/TK (Tool Command Language\/Tool Kit), and other technologies for network provisioning.","As illustrated in , response boundary , response boundary , and response boundary  may be exemplary response center geographic boundaries. For example, response boundary , response boundary , and response boundary  may be Public Safety Answering Points (PSAPs). A PSAP may be a call center responsible for handling emergency communications such as 9-1-1 calls requesting an ambulance, fire, or police response for a particular geographic area.","Computer  may be a desktop computer, a laptop computer, a server or other computer capable of maintaining response center information. Computer  may receive data from one or more of user input, a network management system, a network provisioning system, a management information base, a network services ordering system, a database, a file, a web service, and an application programming interface. Computer  may query other systems and local or remote storage to obtain network information. Computer  may interface with storage  and may use storage  for storage and retrieval of data associated with response centers, users, customers, subscribers, and network provisioning.","According to one or more embodiments, computer  may receive data associated with response centers. The data may be received via one or more interfaces. Computer  may use Application Programming Interfaces (APIs), interface tables, Remote Procedure Calls (RPCs), web services, Extensible Markup Language (XML) based interfaces, Simple Object Access Protocol (SOAP) based interfaces, Common Object Request Broker Architecture (CORBA), and other interfaces for sending or receiving information associated with response centers, user addresses, and network provisioning. According to some embodiments, data may be received via a storage medium including, but not limited to, tape, CD, DVD, a memory card, and magnetic storage. In such embodiments, the storage medium may be provided to an interface of computer  such as, by way of non-limiting example, a disk drive, an optical disk drive, a tape drive, a USB port, a memory card reader, a wireless interface, and a serial port. According to some embodiments, data may be entered via a user interface of computer . In some embodiments, data may be loaded onto storage accessible to computer  such as storage .","Computer  may receive data associated with a response center such as, for example, data associated with a Public Safety Answering Point (PSAP). According to at least one embodiment, the data may be received from a third party and provided to one or more service providers. Data may be transmitted or provided at regular intervals or may be transmitted or provided after the change of one or more attributes associated with a response center. According to at least one embodiment, the data may be queried or downloaded by a recipient such as a service provider.","Data received by computer  may contain one or more indicia of a PSAP including, but not limited to, an ID, a county name, a state name, and an agency name. The data may also contain one or more indicia of a geographic boundary associated with a response center such as a PSAP. For example, indicia of a geographic boundary may include longitude and latitude coordinates, cartesian coordinates, vector data, or geodetic datums. For example, geographical coordinates may represent a starting an ending point of one or more line segments forming a portion of a geographic boundary of a response center. Other response center attributes may be included in the received data. Computer  may parse received data and may convert received data into mapped data. Computer  may identify one or more response centers in the received data and geographic boundary data associated with the identified response centers. Computer  may create a geographical map in memory from the parsed data or may amend an existing map. Identified geographic coordinates may amend an existing boundary or add a new boundary for one or more response centers to a map. The geographic boundaries may indicate a geographic area associated with a response center such as a PSAP.","After receiving, parsing, and mapping data associated with one or more response centers, computer  may compare mapped data with one or more user addresses. User addresses may be addresses associated with telephone numbers, IP addresses, network addresses, email addresses, or other communication addresses. Computer  may identify one or more addresses associated with a response boundary that have been affected by modifications or additions to mapped data. For example, telecommunications device  may be associated with a street address that is in a particular response boundary, such as response boundary . A new response center may be added which is responsible for the geographical area encompassing the street address associated with telecommunications device . The response boundary associated with the new response center may be response boundary . As a result of the new response center response boundaries  and  may be redrawn. Telecommunications device  may be associated with a street address that is now in response boundary . Computer  may identify one or more network elements currently associated with telecommunications device  such as a switch, a router, a SIP server, a trunk group number, a network server, and a redirect server (e.g., network element ). Computer  may identify one or more network elements to be associated with telecommunications device  based on the new response boundary , such as a switch, a router, a SIP server, a network server, and a redirect server. For example, network element  may be a telecom switch that handles calls associated with response boundary .","As another example of the comparison of mapped data with one or more users, computer  may evaluate telecommunications device . Telecommunications device  may be a VoIP based device whose address of record may have been in a response boundary associated with network element . As a result of a modification in response boundaries, the address associated with telecommunications device  may be in response boundary . Computer  may determine that telecommunications device  should now be associated with network element .","Computer  may generate one or more reports containing one or more communication addresses, a PSAP associated with a communication address, a PSAP to be associated with a communication address, indicators of equipment to be associated with communication addresses as a result of a modification to a geographic boundary, indicators of equipment currently associated with communication addresses, identifiers of users associated with communication addresses, and geographical addresses associated with communication addresses. One or more indicators of equipment may be Common Language Location Identifier (CLLI) codes or may contain CLLI codes. Computer  may provide a user interface for report functionality including, but not limited to, formatting reports, viewing reports, editing reports, distributing reports, and approving reports. Computer  may distribute reports by one or more methods including, but not limited to, email, posting to a website, XML, FTP, and via printing.","According to one or more embodiments, computer  may facilitate the distribution of a report to one or more users who may review proposed network provisioning changes associated with a response boundary prior to network changes. For example, computer  may generate a report showing that telecommunications device  is to be associated with response boundary  via network element . The report may also show that telecommunications device  is currently associated with a response boundary , the geographic address associated with telecommunications device , user information associated with telecommunications device , one or more network elements associated with telecommunications device , and network element configuration information. Network elements may be represent by indicators containing Common Language Location Identifier (CLLI) codes. The report may further show configuration information and provisioning information to be used for provisioning telecommunications device  on network element . If the report is approved by one or more users or reviewers the provisioning changes to move telecommunications device  from network element  to network element  may occur (e.g., one or more switches, SIP servers, network servers, or redirect servers may be provisioned).","According to some embodiments, after a report is approved the changes in the report may be automatically provisioned. For example, a user may update information in one or both of computer  and provisioning system  to indicate that provisioning has been approved. Provisioning system  may use workflow or other technologies to sequence a series of tasks to provision one or more network elements in accordance with changes approved in the report. If a report is not approved, it may be edited and resubmitted for approval. According to some embodiments, a report may be regenerated and then submitted for approval. For example, new equipment or capacity may be added to a network and the report may be regenerated to reflect provisioning on new equipment. According to one or more embodiments, a report may be generated after the completion of provisioning. A report generated after the completion of provisioning may include information associated with network configuration changes, verification testing, affected communication addresses, affected users, and other details.","The various components of the system  as shown in  may be further duplicated, combined and\/or integrated to support various applications and platforms. Additional elements may also be implemented in the systems described above to support various applications. One or more portions of system  may be implemented in executable software code stored on a computer readable medium.","Referring to , a response center information maintenance module  is depicted, in accordance with an exemplary embodiment. As illustrated, the response center information maintenance  may contain one or more components including a parsing module , a mapping module , a map analysis module , a reporting module , a provisioning module , and an error handling module . The response center information maintenance module  may maintain data associated with response centers such as PSAPs. Response center information maintenance module  may receive data via one or more interfaces.","Parsing module  may parse received data. Parsing module  may parse received data to associate one or more portions of the received data with one or more geographical boundaries. Parsing module  may identify one or more indicia of a geographic boundary in the received data, such as, by way of non-limiting example, an ID, a county name, a state name, and an agency name. According to some embodiments, parsing module  may identify geographic boundary data which may include longitude and latitude coordinates, cartesian coordinates, vector data, or geodetic datums. Once received data has been parsed, it may be mapped.","Mapping module  may map a geographic boundary or a modification to a geographic boundary identified by one or more geographic boundary markers parsed from received data. Mapping module  may use stored map data reflecting current boundary information for response centers and may apply one or more modifications based on the parsed data. For example, data reflecting PSAP boundaries may be stored in storage  or locally on computer . Mapping module  may apply one or more changes to such data based on received data. Received data may comprise a change to an existing boundary such as, for example, coordinates indicating a particular side has expanded to include an area (e.g., a town has consolidated its PSAP with the county). Received data may also comprise the creation of a new boundary (e.g., a city has created its own response center), or other modifications (e.g., due to consolidation one PSAP has been removed and another enlarged). After one or more portions of received data have been mapped the impact of modifications to response center boundaries may be analyzed.","Map analysis module  may analyze the impact to response center boundaries. Map analysis module  may compare boundary modifications with one or more communication addresses. For example, map analysis module  may compare a region added to a response center boundary with addresses associated with telephone numbers. If one or more telephone numbers are associated with user addresses located in the region added to a response center boundary, map analysis module  may identify the one or more telephone numbers. In another example, if a response center has been added, map analysis module  may identify one or more communication addresses within the response center boundary. According to some embodiments, other communication addresses such as an IP number, a network address, and an email address may also be identified. The one or more identified communication addresses may be flagged, stored, or otherwise indicated for modification. Map analysis module  may determine network elements currently associated with one or more communication addresses (e.g., a switch or a SIP server), network elements to be associated with one or more communication addresses, one or more user attributes of a user associated with a communication address (e.g., an identifier), and other details related to the impact of a boundary modification.","Reporting module  may generate one or more reports containing one or more communication addresses, indicators of equipment to be associated with communication addresses as a result of a modification to a geographic boundary, indicators of equipment currently associated with communication addresses, identifiers of users associated with communication addresses, and geographical addresses associated with communication addresses. One or more indicators of equipment may be Common Language Location Identifier (CLLI) codes or may contain CLLI codes. Reporting module  may distribute reports by one or more methods including, but not limited to, email, posting to a website, XML, FTP, and via printing.","According to one or more embodiments, reporting module  may allow the distribution of a report to one or more users who may review proposed network provisioning changes associated with a response boundary prior to network changes. If a report is approved by one or more users or reviewers, the provisioning changes may be sent to provisioning module .","According to one or more embodiments, provisioning module  may receive a report from reporting module  and may extract one or more portions of data to generate provisioning commands. Provisioning module  may receive data associated with network elements to be provisioned to associate one or more communication addresses with a response center boundary. For example, provisioning module  may receive data associated with a communication address (e.g., a telephone number) and data associated with one or more network elements (e.g., a switch or a SIP server). Provisioning module  may also receive or generate configuration information. According to some embodiments, some configuration information may be based at least in part on a current configuration (e.g., the service level and telephone number may be the same as a prior configuration, but a redirect server or network server associated with the telephone number may change based on a PSAP boundary change).","Provisioning module  may also contain or be integrated with other components or systems such as a workflow management system. The workflow management system may handle sequencing and flow between provisioning tasks (e.g., ensuring that a switch is configured prior to configuring a SIP server or a redirect server to transfer calls to that switch). Provisioning module  may generate commands using telnet, FTP, SNMP (Simple Network Management Protocol), or other protocols to communicate with one or more network elements. Provisioning module  may use Service Oriented Architecture (SOA), TCL\/TK (Tool Command Language\/Tool Kit), and other technologies for network provisioning.","The error handling module  may respond to one or more errors created by parsing module , mapping module , map analysis module , reporting module , and provisioning module . The error handling module  may provide error trapping and one or more error handling actions. In some embodiments, the error handling module  may provide information about errors occurring during parsing of received data, identification of response centers, mapping of response center boundaries, generation of reports, and provisioning of network changes. Error handling module  may provide alerts, may allow retrying of an action (e.g., provisioning a network element), and may allow rollback to a prior configuration.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 3","FIG. 1","FIG. 3","FIG. 3","FIG. 3"],"b":["300","300","300","300","100","100","300","300","300","302"]},"At block , response center data may be received and parsed. Data may be received by one or more interfaces. Parsing of data may be performed by computer , parsing module , or another network element.","At block , parsed response center data may be converted into mapped data. Identified geographic information may be used to create a map of response center boundaries or to modify and existing map of response center boundaries. Mapped data may be stored or retrieved from electronic storage such as storage .","At block , mapped data may be compared against user data. For example, user data, subscriber data, or customer data may be searched for geographic information associated with a communication address (e.g., a street address associated with a telephone number). Addresses associated with communication addresses (e.g., phone numbers) may be compared with changes in response center boundaries to determine whether any communication addresses are affected by a change in response center boundaries. For example, an address associated with a phone number may be converted to coordinates to determine whether the coordinates lie within a changed area of a response center boundary. Coordinates may also be plotted on a map.","At block , the method  may determine whether any users are affected by changes in response center boundaries. If one or more users are affected the method  may continue at block . If no users are affected the method may end at block . According to some embodiments, even if no users are affected a report may be generated providing information about response centers affected and boundary changes.","At block , provisioning data may be generated for one or more users affected by response center boundary changes. Provisioning data may include, by way of non-limiting example, indicators of equipment to be associated with communication addresses as a result of a modification to a geographic boundary, indicators of equipment currently associated with communication addresses, network addresses for equipment, CLLI codes associated with equipment, provisioning commands, scripts, provisioning interface information, equipment configuration information, and credential information.","At block , one or more reports may be generated containing data such as, for example, one or more communication addresses, indicators of equipment to be associated with communication addresses as a result of a modification to a geographic boundary, indicators of equipment currently associated with communication addresses, identifiers of users associated with communication addresses, and geographical addresses associated with communication addresses. One or more indicators of equipment may be Common Language Location Identifier (CLLI) codes or may contain CLLI codes. Reports may be distributed by one or more methods including, but not limited to, email, posting to a website, XML, FTP, and via printing. According to some embodiments, one or more reports may contain maps indicating response boundary changes and addresses associated with phone numbers of users.","At block , the method  may determine whether a provisioning report is approved. A provisioning report may be distributed for approval to a network management group, a network translations group, or other administrative entity responsible for overseeing response center network administration. If the report is approved, the method  may continue at block . If the report is not approved, the method  may continue at block .","At block , provisioning data may be edited. For example, a report may be rejected because of a network capacity issue on a SIP server, switch, trunk group or other network element that a communication address (e.g., a telephone number) is to be migrated to. Provisioning data may be edited to migrate the communication address to a different SIP server, switch, trunk group, or other network element. Other identified issues with proposed provisioning data, existing provisioning data, customer information, or other report items may be edited.","At block  one or more provisioning changes may be processed. Provisioning may use provisioning data generated in block . Provisioning may use telnet, SNMP (Simple Network Management Protocol), or other protocols to communicate with one or more network elements. Provisioning may use Service Oriented Architecture (SOA), TCL\/TK (Tool Command Language\/Tool Kit), and other technologies for network provisioning. According to one or more embodiments, provisioning may be comprised of a plurality of provisioning systems managed by an activation manager or workflow system. For example, a workflow system may generate tasks to be completed by a plurality of provisioning systems and sequences for the provisioning tasks. According to some embodiments, some provisioning tasks may occur concurrently. Some provisioning tasks may be dependent upon the successful completion of other provisioning tasks. Separate, integrated, or interfaced provisioning systems may include, for example, a provisioning system for VoIP associated network elements, a provisioning system for network switches, and a provisioning system for redirect servers, SIP servers, and network servers. At block , the method may end.","In the preceding specification, various preferred embodiments have been described with reference to the accompanying drawings. It will, however, be evident that various modifications and changes may be made thereto, and additional embodiments may be implemented, without departing from the broader scope of the invention as set forth in the claims that follow. The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than restrictive sense."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The present invention, together with further objects and advantages, may best be understood by reference to the following description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings, in the several figures of which like reference numerals identify like elements, and in which:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0004","num":"0003"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0005","num":"0004"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0006","num":"0005"},"figref":"FIG. 3"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
