---
title: Intra-frequency cell reselection restriction in wireless communications
abstract: Systems and methodologies are described that facilitate utilizing reselection indicators in reselecting access points in wireless communications. In particular, an indicator can be provided relating to a restricted association access point that specifies whether intra-frequency reselection is allowed. If so, a mobile device receiving the indicator can reselect to other access points, to which it has access, operating in a similar frequency. If not, the mobile device can evaluate access points in other frequencies so as not to cause substantial interference to the restricted association access point. In addition, a predicted level of interference caused by communicating with an intra-frequency access point can be computed and evaluated to override the reselection indicator, in some cases. Thus, a restricted association access point can control reselection for some devices to mitigate interference while allowing the devices to override prohibitive restricted access points.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08285285&OS=08285285&RS=08285285
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 08285285
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20090331
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CLAIM OF PRIORITY UNDER 35 U.S.C. \u00a7119","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["The present Application for Patent claims priority to Provisional Application No. 61\/087,534 entitled \u201cINTRA-FREQUENCY CELL RESELECTION RESTRICTION IN CASE OF MACRO CELL MIXED CARRIER\u201d filed Aug. 8, 2008, and assigned to the assignee hereof and hereby expressly incorporated by reference herein as well as Provisional Application No. 61\/112,219 entitled \u201cMETHOD AND APPARATUS FOR SENDING AN INTRA-FREQUENCY RESELECTION OVERRIDE FOR IDLE MOBILITY\u201d filed Nov. 7, 2008, and assigned to the assignee hereof and hereby expressly incorporated by reference herein.","1. Field","The following description relates generally to wireless communications, and more particularly to restricting intra-frequency cell reselection.","2. Background","Wireless communication systems are widely deployed to provide various types of communication content such as, for example, voice, data, and so on. Typical wireless communication systems may be multiple-access systems capable of supporting communication with multiple users by sharing available system resources (e.g., bandwidth, transmit power, . . . ). Examples of such multiple-access systems may include code division multiple access (CDMA) systems, time division multiple access (TDMA) systems, frequency division multiple access (FDMA) systems, orthogonal frequency division multiple access (OFDMA) systems, and the like. Additionally, the systems can conform to specifications such as third generation partnership project (3GPP), 3GPP long term evolution (LTE), ultra mobile broadband (UMB), and\/or multi-carrier wireless specifications such as evolution data optimized (EV-DO), one or more revisions thereof, etc.","Generally, wireless multiple-access communication systems may simultaneously support communication for multiple mobile devices. Each mobile device may communicate with one or more access points (e.g., base stations) via transmissions on forward and reverse links. The forward link (or downlink) refers to the communication link from access points to mobile devices, and the reverse link (or uplink) refers to the communication link from mobile devices to access points. Further, communications between mobile devices and access points may be established via single-input single-output (SISO) systems, multiple-input single-output (MISO) systems, multiple-input multiple-output (MIMO) systems, and so forth. In addition, mobile devices can communicate with other mobile devices (and\/or access points with other access points) in peer-to-peer wireless network configurations.","Mobile devices can travel throughout a wireless network reselecting various access points for communication to effectuate a seamless connection to the wireless network. In addition, neighboring access points of varying type can be deployed on common frequencies in the wireless network. For example, a mobile device communicating with a macrocell base station can reselect to a neighboring intra-frequency femtocell upon moving within range of the femtocell. In selecting an access point for reselection, the mobile device can measure surrounding intra-frequency access points and choose an access point with desirable communication parameters (e.g., signal strength, signal quality, etc.).","Some access points, however, can implement restricted association such that certain mobile devices are unable to connect to the access point. Where a mobile device determines that it cannot connect to a most desirable access point in reselection due to restricted association, it can evaluate a next most desirable access point until it encounters one to which it can connect. This, however, can cause interference over the restricted association access point since the mobile device can be located near the restricted association access point, communicating with the next most desirable access point. In extreme cases, where interference from the mobile device is strong, this can inhibit other devices communicating with the restricted association access point.","The following presents a simplified summary of one or more aspects in order to provide a basic understanding of such aspects. This summary is not an extensive overview of all contemplated aspects, and is intended to neither identify key or critical elements of all aspects nor delineate the scope of any or all aspects. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts of one or more aspects in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.","In accordance with one or more aspects and corresponding disclosure thereof, various aspects are described in connection with facilitating restricting intra-frequency reselection in wireless communications. For example, when analyzing or ranking access points for reselection from a current access point, a mobile device can evaluate an indicator to determine whether intra-frequency reselection is allowed by a restricted association access point (which can be the current access point and\/or a disparate highly ranked access point, in one example). Where intra-frequency reselection is allowed, the mobile device can reselect to a highest ranked selectable access points. Where intra-frequency reselection is not allowed, the mobile device cannot reselect to access points that operate on the same frequency; this can be subject to additional considerations, however. For example, the mobile device can determine its projected interference in communicating with the highest ranked selectable access point and ignore intra-frequency reselection restriction specified by the current access point where the projected interference is below a threshold. In addition, evaluation of the restriction indicator can occur according to a timer to determine when the mobile device can reselect. Moreover, the indicator can be global and\/or specific to the mobile device, in one example.","According to related aspects, a method is provided including receiving a reselection indicator related to a restricted association access point that specifies whether intra-frequency reselection is allowed. The method also includes receiving an offset related to predicting interference caused to the restricted association access point by communicating with a target access point that operates in a similar frequency region as the restricted association access point and determining whether to select the target access point that operates in a similar frequency region as the restricted association access point based on the reselection indicator and the offset.","Another aspect relates to a wireless communications apparatus. The wireless communications apparatus can include at least one processor configured to obtain a reselection indicator related to a restricted association access point that specifies whether intra-frequency access point reselection is allowed. The processor is further configured to receive an offset related to potential interference caused from communicating with a target access point that operates in a similar frequency region as the restricted association access point and determine whether to select the target access point based at least in part on the reselection indicator and the offset. The wireless communications apparatus also comprises a memory coupled to the at least one processor.","Yet another aspect relates to a wireless communications apparatus comprising means for receiving a reselection indicator related to a restricted association access point that specifies whether intra-frequency reselection is allowed and means for obtaining an offset related to communicating with a target access point. The wireless communications apparatus can additionally include means for determining whether to select the target access point based at least in part on the reselection indicator and the offset.","Still another aspect relates to a computer program product, which can have a computer-readable medium including code for causing at least one computer to receive a reselection indicator related to a restricted association access point that specifies whether intra-frequency reselection is allowed. The computer-readable medium can also comprise code for causing the at least one computer to receive an offset related to predicting interference caused to the restricted association access point by communicating with a target access point that operates in a similar frequency region as the restricted association access point. Moreover, the computer-readable medium includes code for causing the at least one computer to determine whether to select the target access point based on the reselection indicator and the offset.","Moreover, an additional aspect relates to an apparatus. The apparatus can include a reselection indicator receiving component that obtains a reselection indicator related to a restricted association access point that specifies whether intra-frequency reselection is allowed. The apparatus can further include an interference prediction component that receives an offset related to interference caused by communicating with a target access point that operates in a similar frequency range as the restricted association access point and an access point reselection component that determines whether to select a target access point based at least in part on the reselection indicator and the offset.","According to other aspects, a method is provided including communicating with an access point to facilitate accessing a wireless network and evaluating a reselection indicator related to a restricted association access point in the wireless network that specifies whether intra-frequency reselection is allowed. The method also includes analyzing disparate access points in a disparate frequency for reselection based at least in part on the reselection indicator.","Another aspect relates to a wireless communications apparatus. The wireless communications apparatus can include at least one processor configured to receive wireless network access from an access point and evaluate a reselection indicator related to a restricted association access point in the wireless network that specifies whether intra-frequency reselection is allowed. The processor is further configured to analyze disparate access points in a disparate frequency for reselection based at least in part on the reselection indicator. The wireless communications apparatus also comprises a memory coupled to the at least one processor.","Yet another aspect relates to a wireless communications apparatus comprising means for communicating with an access point to facilitate accessing a wireless network and means for receiving a reselection indicator related to a restricted association access point in the wireless network that specifies whether intra-frequency reselection is allowed. The wireless communications apparatus can additionally include means for analyzing disparate access points in a disparate frequency or technology for reselection based at least in part on the reselection indicator.","Still another aspect relates to a computer program product, which can have a computer-readable medium including code for causing at least one computer to communicate with an access point to facilitate accessing a wireless network. The computer-readable medium can also comprise code for causing the at least one computer to evaluate a reselection indicator related to a restricted association access point in the wireless network that specifies whether intra-frequency reselection is allowed and code for causing the at least one computer to analyze disparate access points in a disparate frequency for reselection based at least in part on the reselection indicator.","Moreover, an additional aspect relates to an apparatus. The apparatus can include a reselection indicator receiving component that receives a reselection indicator related to a restricted association access point in the wireless network that specifies whether intra-frequency reselection is allowed. The apparatus can further include an access point reselection component that evaluates disparate access points in a disparate frequency or technology for reselection from a current access point based at least in part on the reselection indicator.","According to other aspects, a method is provided including providing one or more sectors selectable by one or more mobile devices for receiving access to a wireless network. The method also includes transmitting a reselection indicator to one or more mobile devices in the one or more sectors that specifies whether intra-frequency reselection is allowed for disparate access points in the one or more sectors.","Another aspect relates to a wireless communications apparatus. The wireless communications apparatus can include at least one processor configured to implement one or more sectors selectable by one or more mobile devices for receiving access to a wireless network. The processor is further configured to provide a reselection indicator to one or more mobile devices in the one or more sectors that specifies whether intra-frequency reselection is allowed for disparate access points in the one or more sectors. The wireless communications apparatus also comprises a memory coupled to the at least one processor.","Yet another aspect relates to a wireless communications apparatus comprising means for communicating with one or more mobile devices in a provided sector to provide access to a wireless network. The wireless communications apparatus can additionally include means for transmitting a reselection indicator to the one or more mobile devices that specifies whether intra-frequency reselection is allowed for disparate access points in the one or more sectors.","Still another aspect relates to a computer program product, which can have a computer-readable medium including code for causing at least one computer to provide one or more sectors selectable by one or more mobile devices for receiving access to a wireless network. The computer-readable medium can also comprise code for causing the at least one computer to transmit a reselection indicator to one or more mobile devices in the one or more sectors that specifies whether intra-frequency reselection is allowed for disparate access points in the one or more sectors.","Moreover, an additional aspect relates to an apparatus. The apparatus can include a transmitter for communicating with one or more mobile devices in a provided sector to provide access to a wireless network. The apparatus can further include a reselection indicator component that provides a reselection indicator to the one or more mobile devices specifying whether intra-frequency reselection is allowed for disparate access points in the one or more sectors.","According to other aspects, a method is provided including providing one or more sectors selectable by one or more mobile devices for receiving access to a wireless network. The method also includes transmitting an offset to a mobile device relating to overriding a reselection indicator received from a restricted association access point that specifies whether intra-frequency reselection is allowed.","Another aspect relates to a wireless communications apparatus. The wireless communications apparatus can include at least one processor configured to implement one or more sectors selectable by one or more mobile devices for receiving access to a wireless network. The processor is further configured to provide an offset to a mobile device relating to overriding a reselection indicator received from a restricted association access point that specifies whether intra-frequency reselection is allowed. The wireless communications apparatus also comprises a memory coupled to the at least one processor.","Yet another aspect relates to a wireless communications apparatus comprising means for communicating with one or more mobile devices in a wireless network. The wireless communications apparatus can additionally include means for transmitting an offset to a mobile device relating to overriding a reselection indicator received from a restricted association access point that specifies whether intra-frequency reselection is allowed.","Still another aspect relates to a computer program product, which can have a computer-readable medium including code for causing at least one computer to provide one or more sectors selectable by one or more mobile devices for receiving access to a wireless network. The computer-readable medium can also comprise code for causing at least one computer to transmit an offset to a mobile device relating to overriding a reselection indicator received from a restricted association access point that specifies whether intra-frequency reselection is allowed.","Moreover, an additional aspect relates to an apparatus. The apparatus can include a transmitter for communicating with one or more mobile devices in a wireless network. The apparatus can further include an interference offset component that transmits an offset to a mobile device relating to overriding a reselection indicator received from a restricted association access point that specifies whether intra-frequency reselection is allowed.","To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends, the one or more aspects comprise the features hereinafter fully described and particularly pointed out in the claims. The following description and the annexed drawings set forth in detail certain illustrative features of the one or more aspects. These features are indicative, however, of but a few of the various ways in which the principles of various aspects may be employed and this description is intended to include all such aspects and their equivalents.","Various aspects are now described with reference to the drawings. In the following description, for purposes of explanation, numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of one or more aspects. It may be evident, however, that such aspect(s) may be practiced without these specific details.","As used in this application, the terms \u201ccomponent,\u201d \u201cmodule,\u201d \u201csystem\u201d and the like are intended to include a computer-related entity, such as but not limited to hardware, firmware, a combination of hardware and software, software, or software in execution. For example, a component may be, but is not limited to being, a process running on a processor, a processor, an object, an executable, a thread of execution, a program, and\/or a computer. By way of illustration, both an application running on a computing device and the computing device can be a component. One or more components can reside within a process and\/or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and\/or distributed between two or more computers. In addition, these components can execute from various computer readable media having various data structures stored thereon. The components may communicate by way of local and\/or remote processes such as in accordance with a signal having one or more data packets, such as data from one component interacting with another component in a local system, distributed system, and\/or across a network such as the Internet with other systems by way of the signal.","Furthermore, various aspects are described herein in connection with a terminal, which can be a wired terminal or a wireless terminal. A terminal can also be called a system, device, subscriber unit, subscriber station, mobile station, mobile, mobile device, remote station, remote terminal, access terminal, user terminal, terminal, communication device, user agent, user device, or user equipment (UE). A wireless terminal may be a cellular telephone, a satellite phone, a cordless telephone, a Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) phone, a wireless local loop (WLL) station, a personal digital assistant (PDA), a handheld device having wireless connection capability, a computing device, or other processing devices connected to a wireless modem. Moreover, various aspects are described herein in connection with a base station. A base station may be utilized for communicating with wireless terminal(s) and may also be referred to as an access point, a Node B, or some other terminology.","Moreover, the term \u201cor\u201d is intended to mean an inclusive \u201cor\u201d rather than an exclusive \u201cor.\u201d That is, unless specified otherwise, or clear from the context, the phrase \u201cX employs A or B\u201d is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is, the phrase \u201cX employs A or B\u201d is satisfied by any of the following instances: X employs A; X employs B; or X employs both A and B. In addition, the articles \u201ca\u201d and \u201can\u201d as used in this application and the appended claims should generally be construed to mean \u201cone or more\u201d unless specified otherwise or clear from the context to be directed to a singular form.","The techniques described herein may be used for various wireless communication systems such as CDMA, TDMA, FDMA, OFDMA, SC-FDMA and other systems. The terms \u201csystem\u201d and \u201cnetwork\u201d are often used interchangeably. A CDMA system may implement a radio technology such as Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (UTRA), cdma2000, etc. UTRA includes Wideband-CDMA (W-CDMA) and other variants of CDMA. Further, cdma2000 covers IS-2000, IS-95 and IS-856 standards. A TDMA system may implement a radio technology such as Global System for Mobile Communications (GSM). An OFDMA system may implement a radio technology such as Evolved UTRA (E-UTRA), Ultra Mobile Broadband (UMB), IEEE 802.11 (Wi-Fi), IEEE 802.16 (WiMAX), IEEE 802.20, Flash-OFDM, etc. UTRA and E-UTRA are part of Universal Mobile Telecommunication System (UMTS). 3GPP Long Term Evolution (LTE) is a release of UMTS that uses E-UTRA, which employs OFDMA on the downlink and SC-FDMA on the uplink. UTRA, E-UTRA, UMTS, LTE and GSM are described in documents from an organization named \u201c3rd Generation Partnership Project\u201d (3GPP). Additionally, cdma2000 and UMB are described in documents from an organization named \u201c3rd Generation Partnership Project 2\u201d (3GPP2). Further, such wireless communication systems may additionally include peer-to-peer (e.g., mobile-to-mobile) ad hoc network systems often using unpaired unlicensed spectrums, 802.xx wireless LAN, BLUETOOTH and any other short- or long-range, wireless communication techniques.","Various aspects or features will be presented in terms of systems that may include a number of devices, components, modules, and the like. It is to be understood and appreciated that the various systems may include additional devices, components, modules, etc. and\/or may not include all of the devices, components, modules etc. discussed in connection with the figures. A combination of these approaches may also be used.","Referring now to , a wireless communication system  is illustrated in accordance with various embodiments presented herein. System  comprises a base station  that can include multiple antenna groups. For example, one antenna group can include antennas  and , another group can comprise antennas  and  , and an additional group can include antennas  and . Two antennas are illustrated for each antenna group; however, more or fewer antennas can be utilized for each group. Base station  can additionally include a transmitter chain and a receiver chain, each of which can in turn comprise a plurality of components associated with signal transmission and reception (e.g., processors, modulators, multiplexers, demodulators, demultiplexers, antennas, etc.), as will be appreciated by one skilled in the art.","Base station  can communicate with one or more mobile devices such as mobile device  and mobile device ; however, it is to be appreciated that base station  can communicate with substantially any number of mobile devices similar to mobile devices  and . Mobile devices  and  can be, for example, cellular phones, smart phones, laptops, handheld communication devices, handheld computing devices, satellite radios, global positioning systems, PDAs, and\/or any other suitable device for communicating over wireless communication system . As depicted, mobile device  is in communication with antennas  and , where antennas  and  transmit information to mobile device  over a forward link  and receive information from mobile device  over a reverse link . Moreover, mobile device  is in communication with antennas  and , where antennas  and  transmit information to mobile device  over a forward link  and receive information from mobile device  over a reverse link . In a frequency division duplex (FDD) system, forward link  can utilize a different frequency band than that used by reverse link , and forward link  can employ a different frequency band than that employed by reverse link , for example. Further, in a time division duplex (TDD) system, forward link  and reverse link  can utilize a common frequency band and forward link  and reverse link  can utilize a common frequency band.","Each group of antennas and\/or the area in which they are designated to communicate can be referred to as a sector of base station . For example, antenna groups can be designed to communicate to mobile devices in a sector of the areas covered by base station . In communication over forward links  and , the transmitting antennas of base station  can utilize beamforming to improve signal-to-noise ratio of forward links  and  for mobile devices  and . Also, while base station  utilizes beamforming to transmit to mobile devices  and  scattered randomly through an associated coverage, mobile devices in neighboring cells can be subject to less interference as compared to a base station transmitting through a single antenna to all its mobile devices. Moreover, mobile devices  and  can communicate directly with one another using a peer-to-peer or ad hoc technology (not shown).","According to an example, system  can be a multiple-input multiple-output (MIMO) communication system. Further, system  can utilize substantially any type of duplexing technique to divide communication channels (e.g., forward link, reverse link, . . . ) such as FDD, FDM, TDD, TDM, CDM, and the like. In addition, communication channels can be orthogonalized to allow simultaneous communication with multiple devices over the channels; in one example, OFDM can be utilized in this regard. Thus, the channels can be divided into portions of frequency over a period of time. In addition, frames can be defined as the portions of frequency over a collection of time periods; thus, for example, a frame can comprise a number of OFDM symbols. The base station  can communicate to the mobile devices  and  over the channels, which can be create for various types of data. For example, channels can be created for communicating various types of general communication data, control data (e.g., quality information for other channels, acknowledgement indicators for data received over channels, interference information, reference signals, etc.), and\/or the like.","In one example, the base station  can be a macrocell base station, femtocell access point, picocell access point, relay node, and\/or the like. Additionally, a smaller-scale access point  is provided, which can be a femtocell access point, picocell access point, relay node, and\/or the like. In one example, the smaller-scale access point  can communicate with mobile devices using similar technology to that of the base station . For example, the smaller-scale access point  can define channels over radio communication as well and can communicate with mobile devices over a forward link while receiving communication over a reverse link. In one example, mobile devices  and\/or  can travel around the base station  and reselect to the smaller-scale access point  when in-range. Mobile devices  and\/or  can reselect access points by measuring surrounding access points to determine when one or more surrounding access points can provide a level of communication more desirable than a current access point (e.g., based on signal strength, services offered, etc.). After measuring, the mobile devices  and\/or  can rank the access points to determine a most desirable access point; if that access point is other than the current, the mobile devices  and\/or  can attempt reselection to the access point. In an example, however, the smaller-scale access point  can implement restricted association such that some mobile devices may not connect to the smaller-scale access point . In such cases, the mobile devices  and\/or  can attempt to connect to a next-best access point if different from the current access point; in this example, if the mobile devices  and\/or  cannot connect to smaller-scale access point  though it is the determined best access point, they continue communicating with the base station .","Communicating with a next-best access point, however, can in some cases cause substantial interference to the best access point when the next-best access point operates in the same frequency space, especially where the mobile devices are close proximity of the best access point. In this regard, the mobile devices  and\/or  can receive a reselection indicator related to the smaller-scale access point  that specifies whether the mobile devices  and\/or  can perform intra-frequency reselection (or continue to communicate for that matter) to the base station  and\/or one or more disparate access points (not shown). As described herein, this can allow the smaller-scale access point  to mitigate potential interference from the mobile devices  and\/or  caused by communicating with base station  or disparate access points in the same or similar frequency space.","It is to be appreciated that the mobile devices  and\/or  can additionally verify the indicator where the smaller-scale access point  is a next-best access point and the base station  is the best access point. This can be the case where the base station  is a macrocell base station as such communication can have high power as compared to communication with a smaller-scale access point . The indicator can be general and\/or specific to each mobile device  and\/or . In addition, the indicator can be provided by the smaller-scale access point (e.g. during measurement for reselection), base station , a disparate access point, a core wireless network, inferred by the mobile device \/, and\/or the like. For example, where the mobile devices  and\/or  desire reselection, if the indicator is set to forbid reselection, the mobile devices  and\/or  can set a timer to continually check the indicator related to the smaller-scale access point  for modification.","Once the indicator is set to allow reselection, the mobile devices  and\/or  can select (e.g., reselect, camp on, etc.) one or more surrounding access points for receiving access to the wireless network (and\/or continue to communicate with the one or more surrounding access points, such as base station  in this example). In the meantime, for example, the mobile devices  and\/or  can have reselected an access point in a different frequency or of a different technology and can reselect to a highest ranked surrounding access point, to which connection is allowed, upon determining the indicator set to allow intra-frequency reselection. In another example, the mobile devices  and\/or  can ignore the indicator where predicted or actual interference caused by the mobile devices  and\/or  is below a threshold level. In this example, the mobile devices  and\/or  can determine a predicted or actual level of interference for communicating with one or more of the surrounding access points. A threshold level can be set for the mobile device, and if the predicted or actual level is less than the threshold, the mobile device  and\/or  can reselect to another access point and\/or continue communicating with the access point.","It is to be appreciated that the predicted level can be access point specific, in one example. Though the mobile device  and\/or  may be forbidden to perform intra-frequency reselection according to the above, it can still in some cases reselect access points that operate outside of the frequency, as those access points likely do not cause substantial interference to the smaller-scale access point . It is to be appreciated that similar functionality can be implemented for the base station  to control mobile device  and\/or  communication with one or more surrounding access points (e.g., smaller-scale access point  or others).","Now referring to , a wireless communication system  configured to support a number of mobile devices is illustrated. The system  provides communication for multiple cells, such as for example, macrocells A-G, with each cell being serviced by a corresponding access point A-G. As described previously, for instance, the access points A-G related to the macrocells A-G can be base stations. Mobile devices A-I are shown dispersed at various locations throughout the wireless communication system . Each mobile device A-I can communicate with one or more access points A-G on a forward link and\/or a reverse link, as described. In addition, access points A-C are shown. These can be smaller scale access points, such as femtocell access points, picocell access points, relay nodes, mobile base stations, and\/or the like, offering services related to a particular service location, as described. The mobile devices A-I can additionally or alternatively communicate with these smaller scale access points A-C to receive offered services. The wireless communication system  can provide service over a large geographic region, in one example (e.g., macrocells A-G can cover a few blocks in a neighborhood, and the smaller scale access points A - C can be present in areas such as residences, office buildings, and\/or the like as described). In an example, the mobile devices A-I can establish connection with the access points A-G and\/or A-C over the air and\/or over a backhaul connection.","Additionally, as shown, the mobile devices A-I can travel throughout the system  and can reselect cells related to the various access points A-G and\/or A-C as it moves through the different macrocells A-G or femtocell coverage areas. Reselection can include measuring surrounding access points (or related cells), ranking the access points based on the measurement, and attempting to handover communication to the highest ranked access point from a current access point. Reselection, in addition, can occur while a mobile device is in an idle or active mode. Thus, for example, mobile device D can be currently communicating with access point C while continually measuring surrounding access points for reselection (e.g., based on a timer). While measuring, access points D and\/or C can become higher ranked than access point C as the mobile device D moves closer to the disparate access points. When this occurs, the mobile device D can reselect to the highest ranked access point.","In some cases, however, the mobile device D may not be able to connect to the highest ranked access point. In one example, access point C can be a restricted association access point, such that only certain mobile devices can connect. In this regard, access point C can provide a closed subscriber group (CSG) identifier. In an example, mobile devices can store lists of CSGs that they can and\/or cannot access. If access point C implements restricted association, for example, and the mobile device D determines that it is not allowed to access the access point C, then the mobile device D can reselect to the next highest ranked selectable access point (e.g., or continue communicating with access point C where it is the next highest ranked). In one example, the mobile device D can measure only access points operating in a similar or same frequency as a current access point C or at least measure such access points before measuring out of frequency.","According to an example, mobile device D can receive an intra-frequency reselection indicator related to access point C. As described, the indicator can specify whether the mobile device D can communicate with intra-frequency access points to mitigate substantial interference to the access point C. The mobile device D can receive the indicator from the access point C (e.g., during measurement), from access point D, which specifies indicators for access points in the cell D, or it can be inferred from by the mobile device D, and\/or the like. Where the indicator is set so as not to allow intra-frequency reselection or communication to one or more surrounding access points and the mobile device D is not allowed to connect to the access point C (e.g., due to restricted association), the mobile device D can measure access points out of frequency (not shown) to attempt reselection thereto. As described, the mobile device D need not be attempting reselection to receive the indicator and accordingly reselect out of frequency, but rather the mobile device D can be communicating with an access point that causes interference to the access point C. It is also possible that the indicator specifies that intra-frequency reselection is allowed, in which case the mobile device D can reselect to the highest ranked access point it can, or continue communication with access point C where it is the highest ranked selectable access point.","In one example, the mobile device D can recheck the indicator, or other parameters of the access point C, according to a timer. Where the indicator changes from not allowed to allowed, for example, the mobile device D can reselect to an intra-frequency access point. In addition, the mobile device D can override the indicator based on determining a predicted or actual amount of interference caused by communicating with the intra-frequency access point. For example, the mobile device D can predict an amount of interference based on one or more offset parameters, which can be signaled from an underlying network, specified by access point D for all access points in the cell D, and\/or the like. This can protect the mobile device D from indicator abuse or malfunction by the access point C, for example.","In another example, the mobile device D can also determine a number of access points to measure, attempt connection to based on the indicators, and override the indicator before moving out of frequency or over to a different technology (e.g., 3GPP to GSM) for reselection. Moreover, as mentioned above, the mobile device D can receive the indicator for access point C and other access points in the cell D from the macrocell access point D. It is to be appreciated that the access point serving the indicator need not be a macrocell. The indicator can be generic to substantially all access points in the cell D. Thus, where the mobile device D receives the indicator from the access point C, it can assume that it cannot perform intra-frequency reselection at that point in time, which saves power on the mobile device D since it does not need to query other access points for respective indicators. In another example, however, the mobile device D can read the indicators from other access points, and resolution can be performed by the mobile device D where conflicting indicators are received (e.g., as coded in the mobile device D, received from the underlying network, and\/or the like).","Turning to , illustrated is a communications apparatus  for employment within a wireless communications environment. The communications apparatus  can be an access point or a portion thereof, or substantially any communications apparatus that communicates over and\/or receives access to a wireless network. The communications apparatus  can include an access point measuring component  that evaluates surrounding access points for reselection, a reselection indicator receiving component  that obtains a reselection indicator related to an access point, and an interference prediction component  that calculates an interference level caused by communicating with a surrounding access point.","According to an example, the communications apparatus  can communicate with one or more access points in a wireless network (not shown). The communications apparatus  can communicate in an idle or active mode and can reselect access points as it moves throughout a wireless network coverage area. For example, the access point measuring component  can continually evaluate surrounding access points to determine one or more aspects thereof In one example, the access point measuring component  can determine signal strength of the access points, interference level, services offered, and\/or the like, and can rank the access points based on one or more measurements. In a reselection process, for example, the communications apparatus  can initiate reselection to the highest ranked access point where it differs from the current access point.","In addition, some access points can be restricted association access points such that one or more devices cannot connect to the access points. The access point measuring component  can acquire CSG information for surrounding access points when measuring and can determine whether the CSG information is in a list of forbidden or allowed access points. Where the access point measuring component  determines that connection to the access point is forbidden, it can consider lower ranked access points for reselection. In addition, the reselection indicator receiving component  can obtain a reselection indicator related to one or more surrounding access points. The indicator can be received from the access point, another surrounding access point, a core wireless network component, a mobile device, and\/or the like. In addition, the reselection indicator receiving component  can receive the indicator based on a request for the indicator, which can be caused by a timer, during access point measurement, during a reselection attempt, and\/or the like.","As described, the indicator can be related to whether the communications apparatus  is allowed to reselect to one or more disparate access points in the same or similar frequency space. Where the indicator does not allow such reselection, the communications apparatus  can continue communicating with a current access point, in one example, and the reselection indicator receiving component  can continue to obtain the indicator determining whether it has been modified to allow intra-frequency reselection. If the indicator changes, the communications apparatus  can reselect to one or more intra-frequency access points. In another example, the communications apparatus , when communicating with an access point, can require the reselection indicator receiving component  to obtain indicators related to restricted association access points that may not be the highest ranked. If one or more of the restricted association access point indicators specifies that intra-frequency reselection is not allowed, the communications apparatus  can be required to reselect an access point in a different frequency or using a different technology, as described.","Forced reselection on disparate frequencies, however, can be subject to one or more additional inquiries. For instance, the interference prediction component  can estimate an interference level caused by the communications apparatus  communicating with a disparate access point. In an example, the interference prediction component  can compute the interference based at least in part on an offset, which can be received from an underlying network in one example. In this regard, the interference prediction component  can measure reference signal received power (RSRP) for a restricted association access point and the next highest ranked access point (e.g., or receive the RSRPs from the access point measuring component ), for example. The mobile device D can use the following formula to determine whether to ignore the restricted association access point indicator:\n\n_neighborcell+Offset_neighborcell\n\nwhere RSRP_csg is the RSRP of the restricted association access point, RSRP_neighborcell is the RSRP of a current access point or one being evaluated for reselection, and Offset_neighborcell is the offset parameter described above, which can relate to the current access point or one being evaluated for reselection. If the above formula is satisfied, for example, the communications apparatus  can reselect to the evaluated access point or continue communicating with a current access point though they share frequency range with the restricted association access point.\n","According to another example, the access point measuring component  can evaluate multiple access points for reselection where at least some of the access points are restricted association access points that have indicators not allowing intra-frequency reselection for the communications apparatus . In this example, however, the interference prediction component  can override one or more of the restricted association access points using the formula described above. The interference prediction component  can set a limit, for example, for a number of consecutive overrides before the access point measuring component  measures access points on a different frequency and\/or technology. For example, where the best ranked access point is a restricted association access point inaccessible by the communications apparatus  and its indicator is set at allowed or can be overridden, the access point measuring component  can evaluate a next best ranked access point and so on until it reaches an access point to which it can connect. If the access point measuring component  evaluates the access points ranked higher than a N-best access point, and all are restricted association access points having allowed indicators or overridden indicators (as determined by the reselection indicator receiving component  and\/or interference prediction component , as described), the access point measuring component  can begin evaluating access points on a disparate frequency and\/or technology. N can be a positive integer, for example. In addition, the iterative evaluations in a given frequency can additionally or alternatively be time-based, and\/or the like.","Now referring to , illustrated is a wireless communications system  that facilitates utilizing reselection indicators to mitigate interference caused to restricted association access points. Wireless device  can be a mobile device (including not only independently powered devices, but also modems, for example), a base station, and\/or portion thereof, or substantially any wireless device. Access point  and\/or restricted association access point  can be base stations, femtocell access points, picocell access points, relay nodes, and\/or the like. Moreover, system  can be a MIMO system and\/or can conform to one or more wireless network system specifications (e.g., EV-DO, 3GPP, 3GPP2, 3GPP LTE, WiMAX, etc.) and can comprise additional components to facilitate communication between the wireless device  and access points \/.","The wireless device  can comprise an access point measuring component  that evaluates a plurality of surrounding access point to determine parameters related thereto, a reselection indicator receiving component  that can obtain a reselection indicator related to one or more access points specifying whether devices in-range of the access point(s) can perform intra-frequency reselection, an interference prediction component  that can estimate a level of interference caused by the wireless device  in communicating with one or more access points, a timer component  that can initialize and monitor one or more timers related to requesting a reselection indicator, and an access point reselection component  that can handover communication to a disparate access point (e.g., in an idle or active mode).","Access point  can comprise an interference offset component  that can specify an offset for overriding a reselection indicator, and access point  can comprise a reselection indicator component  that specifies a reselection indicator related to one or more access points in sector provided by the access point . The restricted association access point  can comprise a restricted association component  that indicates whether the restricted association access point  implements restricted association and a reselection indicator component  that specifies a reselection indicator for the restricted association access point , as described. It is to be appreciated that reselection indicator components  and  need not both be present, in one example.","According to an example, the wireless device  can communicate with the access point  to receive access to a wireless network. The access point measuring component  can evaluate surrounding access points for reselection by measuring one or more parameters related thereto, such as signal strength, in one example. The access point measuring component  can rank the access points according to the measured parameters, and the access point reselection component  can handover communication from the access point  to the highest ranked access point. As described, however, the highest ranked access point can implement restricted association, such as restricted association access point , such that the wireless device  cannot connect to the restricted association access point . In this example, as the access point measuring component  is evaluating restricted association access point , it can receive an indication of restricted association (such as a group identifier, restriction code, and\/or the like) from the restricted association component . The access point reselection component  can determine whether the access point can be connected to by determining whether the restricted association indication is present in a stored list of allowed access points, in one example.","In addition, the reselection indicator receiving component  can obtain a reselection indicator related to the restricted association access point  from reselection indicator component  and\/or . For example, the reselection indicator component  can provide indicators related to one or more access points in a sector provided by the access point . In this example, the access point  can be a macrocell access point, and the restricted association access point  can be located within the macrocell. The reselection indicator component  can provide a reselection indicator specific to the restricted association access point . It is to be appreciated that the reselection indicator receiving component  can receive the indicator from the reselection indicator component  and\/or the reselection indicator component . Where received from both, the reselection indicator receiving component  can resolve possible conflicts based on information hardcoded in the wireless device , received from an underlying wireless network, received from one or more of the access points  and\/or , and\/or the like. In either case, for example, the reselection indicator component  and\/or  can receive the indicator from an underlying wireless network, generate the indicator based at least in part on previous interference received from mobile devices communicating with disparate intra-frequency access points, and\/or the like.","In addition, the reselection indicator receiving component  can receive the indicator related to the restricted association access point  during measuring by the access point measuring component , based on a request from the reselection indicator receiving component  (or other component of the wireless device ), and\/or the like. Furthermore, a timer component  can be employed to generate such requests for the indicator. For example, upon discovery by the access point measuring component , a request can be generated for the indicator. Where the reselection indicator receiving component  receives the indicator (e.g., from reselection indicator component  and\/or ) and the indicator is set to not allow intra-frequency reselection, the timer component  can initialize a timer for a subsequent request for the indicator. In one example, where the indicator so indicates that intra-frequency reselection is not allowed, the access point reselection component  cannot reselect in within the frequency. Thus, the access point reselection component , where in an idle mode, can wait for expiry of the timer and\/or reselect in one or more different frequencies or over one or more different technologies, as described. If the access point reselection component  reselects to a cell in a disparate frequency, the timer component  can continue to run the timer so the reselection indicator receiving component  can continually check the indicator. In this regard, if the indicator switches to allow intra-frequency reselection, the access point reselection component  can reselect to the highest ranked cell in the frequency of the restricted association access point , in one example.","In another example, where the access point  is the highest ranked macrocell access point, the reselection indicator receiving component  can request the indicator related to the restricted association access point  regardless of reselection status. In this regard, the wireless device  communicating with the access point  can be causing substantial interference to the restricted association access point . Thus, in one example, the reselection indicator receiving component  can receive the indicator from the reselection indicator component , and where the indicator specifies that intra-frequency reselection is not allowed (e.g., and the access point  is in the same or similar frequency as restricted association access point ) the access point reselection component  can evaluate access points in other frequencies and\/or using other technologies for reselection. The reselection indicator receiving component  can receive the indicator based on a request, a timer, or otherwise. In one example, the reselection indicator component  can transmit the reselection indicator upon the restricted association access point  experiencing substantial interference.","According to another example, as described, the interference prediction component  can override a reselection indicator in one or more of the examples presented above. The interference prediction component  can estimate a level of interference caused to the restricted association access point  as a result of the wireless device  communicating with an intra-frequency access point. In one example, the interference prediction can be based at least in part on an offset received from the interference offset component . As described, for example, the interference prediction component  can utilize an algorithm including reference signal powers of the restricted association access point and intra-frequency access point as well as the offset to determine whether the indicator can be overridden. Thus, for example, where the reselection indicator receiving component  obtains an indicator related to the restricted association access point  specifying that intra-frequency reselection is not allowed, if the signal strength of the restricted association access point  is less than the signal strength of a target access point plus the offset, then the access point reselection component  can reselect the target access point regardless of the indicator. It is to be appreciated that the offset can be additionally or alternatively be received by other access points, the underlying wireless network, and\/or the like.","In another example, where the access point  is a macrocell access point highest ranked by the access point measuring component , the reselection indicator receiving component  can request the indicator related to the restricted association access point , as described, since the high transmission power can cause interference to the restricted association access point . In addition, the interference prediction component  can override the indicator in this case according to a similar formula, where a negative offset can be utilized. For example, where the reference signal power of the restricted association access point  is less than that of the access point  (which is the highest ranked access point) plus a negative offset, the indicator can be ignored, and the wireless device  can continue communicating with the access point . The offset in both cases can be a static or dynamic parameter received from the interference offset component , known by the interference prediction component , etc. It can be received and\/or requested according to the same or different timer kept by the timer component , for example.","Moreover, in an example, the wireless device  can evaluate multiple access points for reselection. Because the indicator can be overridden by the interference prediction component , and is access point specific, the access point measuring component  can continue measuring access points though the reselection indicator receiving component  can determine that it cannot override the indicator for one or more measured access points. In this regard, the access point reselection component  can receive a parameter relating to a number of access points to evaluate in a frequency without achieving reselection before it can switch frequencies and\/or technologies. For example, below is an example list of access point cells encountered by the access point reselection component .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0086","num":"0085"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00001","num":"00001"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"63pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"112pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":[{},{},"Intra-frequency cell"]},{"entry":["Cell ranking","Cell type","re-selection indicator"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":{}}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"4"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"63pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"70pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"42pt","align":"center"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["1","CSG","Not Allowed","Cell 1"]},{"entry":["2","CSG","Allowed","Cell 2"]},{"entry":["3","CSG","Allowed","Cell 3"]},{"entry":["4","Macro","N\/A","Cell 4"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}},"br":{},"b":["1","302","304","302","2","3","402","1","2","3","302","4","306","1","410","4","402","410","302","3","408","1","3","302"]},"Referring to , methodologies relating to utilizing reselection indicators to minimize interference for restricted association access points are illustrated. While, for purposes of simplicity of explanation, the methodologies are shown and described as a series of acts, it is to be understood and appreciated that the methodologies are not limited by the order of acts, as some acts may, in accordance with one or more aspects, occur in different orders and\/or concurrently with other acts from that shown and described herein. For example, those skilled in the art will understand and appreciate that a methodology could alternatively be represented as a series of interrelated states or events, such as in a state diagram. Moreover, not all illustrated acts may be required to implement a methodology in accordance with one or more aspects.","Turning to , an example methodology  that facilitates utilizing a reselection indicator during reselection is illustrated. At , one or more access points can be ranked for reselection. For example, one or more parameters relating to the access points can be measured, such as reference signal strength, level of interference, distance, etc. At , a reselection indicator related to the access point can be received. As described, the reselection indicator can specify whether reselection to an intra-frequency access point is allowed. At , it can be determined whether to reselect to a ranked access point based at least in part on the reselection indicator. As described, the determination can be further based at least in part on a predicted interference to the access point related to communicating with a disparate access point.","Referring to , an example methodology  is shown that facilitates evaluating a reselection indicator when communicating with an access point. At , wireless network access can be received by communicating with an access point. At , a reselection indicator related to a restricted association (RA) access point can be evaluated. The reselection indicator can be received from one or more access points, such as the access point providing wireless network access, the restricted association access point, and\/or the like, as described. Further the reselection indicator, in one example, can be received based on a timer. At , disparate access points in a different frequency or that use a different technology can be analyzed, and at , one or more of the disparate access point can be reselected based on the reselection indicator. Thus, for example, the restricted association access point can control communication with other access points to ensure it is not subject to substantial interference. As described, reselecting can be based further on a predicted interference to avoid against reselection indicators that are too strict.","Turning now to , an example methodology  is illustrated that facilitates utilizing reselection indicators in reselecting and communicating with access points. At , one or more access points can be ranked for reselection. As described, this can include measuring one or more parameters related thereto and ranking based on the parameters. At , a reselection indicator related to a restricted association access point can be received. This can be received in access point measurement, according to a timer, based on a request, and\/or the like. At  it can be determined whether the reselection indicator is set to allow intra-frequency reselection. If so, then the highest ranked selectable access point can be reselected, or in the case of current communication can continue communication, at . If not, then the RSRP of the restricted association access point can be determined at , along with the RSRP of the next-highest ranked selectable (e.g., if in a reselection mode) or current access point (e.g., if currently communicating to a macrocell base station) at .","At , an interference prediction offset can be received, as described, relating to interference caused to the restricted association access point by communicating with the next-highest ranked or current access point. In the case of current communication, as described, the offset can be negative. At , it is determined whether the RSRP of the restricted association access point is less than the RSRP of the selectable\/current access point plus the offset. If so, then the reselection indicator is ignored, and the highest ranked selectable access point can be reselected and\/or communication can continue at , as described. If not, then at , it can be determined whether a threshold number of access points have been checked against the formula in  without reselection. If not, the methodology continues at  to determine the RSRP of the next-highest ranked selectable access point. If so, then at  one or more access points operating in a different frequency range and\/or technology can be reselected. This mitigates interference to the restricted association access point. At , a reselection timer can be initialized and expiry can be waited for, at which point the methodology can continue to  to recheck the reselection indicator in case it has been modified.","Referring to , an example methodology  is depicted that facilitates transmitting reselection indicators to one or more mobile devices. At , one or more mobile devices can be communicated with to provide wireless network access. For example, a sector can be provided that allows mobile devices to connect and communicate with the wireless network. At , a reselection indicator can be received. In an example, the indicator can be received from an underlying wireless network, generated based on previous interference levels, and\/or the like. At , the reselection indicator can be transmitted to the one or more mobile devices for which network access is provided. The reselection indicator, as described, can specify whether intra-frequency reselection is allowed.","Turning to , an example methodology  is shown that generates an offset for overriding a reselection indicator, as described. At , one or more mobile devices can be communicated with to provide wireless network access. At , an offset for overriding a reselection indicator can be generated. The offset can be fixed or dynamic, based on the access point related to the reselection indicator, and\/or the like. Furthermore, the offset can be negative, for example, where one or more mobile devices are communicating with a highest ranked access point that is a macrocell. At , the offset can be transmitted to one or more mobile devices, as described.","It will be appreciated that, in accordance with one or more aspects described herein, inferences can be made regarding determining reselection indicators or related timers, overriding the reselection indicators, predicting interference caused from communication, generating offsets related to the predicted interference, and\/or the like. As used herein, the term to \u201cinfer\u201d or \u201cinference\u201d refers generally to the process of reasoning about or inferring states of the system, environment, and\/or user from a set of observations as captured via events and\/or data. Inference can be employed to identify a specific context or action, or can generate a probability distribution over states, for example. The inference can be probabilistic-that is, the computation of a probability distribution over states of interest based on a consideration of data and events. Inference can also refer to techniques employed for composing higher-level events from a set of events and\/or data. Such inference results in the construction of new events or actions from a set of observed events and\/or stored event data, whether or not the events are correlated in close temporal proximity, and whether the events and data come from one or several event and data sources.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0095","num":"0094"},"figref":"FIG. 10","b":["1000","1000","1002","1002","1004","1006","1006","1002","1018","1000","1002","1018","1000"]},"Mobile device  can additionally comprise memory  that is operatively coupled to processor  and that can store data to be transmitted, received data, information related to available channels, data associated with analyzed signal and\/or interference strength, information related to an assigned channel, power, rate, or the like, and any other suitable information for estimating a channel and communicating via the channel. Memory  can additionally store protocols and\/or algorithms associated with estimating and\/or utilizing a channel (e.g., performance based, capacity based, etc.).","It will be appreciated that the data store (e.g., memory ) described herein can be either volatile memory or nonvolatile memory, or can include both volatile and nonvolatile memory. By way of illustration, and not limitation, nonvolatile memory can include read only memory (ROM), programmable ROM (PROM), electrically programmable ROM (EPROM), electrically erasable PROM (EEPROM), or flash memory. Volatile memory can include random access memory (RAM), which acts as external cache memory. By way of illustration and not limitation, RAM is available in many forms such as synchronous RAM (SRAM), dynamic RAM (DRAM), synchronous DRAM (SDRAM), double data rate SDRAM (DDR SDRAM), enhanced SDRAM (ESDRAM), Synchlink DRAM (SLDRAM), and direct Rambus RAM (DRRAM). The memory  of the subject systems and methods is intended to comprise, without being limited to, these and any other suitable types of memory.","Receiver  and\/or processor  can further be operatively coupled to an indicator receiving component  that can obtain a reselection indicator related to a restricted association access point and an offset receiving component  that can receive a interference prediction offset, as described. In addition, the processor  can be coupled to a reselection component  that initiates access point reselection by measuring surrounding access points, ranking the access point according to one or more measured parameters, and reselecting to a highest ranked selectable access point. For example, the reselection component  can measure surrounding access points, and the indicator receiving component  can evaluate reselection indicators related to the surrounding access points, which can be received from the respective access points or a macrocell base station related to substantially all access points in a given sector, for example.","If encountered indicators specify that intra-frequency reselection is allowed, the reselection component  can reselect to the highest ranked selectable access point. If, however, an indicator specifies that intra-frequency reselection is not allowed, the offset receiving component  can obtain an offset, as described, and compute a predicted level of interference. If the level plus the offset is less than a power of the access point related to the indicator, the indicator can be ignored, as described, and the access point to which the offset relates can be reselected. In addition, the components described can be used to determine whether to reselect when communicating with the highest ranked macrocell base station, as described above, to determine a number of predicted interference level comparisons before switching frequencies, as described, timed reevaluation of the indicator, as described, and\/or the like. Mobile device  still further comprises a modulator  and transmitter  that respectively modulate and transmit signals to, for instance, a base station, another mobile device, etc. Although depicted as being separate from the processor , it is to be appreciated that the demodulator , indicator receiving component , offset receiving component , reselection component , and\/or modulator  can be part of the processor  or multiple processors (not shown).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0100","num":"0099"},"figref":["FIG. 11","FIG. 7"],"b":["1100","1100","1102","1110","1104","1106","1124","1104","1108","1110","1106","1112","1114","1116","1104","1114","1118","1120"]},"According to an example, reselection indicator component  can generate a reselection indicator, as described, which can be transmitted to the mobile devices  based on a request, timer, and\/or the like. In addition, the offset component  can generate an offset for computing predicted interference; the offset can be specified by an underlying wireless network, hardcoded, and\/or the like. The offset can similarly be transmitted to the mobile devices  to facilitate determining whether to override a reselection indicator related to a disparate access point. Furthermore, although depicted as being separate from the processor , it is to be appreciated that the demodulator , reselection indicator component , offset component , and\/or modulator  can be part of the processor  or multiple processors (not shown).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0102","num":"0101"},"figref":["FIG. 12","FIGS. 1-4","FIGS. 5-9"],"b":["1200","1200","1210","1250","1200","1210","1250","1210","1250","10","11"]},"At base station , traffic data for a number of data streams is provided from a data source  to a transmit (TX) data processor . According to an example, each data stream can be transmitted over a respective antenna. TX data processor  formats, codes, and interleaves the traffic data stream based on a particular coding scheme selected for that data stream to provide coded data.","The coded data for each data stream can be multiplexed with pilot data using orthogonal frequency division multiplexing (OFDM) techniques. Additionally or alternatively, the pilot symbols can be frequency division multiplexed (FDM), time division multiplexed (TDM), or code division multiplexed (CDM). The pilot data is typically a known data pattern that is processed in a known manner and can be used at mobile device  to estimate channel response. The multiplexed pilot and coded data for each data stream can be modulated (e.g., symbol mapped) based on a particular modulation scheme (e.g., binary phase-shift keying (BPSK), quadrature phase-shift keying (QPSK), M-phase-shift keying (M-PSK), M-quadrature amplitude modulation (M-QAM), etc.) selected for that data stream to provide modulation symbols. The data rate, coding, and modulation for each data stream can be determined by instructions performed or provided by processor .","The modulation symbols for the data streams can be provided to a TX MIMO processor , which can further process the modulation symbols (e.g., for OFDM). TX MIMO processor  then provides Nmodulation symbol streams to Ntransmitters (TMTR) through . In various aspects, TX MIMO processor  applies beamforming weights to the symbols of the data streams and to the antenna from which the symbol is being transmitted.","Each transmitter  receives and processes a respective symbol stream to provide one or more analog signals, and further conditions (e.g., amplifies, filters, and upconverts) the analog signals to provide a modulated signal suitable for transmission over the MIMO channel. Further, Nmodulated signals from transmitters through are transmitted from Nantennas through , respectively.","At mobile device , the transmitted modulated signals are received by Nantennas through and the received signal from each antenna  is provided to a respective receiver (RCVR) through . Each receiver  conditions (e.g., filters, amplifies, and downconverts) a respective signal, digitizes the conditioned signal to provide samples, and further processes the samples to provide a corresponding \u201creceived\u201d symbol stream.","An RX data processor  can receive and process the NR received symbol streams from Nreceivers  based on a particular receiver processing technique to provide N\u201cdetected\u201d symbol streams. RX data processor  can demodulate, deinterleave, and decode each detected symbol stream to recover the traffic data for the data stream. The processing by RX data processor  is complementary to that performed by TX MIMO processor  and TX data processor  at base station .","A processor  can periodically determine which preceding matrix to utilize as discussed above. Further, processor  can formulate a reverse link message comprising a matrix index portion and a rank value portion.","The reverse link message can comprise various types of information regarding the communication link and\/or the received data stream. The reverse link message can be processed by a TX data processor , which also receives traffic data for a number of data streams from a data source , modulated by a modulator , conditioned by transmitters through , and transmitted back to base station .","At base station , the modulated signals from mobile device  are received by antennas , conditioned by receivers , demodulated by a demodulator , and processed by a RX data processor  to extract the reverse link message transmitted by mobile device . Further, processor  can process the extracted message to determine which preceding matrix to use for determining the beamforming weights.","Processors  and  can direct (e.g., control, coordinate, manage, etc.) operation at base station  and mobile device , respectively. Respective processors  and  can be associated with memory  and  that store program codes and data. Processors  and  can also perform computations to derive frequency and impulse response estimates for the uplink and downlink, respectively.","It is to be understood that the aspects described herein can be implemented in hardware, software, firmware, middleware, microcode, or any combination thereof For a hardware implementation, the processing units can be implemented within one or more application specific integrated circuits (ASICs), digital signal processors (DSPs), digital signal processing devices (DSPDs), programmable logic devices (PLDs), field programmable gate arrays (FPGAs), processors, controllers, micro-controllers, microprocessors, other electronic units designed to perform the functions described herein, or a combination thereof.","When the aspects are implemented in software, firmware, middleware or microcode, program code or code segments, they can be stored in a machine-readable medium, such as a storage component. A code segment can represent a procedure, a function, a subprogram, a program, a routine, a subroutine, a module, a software package, a class, or any combination of instructions, data structures, or program statements. A code segment can be coupled to another code segment or a hardware circuit by passing and\/or receiving information, data, arguments, parameters, or memory contents. Information, arguments, parameters, data, etc. can be passed, forwarded, or transmitted using any suitable means including memory sharing, message passing, token passing, network transmission, etc.","For a software implementation, the techniques described herein can be implemented with modules (e.g., procedures, functions, and so on) that perform the functions described herein. The software codes can be stored in memory units and executed by processors. The memory unit can be implemented within the processor or external to the processor, in which case it can be communicatively coupled to the processor via various means as is known in the art.","With reference to , illustrated is a system  that utilizes reselection indicators in determining access points to reselect in wireless communications. For example, system  can reside at least partially within a base station, mobile device, etc. It is to be appreciated that system  is represented as including functional blocks, which can be functional blocks that represent functions implemented by a processor, software, or combination thereof (e.g., firmware). System  includes a logical grouping  of electrical components that can act in conjunction. For instance, logical grouping  can include an electrical component for receiving a reselection indicator related to a restricted association access point that specifies whether intra-frequency reselection is allowed . For example, as described, the restricted association access point can provide a CSG identifier, which can be evaluated to determine whether connection to the access point is not allowed. In addition, logical grouping  can include an electrical component for obtaining an offset related to communicating with a target access point . As described, the offset can be related to estimating a level of interference caused to the restricted association access point by communicating with the target access point. Further, logical grouping  can comprise an electrical component for determining whether to select (e.g., reselect, camp on, etc.) the target access point based at least in part on the reselection indicator and the offset .","Furthermore, logical grouping  can include an electrical component for ranking a plurality of access points for reselection, including the restricted association access point and the target access point, based at least in part on reference signal strength  . Thus, for example, where the highest ranked access point is a restricted association access point that cannot be connected to, reselection can move to the next highest ranked access point, as described. In addition, logical grouping  can include an electrical component for estimating a predicted level of interference to the restricted association access point resulting from communication with the target access point . For example, the electrical component  can determine whether to reselect based at least in part on the predicted level of interference, as described. Further, logical grouping  can include an electrical component for initializing a timer upon obtaining the reselection indicator wherein the reselection indicator specifies that intra-frequency reselection is not allowed . Thus, upon expiry of the timer, the reselection indicator can be reevaluated, as described. Additionally, system  can include a memory  that retains instructions for executing functions associated with electrical components , , , , , and . While shown as being external to memory , it is to be understood that one or more of electrical components , , , , , and  can exist within memory .","With reference to , illustrated is a system  that utilizes reselection indicators in determining whether to reselect one or more access points in a disparate frequency range. For example, system  can reside at least partially within a base station, mobile device, etc. It is to be appreciated that system  is represented as including functional blocks, which can be functional blocks that represent functions implemented by a processor, software, or combination thereof (e.g., firmware). System  includes a logical grouping  of electrical components that can act in conjunction. For instance, logical grouping  can include an electrical component for communicating with an access point to facilitate accessing a network . Further, logical grouping  can comprise an electrical component for receiving a reselection indicator related to a restricted association access point in the wireless network that specifies whether intra-frequency reselection is allowed .","Furthermore, logical grouping  can include an electrical component for analyzing disparate access points in a disparate frequency or technology for reselection based at least in part on the reselection indicator . Thus, for example, if intra-frequency reselection is not allowed according to the reselection indicator, it is likely communication with the access point providing wireless network access is interfering with the restricted association access point. In one example, then, communication with the access point can cease and other access points in different frequencies\/technologies can be evaluated for communication, as described. In addition, logical grouping  can include an electrical component for computing an estimated level of interference to the restricted association access point resulting from communication with the access point . For example, the electrical component  can determine whether to evaluate the disparate access points based on the estimated level. Where the level is not above a threshold as related to interfering with the restricted association access point, the reselection indicator can be ignored, as described. Additionally, system  can include a memory  that retains instructions for executing functions associated with electrical components , , , and . While shown as being external to memory , it is to be understood that one or more of electrical components , , , and  can exist within memory .","With reference to , illustrated is a system  that provides reselection indicators to mitigate interference from devices and disparate access points. For example, system  can reside at least partially within a base station, mobile device, etc. It is to be appreciated that system  is represented as including functional blocks, which can be functional blocks that represent functions implemented by a processor, software, or combination thereof (e.g., firmware). System  includes a logical grouping  of electrical components that can act in conjunction. For instance, logical grouping  can include an electrical component for communicating with one or more mobile devices in a provided sector to provide access to a wireless network . Further, logical grouping  can comprise an electrical component for transmitting a reselection indicator to the one or more mobile devices that specifies whether intra-frequency reselection is allowed . The indicator, as described, can be received from an underlying wireless network, generated from other parameters, and\/or the like. Moreover, the indicator can relate to the system  or a disparate access point. Furthermore, logical grouping  can include an electrical component for providing a CSG identifier to the one or more mobile devices in the provided sector to indicate restricted association . Additionally, system  can include a memory  that retains instructions for executing functions associated with electrical components , , and . While shown as being external to memory , it is to be understood that one or more of electrical components , , and  can exist within memory .","With reference to , illustrated is a system  that provides an offset for utilization in computing a predicted level of interference in communicating with the system. For example, system  can reside at least partially within a base station, mobile device, etc. It is to be appreciated that system  is represented as including functional blocks, which can be functional blocks that represent functions implemented by a processor, software, or combination thereof (e.g., firmware). System  includes a logical grouping  of electrical components that can act in conjunction. For instance, logical grouping  can include an electrical component for communicating with one or more mobile devices in a wireless network . Further, logical grouping  can comprise an electrical component for transmitting an offset to a mobile device relating to overriding a reselection indicator received from a restricted association access point that specifies whether intra-frequency reselection is allowed . As described, the offset can relate to the system  and can be utilized in determining whether a level of interference is small enough as compared to a restricted association access point to override a reselection indicator related thereto. Additionally, system  can include a memory  that retains instructions for executing functions associated with electrical components  and . While shown as being external to memory , it is to be understood that one or more of electrical components  and  can exist within memory .","The various illustrative logics, logical blocks, modules, and circuits described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor, a digital signal processor (DSP), an application specific integrated circuit (ASIC), a field programmable gate array (FPGA) or other programmable logic device, discrete gate or transistor logic, discrete hardware components, or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general-purpose processor may be a microprocessor, but, in the alternative, the processor may be any conventional processor, controller, microcontroller, or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices, e.g., a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor, a plurality of microprocessors, one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core, or any other such configuration. Additionally, at least one processor may comprise one or more modules operable to perform one or more of the steps and\/or actions described above.","Further, the steps and\/or actions of a method or algorithm described in connection with the aspects disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware, in a software module executed by a processor, or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory, flash memory, ROM memory, EPROM memory, EEPROM memory, registers, a hard disk, a removable disk, a CD-ROM, or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium may be coupled to the processor, such that the processor can read information from, and write information to, the storage medium. In the alternative, the storage medium may be integral to the processor. Further, in some aspects, the processor and the storage medium may reside in an ASIC. Additionally, the ASIC may reside in a user terminal. In the alternative, the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a user terminal. Additionally, in some aspects, the steps and\/or actions of a method or algorithm may reside as one or any combination or set of codes and\/or instructions on a machine readable medium and\/or computer readable medium, which may be incorporated into a computer program product.","In one or more aspects, the functions described may be implemented in hardware, software, firmware, or any combination thereof. If implemented in software, the functions may be stored or transmitted as one or more instructions or code on a computer-readable medium. Computer-readable media includes both computer storage media and communication media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one place to another. A storage medium may be any available media that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example, and not limitation, such computer-readable media can comprise RAM, ROM, EEPROM, CD-ROM or other optical disk storage, magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices, or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. Also, any connection may be termed a computer-readable medium. For example, if software is transmitted from a website, server, or other remote source using a coaxial cable, fiber optic cable, twisted pair, digital subscriber line (DSL), or wireless technologies such as infrared, radio, and microwave, then the coaxial cable, fiber optic cable, twisted pair, DSL, or wireless technologies such as infrared, radio, and microwave are included in the definition of medium. Disk and disc, as used herein, includes compact disc (CD), laser disc, optical disc, digital versatile disc (DVD), floppy disk and blu-ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically, while discs usually reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer-readable media.","While the foregoing disclosure discusses illustrative aspects and\/or embodiments, it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the described aspects and\/or embodiments as defined by the appended claims. Furthermore, although elements of the described aspects and\/or embodiments may be described or claimed in the singular, the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated. Additionally, all or a portion of any aspect and\/or embodiment may be utilized with all or a portion of any other aspect and\/or embodiment, unless stated otherwise. Furthermore, to the extent that the term \u201cincludes\u201d is used in either the detailed description or the claims, such term is intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term \u201ccomprising\u201d as \u201ccomprising\u201d is interpreted when employed as a transitional word in a claim. Furthermore, although elements of the described aspects and\/or aspects may be described or claimed in the singular, the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated. Additionally, all or a portion of any aspect and\/or embodiment may be utilized with all or a portion of any other aspect and\/or embodiment, unless stated otherwise."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0034"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0037","num":"0036"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0037"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0039","num":"0038"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0040","num":"0039"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0041","num":"0040"},"figref":"FIG. 9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0042","num":"0041"},"figref":"FIG. 10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0043","num":"0042"},"figref":"FIG. 11"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0044","num":"0043"},"figref":"FIG. 12"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0045","num":"0044"},"figref":"FIG. 13"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0046","num":"0045"},"figref":"FIG. 14"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0047","num":"0046"},"figref":"FIG. 15"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0048","num":"0047"},"figref":"FIG. 16"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
