---
title: Systems, methods, and computer readable media for configuring a rewriteable non-volatile memory for presentation of media by a selected media presentation device model
abstract: Systems, methods, and computer readable media for managing digital media in a memory storage device associated with a mobile smart device are disclosed. According to one aspect, the subject matter described herein includes a method for configuring a rewriteable non-volatile memory for presentation of media by a selected media presentation device model. The method includes providing a rewriteable non-volatile memory configuration interface through which a user can select at least one media file and one of a plurality of media presentation device models. and providing a rewriteable non-volatile memory configuration manager, which, in response to selection of the at least one media file and the one media presentation device model via the configuration interface, accesses a database including entries corresponding to the plurality of media presentation device models and configures a rewriteable non-volatile memory according to information retrieved from the database to allow presentation of the at least one media file when the rewriteable non-volatile memory is present in the selected media presentation device model.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08554998&OS=08554998&RS=08554998
owner: SanDisk Technologies Inc.
number: 08554998
owner_city: Plano
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20091123
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["PRIORITY CLAIM","TECHNICAL FIELD","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61\/252,491, filed Oct. 16, 2009; the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.","The subject matter described herein relates to systems and methods for managing files across potentially incompatible platforms. More particularly, the subject matter described herein relates to systems, methods, and computer readable media for configuring a rewriteable non-volatile memory for presentation of media by a selected media presentation device model.","Mobile telephones, cellular telephones, personal digital assistants (PDAs), portable music players, and similar devices are examples of what is herein referred to as a \u201cmobile smart device.\u201d A mobile smart device typically has processing power for running programs and applications and may host its own operating system. As the processing power increases and the form factor of such devices is reduced, mobile smart devices blur the lines between formerly separate functions, such as personal computer, telephone, music player, pager, text messaging device, and so on. Mobile smart devices typically contain some form of volatile and non-volatile mass storage memory. One type of mass storage memory conforms to the universal serial bus (USB) mass storage device class communications protocols. Devices that support this standard are referred to as mass storage class (MSC) devices.","The USB mass storage specification does not require any particular file system to be used on conforming devices. Instead, it provides a simple interface to read and write sectors of data, much like the low-level interface used to access a hard drive. Operating systems may treat the MSC device like a hard drive and can format it with a file system if they so prefer. A popular form of mass storage memory used in mobile smart devices is the Secure Digital\u00ae or SD card co-developed by SanDisk Corporation. SD cards may be formatted with a file system. SD cards are available in a variety of form factors, including miniSD, microSD, secure digital high capacity (SDHC) cards.","There are many mobile smart devices on the market. Each mobile device has a specific set of criteria for what types of digital media that it can or cannot accommodate and where the digital media must be located within the device or within the device file system. For example, each mobile smart device may support its own particular set of file types, e.g., image files, audio files, video files, games, applications, etc. For each type, the mobile smart device may only support files having certain characteristics. For example, a mobile smart device may support video files, but only video files using a particular codec, compression method, screen size or resolution, frame rate, and so on.","Likewise, each mobile smart device may require that files of certain types be located in certain locations within the device or within the file system. For example, one type of mobile phone or cell phone may store music files in one directory, image files in another directory, video files in a third directory, etc., while another mobile phone may store all files in the root directory of the device file system. Each mobile device may have other limitations or conventions, including file naming conventions, maximum file sizes, maximum number of files that may be stored in any particular directory, and so on. Each mobile device may also support a particular file system or file systems.","Because each mobile smart device has its own particular requirements, a user wishing to transfer media or other files to the mobile smart device must be cognizant of the specific requirements and limitations of the mobile smart device. For example, a user may desire to change the ring tone of this cell phone, which uses a microSD card for mass storage. In one scenario, the user may remove the microSD card from the cell phone and place it in a card reader attached to a personal computer, use a drag and drop file manager such as Windows\u00ae Explorer\u00ae to copy an MP3 file containing the desired ring tone to the microSD card, and reinsert the microSD card into the cell phone.","However, if the cell phone does not support the MP3 format, if the user has not placed the music file in the proper location in file system supported by the microSD card, or if the user has not followed the naming convention expected by the cell phone, the user may find that the cell phone cannot find the file, does not recognize the file as a music file, or cannot play the file. Music or audio files come in a variety of file formats. The audio data may be subject to various encoding and compression schemes, and may be encapsulated within a wrapper or container format. Not only do video files come in a similar variety of encoding, compression, and encapsulation formats, video files have additional characteristics that may affect compatibility with the mobile smart device, such as video resolution, color depth, frame rate, etc.","Some mobile smart devices require the user to use proprietary file copying software that is specific to a particular mobile smart device, usually provided by the manufacturer of the mobile smart device or by third party developers. While this approach solves some of the disadvantages described above, it suffers some disadvantages of its own, in that proprietary software is a one-device solution. A user that desires to copy music, for example, onto a cell phone and a music player from different manufacturers will need to have two separate programs\u2014one to manage files on the cell phone and another to manage files on the music player. Furthermore, if the user upgrades his or her cell phone to a new make or model, for example, the proprietary software for the old cell phone may not work for the new cell phone, requiring the user to maintain multiple programs and perhaps learn new programs every time he or she upgrades his mobile smart devices.","Accordingly, in light of these disadvantages described above, there exists a need for systems, methods, and computer readable media for configuring a rewriteable non-volatile memory for presentation of media by a selected media presentation device model.","According to one aspect, the subject matter described herein includes a method for configuring a rewriteable non-volatile memory for presentation of media by a selected media presentation device model. The method includes providing a rewriteable non-volatile memory configuration interface through which a user can select at least one media file and one of a plurality of media presentation device models. and providing a rewriteable non-volatile memory configuration manager, which, in response to selection of the at least one media file and the one media presentation device model via the configuration interface, accesses a database including entries corresponding to the plurality of media presentation device models and configures a rewriteable non-volatile memory according to information retrieved from the database to allow presentation of the at least one media file when the rewriteable non-volatile memory is present in the selected media presentation device model.","According to another aspect, the subject matter described herein includes a system for configuring a rewriteable non-volatile memory for presentation of media by a selected media presentation device model. The system includes a rewriteable non-volatile memory configuration interface through which a user can select at least one media file and one of a plurality of media presentation device models; and a rewriteable non-volatile memory configuration manager, which, in response to selection of the at least one media file and the one media presentation device model via the configuration interface, accesses a database including entries corresponding to the plurality of media presentation device models and configures a rewriteable non-volatile memory according to information retrieved from the database to allow presentation of the at least one media file when the rewriteable non-volatile memory is present in the selected media presentation device model.","The subject matter described herein for configuring a rewriteable non-volatile memory for presentation of media by a selected media presentation device model may be implemented in hardware, software, firmware, or any combination thereof. As such, the terms \u201cfunction\u201d or \u201cmodule\u201d as used herein refer to hardware, software, and\/or firmware for implementing the feature being described. In one exemplary implementation, the subject matter described herein may be implemented using a computer readable medium having stored thereon computer executable instructions that when executed by the processor of a computer control the computer to perform steps. Exemplary computer readable media suitable for implementing the subject matter described herein include disk memory devices, chip memory devices, programmable logic devices, and application specific integrated circuits. In addition, a computer readable medium that implements the subject matter described herein may be located on a single device or computing platform or may be distributed across multiple devices or computing platforms.","In accordance with the subject matter disclosed herein, systems, methods, and computer readable media are provided for configuring a rewriteable non-volatile memory for presentation of media by a selected media presentation device model.","Reference will now be made in detail to exemplary embodiments of the present invention, examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying drawings. Wherever possible, the same reference numbers will be used throughout the drawings to refer to the same or like parts.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":["FIG. 1","FIG. 1","FIG. 1"],"b":["100","102","104","102","102","104","106","106","108"]},"Rewriteable non-volatile memory  may take many forms. In one embodiment, rewriteable non-volatile memory  may be removable memory card. Examples of a removable memory card may include, but are not limited to, a non-volatile memory card, a SecureDigital (SD) card, a microSD card, a multimedia card (MMC), a subscriber identity module (SIM) card, a smart card, or any other form of removable memory card.","In one embodiment, rewriteable non-volatile memory  may be a removable memory storage device. Examples of a removable memory storage device may include, but are not limited to, a universal serial bus (USB) flash drive (colloquially known as a \u201cthumb drive\u201d), a rewriteable compact disk (CD) or digital versatile disk (DVD) in their many form factors, or other removable memory storage device.","In one embodiment, rewriteable non-volatile memory  may be an embedded memory. Examples of an embedded memory may include, but are not limited to, a non-volatile memory that complies with the embedded multimedia card (eMMC) specification, available on the internet at the Joint Electron Device Engineering Council (JEDEC) website at www.jedec.org, such as the product standard at www.jedec.org\/download\/search\/JESD84-A44.pdf.","Media presentation device  may be any device that includes, can contain or accept, or can have attached to it a rewriteable non-volatile memory and that can display, play, or otherwise present the content of media files. Examples of a media presentation device includes, but are not limited to, a mobile communications device, such as a cell phone or mobile terminal; a personal digital assistant; a personal computing device, such as a hand-held or portable computer; a personal gaming system; a portable media player, such as the Sansa, manufactured by SanDisk Corporation; a netbook; and other devices capable of presentation of media files, such as still and video cameras, kiosks, projectors, etc.","In one embodiment, configuration manager  may be an application implemented in hardware, software, or a combination of hardware and software within a personal computer or other computing host , which may include one or more processors, RAM, and data storage devices. In the embodiment illustrated in , configuration manager  may be a software program executed by a processor  of host  that includes a hard disk drive  or disk array.","In one embodiment, configuration manager  may control or receive information from configuration interface . For example, configuration manager  may display configuration interface  as a graphic user interface (GUI) on a screen, terminal, or other display device  associated with host . In one embodiment, configuration interface  may be displayed as a window, via which the user may perform operations, such as the selection of one or more media files for transfer to a rewriteable non-volatile memory or the identification of the model of media presentation device in which the rewriteable non-volatile memory is present or into which the rewriteable non-volatile memory will later be inserted. In an alternative embodiment, configuration interface  may be remotely hosted and send instructions to configuration manager . For example, configuration interface  may be a web page hosted by a web server separate from host , which the user uses to browse and select from a list of media presentation device models. In this embodiment, configuration interface  may send information identifying the selected media presentation device model to configuration manager , which uses that information to configure rewriteable non-volatile memory  appropriately.","In one embodiment, configuration manager  may maintain one or more entities, such as databases, tables, data structures in memory, etc., for storing data. In the embodiment illustrated in , configuration manager  may maintain a device characteristics database (DCD)  for storing information about each of many different media presentation device models and a rewriteable non-volatile memory\/media presentation device model (RNVM\/MPD) database (DB)  for storing information about particular rewriteable non-volatile memories and the media presentation device to which each particular rewriteable non-volatile memory is associated.","In one embodiment, configuration manager  determines the identity of the rewriteable non-volatile memory by looking for information stored within the rewriteable non-volatile memory itself. For example, each rewriteable non-volatile memory may contain data , which configuration manager  may use to uniquely identify the rewriteable non-volatile memory. Data  will be described in more detail below.","In one embodiment, data  stored within rewriteable non-volatile memory  may be a file. For example, data  may be an extensible markup language (XML) file, a plain text file, a binary file, or other type of file. Data  may have a predefined filename. For example, data  may be an XML file named \u201ccardinfo.xml\u201d or other name. Data  may be in a predefined location within rewriteable non-volatile memory . For example, data  may be a file located in a predefined location, such as in the root directory or another directory or path, within a file system that is supported by rewriteable non-volatile memory . Alternatively, data  may exist in a particular memory block or sector within a non-volatile memory such as a FLASH memory; in a particular sector, track and side of a rewriteable CD or DVD; in a particular logical memory address within a storage device that uses logical addressing; or in a particular physical memory address within a storage device that uses physical addressing, for example. The subject matter described herein contemplates any means by which configuration manager  may locate and identify data  within the particular rewriteable non-volatile memory.","In one embodiment, data  within rewriteable non-volatile memory  may include a string of text or numbers which uniquely identify rewriteable non-volatile memory , although the subject matter disclosed herein is not so limited. In the embodiment illustrated in , for example, rewriteable non-volatile memory  includes data  which contains the string \u201cCARD.\u201d This string uniquely identifies rewriteable non-volatile memory  and enables configuration manager  to distinguish rewriteable non-volatile memory  from any other rewriteable non-volatile memory that may be connected to or detected by configuration manager . In one embodiment, configuration manager  may be responsible for generating the contents of data  to ensure that each rewriteable non-volatile memory is uniquely identified. Alternatively, some forms of rewriteable non-volatile memory may contain unique identifiers created during the manufacturing process. If these unique identifiers are accessible by configuration manager , then configuration manager  may simply use the pre-existing unique identifier, by itself or in combination with other information. Other schemes for uniquely identifying each rewriteable non-volatile memory are contemplated by the subject matter described herein.","In an alternative embodiment, data  within rewriteable non-volatile memory  may identify the media presentation device model directly. For example, data  may include the string \u201cMEDIA PLAYER A,\u201d which configuration manager  may use in a query into DCD  to determine the information such as file characteristics and operating characteristics for MPD . In this embodiment, the creation and use of RNVM\/MPD database  may be obviated.","In yet another alternative embodiment, RNVM\/MPD database  may associate the unique identifier of the rewriteable non-volatile memory with the file and operating characteristics of the selected media presentation device model directly. In one example such embodiment, record  may have \u201cCARD\u201d as the key and may have values that come from the corresponding entry within either local copy of DCD  or master copy DCD . In this embodiment, the creation and use of local copy of DCD  may be obviated under some circumstances, e.g., where access to master copy of DCD  is likely to be guaranteed. Thus, rather than two associations, namely \u201crewriteable non-volatile memory to MPD model\u201d (using DB ) and \u201cMPD model to operating and file characteristics\u201d (using DCD ), this embodiment may use DB , DCD , or another database entirely, to make one association, namely, \u201crewriteable non-volatile memory to operating and file characteristics.\u201d","In one embodiment, DB  may include multiple records, such as record , each record containing an association between a uniquely identified rewriteable non-volatile memory and a media presentation device model. For example, the rewriteable non-volatile memory identified as \u201cCARD\u201d (e.g., RNVM ) has been associated with a media presentation device model identified as \u201cPLAYER A\u201d (e.g., MPD ), while \u201cCARD\u201d is associated with a cell phone identified as \u201cCELL PHONE B,\u201d and \u201cCARD\u201d is associated with a game system identified as \u201cGAME SYSTEM C.\u201d In a less generic example, a SD card that has been given the unique identifier of \u201c2983-7634-0451\u201d might be associated with a SanDisk Sansa\u00ae FUZE\u2122 model e200 media player, while a microSD card with ID \u201c1003-2754-9209\u201d might be associated with an LGVZ-5300 cell phone, and so on.","To determine the operating characteristics of MPD , configuration manager  may first determine the identity of the particular rewriteable non-volatile memory, e.g., rewriteable non-volatile memory , and find the record for that rewriteable non-volatile memory in database . For example, configuration manager  may determine that rewriteable non-volatile memory  has the unique identifier \u201cCARD.\u201d Configuration manager  may then attempt to find a record  within DB  for \u201cCARD.\u201d In the example illustrated in , configuration manager  determines that \u201cCARD\u201d is associated with a media presentation device model called \u201cMEDIA PLAYER A.\u201d Configuration manager  may then query DCD  to determine the operating characteristics of \u201cMEDIA PLAYER A\u201d media players. These operating characteristics will reflect the operating characteristics of MPD , since it is a \u201cMEDIA PLAYER A\u201d model media presentation device.","In one embodiment, configuration manager  may have the ability to access a master copy of a device characteristics database  via a network . In the embodiment illustrated in , master DCD  may be updated with information about new media presentation device models as such information becomes available. For example, master DCD  may be maintained by a third party service provider or may be a publically-available database. In one embodiment, access to master DCD  may be provided to the user of configuration manager  as part of an end user license agreement. Configuration manager  may request or receive updates from master DCD  so that its local copy DCD  is synchronized with master DCD . Local DCD  may contain some or all of the contents of master DCD .","In one embodiment, media files include digitally-encoded media files. Example media files include audio and music files, such as audio interchange file format (AIFF), MPEG-1 audio layer  (MP3), advanced audio coding (AAC), windows media audio (WMA), Ogg, musical instrument digital interface (MIDI), and other formats, as well as video files, such as moving picture experts group (MPEG) video, QuickTime, windows media video (WMV), RealPlayer, and other formats, and combinations of audio and video, including container files, such as resource interchange file format (RIFF), and other formats, such as small web format (SW F, formerly known as \u201cShockwave Flash\u201d). Presentation of media files includes generating audio and\/or video for consumption by the user.","In one embodiment, configuration manager  may configure rewriteable non-volatile memory  while it is still present within MPD . For example, MPD  may be a cell phone containing an SD card, a SIM card, etc., and also having a means for communicating data to and from host . In one embodiment, MPD  may have a USB port for connecting the cell phone to host , which may be a user's personal computer, or PC, for example, via a USB cable  or other wired (or optical) connection. In another embodiment, MPD  may have the ability to communicate with host  wirelessly, such as via infrared, Bluetooth, or other near-field communication protocol. In these embodiments, configuration manager  may detect the presence of MPD  as an entity connected to host , such as via a USB bus or other serial port, and may detect the presence of rewriteable non-volatile memory  as a device, a block of memory, a file system, or other entity accessible by configuration manager . In these embodiments, configuration manager  may configure rewriteable non-volatile memory  while it is still physically present within or attached to MPD .","In one embodiment, configuration manager  may configure rewriteable non-volatile memory  while it is removed from the MPD with which it is associated. For example, MPD  may be a music player having a slot which can accept an SD card or other type of removable memory card. In this scenario, the user may connect rewriteable non-volatile memory  to host  via a card reader (not shown) or other peripheral connected to host  that allows configuration manager  to access and configure rewriteable non-volatile memory  while it is not physically present within or attached to MPD .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0044","num":"0043"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIGS. 1 and 2"]},"At block , a rewriteable non-volatile memory configuration interface is provided through which a user can select at least one media file and one of a plurality of media presentation device models. For example, in the embodiment illustrated in , configuration interface  is presented to a user via display  connected to host computer . The user may use configuration interface  to select at least one media file and identify a media presentation device model.","In one embodiment, the media file or files selected may reside on a data storage entity within host , such as hard disk drive . Configuration interface  may present to the user a list of media files from which the user may select one or more files to be copied onto rewriteable non-volatile memory . The files available for selection may be presented to the user in a file and folder representation, visually similar to the representation presented by a file browser, or using any other representation.","In one embodiment, configuration interface  may present to the user a list of known media presentation device models from which the user may identify or select a media presentation device model. For example, in the embodiment illustrated in , configuration interface  may generate a list of known presentation device models from data stored in device characteristics database . As stated above, local device characteristics database  may be a copy of some or all of master device characteristics database .","At block , a rewriteable non-volatile memory configuration manager is provided that responds to the selection of the media file(s) and the media presentation device model by accessing a database including entries corresponding to the plurality of media presentation device models and configures a rewriteable non-volatile memory according to information retrieved from the database to allow presentation of the at least one media file when the rewriteable non-volatile memory is present in the selected media presentation device model. For example, in the embodiment illustrated in , configuration manager  responds to the selection of a media presentation device model, by accessing device characteristics database  to retrieve information associated with the selected media presentation device model.","The information associated with selected media presentation device model may include a list of characteristics of media files that are supported or not supported by the device, hereinafter referred to as \u201cfile characteristics.\u201d Example file characteristics include, but are not limited to, file types, media content types, encoding and\/or decoding schemes, compression schemes, audio, image, or video file characteristics, container file schemes, and presentation file characteristics, to name a few.","Example audio file characteristics include, but are not limited to, the number of channels, sampling rates, and number of bits per channel, for the audio data contained within the file, as well as encoding formats, and audio compression\/expansion formats used by the file or used to create the file.","Example image file characteristics include, but are not limited to, the image height and width, number of pixels, and color depth or number of bits per pixel, as well as number of colors within the image and any image compression formats used.","Example video file characteristics include, but are not limited to, video height and width, resolution, and frame rate, as well as video encoding\/decoding and compression\/expansion formats used.","Example presentation file characteristics include, but are not limited to, presentation file type, presentation file screen height and width, resolution, color depth, frame rate, and so on.","The information associated with the selected media presentation device model may also include operating characteristics of the selected media presentation device model. Examples of an operating characteristic includes, but are not limited to, a file system supported by the media presentation device, a convention regarding media file names expected or required by the media presentation device, an expected or required locations for media files within the media presentation device, a constraint imposed upon the size if digital media files, and a constraint imposed according to a digital rights management (DRM) policy, to name a few.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0055","num":"0054"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},"At block , configuration manager  detects the presence of rewriteable non-volatile memory . For example, rewriteable non-volatile memory  may be a removable memory card inserted into a card reader attached to host , a read\/writeable compact disk inserted into a CD drive with read\/write capability, or a USB flash drive (also called a \u201cthumb drive\u201d) inserted into a USB port within host . Media presentation device  may be connected to host  using a wired connection, such as USB, or over a wireless connection, such as Bluetooth.","Configuration manager  may then attempt to determine whether the rewriteable non-volatile memory that has been detected is one that is known to configuration manager . Rewriteable non-volatile memories that are known to configuration manager  are herein referred to as being \u201cregistered to\u201d configuration manager . In one embodiment, configuration manager  may place configuration data  into rewriteable non-volatile memories during the registration process. For example, configuration manager  may write a file to rewriteable non-volatile memory . For rewriteable non-volatile memories that do not support a file structure, configuration manager  may write data in the form of a physical block or sector, logical block or sector, or other form appropriate to the structure and operation of the particular rewriteable non-volatile memory.","In one embodiment, configuration manager  may place configuration data  in the form of an XML file into every rewriteable non-volatile memory that is registered to it. In one embodiment, the XML file may have a predefined name, such as \u201ccardinfo.xml\u201d. The contents of configuration data  contained within the cardinfo.xml file may include one or more pieces of information useful to configuration manager  for determining one or more operating characteristics of the selected media presentation device model, e.g., MPD .","As described above, configuration data  within the cardinfo.xml file may include a unique identifier that is assigned to the particular rewriteable non-volatile memory. Configuration manager  may then use the identifier of the rewriteable non-volatile memory to identify the media presentation device model with which that rewriteable non-volatile memory is associated and use the identified media presentation device model to determine one or more operating characteristics of the media presentation device model. For example, cardinfo.xml may contain a unique identifier, such as \u201cCARD,\u201d which is mapped to \u201cMEDIA PLAYER A\u201d using DB , which is used to query DCD  to determine operating characteristics for MPD . Alternatively, configuration data  within cardinfo.xml may include information directly identifying the media presentation device model, or directly indicating operating characteristics for MPD , as described above.","Thus, at block , configuration manager  may access rewriteable non-volatile memory  to determine whether rewriteable non-volatile memory  already contains configuration data  by looking for a file named cardinfo.xml. If so, the process moves to block , described later below. If not, the process flow moves to block , in which the user may be asked whether or not to register rewriteable non-volatile memory . If the user chooses not to register rewriteable non-volatile memory , then rewriteable non-volatile memory  is not available for configuration (block ) and the process ends (block .)","Referring again to block , if the user chooses to register rewriteable non-volatile memory , then information is placed onto rewriteable non-volatile memory . For example, at block , configuration manager  may write the file named cardinfo.xml into rewriteable non-volatile memory , and the process moves to block , in which configuration manager  creates a new entry in the DB  for storing information associated with the particular rewriteable non-volatile memory, e.g., rewriteable non-volatile memory . For example, DB  may contain data in a (key, value) relationship, in which the rewriteable non-volatile memory's unique identifier is the key and information related to the media presentation device model to which the rewriteable non-volatile memory is associated is the value. In one embodiment, an entry within DB  is created for each unique rewriteable non-volatile memory that is registered with configuration manager , but the value is left blank until the rewriteable non-volatile memory is associated with a particular MPD model, a process that is described below.","The process then moves to block  in which configuration manager  enables file transfers to rewriteable non-volatile memory . In one embodiment, file transfers are disabled under certain conditions, such as if rewriteable non-volatile memory  is not accessible by configuration manager , if rewriteable non-volatile memory  is accessible by configuration manager  but not yet registered or associated with a particular media presentation device model, or if rewriteable non-volatile memory  is accessible by configuration manager  and registered or associated with a particular media presentation device model, but configuration manager  does not have the means to convert the media files into a format usable by the particular media presentation device model. An example of the latter scenario is where configuration manager  does not have a necessary codec. If all of the prerequisite conditions are met, such as those listed above or others, configuration manager  may enable file transfers to rewriteable non-volatile memory .","At the conclusion of block , rewriteable non-volatile memory  is registered with configuration manager . At the same time as registration or at a later time the user may initiate a file transfer process, e.g., to copy files that are stored on host , such as within HDD , onto rewriteable non-volatile memory . Thus, at block , the user invokes a file transfer.","At block , configuration manager  determines whether the removable media card is associated with a particular media presentation device model. In one embodiment, configuration manager  may retrieve from DB  a database record associated with rewriteable non-volatile memory . If rewriteable non-volatile memory  is already associated with an MPD model, the process flow moves to block , described later below. If rewriteable non-volatile memory  is not yet associated with a particular MPD model, the process moves to block .","At block , the user is asked to identify the MPD model into which the rewriteable non-volatile memory will be placed if rewriteable non-volatile memory  is not currently located within MPD  (e.g., if rewriteable non-volatile memory  is currently inserted in a card reader attached to host ) or within which the rewriteable non-volatile memory is currently located (e.g., if rewriteable non-volatile memory  is currently within MPD , which is connected to host  via a wired or wireless data cable or communication link).","At block , the removable media card is associated with the media presentation device model selected by the user in block . In one embodiment, the user may select from a list of available media presentation device models presented by configuration interface .","At block , the record within DB  for rewriteable non-volatile memory  may be updated to show that rewriteable non-volatile memory  has been associated with the media presentation device model that was selected by the user in block . In alternative embodiments, the operations of block  may be deferred until block . That is, creation of the DB  record that associates rewriteable non-volatile memory  to MPD  may not occur until block . In the example illustrated in , DB  may contain database record , which associates rewriteable non-volatile memory , which is identified by name \u201cCARD,\u201d with MPD , which is identified by media presentation device model identifier \u201cMEDIA PLAYER A.\u201d Configuration manager  may then use \u201cMEDIA PLAYER A\u201d as the key in a query of DCD  to determine the operating characteristics of MPD  as well as file characteristics of files that are supported by MPD . In this manner, rewriteable non-volatile memory  may be associated with the media presentation device model which represents or describes MPD .","At block , configuration manager  may proceed with the file transfer. An exemplary file transfer process is illustrated in more detail in , described below.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0069","num":"0068"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 4","FIG. 3"],"b":"326"},"Referring to , at block , one or more file characteristics of files supported by the selected media presentation device model, e.g., the model of MPD , is retrieved from the database(s) local copy of DCD  and\/or master copy of DCD . In the embodiment illustrated in , configuration manager  may query DCD  to determine the file characteristics associated with \u201cMEDIA PLAYER A\u201d media presentation device models.","At block , the process begins a loop in which one media file at a time is processed in preparation for copy or transfer to MPD . Thus, at block , the first media file is selected.","At block , the characteristics of the selected media file are identified. For example, configuration manager  may determine that the media file currently being processed is a MPEG video file using H.264 video compression and AAC audio encoding.","At block , it is determined whether the selected MPD model supports media files having the identified characteristic(s). In one embodiment, configuration manager  may query DCD  using the media presentation device model identified as the MPD model to which the rewriteable non-volatile memory, e.g., rewriteable non-volatile memory , has been associated and receive from DCD  a list of file characteristics that MPD  will support. For example, configuration manager  may query DCD  to determine whether or not \u201cMEDIA PLAYER A\u201d devices support MPEG video files using H.264 and AAC.","At block , if the selected MPD model supports files having the identified characteristic(s), the process goes to block , described below. If the selected MPD model does not support files having the identified characteristic(s), however, the process goes to block .","At block , the currently selected media file is converted into a file having file characteristics that are supported by the selected MPD model. In one embodiment, configuration manager  may take advantage of the software capabilities, including applications, libraries, and application programming interfaces (API), etc., provided by host . For example, Microsoft Windows\u00ae includes several APIs that identify the media file characteristics and provides a library of transcoding functions which will convert a file from one media file format into another media file format. Alternatively, configuration manager  may include its own identification and\/or transcoding functions or routines.","A media file may have more than one characteristic and that media presentation devices may support files having all, some, or none of the particular characteristics. For example, MPEG video files may contain audio data that has been encoded using one of a variety of possible audio codecs. A selected MPD model may support MPEG video using AAC audio but not MPEG video using OGG audio, for example. Or, a selected MPD model may support MPEG video having a screen size of 320\u00d7480 pixels but not having a screen size of 1280\u00d71024, and so on. Thus, the operations of blocks , , and  may be repeated for each identified characteristic of a file until all characteristics have been reviewed, to make sure that the selected MPD model supports the media file having that combination of characteristics.","At block , either the original or the converted media file is copied to the rewriteable non-volatile memory according to the at least one operating characteristic of the selected MPD model, which was determined at block , above. A more detailed example of this copy operation is shown in , described below.","At block , it is determined whether there are any other media files to be processed. If so, the process flow returns to block , and if not, the process ends.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0079","num":"0078"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 5","FIG. 4"],"b":"412"},"At block , operating characteristics for the selected MPD model are retrieved. In one embodiment, configuration manager  may retrieve operating characteristics from DCD . In the example illustrated in , configuration manager  may retrieve from DCD  operating characteristics associated with \u201cMEDIA PLAYER A\u201d models.","At block , configuration manager  may determine whether MEDIA PLAYER A models have a location requirement. Example location requirements include, but are not limited to, restrictions on or expectations about where files must be located within rewriteable non-volatile memory , so that when rewriteable non-volatile memory  is inserted into (or continues to be located within, in the case of embedded memory or memory that is programmed in-place), MPD  knows where to find the media files. Particular models of MPDS may require that files of a certain type must be located in predefined directories. For example, MPD  may require that video files be located in a folder named \u201cMyMovies,\u201d image files be located in a folder named \u201cMyPics,\u201d etc. In another example, an MPD model may require all media files to be located in the root directory, or in a directory named \u201cMedia.\u201d In one embodiment, the MPD model may store the media files in a single directory or area, sometimes referred to as \u201cflat\u201d storage, yet present the files to the user of the MPD model as if the files are organized in a non-flat fashion, e.g., hierarchically. For example, the MPD model may present music files as organized by artist, album, etc. In such a scenario, configuration manager  may maintain a mapping between the flat file location and the apparent file hierarchy as seen by the user of MPD , and update the mapping as files are added to or removed from rewriteable non-volatile memory . In this way, configuration manager  presents the media files to the user of configuration manager  in the same manner that the MPD model presents media files to the user of the MPD model. File locations may be similarly restricted, but according to logical, block, or physical addresses, etc. Alternately, an MPD model may impose absolutely no restrictions on the location of the media files within rewriteable non-volatile memory .","If there are no location requirements associated with the selected MPD model, the process flow moves to block , described below. If there are location requirements associated with the selected MPD model, the process moves to block , in which a file transfer destination, e.g., within rewriteable non-volatile memory , is selected according the location requirements of the selected MPD model, and the process flow moves to block .","At block , configuration manager  may determine whether the selected MPD model has a filename convention requirement. Example filename convention requirements include limitations on the characters allowed within the filename, limitations on the length of the filename, limitations on the filename extensions used, and so on. An MPD model may even assign its own filenames, overwriting the filename of the original file. This, too, is a form of filename convention.","If there are no filename conventions associated with the selected MPD model, the process flow moves to block , described below. If there are filename conventions associated with the selected MPD model, the process moves to block , in which a destination filename is chosen according to the filename conventions of the selected MPD model, and the process flow moves to block .","At block , configuration manager  may check to see if there is space available within the rewriteable non-volatile memory, e.g., NVM . If so, the process flow moves to block , in which the file is copied to the rewriteable non-volatile memory. If the file copy is successful, the process flow moves to block , in which configuration manager  may notify the user or host of the copy success. However, if, at block , configuration manager  determines that there is no space still available within rewriteable non-volatile memory , the process moves to block , in which configuration manager  may notify the user or host that the copy was not successful.","The example operating characteristics shown in the process illustrated in  are for illustrative purposes and not to be construed as exclusive or limiting.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0087","num":"0086"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 1","FIG. 6","FIG. 6","FIG. 1"],"b":["104","110","104","106","104","106","106","104","106","104","106","108","108","110","108","110"]},"Configuration manager  may also be or include a hardware component. In one embodiment, rewriteable non-volatile memory  may be a subscriber identity module (SIM) card, a smart card, or other device that includes logic or processing capability. In these embodiments, configuration manager  may be executed in whole or in part by rewriteable non-volatile memory . It will be understood that these examples above are illustrative and not limiting, and that other configurations regarding the location of configuration manager  and the specific entity that executes some or all of the functions of configuration manager  are contemplated by the subject matter described herein.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0089","num":"0088"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 7"],"b":["104","108","106","106","118","126","108","118","126","108"]},"It will be understood that various details of the subject matter described herein may be changed without departing from the scope of the subject matter described herein. Furthermore, the foregoing description is for the purpose of illustration only, and not for the purpose of limitation."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["Preferred embodiments of the subject matter described herein will now be explained with reference to the accompanying drawings, wherein like reference numerals represent like parts, of which:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 7"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
