---
title: Transistor with enhanced capacitance at electrodes and transistor with light emitting capacitive element
abstract: A bipolar transistor structure with multiple electrodes configured to include an enhanced base capacitive element. Alternatively, a transistor with an integrated light emitting capacitive (LEC) element at the source or drain of the transistor. The transistor may be a stand alone transistor for usage in discrete applications, or may be implemented in a pixel circuit used in a display apparatus. In the pixel circuit embodiment, driver circuitry causes appropriate charging and discharging of the LEC elements of respective pixels to provide a desired display. In one alternative, a transistor may be configured to have multiple LEC elements integrated therewith, to provide respective different colors used in forming a display.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08604590&OS=08604590&RS=08604590
owner: Sony Electronics Inc.
number: 08604590
owner_city: Park Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20090430
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION"],"p":["1. Field of the Invention","This invention relates generally to transistor structures and more particularly to a bipolar transistor with enhanced capacitance at multiple electrodes, and more particularly to a transistor with a light emitting capacitive element.","2. Description of the Related Art","Although there have been many advances in semiconductor devices and in particular transistor devices, a number of issues remain regarding such devices, particular with regard to particular applications. For example, noise, high current requirements, power consumption, biasing limitations, and signal delays remain significant issues with regard to existing transistor design.","Typically, a capacitor might be connected to one of the electrodes of a transistor to provide a desired response. However, this solution is typically limited to one electrode, and usually is merely an external capacitor attached to an electrode, such as an emitter electrode of a transistor used in an operational amplifier.","In one embodiment, a bipolar transistor structure comprises a base that is configured to include an enhanced base capacitive element. The enhanced base capacitive element includes a first conductive portion to which an electrical connection to the base of the bipolar transistor is effectively made, and further includes a second conductive portion having a direct electrical connection to the base junction of the bipolar transistor.","The bipolar transistor structure also includes a collector and an emitter, with the emitter configured to include an enhanced emitter capacitive element. The enhanced emitter capacitive element includes a third conductive portion to which an electrical connection to the emitter of the bipolar transistor is effectively made, and further includes a fourth conductive portion having a direct electrical connection to the emitter junction of the bipolar transistor.","In one alternative, an enhanced emitter capacitive element may be included at each of the base, collector and emitter of the bipolar transistor.","According to another embodiment, a transistor has an integrated light emitting capacitive (LEC) element at the source or drain of the transistor. The transistor may be a stand alone transistor for usage in discrete applications, or may be implemented in a pixel circuit used in a display apparatus. In the pixel circuit embodiment, driver circuitry causes appropriate charging and discharging of the LEC elements of respective pixels to provide a desired display.","In one alternative, a transistor may be configured to have multiple LEC elements integrated therewith, to provide respective different colors used in forming a display.","The present invention can be embodied in various forms, including business processes, computer implemented methods, computer program products, computer systems and networks, user interfaces, application programming interfaces, and the like.","In the following description, for purposes of explanation, numerous details are set forth, such as flowcharts and system configurations, in order to provide an understanding of one or more embodiments of the present invention. However, it is and will be apparent to one skilled in the art that these specific details are not required in order to practice the present invention.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["100","100","102","104","106"]},"The bipolar transistor  may be a stand alone transistor for usage in discrete applications or may be one or many such transistors, particularly when implemented in an integrated circuit.","The bipolar transistor  also includes capacitive elements ,  corresponding to multiple electrodes, particularly the base electrode  and emitter electrode  in this example.","The capacitive elements ,  are not wholly separate capacitors that are simply connected to the bipolar transistor . Rather, the capacitive elements ,  are integrated with the relevant bipolar transistor junctions.","For example, in a plate-type capacitor, one of the plates is directly electrically connected to the effective electrode and the other plate is directly connected to the relevant junction of the transistor. For example, one of the two plates of the capacitive element may be fused (wave soldered, welded, evaporated, plated, sputtered as the same conductor) directly to the transistor junction (either P or N junction). Alternatively, insulated wires can be run through the capacitor plate to the inside plate of the capacitor on one end and to the transistor junction on the other end.","With this configuration, optimum performance can be realized with a perfectly mated capacitor-transistor junction interface. There is less noise without a wire connecting the capacitor to the transistor in conventional fashion. In precision application a wire or conductor lead acts like an antenna. The capacitance may be set to have very high input impedance, lowering the base to emitter drain current, lowering noise, increasing sensitivity, selectivity and Q factor. Biasing the transistor may be made in accordance with the characteristic impedance at each junction of the transistor. The transistor may also have DC switching and memory applications.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1"],"b":["200","200","234","236","232","202","206","204"]},"The capacitive element of the emitter includes first conductive portion (e.g., plate) and second conductive portion (e.g., plate) , with suitable dielectric material or the like between the two conductive portions. The first conductive portion is directly electrically connected to the emitter electrode , and the second conductive portion is fused to the emitter region  of the bipolar transistor , using techniques such as those described above.","A variety of suitable dielectric materials may be provided depending upon operational signal frequencies, device characteristics and intended implementation constraints. Suitable dielectric materials include but are not limited to crystal, vacuum, air, gas, ionized material, a single charged particle, charged particles, or suitable combinations of any of such dielectric materials. Stabilization agents may be incorporated into the dielectric materials as well. Finally, depending upon the capacitance, transistor junction material, and signal frequencies the transistor junctions may be the most suitable dielectric material with out adding additional material. Additionally, the transistor capacitor(s) may have both fixed and variable capacitance as desired, depending upon factors including the dielectric material and the signal processing application.","Similarly, the capacitive element of the base includes first conductive portion (e.g., plate) and second conductive portion (e.g., plate) , also with suitable dielectric material or the like between them. The first conductive portion is directly connected to the base electrode , and the second conductive portion is fused to the base region  of the bipolar transistor .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 1"],"b":["300","300","300"]},"The bipolar transistor  is formed on a p-type substrate . The collector region  is composed of n-type material, the base region  is composed of p-type material, and the emitter region  is composed of n-type material. Conventional techniques including diffusion and implantation and appropriate dopant materials may be used to form these regions.","The capacitive element of the emitter includes first conductive portion and second conductive portion , and the capacitive element of the base includes the first conductive portion and the second conductive portion . The first conductive portion is directly electrically connected to and may actually be the metal layer that provides the emitter electrode . Similarly, the first conductive portion is directly electrically connected to and may actually be the metal layer that provides the base electrode . The collector electrode  is connected to the collector region .","Insulative material , , such as silicon oxide, separates the electrodes and provides electrical separation between the respective plates of the capacitive elements. An initial formation of a first insulative layer  followed by formation of patterns and selective removal of the first insulative layer  and metallization may be used to form the second conductive portions , respectively in contact with the base region  and emitter region .","Another insulative layer , selectively removed, with subsequent metallization forms the first conductive portions , suitably insulated from the first conductive patterns , ",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0037","num":"0036"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 1"],"b":["400","402","406","404","400"]},"The bipolar transistor  also includes capacitive elements , ,  corresponding to the base electrode , the collector electrode , and the emitter electrode  in this example.","The capacitive elements , ,  again are not separate capacitors that are in turn connected to the bipolar transistor , but are instead capacitive elements , ,  that are integrated with the relevant bipolar transistor junctions of the bipolar transistor .","In the example of a plate-type capacitor, one of the plates is directly electrically connected to the effective electrode and the other plate is directly connected to the relevant junction of the transistor.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0041","num":"0040"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 1"],"b":["500","100","500","502","504","506"]},"The transistor  may be a stand alone transistor for usage in discrete applications, but preferably is one of many such transistors implemented in an integrated circuit, particularly a pixel circuit used in a display apparatus as described further below. Additionally, in some display apparatus embodiments, the capacitance component of the transistor may be used in support of touch screen functionality.","The transistor  also includes a light emitting capacitive element (LEC)  corresponding to the drain. As with the embodiment of , the capacitive element  may preferably be integrated with the transistor , particularly the source of the transistor  in this example, so that connection to the source electrode  accommodates connection to the LEC . The LEC  is preferably fabricated to be integrated with the transistor  using conventional semiconductor processes. As an alternative, the LEC  may also be fabricated separately from, but connected to the relevant transistor element in order to perform the same function.","The LEC  is similar to a conventional capacitor. However, the dielectric is a chemical or the like that gives off photons when the capacitor is charged. This may be useful for lighting applications in a single transistor application. Alternatively, the light may be used as the source of light in respective pixels in a pixel circuit that is part of a display apparatus.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0045","num":"0044"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 5"],"b":["620","620","602","602","602","620","604","606","602"],"i":["a","b ","a ","b "]},"Although one pixel is shown in the pixel circuit , this is solely for ease of illustration, and it is well recognized that many thousands of pixels may actually be included for the desired display characteristics.","A variety of driver circuits, namely a signal driver , power supply driver  and write scan driver  are configured to provide signals appropriate for the desired charging and discharging of desired LECs and therefore pixels in the pixel circuit . The various lines output by these drivers - connect to the various pixels forming a matrix in the pixel circuit. Signals and corresponding timing dictate the charging and discharging of pixels to provide the desired display. Specifically, the signal driver  provides the image input signal, denoted as S for the line corresponding to the depicted pixel. The signal line is connected to the source of the select transistors (e.g., select transistor ). The power supply driver  drives one potential V that is connected to the source of the drive transistors (e.g., drive transistor ) and another potential V that is connected to the drain of the switch transistors (e.g., switch transistor ). The write scan driver  drives write signal lines such as WS, connected to the gate of the select transistor . Another write signal line, WS, is connected to the gate of the switching transistor .","Causing the write scan lines WS, WS to be at levels appropriate for turning the select transistor  and switch transistor  on, and the potentials V, V to be at appropriate levels causes a charging of the LEC to the desired extent. Also, operation of the switch transistor  following a desired light emission period may be used to discharge the LEC ","Since the LEC can hold a charge and corresponding light emission, the pixel circuit  may be desirable for displays having a relatively static display, or a display that does not change frequently, such as an electronic billboard. Alternatively, with appropriate timing, conventional real time displays including video with motion images may be displayed, such as with broadcast or recorded high definition television signals.","Finally,  is a diagram illustrating an example of a transistor with enhanced capacitance and light emitting characteristics with different colors respectively at the gate , source  and drain . Specifically, a green LEC  is associated with the gate , a red LEC  is associated with the drain , and a blue LEC  is associated with the source . Appropriate application of driving signals and corresponding circuitry to manipulate the charge in the respective LECs - allows three color pixel display in a pixel circuit having substantially fewer transistors and less corresponding usage of integrated circuit resources.","Thus embodiments of the present invention produce and provide a bipolar transistor with enhanced capacitance at multiple electrodes, and a transistor with associated light emitting capacitance. Although the present invention has been described in considerable detail with reference to certain embodiments thereof, the invention may be variously embodied without departing from the spirit or scope of the invention. Therefore, the following claims should not be limited to the description of the embodiments contained herein in any way."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["These and other more detailed and specific features of the present invention are more fully disclosed in the following specification, reference being had to the accompanying drawings, in which:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 7"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
