---
title: Reciprocally-cycled, externally-actuated weapon
abstract: A reciprocally-cycled, externally-powered weapon may include a rotative driver connected via a crank and connecting rod to the operating group of the weapon. The connecting rod may be connected to a pinion that meshes with a translating rack and a stationary rack. The translating rack may be connected to the operating group, and the stationary rack may be fixed to the receiver of the weapon. The energy needed to fire the weapon may be supplied by an energy generator. The minimum amount of energy supplied by the energy generator may be independent of the speed of translation of the operating group and may be sufficient to reliably result in cartridge ignition, thereby providing an infinitely adjustable firing rate.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08297167&OS=08297167&RS=08297167
owner: The United States of America as Represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 08297167
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20091028
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS","STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENT INTEREST","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS"],"p":["This application claims the benefit under 35 USC 119(e) of U.S. provisional patent application 61\/116,746 filed on Nov. 21, 2008, and U.S. provisional patent application 61\/177,797 filed on May 13, 2009, both of which are hereby incorporated by reference.","The inventions described herein may be manufactured, used and licensed by or for the U.S. Government for U.S. Government purposes.","The invention relates, in general, to weapons and, in particular, to reciprocally cycled, externally-actuated weapons.","Reciprocally-cycled weapons may be classified as self-powered or externally-powered. Self-powered weapons, such as those that rely on recoil or gas for operation, may use the high pressure gases developed during cartridge firing to directly or indirectly cycle the mechanisms that perform certain actions. These actions may include cartridge stripping, cartridge feeding, cartridge chambering, bolt locking, cartridge firing, bolt unlocking, cartridge case extraction, cartridge case ejection, and cartridge indexing.","The reliability of self-powered weapons may depend on successful ignition of the cartridge to generate the high pressure gases needed to cycle the weapon. The weapon may be cycled directly (gas-operated), or indirectly (recoil-operated) via the momentum of the fired projectile. A misfire, where the primer is hit but does not ignite the main propellant charge, may result in a malfunction that requires user intervention to extract the unfired cartridge from the chamber of the weapon. With externally-powered weapons, however, a misfire may not stop the continued operation of the weapon and may not result in any down time of the weapon.","Self-powered weapons may be more portable (i.e. lightweight) or mobile than externally-powered weapons because externally-powered weapons may have operating mechanisms driven by actuators that do not rely on the firing forces of the weapon.","Conventional remote weapon systems (RWS), including remotely-controlled weapon turrets, may utilize conventional self-powered weapons that were designed and developed for manned operation. For example, the U.S. military Common Remotely Operated Weapon System (CROWS) may use conventional man-operated, self-powered machine guns, which are removably mounted in the gun system. Conventional self-powered weapons may periodically encounter malfunctions that require human intervention to correct. When clearing the malfunction and\/or reloading a weapon, the human may be exposed to danger from enemy fire.","Conventional self-powered weapons may require an initial, manual charging procedure, manual loading of the ammunition belt, and may be inherently less reliable because of dependence on successful firing of the cartridge. Ammunition malfunctions may often need to be manually cleared before the weapon can resume function. Additionally, these manned weapons may require remote actuation of the safe\/arm switch and the trigger when used in conventional RWS applications. The remote actuation may require complex mechanisms and high powered actuators to mimic manual operation. The need for precise and reliable functioning and timing of the safe\/arm switch and the trigger may impose an immense burden on RWS designers and the systems they produce. Also, these weapons may be mounted using loose quick-release pins, which may affect the weapon's performance characteristics, such as accuracy and dispersion.","Other RWS designs may use existing weapons that are not self-powered, but, on the other hand, the weapons that are not self-powered may not provide the low inertial properties that may be required. Further, RWS designs using conventional self-powered weapons may not be immediately compatible with a variety of types of ammunition that produce significantly different impulse levels when fired. Additionally, RWS designs using either self-powered or externally-powered weapons may not be capable of being rapidly reloaded either remotely or robotically. For example, a conventional RWS may use an ammunition \u201ccan\u201d mounted to the RWS structure, or a magazine which feeds ammunition to the weapon via a chute. Neither of these conventional approaches allows the use of multiple ammunition types of a given caliber, or is capable of the unmanned reloading and malfunction clearing required for robotic, remote applications.","Manually operated RWS may be required to have a quick-dismount feature so an operator may remove the weapon to prevent theft and\/or commandeering of the weapon by the enemy. The quick-dismount feature, in addition to the external ammunition stowage, may render the weapon and ammunition of conventional RWS vulnerable to theft, when used on a robotic platform. Thus, conventional RWS may not be suitable for most robotic applications because operation of the conventional RWS may require an on-the-spot human operator. These robotic applications may include the remote placement of gun turrets at, for example, roadblocks, or on robotic devices that are remotely controlled by a human operator.","Robotic devices may be commonly used in police and military applications. Systems for mounting firearms on such robotic devices have been developed. As discussed above, these systems for mounting firearms on robotic devices are designed to utilize conventional self-powered weapons. In particular, the weapon, such as a conventional semi-automatic shotgun or an M4 assault rifle, is removably mounted in the system. The conventional system allows a user to wirelessly control actuating mechanisms that perform the typical direct user interface actions, such as releasing the weapon safety switch and pulling the trigger.","Such conventional systems for mounting firearms on robotic devices may have several drawbacks. An enemy can disable the robotic device, remove the firearm from the mounting system, and utilize the firearm against the controller of the robotic device and\/or friendly forces. Also, self-powered weapons tend to periodically experience malfunctions, such as misfires. These malfunctions require human interaction and may place the user in a potentially fatal situation. Or, the conventional system may use mechanical devices that simulate the actions taken by a user to correct malfunctions. In either case, the combat availability of the weapon decreases due to the dependence on successful cartridge ignition for mechanical operation. In addition, the placement of a conventional infantry weapon in the mounting system may require a soldier to place his weapon in the mounting system of the robotic device, thereby leaving the soldier personally unarmed during operation of the robotic device.","The use of conventional self-powered weapons in robotic devices may limit the operational capabilities of the armed robotic system due to the intended roles of the individual weapons that are mounted in the devices. That is, a user may choose to place an accurate, semi-automatic assault or sniper rifle on the robot, or a fully-automatic, suppressive fire machine gun on the robot. Each of the guns may be effective for its intended role. But, because of the limited firing rate options of conventional weapons, their effectiveness may be greatly reduced if the firing rate need should change during the combat situation.","It is an object of the invention to provide a reciprocally-cycled, externally-powered weapon, and a method of operation of the weapon.","It is another object of the invention to provide a reciprocally-cycled, externally-powered weapon that overcomes one or more of the problems of conventional externally-powered weapons.","One aspect of the invention is a reciprocally-cycled, externally-powered weapon that may include a rotative driver connected to one end of a crank, a connecting rod connected at a first end to another end of the crank, a weapon operating group subassembly connected to a second end of the connecting rod, and a receiver. The weapon operating group subassembly may be disposed in the receiver.","The weapon may include a translating rack and a stationary rack, and a pinion in meshing engagement with the translating rack and the stationary rack. The pinion may be operably connected to the second end of the connecting rod. The translating rack may be operably connected to the weapon operating group subassembly. The stationary rack may be fixed to the receiver.","The speed of the rotative driver may be infinitely adjustable between zero speed and a maximum speed. The weapon operating group subassembly may include a firing pin subassembly and an energy generator for the firing pin subassembly. A minimum amount of energy generated by the energy generator may be independent of the translation speed of the operating group subassembly.","Another aspect of the invention is a method that may include providing a reciprocally-cycled, externally-powered weapon. The weapon may be reciprocally cycled using a rotative driver connected to one end of a crank that is operably coupled to an operating group subassembly of the weapon. The method may include generating energy for firing the weapon wherein an amount of energy generated for firing the weapon is independent of a translation speed of an operating group subassembly of the weapon.","The invention will be better understood, and further objects, features, and advantages thereof will become more apparent from the following description of the preferred embodiments, taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["1","1","3","4","3","3","3","1","1","3","1","3","1"]},"As shown in , weapon  may include a barrel extension , a barrel , a receiver , a right side cover , a left side cover  and a pair of tubes  mounted in receiver . A track  may be provided to assist in feeding ammunition to weapon . Weapon  may include several subassemblies. The subassemblies may include a drivetrain subassembly, an operating group subassembly, and a barrel subassembly. The operating group subassembly may include a bolt subassembly and a firing pin subassembly.","The drivetrain subassembly may provide the energy necessary to cycle the operating group subassembly and complete other operations that may include cartridge stripping, cartridge feeding, cartridge chambering, bolt locking, cartridge firing, bolt unlocking, cartridge case extraction, cartridge case ejection, and, in some embodiments, cartridge indexing. The drivetrain subassembly may be seen, for example, in .  is a partial side view, partially cut-away, and  is a partial top view, in section, showing a first position of the weapon  of . The drivetrain subassembly may include a motor , a gear box , a crank , a connecting rod , a pinion , and a stationary rack .","The operating group subassembly may be defined as the internal (within the receiver ) components (excluding the drivetrain subassembly) that reciprocate throughout the operating cycle of the weapon . , B, C, and D are perspective, front, right side, and left side views, respectively, of an operating group subassembly. The operating group subassembly may include a bolt carrier , pinion guides , a translating rack , a firing pin subassembly , a firing pin drivespring , a retaining plug , a power take off (PTO) cam pin , and a bolt subassembly . The bolt carrier  may reciprocate in a sliding manner on a bolt carrier support, such as, for example, the tubes .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0037"},"figref":["FIGS. 3A and 3B","FIG. 3C","FIG. 3B"],"b":["12","12","3","3","12","25","26","29","32","28","30","27"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0039","num":"0038"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":["14","33","34","35"]},"The barrel subassembly may include a barrel extension  and a barrel , as shown, for example, in .","The functional cycle of the weapon  may be understood by a description of the components of the weapon  as the weapon  moves through its functional cycle.  show, respectively, seven functional positions of weapon . In each of , the \u201cA\u201d figure shows a partial side view, partially cut-away, of the weapon , and the \u201cB\u201d figure shows a partial top view, in section, of the weapon .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0042","num":"0041"},"figref":["FIG. 5A","FIG. 5B","FIG. 1","FIG. 5A","FIG. 5B"],"b":["1","3","5","4","5","4","5","6","100","6","7","102","7","8","9","9","11","11"]},"The output motion of the bolt carrier  resulting from the rotation of the crank  is a combination of the kinematics of the crank  and the connecting rod , along with the stroke multiplying effect caused by the interaction of the translating rack , the pinion , and the stationary rack . The geared engagement between the teeth of the rotating pinion , the stationary rack , and the translating rack  may allow for a desirable two-to-one multiplying effect, compared to the stroke length associated with using only a connecting rod and crank linkage arrangement. The pinion guides  may constrain the vertical movement of the pinion  as the pinion  rotates and translates throughout the cycle.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0044","num":"0043"},"figref":["FIG. 6A","FIG. 6B","FIG. 1","FIGS. 6A and 6B","FIGS. 5A and 5B"],"b":["1","1","5","7","6","7"]},"During translation of the operating group subassembly, the bolt carrier  may be supported by and may slidably reciprocate on two tubes . In the illustrated embodiment, tubes  may be cylindrical in shape. Translation of the bolt subassembly , as well as angular position control of the bolt subassembly , may be facilitated by the tubes . Other methods may also be used to support the bolt carrier  and control the angular position of the bolt subassembly . For example, the receiver  may be fabricated with integral features that support the bolt carrier  and control the angular position of the bolt subassembly .","At this point in the cycle, the bolt subassembly  reaches a point where it begins to strip a cartridge  from the ammunition supply and feed it into the barrel extension  towards the chamber of the barrel . Stripping of cartridge  may be accomplished by means of the depressible radial rammer , which may pivot about the rammer pin  (). For most of the cycle, the depressible radial rammer  may remain in its stripping (non-depressed) position relative to the bolt , due to the restorative force of the rammer spring.","Depending on the particular application, the ammunition supply may or may not be mechanically linked and\/or controlled by the PTO cam pin , which may be rigidly coupled to the bolt carrier  (). For example, the PTO cam pin  may engage a cam slot in a feed cover designed to manipulate a linked belt of ammunition (such as those typically used in the M249 and M240 machine guns), or the PTO cam pin  may engage a cylindrical cam that indexes a feed sprocket (such as those used in the XM235 Rodman Squad Automatic Weapon). In other embodiments, the ammunition supply may be self-regulating\/controlling, such as a spring-fed stacked magazine, similar to those used in the M16\/M4 series of assault rifles. In other embodiments, additional and other unique ammunition supply mechanisms may be utilized. For certain ammunition sources, the track  () may be utilized for securing the ammunition supply and\/or controlling the presented cartridges .","Further crank  rotation from the second position of  results in additional forward translation of the operating group subassembly to the third position shown in .  is a partial side view, partially cut-away, and  is a partial top view, in section, showing the third position of the weapon  of . At this point the chambering of cartridge  is complete. Translation of the bolt subassembly  ceases, but the bolt subassembly  is rotating relative to the bolt carrier . This rotation of the bolt subassembly  relative to the bolt carrier  is possible only after the cartridge  is fully chambered and the front  () of the bolt subassembly  clears the front  of the tubes . Once clear of the tubes , the angular position of the bolt subassembly  is no longer restricted. The bolt cam pin  () may engage a cam slot  in the bolt carrier , which in turns facilitates the intended rotation of the bolt subassembly .","At this point, the front of the bolt subassembly  resides within an internal pocket of the barrel extension . As the bolt subassembly  rotates, the locking surfaces of the bolt  overlap the corresponding locking surfaces of the barrel extension . This process, commonly referred to as bolt locking, supports the firing event of the cartridge  and decouples the reaction forces associated with the firing event from the other components of the operating group subassembly and the drivetrain subassembly.","While the bolt subassembly  is no longer moving forward, the bolt carrier  is still undergoing forward translation. The relative movement between the bolt subassembly  and bolt carrier  allows the firing pin drivespring  to further compress. Further compression of the firing pin drivespring  generates the potential energy necessary to propel the firing pin subassembly  forward and initiate ignition of the cartridge , which occurs a bit later in the cycle. The firing pin drivespring  may function as an energy generator to supply the energy needed to propel the firing pin subassembly  toward the cartridge .","At this point in the cycle, the ejector  ( and C) is fully depressed and further compresses the extractor\/ejector spring . The extractor  has also rotated about the extractor pin  until the extractor  sits over the rim of the case of the cartridge .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0052","num":"0051"},"figref":["FIG. 8A","FIG. 8B","FIG. 1","FIGS. 2A and 3C","FIGS. 2A and 4","FIG. 3C"],"b":["1","12","25","18","12","108","25","110","33","14","108","25"]},"The forward movement of the firing pin subassembly  over the distance L is powered by the potential energy stored in the firing pin drivespring . The firing pin drivespring  extends from its compressed state to generate the velocity and associated kinetic energy of the firing pin subassembly  that is necessary for successful ignition of cartridge . The moment when the slot  in the rear of the bolt  becomes aligned with the engaging feature  on the firing pin  is analogous to \u201cpulling the trigger\u201d on a weapon that has a trigger. At that moment, an event has been triggered that will result in the firing pin  being propelled forward toward the primer of the cartridge , with the intent of firing the cartridge .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0054","num":"0053"},"figref":["FIG. 9A","FIG. 9B","FIG. 1"],"b":["1","22","11","22","14","12","108","25","15","33","22"]},"Successful ignition of the cartridge  is dependent only on the associated velocity and kinetic energy of the firing pin subassembly  and does not rely on any generated momentum associated with the rest of the operating group subassembly. The lack of dependence on the movement of any other components of the operating group subassembly is important because the design of the firing mechanism, in conjunction with the ability to vary the speed of the motor , allows for infinite adjustment of the firing rate. The minimum amount of energy produced by the firing pin energy generator, which is the firing pin drivespring  in the disclosed embodiment, may be independent of the translation speed of the operating group subassembly and sufficient to ensure successful ignition of cartridge . Thus, the firing rate may be infinitely adjusted from zero rounds per minute up to the designed mechanical limitation, which may be on the order of several hundred rounds per minute or greater.","Another advantage of the independence of the firing pin energy generator from the momentum associated with the rest of the operating group subassembly is, for example, when weapon  must be fired as accurate as possible, to engage point targets. In that case, movement of the operating group subassembly may adversely affect the accuracy of weapon . But, the minimum energy available from the firing pin drivespring  will result in successful ignition of cartridge  regardless of the speed of the other components comprising the operating group subassembly. Therefore, the operating group subassembly may be positioned such that the slot  in the rear of the bolt  is very nearly aligned with the engaging feature  on the firing pin . Then, the weapon  may be aimed. When ready to fire, the bolt carrier  may be very slowly advanced only the miniscule amount necessary to complete rotation of the bolt subassembly  and align the slot  of the bolt  with the engaging feature  of the firing pin . When the slot  of the bolt  is aligned with the engaging feature  of the firing pin , the firing pin subassembly  is driven forward and the weapon  fires. In this manner, any inaccuracy of the weapon  that may be caused by movement of the components within weapon  may be minimized.","An additional benefit of weapon  is that the designed overtravel in the bolt carrier , in combination with the control of the release of the firing pin subassembly  by the angular position of the bolt subassembly , allows for advanced ignition of the cartridge  (relative to the bolt carrier  position). Advanced ignition of the cartridge  may occur while the bolt  is fully rotated and locked, even though the bolt carrier  may still be moving forward during counterrecoil. This feature allows for additional lock time of the bolt  to help mitigate hangfires of the cartridge , which may be problematic for certain conventional externally-actuated weapon mechanisms.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0058","num":"0057"},"figref":["FIG. 10A","FIG. 10B","FIG. 1","FIG. 2D"],"b":["1","11","12","13","18","11","114","11","34","14","14"]},"While the bolt subassembly  undergoes the process of unlocking, the firing pin  is being retracted from the slot  in the rear of the bolt . The firing pin  rotates with the bolt subassembly  and rotates relative to the firing pin base  (). The firing pin base  is only able to translate (and not rotate) within the bolt carrier . After the firing pin  clears the slot in the rear of the bolt , the torsion spring  acts to reset the firing pin  to its original angular position, relative to the firing pin base , at the beginning of the cycle. This action may be completed prior to completion of the unlocking of the bolt subassembly . When the bolt subassembly  is completely unlocked, the bolt subassembly  may translate along with the bolt carrier  and the remainder of the operating group subassembly.","Throughout the unlocking process of the bolt subassembly , the ejector  ( and C) remains fully compressed and the extractor  rotates about the rim case of the cartridge . In certain embodiments with particular ammunition handling mechanisms, it is also possible that the PTO cam pin  may start to engage any number of ammunition indexing mechanisms to control the movement and presentation of subsequent cartridges .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0061","num":"0060"},"figref":["FIG. 11A","FIG. 11B","FIG. 1","FIGS. 3A-C"],"b":["1","22","12","26","22","20","32","27","25","27","28","27","25","22","22","26","22","2"]},"In some embodiments using certain types of ammunition handling mechanisms, as the operating group subassembly passes from the sixth position to the seventh position, the depressible radial rammer  rotates inward about the rammer pin  towards the axis of the bolt . This action is intended and may be advantageous if the cartridge  that is moving into the feed position for the next cycle interferes with the path swept by the depressible radial rammer , in its non-depressed position. Once the depressible radial rammer  is free to return to its non-depressed position, a rammer spring may provide the necessary restoring force.","While the invention has been described with reference to certain preferred embodiments, numerous changes, alterations and modifications to the described embodiments are possible without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined in the appended claims, and equivalents thereof. For example, a drivetrain subassembly may include a connecting rod that is directly connected to the operating group subassembly, without the use of a pinion, stationary rack, or translating rack. In that case, the crank of a drivetrain subassembly that does not include a pinion and a stationary rack may need to be twice as long as the crank  in weapon  shown in the Figs., to produce the same amount of resultant operating group subassembly translation."],"GOVINT":[{},{}],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["In the drawings, which are not necessarily to scale, like or corresponding parts are denoted by like or corresponding reference numerals.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIGS. 2A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":["FIGS. 3A and 3B","FIG. 3C","FIG. 3B"],"b":["3","3"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":"14"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":["FIG. 5A","FIG. 5B","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":["FIG. 6A","FIG. 6B","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":["FIG. 7A","FIG. 7B","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":["FIG. 8A","FIG. 8B","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":["FIG. 9A","FIG. 9B","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":["FIG. 10A","FIG. 10B","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":["FIG. 11A","FIG. 11B","FIG. 1"]}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
