---
title: Nano-imprint lithography stack with enhanced adhesion between silicon-containing and non-silicon containing layers
abstract: A nano-imprint lithography stack includes a nano-imprint lithography substrate, a non-silicon-containing layer solidified from a first polymerizable, non-silicon-containing composition, and a silicon-containing layer solidified from a polymerizable silicon-containing composition adhered to a surface of the non-silicon-containing layer. The non-silicon-containing layer is adhered directly or through one or more intervening layers to the nano-imprint lithography substrate. The silicon-containing layer includes a silsesquioxane with a general formula (R′SiO)(HOSiO), wherein R′ is a hydrocarbon group or two or more different hydrocarbon groups other than methyl, 1<z<2, and x and y are integers. The imprint lithography stack may further include a second non-silicon-containing layer solidified from a second polymerizable, non-silicon-containing composition adhered to a surface of the silicon-containing layer such that the silicon-containing layer is sandwiched between the non-silicon-containing layers.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08415010&OS=08415010&RS=08415010
owner: Molecular Imprints, Inc.
number: 08415010
owner_city: Austin
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20091019
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS","STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENT INTEREST","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION","EXAMPLE"],"p":["This application claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. \u00a7119(e)(1) of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61\/106,642, filed Oct. 20, 2008, which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.","This invention was made with government support under NIST ATP Award No. 70NANB4H3012. The U.S. government has certain rights in the invention.","Nano-fabrication includes the fabrication of very small structures that have features on the order of 100 nanometers or smaller. One application in which nano-fabrication has had a sizeable impact is in the processing of integrated circuits. The semiconductor processing industry continues to strive for larger production yields while increasing the circuits per unit area formed on a substrate, therefore nano-fabrication becomes increasingly important. Nano-fabrication provides greater process control while allowing continued reduction of the minimum feature dimensions of the structures formed. Other areas of development in which nano-fabrication has been employed include biotechnology, optical technology, mechanical systems, and the like.","An exemplary nano-fabrication technique in use today is commonly referred to as imprint lithography. Exemplary imprint lithography processes are described in detail in numerous publications, such as U.S. Patent Publication No. 2004\/0065976, U.S. Patent Publication No. 2004\/0065252, and U.S. Pat. No. 6,936,194, all of which are herein incorporated by reference.","An imprint lithography technique disclosed in each of the aforementioned U.S. patent publications and patent, includes formation of a relief pattern in a polymerizable layer and transferring a pattern corresponding to the relief pattern into an underlying substrate. The substrate may be coupled to a motion stage to obtain a desired positioning to facilitate the patterning process. The patterning process uses a template spaced apart from the substrate and a formable liquid applied between the template and the substrate. The formable liquid is solidified to form a rigid layer that has a pattern conforming to a shape of the surface of the template that contacts the formable liquid. After solidification, the template is separated from the rigid layer such that the template and the substrate are spaced apart. The substrate and the solidified layer are then subjected to additional processes to transfer a relief image into the substrate that corresponds to the pattern in the solidified layer.","In some cases, a stack including multiple layers is formed in imprint lithography. These layers may be organic (e.g., carbon-containing and substantially free of metals, including semi-conductors) or inorganic (e.g., non-carbon-containing). Some carbon-containing layers with a high silicon content (e.g., spin-on-glasses including methyl silsesquioxane) may behave like inorganic layers (e.g., spin-on-glasses including hydrogen silsesquioxane) in terms of bonding and adhesion. If adhesion between layers in an imprint lithography stack is low, delamination of one or more of the layers may occur when the template is separated from a rigid layer (e.g., a hard mask layer).","In one aspect, a polymerizable nano-imprint lithography composition for use as a hard mask layer in an imprint lithography stack includes a cross-linking agent, an initiator, a solvent, and a silsesquioxane with a general formula (R\u2032SiO)(HOSiO), wherein R\u2032 is a hydrocarbon group or two or more different hydrocarbon groups other than methyl), 1<z<2, and x and y are integers. The composition is capable of forming covalent bonds with a non-silicon-containing layer in an imprint lithography stack during polymerization of the composition. Adhesion between the silicon-containing layer and the non-silicon-containing layer is improved when both compositions include compounds with the same functionality.","In one aspect, a nano-imprint lithography stack includes a nano-imprint lithography substrate, a non-silicon-containing layer solidified from a first polymerizable, non-silicon-containing composition, and a silicon-containing layer solidified from a polymerizable silicon-containing composition adhered to a surface of the non-silicon-containing layer. The non-silicon-containing layer is adhered directly or through one or more intervening layers to the nano-imprint lithography substrate. The silicon-containing layer includes a silsesquioxane with a general formula (R\u2032SiO)(HOSiO), wherein R\u2032 is a hydrocarbon group or two or more different hydrocarbon groups other than methyl, 1<z<2, and x and y are integers.","In another aspect, forming an imprint lithography stack includes depositing a non-silicon-containing polymerizable composition directly or indirectly on a nano-imprint lithography substrate, polymerizing the non-silicon-containing polymerizable composition to form a solidified non-silicon-containing layer, depositing a silicon-containing polymerizable composition on the solidified non-silicon-containing layer, and polymerizing the silicon-containing polymerizable composition to form a solidified silicon-containing layer adhered to the non-silicon-containing layer. The silicon-containing polymerizable composition includes a silsesquioxane with a general formula (R\u2032SiO)(HOSiO), wherein R\u2032 is a hydrocarbon group or two or more different hydrocarbon groups other than methyl, 1<z<2, and x and y are integers.","In some implementations, the imprint lithography stack further includes a second non-silicon-containing layer solidified from a second polymerizable, non-silicon-containing composition adhered to a surface of the silicon-containing layer such that the silicon-containing layer is sandwiched between the non-silicon-containing layers.","In some implementations, a second non-silicon-containing polymerizable composition is deposited on the solidified silicon-containing layer and the non-silicon-containing polymerizable composition is polymerized to form a solidified non-silicon-containing layer adhered to the silicon-containing layer.","In some implementations, polymerizing the second non-silicon-containing composition may include irradiating the second non-silicon-containing composition with ultraviolet radiation. Polymerizing the non-silicon-containing composition may include heating the non-silicon-containing composition. Polymerizing the silicon-containing composition may include irradiating the silicon-containing composition with ultraviolet radiation. Polymerizing the silicon-containing composition may include forming covalent bonds between unreacted functional groups on the surface of the non-silicon-containing layer and a carbon-containing compound in the silicon-containing composition.","In some implementations, a silicon content of the silicon-containing layer is at least about 10 wt % or at least about 15 wt %. The silicon-containing layer may be adhered to the non-silicon-containing layer through covalent bonds between carbon-containing components in the non-silicon-containing layer and carbon-containing components in the silicon-containing composition. The silicon-containing layer may be adhered to the non-silicon-containing layer through polar interactions between carbon-containing components in the non-silicon-containing layer and carbon-containing components in the silicon-containing composition. The polar interactions may include hydrogen-bonding interactions, van der Waals interactions, or a combination thereof. The silicon-containing layer may be less than about 100 nm thick. In some cases, R\u2032 may include a phenyl group or a substituted phenyl group. The carbon-containing compound in the silicon-containing composition may be a crosslinking agent. The silicon-containing layer may include a carbon-containing compound with a polar functional group. The silicon-containing composition includes a component with the same functionality as a component in the non-silicon-containing composition.","One or more of these features may be combined as desired to form an imprint lithography stack with improved interfacial adhesion. Hard mask layers with improved adhesion described herein include a silicon content of at least about 10 wt %, at least about 15 wt %, or at least about 20 wt %. The hard mask layers have favorable etch characteristics due to the inorganic nature of the composition. The hard mask layers also demonstrate improved adhesion to organic layers, attributed at least in part to organic functional groups in the hard mask layer composition. Stacks formed with these hard mask layers demonstrate improved adhesion and thus more resistance to the tensile pull force during the template separation step of nano-imprinting lithography. The improved adhesion may be achieved by combining a silicon-containing compound with some organic nature with polar organic compounds, such as polar organic compounds and cross-linking agents, to make the hard mask layer more compatible with the organic layers (i.e., to promote formation of polar interactions and\/or covalent bonds at each interface between the hard mask layer and an organic layer (e.g., an organic underlayer, and organic imprint resist layer, an adhesion layer, and the like). The imprint lithography stack described herein also reduces or removes the need to pre-treat the surface of the hard mask layer to improve adhesion of organic layers to the hard mask layer, thereby reducing processing costs and simplifying process flow.","Referring to , illustrated therein is a lithographic system  used to form a relief pattern on substrate . Substrate  may be coupled to substrate chuck . As illustrated, substrate chuck  is a vacuum chuck. Substrate chuck , however, may be any chuck including, but not limited to, vacuum, pin-type, groove-type, electromagnetic, and\/or the like. Exemplary chucks are described in U.S. Pat. No. 6,873,087, which is herein incorporated by reference.","Substrate  and substrate chuck  may be further supported by stage . Stage  may provide motion about the x-, y-, and z-axes. Stage , substrate , and substrate chuck  may also be positioned on a base (not shown).","Spaced-apart from substrate  is a template . Template  generally includes a mesa  extending therefrom towards substrate , mesa  having a patterning surface  thereon. Further, mesa  may be referred to as mold . Template  and\/or mold  may be formed from such materials including, but not limited to, fused-silica, quartz, silicon, organic polymers, siloxane polymers, borosilicate glass, fluorocarbon polymers, metal, hardened sapphire, and\/or the like. As illustrated, patterning surface  comprises features defined by a plurality of spaced-apart recesses  and\/or protrusions , though embodiments of the present invention are not limited to such configurations. Patterning surface  may define any original pattern that forms the basis of a pattern to be formed on substrate .","Template  may be coupled to chuck . Chuck  may be configured as, but not limited to, vacuum, pin-type, groove-type, electromagnetic, and\/or other similar chuck types. Exemplary chucks are further described in U.S. Pat. No. 6,873,087, which is herein incorporated by reference. Further, chuck  may be coupled to imprint head  such that chuck  and\/or imprint head  may be configured to facilitate movement of template .","System  may further comprise a fluid dispense system . Fluid dispense system  may be used to deposit polymerizable composition  on substrate . Polymerizable composition  may be positioned upon substrate  using techniques such as drop dispense, spin-coating, dip coating, chemical vapor deposition (CVD), physical vapor deposition (PVD), thin film deposition, thick film deposition, and\/or the like. Polymerizable composition  may be disposed upon substrate  before and\/or after a desired volume is defined between mold  and substrate  depending on design considerations. Polymerizable composition  may comprise a monomer as described in U.S. Pat. No. 7,157,036 and U.S. Patent Publication No. 2005\/0187339, all of which are herein incorporated by reference.","Referring to , system  may further comprise an energy source  coupled to direct energy  along path . Imprint head  and stage  may be configured to position template  and substrate  in superimposition with path . System  may be regulated by a processor  in communication with stage , imprint head , fluid dispense system , and\/or source , and may operate on a computer readable program stored in memory .","Either imprint head , stage , or both vary a distance between mold  and substrate  to define a desired volume therebetween that is filled by polymerizable composition . For example, imprint head  may apply a force to template  such that mold  contacts polymerizable composition . After the desired volume is filled with polymerizable composition , source  produces energy , e.g., broadband ultraviolet radiation, causing polymerizable composition  to solidify and\/or cross-link conforming to shape of a surface  of substrate  and patterning surface , defining a patterned layer  on substrate . Patterned layer  may include a residual layer  and a plurality of features shown as protrusions  and recessions , with protrusions  having thickness t and residual layer having a thickness t.","The above-mentioned system and process may be further employed in imprint lithography processes and systems referred to in U.S. Pat. No. 6,932,934, U.S. Patent Publication No. 2004\/0124566, U.S. Patent Publication No. 2004\/0188381, and U.S. Patent Publication No. 2004\/0211754, each of which is herein incorporated by reference.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIG. 3A","b":["300","300","12","302","304","306","308","306","308","310","302","304","306"]},"In some cases, as shown in , organic underlayer  includes two or more sub-layers \u2032 and \u2033. Sub-layer \u2032 may be a conventional photoresist or a lift-off material. An example of a conventional photoresist is a novolak resin for an i-line resist. An example of a lift-off material is polymethylglutarimide (PMGI), as described in U.S. Pat. No. 7,122,482, which is incorporated herein by reference. The photoresist or lift-off materials may be thermally hard baked to inhibit intermixing during the coating of sub-layer \u2033. Sub-layer \u2033 may be spun onto sub-layer \u2032. In some cases, sub-layer \u2032 is thicker than sub-layer \u2033.","Some imprint lithography stacks include three or more layers between the organic imprint resist  and the substrate .  illustrates imprint lithography stack  with organic underlayer , hard mask layer  adhered to the organic underlayer, and adhesion layer  coated over the hard mask layer. Organic underlayer  and hard mask layer  form interface , and hard mask layer  and adhesion layer  form interface .","For imprint lithography stacks illustrate in , B, and , hard mask layer  may be spun on or imprinted on the stack (e.g., on organic imprint resist , as shown in , or on organic underlayer , as shown in ). When the hard mask layer  is spun on or imprinted over the stack, the hard mask layer adheres to the layer underneath. This adhesion may be attributed at least in part to similar crosslinking chemistry of the hard mask layer  and the organic underlayer  or organic imprint resist layer , which allows bonding to occur between the hard mask layer and the layer on which it is formed. In some cases, the composition used to form the hard mask may penetrate into the organic underlayer  or the organic imprint resist  while the composition spreads during the imprinting process, providing enhanced interfacial adhesion after the two layers are crosslinked together.","For imprint lithography stacks including those illustrated in , B, and , the organic underlayer  may be several hundred nanometers thick, or thick enough to cover the topography of the substrate  to be etched. The hard mask layer  may be less than about 100 nm thick. The adhesion layer  may be less than about 100 nm thick, or less than about 10 nm thick. In some cases, the adhesion layer  is about 1 nm thick.","A polymerizable composition used to form organic underlayer  or adhesion layer  may include a crosslinking agent, a catalyst, a solvent, and a multi-functional reactive compound with two, three, or more functional groups. One or more of the functional groups may be the same. In some cases, all of the functional groups are different. The multi-functional reactive compound is non-silicon-containing. In some cases, the multi-functional reactive compound is aromatic (aryl). Functional groups in the multi-functional reactive compound may include, for example, hydroxy groups, carboxy groups, epoxy groups, acrylate groups, amide groups, vinyl ether, methacrylate, thiol-ene, and the like. In an example, a multi-functional reactive compound (e.g., an aromatic multi-functional reactive compound) includes a carboxy group, a methoxy group, a hydroxy group, and an acrylate group. In some cases, a functional group in a multi-functional reactive compound may serve as an initiator. For example, in response to exposure to broadband ultraviolet radiation, an initiator-type functional group may undergo cleavage to generate a radical that facilitates polymerization of the composition. In an example, an initiator-type functional group may undergo alpha cleavage to generate a benzoyl radical that facilitates radical polymerization. Examples of multi-functional reactive compounds are described in U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2007\/0021520, which is incorporated by reference herein.","A multi-functional reactive compound in a polymerizable composition may be selected such that one functional group interacts or forms bonds with one or more components in the solidified layer on which the polymerizable composition is deposited in response to thermal energy or ultraviolet irradiation. A second functional group may interact or form bonds with (e.g., crosslink) the polymerizable composition itself in response to thermal energy or ultraviolet irradiation. After the polymerizable composition is solidified, a third functional group in the multi-functional reactive compound may interact or form bonds a second polymerizable composition deposited on the solidified adhesion layer or organic underlayer in response to thermal energy or ultraviolet irradiation. That is, the third functional group in the multi-functional reactive compound, which may be exposed at the surface of the solidified adhesion layer or organic underlayer, is able to bond with the second polymerizable composition during polymerization of the second polymerizable composition on top of the adhesion layer or organic underlayer. In some cases, the third functional group may remain essentially unreacted in the solidified layer until polymerization of the second polymerizable composition is initiated, for example, with ultraviolet radiation.","An example of a crosslinking agent in a polymerizable composition used to form an organic underlayer or an adhesion layer of an imprint lithography stack is hexamethoxymethylamine (HMMA). Hexamethoxymethylamine may be obtained as CYMEL\u00ae 303ULF, a methylated melamine-formaldehyde resin available from Cytec Industries Inc. (West Paterson, N.J.). HMMA may be catalyzed by a strong acid catalyst, such as CYCAT\u00ae 4040, a solution of toluene sulfonic acid in isopropanol, available from Cytec Industries Inc. An example of a solvent in a polymerizable composition used to form an organic underlayer or an adhesion layer is 2-(1-methoxy)propyl acetate or propylene glycol monomethyl ether acetate (PGMEA), available as PM Acetate from Eastman Chemical Company (Kingsport, Tenn.). An example of a multi-functional reactive compound in a polymerizable composition used to form an organic underlayer or adhesion layer is ISORADTM 501, available from Schenectady International, Inc. (Schenectady, N.Y.). ISORADTM 501, shown below, is a carboxy-functional, acrylate oligomer based on o-cresol epoxy novolac resin.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"chemistry":{"@attributes":{"id":"CHEM-US-00001","num":"00001"},"img":{"@attributes":{"id":"EMI-C00001","he":"54.78mm","wi":"111.25mm","file":"US08415010-20130409-C00001.TIF","alt":"embedded image","img-content":"chem","img-format":"tif"}}}},"An example of a polymerizable composition used to form an organic underlayer or an adhesion layer of an imprint lithography stack includes 77 g ISORADTM 501, 22 g CYMEL\u00ae 303ULF, 1 g CYCAT\u00ae 4040, and 1900 g PM Acetate.","A solids content of a polymerizable composition used to form an organic underlayer or an adhesion layer of an imprint lithography stack may be adjusted to achieve a suitable layer thickness. For example, a solids content of a polymerizable composition used to form an organic underlayer or an adhesion layer of an imprint lithography stack may be at up to about 25 wt %, or between about 5 wt % and about 20 wt %.","Adhesion layers are described in U.S. Patent Publication Nos. 2007\/0212494 and 2007\/0017637, both of which are hereby incorporated by reference.","A composition used to form organic imprint resist layer  may include one or more monomers, a crosslinking agent, an initiator, and a surfactant. Monomers or other components in the composition may include functionalities such as, for example, vinyl ether, epoxy, methacrylate, thiolene, acrylate, and the like. The initiator may be a photoinitiator responsive to, for example, ultraviolet radiation. The surfactant, added to improve release properties of the resist, may be ionic (e.g., anionic) or non-ionic. The surfactant is non-silicon-containing. The surfactant may be fluorine-containing or non-fluorine containing. Examples of compositions used to form organic imprint resist layers are described in U.S. Pat. No. 7,259,102 to Wang et al. and U.S. Pat. No. 7,307,118 to Xu et al., both of which are incorporated by reference herein.","An example of a monomer for use in an organic imprint resist composition is isobornyl acrylate (IBOA), available as SR506 from Sartomer Company, Inc. (Exton, Pa.). IBOA may be present in a range between about 20 wt % and about 80 wt %. An example of another monomer for use in an organic imprint resist composition is n-hexyl acrylate (n-HA), available from Aldrich Chemical Company (Milwaukee, Wis.). n-HA may be present in a range between about 0 wt % and about 50 wt %. n-HA may be added to reduce a viscosity of the organic imprint resist composition, for example, to less than about 20 cP, less than about 10 cP, or between about 2 cP and about 10 cP. Addition of n-HA may also increase a flexibility of the resulting patterned layer.","An example of a crosslinking agent for use in an imprint resist composition is ethylene glycol diacrylate (EGDA). EGDA may be present in the composition in a range between about 10 wt % and about 25 wt %. EGDA contributes to the modulus and stiffness buildup, and facilitates cross-linking of n-HA and IBOA during polymerization of the imprint resist.","An example of an initiator for use in an imprint resist composition is 2-hydroxy-2-methyl-1-phenyl-propan-1-one, available as DAROCUR\u00ae 1173 from Ciba Specialty Chemicals (Tarrytown, N.Y.). DAROCUR\u00ae 1173 may be present in the composition in a range between about 1 wt % and about 5 wt %. DAROCUR\u00ae 1173 is responsive to broadband ultraviolet energy generated by, for example, a medium pressure mercury lamp. In this manner, the initiator facilitates crosslinking and polymerization of the components in the organic imprint resist composition.","An example of a fluorine-containing, non-ionic surfactant for use in an organic imprint composition is MASURF\u00ae FS-2000, available from Mason Chemical Company (Arlington Heights, Ill.). MASURF\u00ae FS-2000 may be present in the composition in a range between about 0.1 wt % and about 5 wt % approximately 2% of the bulk material by weight, and may be present in a range of 0.1% to 5%, inclusive.","An example of a polymerizable composition used to form an organic underlayer or an adhesion layer of an imprint lithography stack includes 47 wt % IBOA, 25 wt % n-HA, 25 wt % EGDA, and 3 wt % DAROCUR\u00ae 1173, with an additional 2 wt % MASURF\u00ae FS-2000.","A silicon-containing composition for use as a hard mask layer may be formulated to achieve enhanced adhesion to an organic underlayer, an adhesion layer, and an organic imprint resist. A hard mask layer with inorganic nature promotes good performance and desirable etch selectivity with respect to the organic imprint resist. A hard mask layer with a high silicon content, for example, about 10 wt % or more, promotes good performance and desirable etch selectivity with respect to the organic underlayer or organic imprint resist. Thus, a desirable hard mask layer may be characterized by a certain degree of inorganic nature as well as a high silicon content. Hard mask layers that are substantially inorganic in nature, however, may have an insufficient number of polar groups to adhere well to organic materials.","A polymerizable composition used to form hard mask layer  may be silicon-containing. A silicon-containing polymerizable composition used to form hard mask layer  includes a silicon-containing component, a crosslinking agent, a catalyst, and a solvent. For hard mask layers  that are substantially inorganic in nature, adhesion to an organic layer may be weak due at least in part to a lack of sufficient polar group interactions between the organic layer and the hard mask layer. Thus, interface  between organic underlayer  and hard mask layer , and interface  between hard mask layer  and adhesion layer , may have weak interfacial adhesion and may be subject to delamination due to tensile forces present during the template separation step. Achieving good adhesion at interface  may be difficult, for example, when an organic underlayer such as i-line, KrF, and ArF photoresists do not adhere to the hard mask layer due to lack of polar group interactions. When the hard mask layer is hydrophobic, moisture pick-up is reduced, and a contact angle of water on the hydrophobic hard mask surface may be in a range between about 80\u00b0 and about 100\u00b0. Thus, wetting, and therefore coating, of the hard mask surface, may be limited. To coat and adhere adhesion layer  over an unreactive hard mask layer, the hard mask layer may be pre-treated to generate more reactive sites. Treatment methods include pre-treating with oxygen plasma, UV\/ozone, and the like.","Silsesquioxanes, or T-resins, are a class of compounds with the empirical formula RSiO1.5, where each R is independently hydrogen, hydroxy, alkyl, alkylene, aryl, or arylene. they may be considered to be organic and inorganic in nature. For comparison, SiO2 is considered to be fully inorganic in nature, and R2SiO (for example, polydimethylsiloxane, (CH3)2SiO) is considered to be more organic in nature than SiO2. Methyl silsesquioxane (MSQ) and hydrogen silsesquioxane (HSQ) may be represented as (RSiO1.5)m(HOSiO1.5)n, where R is CH3 for MSQ, R is H for HSQ, and m and n are integers. MSQ and HSQ may be considered more inorganic in nature than (CH3)2SiO. MSQ and HSQ, however, lack the ability to bond well to organic layers, such as an organic underlayer or an organic imprint resist layer.","A hard mask material may be selected to provide a high silicon content and an advantageous mix of organic and inorganic nature. For example, an effective silicon-containing compound for a hard mask layer such as (R\u2032(4-2z)SiOz)x(HOSiO1.5)y, where R\u2032 is a hydrocarbon group or two or more different hydrocarbon groups other than methyl (such as, for example, a phenyl group or a substituted phenyl group), 1<z<2, and x and y are integers, may be more compatible with organic systems (e.g., may promote better adhesion to an organic layer) than other hard mask materials, such as HSQ and MSQ. A hard mask layer including (R\u2032(4-2z)SiOz)x(HOSiO1.5)y may be less hydrophobic than other hard mask layers, with a contact angle of about 60\u00b0. Thus, the surface of a hard mask layer formed from (R\u2032(4-2z)SiOz)x(HOSiO1.5)y may be more easily wet by a composition used to form a layer (e.g., an adhesion layer) on top of the hard mask layer. An example of (R\u2032(4-2z)SiOz)x(HOSiO1.5)y is DOW CORNING\u00ae 217, a silicon-containing resin binder available from Dow Corning (Midland, Mich.). In DOW CORNING\u00ae 217, some or all of the R\u2032 are phenyl.","An example of a silicon-containing polymerizable composition that demonstrates enhanced adhesion to organic layers (e.g., organic underlayers and organic imprint resists) includes DOW CORNING\u00ae 217, CYMEL\u00ae 303ULF, CYCAT\u00ae 4040, and PM Acetate. One formulation of this silicon-containing composition includes 80 g DOW CORNING\u00ae 217, 18 g CYMEL\u00ae 303ULF, 2 g CYCAT\u00ae 4040, and 4900 g. PM Acetate. The solids content of this composition is about 2 wt %. After evaporation of the PM Acetate, a silicon content of the composition (e.g., the silicon content of the solidified hard mask layer) is about 15 wt %. The amount of PM Acetate in this composition may be adjusted to achieve a suitable viscosity of the composition or a desired thickness of the hard mask layer.","An interface between a hard mask layer and another layer in an imprint lithography stack (e.g., an organic underlayer, an adhesion layer, an organic imprint resist layer) may exhibit good adhesion due to, for example, strong polar interactions at the interface, formation of covalent bonds between the hard mask layer and an adjacent layer, or any combination thereof. In some cases, polar interactions at the interface include hydrogen bonding, van der Waals forces, or a combination thereof. Formation of covalent bonds may include condensation reactions between reactive groups at the surface of the solidified layer and the polymerizable composition. Formation of covalent bonds may also include crosslinking between reactive surface groups at the surface of the solidified layer and the polymerizable composition. Crosslinking may occur when reactive groups at the surface of the solidified layer and the polymerizable composition have the same crosslinking functional groups, or crosslinking functional groups that are compatible. That is, compositions for layers in an imprint lithography stack (e.g., hard mask layer compositions, adhesion layer compositions, organic underlayer compositions, and organic imprint resist compositions) may be selected such that any two layers that share a common interface (e.g., contacting layers) in the lithography stack include components with the same functionality (e.g., vinyl ether, epoxy, methacrylate, thiol-ene, acrylate, and the like). Common functionalities in adjacent layers increases interfacial adhesion through, for example, covalent bonding and polar interactions.","At interfaces  and , for example, a component of the hard mask layer  may act as a coupling agent and bond with organic imprint resist  or organic underlayer  at the surface. This bonding may be attributed to similar crosslinking chemistry in the hard mask composition and the organic underlayer. When two adjacent layers have similar functional groups that undergo crosslinking, components in the two layers may crosslink together (e.g., across the interface) when the hard mask layer is polymerized, thereby strengthening the interface between the two layers. Crosslinking may include a condensation reaction or a radical reaction. In some cases, there may be unconsumed reactive functional groups at the surface of the solidified layer (e.g., the organic imprint resist or the organic underlayer) on which the hard mask composition is deposited. These functional groups may react with one or more components of the hard mask composition to form covalent bonds bridging the two layers at the interface, such that interfaces  and  demonstrate good adhesion. For example, a crosslinking agent in a polymerizable composition with alkoxy (e.g., methoxy) functional groups may undergo a condensation reaction with hydroxy groups or acrylate groups at a surface of a solidified layer to form a covalent bond between the solidified layer and the polymerizable composition during polymerization of the polymerizable composition.","When the organic underlayer is further divided into sub-layers \u2032 and \u2033, as shown in , the polar groups in sub-layer \u2033 may interact with polar groups in the photoresist or lift-off materials of sub-layer \u2032 to achieve good interfacial adhesion between the two sub-layers. In some cases, the interaction between a polar group in a first layer and a polar group in a second layer is a hydrogen bonding interaction or a van der Waals interaction.","At interface , components in the adhesion layer composition may serve as a coupling agent which can interact with solidified hard mask layer at the surface. This interaction may include forming covalent bonds between unconsumed reactive groups (e.g., hydroxy groups, acrylate groups) in the solidified hard mask layer and the polymerizable composition used to form the adhesion layer during polymerization of the adhesion layer. These covalent bonds, and others resulting from, for example, condensation reactions, bridge the two layers at interface , increasing the adhesion between the two layers. Adhesion between the two layers may also be increased by polar interactions such as hydrogen bonding and van der Waals forces.","In an example, a hard mask composition with a crosslinking agent capable of bonding with acrylate functional groups in an organic layer (e.g., an organic imprint resist layer, organic underlayer, or adhesion layer) may form covalent bonds during polymerization of the hard mask composition on one of the organic layers (or during polymerization of one of the organic layers on the hard mask layer) by crosslinking (e.g., condensation) of the functional groups at the interface of the two layers.","Adhesion tests as described in U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2007\/0212494, which is incorporated herein by reference, were performed with the modification that a 5 mm glass rod was coated with an adhesion layer including 77 g ISORADTM 501, 22 g CYMEL\u00ae 303ULF, 1 g CYCAT\u00ae 4040, and 1900 g PM Acetate (Composition A).","To measure the strength of the adhesion, a four-point bending fixture was adopted for the adhesion test and technique, similar to that described in \u201cMeasurement of Adhesive Force Between Mold and Photocurable Resin in Imprint Technology\u201d Japanese Journal of Applied Physics, Vol. 41 (2002) pp. 4194-4197, which is incorporated herein by reference. The maximum force\/load was taken as the adhesion value. In the cases in which one of the glass slides broke before delamination occurred or before the glass slides separated, the maximum force\/load was taken as the minimum adhesion value. The beam distance of the top and bottom two points is 60 mm. The load was applied at the speed of 0.5 mm per minute.","Composition A was spin-coated on substrates and baked at 150\u00b0 C. for one minute. Glass rods with a 5 mm diameter were brush-coated with Composition A and baked at 150\u00b0 C. for about two minutes.","The adhesion test was conducted by placing a drop of organic imprint resist including 47 wt % IBOA, 25 wt % n-HA, 25 wt % EGDA, and 3 wt % DAROCUR\u00ae 1173, and an additional 2 wt % MASURF\u00ae FS-2000 (Composition B) on the coated substrate, and positioning a coated glass rod on the substrate, such that the glass rod was substantially perpendicular to the lateral plane of the substrate. The imprinting material was cured with ultraviolet radiation. With the glass rod anchored on the substrate, shear testing of the glass rod was performed to assess adhesion of the glass rod to the substrate. That is, the adhesion force was recorded as the force required to shear the glass rod from the substrate.","The shear adhesion force was found to be about 5 lbf for an imprint lithography stack shown in , with MSQ as the hard mask layer. Interface  was delaminated first. On the other hand, shear adhesion force was increased to about 30 lbf when the hard mask layer composition included 80 g DOW CORNING\u00ae 217, 18 g CYMEL\u00ae 303ULF, 2 g CYCAT\u00ae 4040, and 4900 g. PM Acetate (Composition C). These results are achieved without pre-treatment of the hard mask layer. The adhesion layer was directly spin coated over the hard mask layer. Thus, adhesion of the hard mask layer was increased by the addition of organic components (e.g., functional groups) to the hard mask layer composition.","Further modifications and alternative embodiments of various aspects will be apparent to those skilled in the art in view of this description. Accordingly, this description is to be construed as illustrative only. It is to be understood that the forms shown and described herein are to be taken as examples of embodiments. Elements and materials may be substituted for those illustrated and described herein, parts and processes may be reversed, and certain features may be utilized independently, all as would be apparent to one skilled in the art after having the benefit of this description. Changes may be made in the elements described herein without departing from the spirit and scope as described in the following claims."],"GOVINT":[{},{}],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIGS. 3A and 3B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 4"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
