---
title: System, method and apparatus for authenticating and protecting an IP user-end device
abstract: A system, method and apparatus authenticates and protects an Internet Protocol (IP) user-end device by providing a client-based security software resident on the IP user-end device, authenticating the IP user-end device using the client-based security software and a network security node communicably coupled to the IP user-end device, authenticating a user of the IP user-end device whenever a trigger condition occurs using an in-band channel between the client-based security software and the network security node, and protecting the IP user-end device by: (a) screening incoming IP traffic to the IP user-end device using the client-based security software, and (b) detecting an attack or a threat involving the IP user-end device using the network security node.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08503657&OS=08503657&RS=08503657
owner: Avaya Inc.
number: 08503657
owner_city: Basking Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20091021
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["PRIORITY CLAIM","FIELD OF THE INVENTION","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION"],"p":["This patent application is a continuation-in-part patent application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12\/028,781 filed on Feb. 8, 2008 and entitled \u201cSystem, Method and Apparatus for Two Factor Authentication in VoIP Networks,\u201d which is a non-provisional application of U.S. provisional patent application 60\/888,765 filed on Feb. 8, 2007 and entitled \u201cSystem, Method and Apparatus for Two Factor Authentication in VoIP Networks,\u201d which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.","The present invention relates generally to the field of telecommunications and, more particularly, to a system, method and apparatus for authenticating and protecting an Internet Protocol (IP) user-end device.","The combination of device and user authentication is called \u201cTwo Factor\u201d authentication. Enterprises already have this mechanism in place for remote users connecting through computers. RSA SecurID\u00ae or similar mechanism is the de facto way of enabling \u201ctwo factor\u201d authentication. Two Factor authentication requires a user to key in a special pass phrase or key that is displayed on a Secure Token. This token is typically issued by the company and is carried by the employee all the time. The token is linked back to token authentication server in the company. When the employee wants to login to corporate services, he\/she must supply the pass phrase or key, which changes periodically, to ensure that only the employee is requesting the service. The supplied input data is validated against the authentication server and if the match occurs, the employee is granted the service. RSA tokens and RSA server are widely deployed two factor authentication mechanisms in corporations.","This above-mentioned technique works well for computer terminals as there are client applications built to accept the two factor authentication. There is, however, no client or user interface to allow two factor authentication on Internet Protocol (IP) user-end devices. Unlike traditional phones that are always tied to a physical wire connected to PBX\/Switch, the new breed of IP user-end devices are IP enabled and thus provide portability and mobility. For example, an employee can carry an IP user-end device from his work and plug it into Ethernet connector at home and can access an entity's network. This flexibility enables businesses or other entities to deploy these phones to tele-workers, road warriors, consultants, partners and other. On the other hand, it makes these entities vulnerable to theft, attacks, and abuse.","Computers connected to an IP network are open to many forms of attacks and threats, such as DoS\/DDoS floods, fuzzing\/malformed messages, reconnaissance attacks, spoofing attacks, MIM attacks, stealth call attacks, rogue media, anomalous behavior, and\/or SPAM. Similarly, IP user-end devices are vulnerable to these same types of attacks and threats. As a result, there is a need for a system, method and apparatus for authenticating and protecting an IP user-end device.","The present invention when applied in conjunction with deeper security threat mitigation creates a highly secure telephony that can be provided anywhere outside the corporation. As a result, entities can realize business continuity and the benefits of pervasive communications. The two factor authentication must be carried out in a secure channel between the IP user-end device and the entity as the IP user-end device is typically connected to the Internet. In addition, the voice conversation must be encrypted for privacy. With new IP user-end device terminals and soft phones this is typically achieved through encrypted transport. The present invention leverages the same control messages and voice prompts used for setting up calls to the phone to provide two factor authentication. Thus, an out-of-band channel is necessary to complete two factor authentication. Moreover, the present invention protects the IP user-end device by screening incoming IP traffic and detecting attacks or threat involving the IP user-end device.","The present invention provides a method for authenticating and protecting an Internet Protocol (IP) user-end device by providing a client-based security software resident on the IP user-end device, authenticating the IP user-end device using the client-based security software and a network security node communicably coupled to the IP user-end device, authenticating a user of the IP user-end device whenever a trigger condition occurs using an in-band channel between the client-based security software and the network security node, and protecting the IP user-end device by: (a) screening incoming IP traffic to the IP user-end device using the client-based security software, and (b) detecting an attack or a threat involving the IP user-end device using the network security node. Note that this process can be implemented using a computer readable medium executed by the processors wherein the steps are executed by one or more code segments.","In addition, the present invention provides an apparatus for authenticating and protecting an IP user-end device that includes a communications interface, a memory, and a processor communicably coupled to the communications interface and the memory. The processor is configured to run a client-based security software resident on the IP user-end device. The client-based security software and a network security node communicably coupled to the IP user-end device: (a) authenticate the IP user-end device, and (b) authenticate a user of the IP user-end device whenever a trigger condition occurs using an in-band channel between the client-based security software and the network security node. The client-based security software protects the IP user-end device by screening incoming IP traffic to the IP user-end device. The network security node protects the IP user-end device by detecting an attack or a threat involving the IP user-end device.","The present invention also provides a system that includes one or more IP user-end devices, a network security node, and an IP network communicably coupling the one or more IP user-end devices to the network security node. Each IP end-user device includes a first communications interface, a first memory, and a first processor communicably coupled to the first communications interface and the first memory wherein the first processor is configured to run a client-based security software resident on the IP user-end device. The network security node includes a second communications interface, a second memory, and a second processor communicably coupled to the second communications interface and the second memory. The client-based security software and the network security node: (a) authenticate the IP user-end device, and (b) authenticate a user of the IP user-end device whenever a trigger condition occurs using an in-band channel between the client-based security software and the network security node. The client-based security software protects the IP user-end device by screening incoming IP traffic to the IP user-end device. The network security node protects the IP user-end device by detecting an attack or a threat involving the IP user-end device.","The present invention is described in detail below with reference to the accompanying drawings.","While the making and using of various embodiments of the present invention are discussed in detail below, it should be appreciated that the present invention provides many applicable inventive concepts that can be embodied in a wide variety of specific contexts. The specific embodiments discussed herein are merely illustrative of specific ways to make and use the invention and do not delimit the scope of the invention. The discussion herein relates primarily to Voice over Internet Protocol (IP) technology (VoIP), but it will be understood that the concepts of the present invention are applicable to any Voice over IP application, or Unified Communication (UC) application such as Video calls, Presence, Instant Messaging, or any communication application that runs over IP.","The present invention when applied in conjunction with deeper security threat mitigation creates a highly secure telephony that can be provided anywhere outside the corporation. As a result, entities can realize business continuity and the benefits of pervasive communications. The two factor authentication must be carried out in a secure channel between the IP user-end device and the entity as the IP user-end device is typically connected to the Internet. In addition, the voice conversation must be encrypted for privacy. With new IP user-end device terminals and soft phones this is typically achieved through encrypted transport. The present invention leverages the same control messages and voice prompts used for setting up calls to the phone to provide two factor authentication. Thus, an out-of-band channel is necessary to complete two factor authentication. Moreover, the present invention protects the IP user-end device by screening incoming IP traffic and detecting attacks or threat involving the IP user-end device.","Now referring to , two network configurations in accordance with the present invention are illustrated.  represents the present invention in Internet Protocol Communication Security (IPCS) demilitarized zone (DMZ) mode .  represents the present invention in an IPCS in a tunnel mode . In either case, the present invention provides infrastructure and endpoint protection. The two factor authentication for remote users must be provided in the DMZ of enterprise. The security server  in the DMZ must be able to handle near-end and far-end firewall issues. The secrurity server  must: (a) provide authentication connectivity to the authentication server (not shown) (e.g., SecurID\u00ae server or other suitable authentication server); (b) terminate and inspect signaling and media; and (c) be a secure box. The security server (IPCS)  is communicably coupled to various IP user-end devices  and call servers  via an Intranet  or other IP-based communications network (internal, private or secure). Note that the security server  in  is communicably coupled to another security server , which is communicably coupled to the call servers , to establish a secure tunnel through the Intranet .","The security server  can be communicably coupled to various external IP user-end devices  via the Internet  or other IP-based communications network (external, less-secure or public). In addition, the security server  is protected by an internal firewall  and an external firewall . Similarly, external IP user-end devices  are protected by a firewall . The security server  includes a communications interface, a memory, and a processor communicably coupled to the communications interface and the memory. The processor is configured to perform the authentication processes described below. The IP user-end device  can be a dual mode phone, a wireless phone, a soft phone, a web phone, a personal data assistant or other IP-based telecommunications device that does not run a client-based authentication application during the authentication process described herein. Note that IP Private Branch Exchange (PBX) systems are not built to address the above requirements.","Referring now to , a flow chart illustrating a two factor authentication process  in accordance with one embodiment of the present invention is shown. The authentication process  begins in block . If the IP user-end device  is authorized, as determined in decision block , and a trigger condition occurs, as determined in decision block , the security server  initiates a call to the IP user-end device  in block . A \u201cwhite list\u201d or other type of commonly used device authentication can be used to authenticate the IP user-end device. The trigger condition can be a time-based condition, an event-based condition or a combination thereof. The time-based condition can be a requirement to authenticate the IP user-end device daily, weekly, bi-weekly, monthly, quarterly, yearly or some other specified time. The event-based condition can be receiving a registration request from the IP user-end device, a switch-over to standby, a challenge from an authentication manager, a request for a specified service, or a request for access to a specified device. If, however, the IP user-end device  is not authorized, as determined in decision block , or the trigger condition is not met, as determined in decision block , the process ends in block .","After the call is initiated, the secure server  sends a request for the user's passcode to the IP user-end device  in block . The request for the passcode may include one or more display prompts, one or more voice prompts or a combination thereof. The passcode can be a personal identification code, a token code, a physical key, an electronic key, a biometric identifier, a magnetic signature, an electronic signature, one or more numbers, one or more symbols, one or more alphabet characters, one or more keystrokes, or a combination thereof. If the passcode is valid, as determined in decision block , the call is terminated in block  and the process ends in block . If, however, the passcode is not valid, the security server  sends a message to the IP user-end device  that will disable the IP user-end device  in block . Thereafter, the call is terminated in block  and the process ends in block . After the authentication process  is successfully completed, the IP user-end device  will be allowed to access resources or connect to devices protected by the security server . Note that this process can be implemented using a computer readable medium executed by the secure server  wherein the steps are executed by one or more code segments.","Now referring to , a flow chart illustrating a two factor authentication process  in accordance with another embodiment of the present invention is shown. The authentication process  begins in block . If the IP user-end device  is not authorized, as determined in decision block , a security incidence is generated in block  and the process ends in block . A \u201cwhite list\u201d or other type of commonly used device authentication can be used to authenticate the IP user-end device. If, however, the IP user-end device  is authorized, but a trigger condition does not occur (or is not satisfied), as determined in decision block , the process ends in block . The trigger condition can be a time-based condition, an event-based condition or a combination thereof. The time-based condition can be a requirement to authenticate the IP user-end device daily, weekly, bi-weekly, monthly, quarterly, yearly or some other specified time. The event-based condition can be receiving a registration request from the IP user-end device, a switch-over to standby, a challenge from an authentication manager, a request for a specified service, or a request for access to a specified device If, however, the trigger condition is satisfied, the security server  initiates a call to the IP user-end device  in block .","After the call is initiated, the secure server  sends a request for the user's passcode to the IP user-end device  in block . The request for the passcode may include one or more display prompts, one or more voice prompts or a combination thereof. The passcode can be a personal identification code, a token code, a physical key, an electronic key, a biometric identifier, a magnetic signature, an electronic signature, one or more numbers, one or more symbols, one or more alphabet characters, one or more keystrokes, or a combination thereof. If the call is not answered, as determined in decision block , and request retries are allowed, as determined in decision block , the process waits in block  and a new request is sent in block . If, however, retries are not allowed, the call is terminated in block  and the process ends in block . If, however, the call is answered, as determined in decision block , and the passcode is valid, as determined in decision block , the call is terminated in block  and the process ends in block . If, however, the passcode is not valid, and the maximum number of attempts to enter the passcode have not been exceeded, as determined in decision block , the user may try to enter the correct passcode. If, however, the maximum number of attempts has been made, the security server  sends a message to the IP user-end device  that will disable the IP user-end device  in block , the user is notified that the IP user-end device  has been disabled in block . The notification may include one or more display messages, audio messages, voice mail messages, electronic mail messages, text messages, or a combination thereof. Thereafter, a security incidence is generated in block , the call is terminated in block  and the process ends in block . After the authentication process  is successfully completed, the IP user-end device  will be allowed to access resources or connect to devices protected by the security server .","The security server  can block any messages from the IP user-end device  until the IP user-end device  and the user are authenticated. In addition, the security server  can initiate another call to the IP user-end device  and send another request for a passcode to the IP user-end device  after the IP user-end device  has been disabled for a specified period of time. The security server  can delay registration of the IP user-end device  with a call manager until the IP user-end device  and the user are authenticated. Moreover, the IP user-end device  can be enabled after the IP user-end device  has been disabled by using a \u201cclearing\u201d process executed by the user, a technician, a security person, a supervisor or a combination thereof. Note that this process can be implemented using a computer readable medium executed by the secure server  wherein the steps are executed by one or more code segments.","Referring now to , a RSA SecurID\u00ae authentication network  in accordance with one embodiment of the present invention is illustrated. The system  includes a security server (IPCS)  communicably coupled to one or more protected resources, devices or phones  and an authentication server . The security server  is also communicably coupled to an IP user-end device . The user of the IP user-end device  has a RSA SecurID\u00ae  that provides a PIN+Token Number or RSA SecurID\u00ae with pinpad  that provides a Pass Code. The communication protocol used between the IP user-end device  and the security server  is SIP\/Skinny over TLS and SRTP. The communication protocol used between the security server  and the protected phones  is SIP\/Skinny over TCP. The communication protocol used between the security server  and the authentication server  (RSA Authentication Manager+RSA Radius Server) is PAP over RADIUS, EAP-GTC over RADIUS and\/or EAP-POTP over RADIUS. The security server  can request authentication of the received passcode from the authentication server .","The present invention can implement any of the following pre-authentication rules:\n\n","In addition, the following post-authentication rules can be used:\n\n","A RADIUS PAP RSA SecurID\u00ae Example flow is as follows:","Display Prompts on phone","To continue Phone Registration you must enter your PIN and Passcode.","1. sending Access-Request . . .","1. received Access-Challenge","You must select a new PIN. Do you want the system to generate your new PIN? (y\/n) [n]","y","2. sending Access-Request . . .","2. received Access-Challenge","Enter a new PIN between 4 and 8 digits:","1234","3. sending Access-Request . . .","3. received Access-Challenge","Re-enter new PIN to confirm:","1234","4. sending Access-Request . . .","4. received Access-Challenge","PIN accepted. Wait for the tokencode to change, then enter a new PASSCODE:","1234169199","5. sending Access-Request . . .","5. received Access-Accept","OK Registration Complete","BackGround RADIUS Messages",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0059","num":"0080"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00001","num":"00001"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","pgwide":"1"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"259pt","align":"left"}},"thead":{"row":{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":"1. Code: Access-Request"},{"entry":"Identifier: 182"},{"entry":"Authentic: 1234567890123456"},{"entry":"Attributes:"},{"entry":"User-Name = \u201cmikem\u201d"},{"entry":"Service-Type = Framed-User"},{"entry":"NAS-IP-Address = 203.63.154.1"},{"entry":"NAS-Port = 1234"},{"entry":"Called-Station-Id = \u201c123456789\u201d"},{"entry":"Calling-Station-Id = \u201c987654321\u201d"},{"entry":"NAS-Port-Type = Async"},{"entry":"User-Password="}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"245pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"\u201c<200><185>1<153><153>o4<199><142><10><9><160><216>}x<153>\u201d"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"259pt","align":"left"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":"1. Code: Access-Challenge"},{"entry":"Identifier: 182"},{"entry":"Authentic: <143>R9<132>X<242><21><184>E<135>?#<9><189><11><228>"},{"entry":"Attributes:"},{"entry":"State = \u201cSECURID=884099926\u201d"},{"entry":"Reply-Message = \u201cYou must select a new PIN. Do you want the"}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"245pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"system to generate your new PIN? (y\/n) [n] \u201d"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"259pt","align":"left"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":"2. Code: Access-Request"},{"entry":"Identifier: 202"},{"entry":"Authentic: 1234567890123456"},{"entry":"Attributes:"},{"entry":"User-Name = \u201cmikem\u201d"},{"entry":"Service-Type = Framed-User"},{"entry":"NAS-IP-Address = 203.63.154.1"},{"entry":"NAS-Port = 1234"},{"entry":"Called-Station-Id = \u201c123456789\u201d"},{"entry":"Calling-Station-Id = \u201c987654321\u201d"},{"entry":"NAS-Port-Type = Async"},{"entry":"User-Password="}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"245pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"\u201c<151><139>_<173><175>\\<4><246><188>8<9><160><216>}x<153>\u201d"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"259pt","align":"left"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":"State = \u201cSECURID=884099926\u201d"},{"entry":"2. Code: Access-Challenge"},{"entry":"Identifier: 202"},{"entry":"Authentic:"}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"245pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"<156><131><25>j<212><154><153><193><201><152>WY?<208><164>d"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"259pt","align":"left"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":"Attributes:"},{"entry":"State = \u201cSECURID=884099926\u201d"},{"entry":"Reply-Message = \u201cEnter a new PIN between 4 and 8 digits:\u201d"},{"entry":"3. Code: Access-Request"},{"entry":"Identifier: 207"},{"entry":"Authentic: 1234567890123456"},{"entry":"Attributes:"},{"entry":"User-Name = \u201cmikem\u201d"},{"entry":"Service-Type = Framed-User"},{"entry":"NAS-IP-Address = 203.63.154.1"},{"entry":"NAS-Port = 1234"},{"entry":"Called-Station-Id = \u201c123456789\u201d"},{"entry":"Calling-Station-Id = \u201c987654321\u201d"},{"entry":"NAS-Port-Type = Async"},{"entry":"User-Password="}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"245pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"\u201c<200><185>1<153><175>\\<4><246><188>8<9><160><216>}x<153>\u201d"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"259pt","align":"left"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":"State = \u201cSECURID=884099926\u201d"},{"entry":"3. Code: Access-Challenge"},{"entry":"Identifier: 207"},{"entry":"Authentic: <151><214>G<132>6S<134>ed<197>k<199>nK6<186>"},{"entry":"Attributes:"},{"entry":"State = \u201cSECURID=884099926\u201d"},{"entry":"Reply-Message = \u201cRe-enter new PIN to confirm: \u201d"},{"entry":"4. Code: Access-Request"},{"entry":"Identifier: 208"},{"entry":"Authentic: 1234567890123456"},{"entry":"Attributes:"},{"entry":"User-Name = \u201cmikem\u201d"},{"entry":"Service-Type = Framed-User"},{"entry":"NAS-IP-Address = 203.63.154.1"},{"entry":"NAS-Port = 1234"},{"entry":"Called-Station-Id = \u201c123456789\u201d"},{"entry":"Calling-Station-Id = \u201c987654321\u201d"},{"entry":"NAS-Port-Type = Async"},{"entry":"User-Password="}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"245pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"\u201c<200><185>1<153><175>\\<4><246><188>8<9><160><216>}x<153>\u201d"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"259pt","align":"left"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":"State = \u201cSECURID=884099926\u201d"},{"entry":"4. Code: Access-Challenge"},{"entry":"Identifier: 208"},{"entry":"Authentic: <192><189><30>D<150><211><140>&$Gdz<252><135>S<250>"},{"entry":"Attributes:"},{"entry":"State = \u201cSECURID=884099926\u201d"},{"entry":"Reply-Message = \u201cPIN accepted. Wait for the tokencode to change,"}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"245pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"then enter a new PASSCODE: \u201d"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"259pt","align":"left"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":"5. Code: Access-Request"},{"entry":"Identifier: 220"},{"entry":"Authentic: 1234567890123456"},{"entry":"Attributes:"},{"entry":"User-Name = \u201cmikem\u201d"},{"entry":"Service-Type = Framed-User"},{"entry":"NAS-IP-Address = 203.63.154.1"},{"entry":"NAS-Port = 1234"},{"entry":"Called-Station-Id = \u201c123456789\u201d"},{"entry":"Calling-Station-Id = \u201c987654321\u201d"},{"entry":"NAS-Port-Type = Async"},{"entry":"User-Password="}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"245pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"\u201c<200><185>1<153><158>o0<193><140><8><9><160><216>}x<153>\u201d"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"259pt","align":"left"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":"State = \u201cSECURID=884099926\u201d"},{"entry":"5. Code: Access-Accept"},{"entry":"Identifier: 220"},{"entry":"Authentic: <246>>\u2032jM<173>s<17><214><217><220><219>[<243>D<220>"},{"entry":"Attributes:"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}},"Now referring to , a call flow diagram  in accordance with another embodiment of the present invention is illustrated. The solution is described using the SKINNY protocol, but it can also apply to other protocols that are used to setup VoIP (Voice over IP) calls.","Referring now to , a screen shot of a virtual IP configuration table in accordance with one embodiment of the present invention is illustrated. For example, the following rules can be used:\n\n","TFTP XML Rewriting",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0063","num":"0094"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00002","num":"00002"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"126pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"42pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"49pt","align":"center"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["XML TAG","Original IP","Rewrite IP"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":["<callManagerGroup>","10.10.100.10","192.168.10.30"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"203pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"<members>"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"189pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"<members>"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"175pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"<callManager>"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"161pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"<processNodeName>"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"126pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"42pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"49pt","align":"center"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":["<callManagerGroup>","10.10.100.11","192.168.10.31"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"203pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"<members>"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"189pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"<members>"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"175pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"<callManager>"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"161pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"<processNodeName>"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}}]}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0064","num":"0095"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00003","num":"00003"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"21pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"196pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"..."]},{"entry":[{},"<callManagerGroup>"]},{"entry":[{},"<members>"]},{"entry":[{},"<member priority=\u201d0\u201d>"]},{"entry":[{},"<callManager>"]},{"entry":[{},"<ports>"]},{"entry":[{},"<analogAccessPort>2002<\/analogAccessPort>"]},{"entry":[{},"<digitalAccessPort>2001<\/digitalAccessPort>"]},{"entry":[{},"<ethernetPhonePort>2000<\/ethernetPhonePort>"]},{"entry":[{},"<mgcpPorts>"]},{"entry":[{},"<listen>2427<\/listen>"]},{"entry":[{},"<keepAlive>2428<\/keepAlive>"]},{"entry":[{},"<\/mgcpPorts>"]},{"entry":[{},"<\/ports>"]},{"entry":[{},"<processNodeName>10.10.100.10<\/processNodeName>"]},{"entry":[{},"<\/callManager>"]},{"entry":[{},"<\/member>"]},{"entry":[{},"<member priority=\u201d1\u201d>"]},{"entry":[{},"<callManager>"]},{"entry":[{},"<ports>"]},{"entry":[{},"<analogAccessPort>2002<\/analogAccessPort>"]},{"entry":[{},"<digitalAccessPort>2001<\/digitalAccessPort>"]},{"entry":[{},"<ethernetPhonePort>2000<\/ethernetPhonePort>"]},{"entry":[{},"<mgcpPorts>"]},{"entry":[{},"<listen>2427<\/listen>"]},{"entry":[{},"<keepAlive>2428<\/keepAlive>"]},{"entry":[{},"<\/mgcpPorts>"]},{"entry":[{},"<\/ports>"]},{"entry":[{},"<processNodeName>10.10.100.11<\/processNodeName>"]},{"entry":[{},"<\/callManager>"]},{"entry":[{},"<\/member>"]},{"entry":[{},"<\/members>"]},{"entry":[{},"<\/callManagerGroup>"]},{"entry":[{},"..."]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}}}},"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0009","list-style":"none"},"li":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0009-0001","num":"0000"},"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0010","list-style":"none"},"li":["29. IPCS will parse and modify the XML for the SEP<MAC>.cnf.xml in accordance with the TFTP rewriting configuration","30. The xml tags, current value and rewrite value will be configured."]}}}},"Phone Behavior Analysis","Whenever Skinny Reset w DEVICE RESET message\n\n","Whenever Skinny Reset w DEVICE_RESTART message\n\n","When **#** on phone\n\n","When power cycle phone\n\n","Ethernet connect disconnect\n\n","Now referring to , a state machine diagram  in accordance with one embodiment of the present invention is illustrated.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0072","num":"0133"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00004","num":"00004"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","pgwide":"1"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"4"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"91pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"91pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"91pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["Events\u2212>States","X requests config file","CCM serves file same","CCM serves file different"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["X File Unknown","Action: Serve local file","Not Possible","Not Possible"]},{"entry":["Entry: \u2212","Request file from CCM"]},{"entry":[{},"Next State: X File Requested"]},{"entry":["X File Requested","Action: Serve local file","Action: None","Action: Send Skinny Reset"]},{"entry":["Entry: \u2212","Next State: Same","Next State: X File Unknown","(DEVICE_RESTART)"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"Next State: X File Unknown"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}},"An IPCS TFTP Message Sequence is as follows:\n\n","Referring now to , a network  configuration in accordance with another embodiment of the present invention is shown. The client-based security software  (e.g., Sipera UC-Sec Client application or plug-in) is installed on the IP user-end device  (e.g., a dual mode phone, a wireless phone , a soft phone, a web phone, a personal data assistant, a computer , or other IP-based telecommunications device). The network security node  (e.g., Sipera UC-Sec network node) is deployed in the core network  where it communicates with the client-based security software  on the IP user-end device  via an access network  and\/or an open IP network . The network security node  is deployed in the DMZ of the associated Call Server  and Media Gateway  and will service any remote IP user-end device  that has the client-based security software  and is connecting to that DMZ. The Call Server  and Media Gateway  communicate with other devices or services within the core network  (e.g., Directory Services , Authentication, Authorization and Accounting (AAA) , Applications , etc.). All VoIP calls for the IP user-end device  operating remotely to the Enterprise will go through the network security node  deployed in the DMZ. A separate network security node (not shown) can also be deployed (upon customer need and request) inside the Enterprise to serve internal VoIP devices that have the client-based security software . The network security node  also communicates with the Back-office Network Operation Center  (e.g., Sipera Central EMS) in the operation network  via an out-of-band network . The operation network  typically also includes DHCP , SNMP , Syslog  and Chrg . The client-based security software  can apply to mobile phone devices with a Smart card, a Flex-SIM card, and user PC devices that have VoIP Soft-client. The client-based security software  does not apply to VoIP Hard phones .","Now referring to , a block diagram of a system  for authenticating and protecting an IP user-end device  in accordance with another embodiment of the present invention is shown. The system  includes one or more IP user-end devices  communicably coupled to a network security node  via an IP network . The network security node  is communicably coupled to a call server  and a media gateway  via a core network , and a security management center (EMS)  via an out-of-bound network . Each IP end-user device  includes a first communications interface , a first memory , and a first processor  communicably coupled to the first communications interface  and the first memory  wherein the first processor  is configured to run a client-based security software  resident on the IP user-end device . The IP user-end device  can be a dual mode phone, a wireless phone, a soft phone, a web phone, a personal data assistant, a computer, or other IP-based telecommunications device.","The IP user-end device  runs an IP-based application comprising a Voice over IP (VoIP) application, an Instant Messaging (IM) application, a Short Message Service (SMS) application, a video application, a presence application, or a Unified Communication (UC) application.","The network security node  includes a second communications interface , a second memory , and a second processor  communicably coupled to the second communications interface  and the second memory  wherein the second processor  is configured to run a network node security software  resident on the network security node . Other devices may be communicably coupled to the network security node , such as an authentication server or a call manager. The client-based security software  and the network security node : (a) authenticate the IP user-end device , and (b) authenticate a user of the IP user-end device  whenever a trigger condition occurs using an in-band channel between the client-based security software  and the network security node . The client-based security software  protects the IP user-end device  by screening incoming IP traffic to the IP user-end device . The network security node  protects the IP user-end device  by detecting an attack or a threat involving the IP user-end device . Various methods for authenticating and protecting the IP user-end device will be described in more detail with respect to .","Referring now to , a flow chart  of a method for authenticating and protecting an IP user-end device  in accordance with another embodiment of the present invention is shown. A client-based security software  resident on the IP user-end device  is provided in block . The IP user-end device  is authenticated using the client-based security software  and a network security node  communicably coupled to the IP user-end device  in block . The IP user-end device  can be authenticated using a smart card, a SIM card, a Flexi-SIM card, a security certificate stored on the smart card or the SIM card or on the UP user-end device, one or more control messages, one or more voice prompts, a \u201cwhite-list\u201d, or a combination thereof. If a trigger condition occurs, as determined in decision block , a user of the IP user-end device  is authenticated using an in-band channel between the client-based security software  and the network security node  in block . The trigger condition can be a time-based condition, an event-based condition or a combination thereof.","The time-based condition can be a requirement to authenticate the user of the IP user-end device daily, weekly, bi-weekly, monthly, quarterly, yearly or some other specified time. The event-based condition can be receiving a registration request from the IP user-end device, a switch-over to standby, a challenge from an authentication manager, a request for a specified service, a request for access to a specified device, or a failure of a fingerprint match. The fingerprint match may include a change in a format, a value or an order of information in a header, wherein the header information include via, max forwards, contact, user agent, allow, proxy require, supported, route, Cseq, session expires, allow events, content length, SDP bandwidth, SDP silence suppression, SDP connection, SDP originator or SDP payload.","After the user is authenticated in block , or if the trigger condition has not occurred, as determined in decision block , the IP user-end device  is protected by screening incoming IP traffic to the IP user-end device  using the client-based security software  in block , and detecting an attack or a threat involving the IP user-end device  using the network security node  in block . The attack or the threat may include DoS\/DDoS floods, fuzzing\/malformed messages, reconnaissance attacks, spoofing attacks, MIM attacks, stealth call attacks, rogue media, anomalous behavior, and\/or SPAM. The process repeats the steps of detecting the trigger condition and protecting the IP user-end device  as needed to authenticate and protect the IP user-end device . The step of authenticating the IP user-end device  can be repeated. Note that this process can be implemented using a computer readable medium executed by the processors wherein the steps are executed by one or more code segments.","Now referring to , a flow chart  of a method for authenticating and protecting an IP user-end device  in accordance with another embodiment of the present invention is shown. A client-based security software  resident on the IP user-end device  is provided in block . If the IP user-end device  is not authorized, as determined in decision block , a security incidence is generated in block  and the process screens incoming traffic in block . A \u201cwhite list\u201d or other type of commonly used device authentication can be used to authenticate the IP user-end device. If, however, the IP user-end device  is authorized, but a trigger condition does not occur (or is not satisfied), as determined in decision block , the process screens incoming traffic in block . The trigger condition can be a time-based condition, an event-based condition or a combination thereof. The time-based condition can be a requirement to authenticate the IP user-end device daily, weekly, bi-weekly, monthly, quarterly, yearly or some other specified time. The event-based condition can be receiving a registration request from the IP user-end device, a switch-over to standby, a challenge from an authentication manager, a request for a specified service, or a request for access to a specified device. If, however, the trigger condition is satisfied, the network security node  initiates a call to the IP user-end device  in block .","After the call is initiated, the secure server  sends a request for the user's passcode to the IP user-end device  in block . The request for the passcode may include one or more display prompts, one or more voice prompts or a combination thereof. The passcode can be a personal identification code, a token code, a physical key, an electronic key, a biometric identifier, a magnetic signature, an electronic signature, one or more numbers, one or more symbols, one or more alphabet characters, one or more keystrokes, or a combination thereof. If the call is not answered, as determined in decision block , and request retries are allowed, as determined in decision block , the process waits in block  and a new request is sent in block . If, however, retries are not allowed, the call is terminated in block  and the process screens incoming traffic in block . If, however, the call is answered, as determined in decision block , and the passcode is valid, as determined in decision block , the call is terminated in block  and the process screens incoming traffic in block . If, however, the passcode is not valid, and the maximum number of attempts to enter the passcode have not been exceeded, as determined in decision block , the user may try to enter the correct passcode. If, however, the maximum number of attempts has been made, the network security node  sends a message to the IP user-end device  that will disable the IP user-end device  or reject the authentication request in block , the user is notified that the IP user-end device  has been disabled or the authentication request was rejected in block . The notification may include one or more display messages, audio messages, voice mail messages, electronic mail messages, text messages, or a combination thereof. Thereafter, a security incidence is generated in block , the call is terminated in block  and the process screens incoming traffic in block . After the IP user-end device  is authenticated, the IP user-end device  will be allowed to access resources or connect to devices protected by the network security node .","The network security node  can block any messages from the IP user-end device  until the IP user-end device  and the user are authenticated. In addition, the network security node  can initiate another call to the IP user-end device  and send another request for a passcode to the IP user-end device  after the IP user-end device  has been disabled for a specified period of time or after the specified period of time since the authentication request from the IP user-device  was rejected. The network security node  can delay registration of the IP user-end device  with a call manager until the IP user-end device  and the user are authenticated. Moreover, the IP user-end device  can be enabled after the IP user-end device  has been disabled by using a \u201cclearing\u201d process executed by the user, a technician, a security person, a supervisor or a combination thereof.","After the user is authenticated in block , or if the trigger condition has not occurred, as determined in decision block , the IP user-end device  is protected by screening incoming IP traffic to the IP user-end device  using the client-based security software  in block , and detecting an attack or a threat involving the IP user-end device  using the network security node  in block . The process repeats the steps of detecting the trigger condition and protecting the IP user-end device  as needed to authenticate and protect the IP user-end device .","Additional steps may include receiving a request for a configuration file from the IP user-end device , retrieving the configuration file, sending the configuration file to the IP user-end device , requesting the configuration file from a call manager, receiving the requested configuration file, and saving the requested configuration file and sending a reset message to the IP user-end device  whenever the requested configuration file is different than the configuration file. In addition, the following steps may be performed: receiving another request for the configuration file in response to the reset message, and sending the requested configuration file to the IP user-end device . Note that the client-based security software  can split one or more resources of the IP-user-end device  into one or more logical access-controlled areas. Note that this process can be implemented using a computer readable medium executed by the processors wherein the steps are executed by one or more code segments.","The present invention can provide some or all of the following features:\n\n","Other characteristics of the present invention may include:\n\n","Additional aspects regarding the operation of the present invention may include the following:\n\n","The User Fingerprint composition is defined during configuration and can be composed of a combination or all of the following information elements:\n\n","It will be understood by those of skill in the art that information and signals may be represented using any of a variety of different technologies and techniques (e.g., data, instructions, commands, information, signals, bits, symbols, and chips may be represented by voltages, currents, electromagnetic waves, magnetic fields or particles, optical fields or particles, or any combination thereof). Likewise, the various illustrative logical blocks, modules, circuits, and algorithm steps described herein may be implemented as electronic hardware, computer software, or combinations of both, depending on the application and functionality. Moreover, the various logical blocks, modules, and circuits described herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor (e.g., microprocessor, conventional processor, controller, microcontroller, state machine or combination of computing devices), a digital signal processor (\u201cDSP\u201d), an application specific integrated circuit (\u201cASIC\u201d), a field programmable gate array (\u201cFPGA\u201d) or other programmable logic device, discrete gate or transistor logic, discrete hardware components, or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. Similarly, steps of a method or process described herein may be embodied directly in hardware, in a software module executed by a processor, or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory, flash memory, ROM memory, EPROM memory, EEPROM memory, registers, hard disk, a removable disk, a CD-ROM, or any other form of storage medium known in the art. Although preferred embodiments of the present invention have been described in detail, it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various modifications can be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as set forth in the appended claims."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The above and further advantages of the invention may be better understood by referring to the following description in conjunction with the accompanying drawings, in which:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIGS. 1A and 1B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 11"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
