---
title: Pragmatic approaches to IMS
abstract: Embodiments of the invention provide systems and methods for providing services such as provided by Internet Protocol (IP) Multimedia Subsystem (IMS) with an IP network that is not the IMS. According to one embodiment, a system for providing communication services can comprise a communication network, one or more subsystems communicatively coupled with the network and adapted to provide one or more telco functions, and one or more applications communicatively coupled with the network and adapted to utilize the telco functions.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08401022&OS=08401022&RS=08401022
owner: Oracle International Corporation
number: 08401022
owner_city: Redwood Shores
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20090203
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS-REFERENCES TO RELATED APPLICATIONS","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","BRIEF SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION"],"p":["This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61\/027,157, filed Feb. 8, 2008 by Maes and entitled \u201cPragmatic Approaches to IMS,\u201d of which the entire disclosure is incorporated herein by reference for all purposes.","Embodiments of the present invention relate generally to methods and systems for providing communication services and more particularly to providing IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS) services on an evolutionary network that may not initially consist of or provide IMS.","Telco operators or service providers in general in various mobile\/wireless, fixed and broadband sectors are confronted with new challenges that threaten traditional sources of revenue. For example, revenues from voice services are declining; investments for new network infrastructure and licenses (e.g. 3G and beyond) must be recouped, new competitors from many spaces previously unrelated to telephone services are entering with disrupting technologies or business models, technology and market evolution forces new endless investments and need for new services with the latest capabilities or specifications including convergence across mobile, fixed and broadband (e.g. cable), etc. Service providers are therefore looking for ways to deploy and manage services faster and at lower cost (i.e. compete at Internet speed).","The International Telecommunications Union (ITU) defined the concepts of Next Generation Networks (NGNs) as a packet-based network able to provide telecommunication services to users and able to make use of multiple broadband, QoS-enabled transport technologies and in which service-related functions are independent of the underlying transport-related technologies. It enables access for users to networks and to competing service providers and services of their choice. It supports generalized mobility which will allow consistent and ubiquitous provision of services to users.","The IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS) is a particular example of an NGN. The IMS represents Third Generation Partnership Project (3GPP) and Third Generation Partnership Project 2 (3GPP2) efforts to define an all IP-based wireless network as compared to the historically disparate voice, data, signaling, and control network elements. Extensions have been developed by other standard bodies like ITU, PacketCable and European Telecommunications Standards Institute (ETSI), Telecommunications and Internet converged Services and Protocols for Advanced Networking (TISPAN), and a few other groups. IMS specifies a particular IP-network deployment\/architecture to implement IP\/multimedia services able to satisfy the requirements of telco service providers in terms of security, charging, regulatory requirements, quality of service (QoS), etc to support the development on IP-networks of traditional telco services (e.g. Telephony) and interwork in a straight-forward standard way with 1N\/PSTN etc. As a result, IMS provides rich policy management that allows for differentiated Quality of Service (QoS) and\/or Service Level Agreements (SLAs), differentiates service providers, virtual service providers, and other internet providers running in the network, and provides high quality multimedia services. IMS also supports Telco IP\/Multimedia services such as Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP), presence, Instant Messaging (IM), video, broadcast, streaming, and Push-To-Talk (PTT). IMS was expected to drive industry adoption of a standardized, network agnostic, end to end IP architecture to speed time-to-market, reduce costs, compete effectively with new generation players like internet players entering the communications space. IMS was further expected to standardize an end to end IP architecture, ease deployment, provide greater interoperability, and provide a base for convergence.","However, the experience today is that the IMS architecture is complicated, demanding, and relatively inflexible and deployments are long and costly. In general, IMS is a silo investment. Further, IMS is a hard coded end-to-end architecture that does not detail how to ensure integrity of functionality or interoperability on partial IMS deployments. Therefore, a full IMS deployment is typically required. However, the cost, complexity and implications of full IMS deployment can be enormous without an incremental roadmap and the value (technical, interoperability-wise, business-wise, etc.) and market for IMS are unproven and un-validated today. A further complication is that there is not just one IMS specification or architecture but many variations which are not always fully interoperable. These multiple IMS specifications present interoperability challenges. Therefore, contrary to expectations, IMS interoperability across infrastructure vendors is not immediate. Interworking is in fact often challenging. Furthermore, services for IMS can't be provided for the majority of the subscribers on legacy networks. However, various Internet applications can be deployed on legacy IP network to provide similar services and compete efficiently against IMS since they can be deployed without the cost and other issues associated with a full IMS deployment. Other well-known and lesser-known issues also have hindered the adoption of IMS. Hence, there is a need for improved methods and systems for providing IMS services, for example, in an evolutionary or ad hoc basis and on a network that may not initially consist of or provide IMS services.","Embodiments of the invention provide systems and methods for providing telco functions and in some cases one or more IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS) services on a network that may not initial consist of or provide such functions and\/or services. According to one embodiment, a system for providing communication services can comprise a communication network, one or more subsystems communicatively coupled with the network and adapted to provide one or more telco functions, and one or more applications communicatively coupled with the network and adapted to utilize the telco functions. For example, the one or more telco functions include but are not limited to a charging function, security functions such as an access control function, an authentication function, a firewall, etc., a subscription management function, a policy enforcement function, a Quality of Service (QoS) management and enforcement function, a logging function, a presence service, etc. In some cases, the one or more subsystems can be further adapted to provide one or more services with features as provided by IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS). For example, the one or more services can include but are not limited to a streaming media service, an IP television service, a multimedia messaging service, an instant messaging service, a telephony service, a presence service, a push-to-talk service, a conference service, a download service, etc.","In some cases, the one or more subsystems can comprise a platform adapted to abstract the network and other resources. In such cases, the one or more applications can be adapted to access the network and resources independent of underlying technologies. Such a platform may be implemented as a Service Oriented Architecture. The platform can comprise one or more enablers communicatively coupled with the network. Each enabler can be adapted to provide access to capabilities of the network to the one or more applications independent of the network. For example, the enablers can include but are not limited to one or more of a call control enabler, a media server control enabler, an intelligent messaging enabler, a presence enabler, a location enabler, a QoS management and enforcement enabler, a charging enabler, an authentication enabler, an identity management enabler, a policy enforcement enabler, a subscription management enabler, or a user profile enabler.","According to another embodiment, a method of providing communication services can comprise providing a first telco function abstracted from an underlying network and providing a second telco function abstracted from the underlying network. For example, the second telco function can be provided at a time later than the first telco function when needed or assumed by the applications deployed on the network or services provided to subscribers. The one or more telco functions can include but are not limited to one or more of charging, access control, authentication, a firewall, subscription management, policy enforcement, Quality of Service (QoS) enforcement, logging, a presence service, etc. Additionally or alternatively, one or more services with features as provided by IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS) can be provided abstracted from the underlying network. For example, the one or more services can include but are not limited to one or more of a streaming media service, an IP television service, a multimedia messaging service, an instant messaging service, a telephony service, a presence service, a push-to-talk service, a conference service, a download service, etc.","Providing the first telco function and the second telco function can comprise providing a platform adapted to abstract the network and other resources wherein one or more applications can access the network and resources independent of underlying technologies. In this way, providing the one or more services with features as provided by IMS can be performed instead of implementing IMS, as part of a migration to an IMS deployment, as a way to integrate the IMS deployment with a legacy network, to test services prior to an IMS deployment, to generate revenues to fund an IMS deployment, etc.","In the following description, for the purposes of explanation, numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of various embodiments of the present invention. It will be apparent, however, to one skilled in the art that embodiments of the present invention may be practiced without some of these specific details. In other instances, well-known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form.","The ensuing description provides exemplary embodiments only, and is not intended to limit the scope, applicability, or configuration of the disclosure. Rather, the ensuing description of the exemplary embodiments will provide those skilled in the art with an enabling description for implementing an exemplary embodiment. It should be understood that various changes may be made in the function and arrangement of elements without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as set forth in the appended claims.","Specific details are given in the following description to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments. However, it will be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art that the embodiments may be practiced without these specific details. For example, circuits, systems, networks, processes, and other components may be shown as components in block diagram form in order not to obscure the embodiments in unnecessary detail. In other instances, well-known circuits, processes, algorithms, structures, and techniques may be shown without unnecessary detail in order to avoid obscuring the embodiments.","Also, it is noted that individual embodiments may be described as a process which is depicted as a flowchart, a flow diagram, a data flow diagram, a structure diagram, or a block diagram. Although a flowchart may describe the operations as a sequential process, many of the operations can be performed in parallel or concurrently. In addition, the order of the operations may be re-arranged. A process is terminated when its operations are completed, but could have additional steps not included in a figure. A process may correspond to a method, a function, a procedure, a subroutine, a subprogram, etc. When a process corresponds to a function, its termination can correspond to a return of the function to the calling function or the main function.","The term \u201cmachine-readable medium\u201d includes, but is not limited to portable or fixed storage devices, optical storage devices, wireless channels and various other mediums capable of storing, containing or carrying instruction(s) and\/or data. A code segment or machine-executable instructions may represent a procedure, a function, a subprogram, a program, a routine, a subroutine, a module, a software package, a class, or any combination of instructions, data structures, or program statements. A code segment may be coupled to another code segment or a hardware circuit by passing and\/or receiving information, data, arguments, parameters, or memory contents. Information, arguments, parameters, data, etc. may be passed, forwarded, or transmitted via any suitable means including memory sharing, message passing, token passing, network transmission, etc.","Furthermore, embodiments may be implemented by hardware, software, firmware, middleware, microcode, hardware description languages, or any combination thereof. When implemented in software, firmware, middleware or microcode, the program code or code segments to perform the necessary tasks may be stored in a machine readable medium. A processor(s) may perform the necessary tasks.","Embodiments of the invention provide systems and methods for telco functions and in some cases one or more IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS) services on a network that may not initial consist of or provide such functions and\/or services. According to one embodiment, a system for providing such functions and\/or services can comprise a network supporting or providing one or more telco functions such as charging, access control, authentication, a firewall, subscription management, policy enforcement, Quality of Service (QoS) enforcement, logging, or a presence service, etc. These telco functions can be provided as needed or desired by the service provider. Additionally or alternatively, the services provided can include one or more IMS or IMS-like services defined herein as real-time communications or streaming multimedia or telephony-like services implemented over IP with required features of the telecommunication industry, e.g., class 5 features. Such services can include but are not limited to a streaming media service, an IP television service, a multimedia messaging service, or an instant messaging service, etc.","More specifically, embodiments of the present invention are related to providing one or more IMS or IMS-like services. That is, a network such as the Internet or other IP network can have added thereto a set of one or more telco functions. These functions may be implemented in a network as boxes\/network functions, in a Service Delivery Platform (SDP) (as will be described below) or differently. Services can be built to use the IP network and telco functions or assume the network provides the telco functions (e.g. security on transport). Stated another way, a system for providing communication services can comprise a communication network, one or more subsystems communicatively coupled with the network and adapted to provide one or more telco functions, and one or more applications communicatively coupled with the network and adapted to utilize the telco functions. For example, the one or more telco functions include but are not limited to a charging function, security functions such as an access control function, an authentication function, a firewall, etc., a subscription management function, a policy enforcement function, a Quality of Service (QoS) management and enforcement function, a logging function, a presence service, etc. In some cases, the one or more subsystems can be further adapted to provide one or more services with features as provided by IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS). For example, the one or more services can include but are not limited to a streaming media service, an IP television service, a multimedia messaging service, an instant messaging service, a telephony service, a presence service, a push-to-talk service, a conference service, a download service, etc.","According to one embodiment, the services can be implemented on a platform such as an Service Delivery Platform (SDP) that abstracts the underlying network and\/or resources so as to allow applications and\/or services to access the network, resources, services, etc. in a way independent of the underlying network(s) and or resource(s) and the technologies upon which they may be implemented. For example, the platform can comprise a SDP. Such a SDP can be implemented, for example, as described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11\/357,653, filed Feb. 16, 2006, by Maes and entitled \u201cFactorization of Concerns to Build a SDP (Service Delivery Platform)\u201d of which the entire disclosure is incorporated herein by reference for all purposes. The SDP can be implemented as an a Service Oriented Architecture (SOA). In such cases, the one or more applications can be adapted to access the network and resources independent of underlying technologies. If implemented on an SDP that abstracts the network, the same service(s) can work on other network(s) when the network evolves to IMS or on any future network. Additionally or alternatively, the services can be coordinated and coexist or jump from one network to another. Therefore, services\/applications developed this way (with SDP that abstracts the network) can then also be provided or coexist or migrate or be continuously switched to an IMS network deployed layer or any future network variations and\/or, the service can be offered on legacy networks. Various additional details of embodiments of the present invention will be described below with reference to the figures.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["100","105","110","105","110","105","110","105","110","115","100"]},"In some embodiments, the system  may also include a network . The network may can be any type of network familiar to those skilled in the art that can support data communications using any of a variety of commercially-available protocols, including without limitation TCP\/IP, SNA, IPX, AppleTalk, and the like. Merely by way of example, the network  maybe a local area network (\u201cLAN\u201d), such as an Ethernet network, a Token-Ring network and\/or the like; a wide-area network; a virtual network, including without limitation a virtual private network (\u201cVPN\u201d); the Internet; an intranet; an extranet; a public switched telephone network (\u201cPSTN\u201d); an infra-red network; a wireless network (e.g., a network operating under any of the IEEE 802.11 suite of protocols, the Bluetooth protocol known in the art, and\/or any other wireless protocol); and\/or any combination of these and\/or other networks such as GSM, GPRS, EDGE, UMTS, 3G, 2.5 G, CDMA, CDMA2000, WCDMA, EVDO, WiMAX, HSDPA, 4G, LTE, etc.","The system may also include one or more server computers , ,  which can be general purpose computers and\/or specialized server computers (including, merely by way of example, PC servers, UNIX servers, mid-range servers, mainframe computers rack-mounted servers, etc.). One or more of the servers (e.g., ) may be dedicated to running applications, such as a business application, a web server, application server, etc. Such servers may be used to process requests from user computers , . The applications can also include any number of applications for controlling access to resources of the servers , , .","The web server can be running an operating system including any of those discussed above, as well as any commercially-available server operating systems. The web server can also run any of a variety of server applications and\/or mid-tier applications, including HTTP servers, FTP servers, CGI servers, database servers, Java servers, business applications, and the like. The server(s) also may be one or more computers which can be capable of executing programs or scripts in response to the user computers , . As one example, a server may execute one or more web applications. The web application may be implemented as one or more scripts or programs written in any programming language, such as Java\u2122, C, C# or C++, and\/or any scripting language, such as Perl, Python, PLP, or TCL, as well as combinations of any programming\/scripting languages. The server(s) may also include database servers, including without limitation those commercially available from Oracle\u00ae, Microsoft\u00ae, Sybase\u00ae, IBM\u00ae and the like, which can process requests from database clients running on a user computer , .","In some embodiments, an application server may create web pages dynamically for displaying on an end-user (client) system. The web pages created by the web application server may be forwarded to a user computer  via a web server. Similarly, the web server can receive web page requests and\/or input data from a user computer and can forward the web page requests and\/or input data to an application and\/or a database server. Those skilled in the art will recognize that the functions described with respect to various types of servers may be performed by a single server and\/or a plurality of specialized servers, depending on implementation-specific needs and parameters.","The system  may also include one or more databases . The database(s)  may reside in a variety of locations. By way of example, a database  may reside on a storage medium local to (and\/or resident in) one or more of the computers , , , , . Alternatively, it may be remote from any or all of the computers , , , , , and\/or in communication (e.g., via the network ) with one or more of these. In a particular set of embodiments, the database  may reside in a storage-area network (\u201cSAN\u201d) familiar to those skilled in the art. Similarly, any necessary files for performing the functions attributed to the computers , , , ,  may be stored locally on the respective computer and\/or remotely, as appropriate. In one set of embodiments, the database  may be a relational database, such as Oracle 10g, that is adapted to store, update, and retrieve data in response to SQL-formatted commands.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":["200","200","200","255","205","210","215","200","220","220"]},"The computer system  may additionally include a computer-readable storage media reader , a communications system  (e.g., a modem, a network card (wireless or wired), an infra-red communication device, etc.), and working memory , which may include RAM and ROM devices as described above. In some embodiments, the computer system  may also include a processing acceleration unit , which can include a DSP, a special-purpose processor and\/or the like.","The computer-readable storage media reader can further be connected to a computer-readable storage medium , together (and, optionally, in combination with storage device(s) ) comprehensively representing remote, local, fixed, and\/or removable storage devices plus storage media for temporarily and\/or more permanently containing computer-readable information. The communications system  may permit data to be exchanged with the network  and\/or any other computer described above with respect to the system .","The computer system  may also comprise software elements, shown as being currently located within a working memory , including an operating system  and\/or other code , such as an application program (which may be a client application, web browser, mid-tier application, RDBMS, etc.). It should be appreciated that alternate embodiments of a computer system  may have numerous variations from that described above. For example, customized hardware might also be used and\/or particular elements might be implemented in hardware, software (including portable software, such as applets), or both. Further, connection to other computing devices such as network input\/output devices may be employed. Software of computer system  may include code  for implementing embodiments of the present invention as described herein.","As noted above, embodiments of the invention provide systems and methods for providing telco functions and in some cases one or more IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS) services on a network that may not initially consist of or provide such functions and\/or services. Stated another way, the embodiments of the present invention propose to look at the IMS differently. That is, IMS can be considered to be Internet (or other network) plus a set of useful features or functions for consumers and or Communications Service Providers. These functions, collectively referred to herein as the \u201ctelco functions,\u201d can include, but are not limited to, Charging, Security (Access control, Authentication, Firewall, etc.), Subscription Management, Policy enforcement, QoS, Logging, Support for specific Telco Services (e.g. Voice). Such functions differentiate an IMS set of features from an IETF vanilla IP network. The functions may vary based on what the service provider wants to achieve and what are the dependencies on the network of the applications that the service provider wants to provide, i.e., what the applications call or assume from the network. The Internet or other network plus these Telco functions allows development of multimedia services as on the IMS. Indeed and as a particular and preferred embodiment, a platform such as an SDP implemented according to the embodiments described herein can provide the same services that can be developed and deployed on any network providing the required capabilities. This is the case of the IMS, Internet plus Telco functions or on legacy networks (PSTN, etc.).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0039","num":"0038"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":["280","285","290","270","275","270","275","285","290","280","280"]},"As introduced above, the functions  and  can include, for example, Charging, Security (Access control, Authentication, Firewall, etc.), Subscription Management, Policy enforcement, QoS, Logging, Support for specific Telco Services (e.g. Voice). In a more specific example, the telco functions as described herein can include but are not limited to those such as described in and supported by the methods and systems of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11\/536,731 filed Sep. 29, 2006 by Maes and entitled \u201cService Provider Functionality with Policy Enforcement Functional Layer Bound to SIP\u201d the entire disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference for all purposes. Security functions can be implemented with an authentication (and identity management) enabler that has adapters to perform authentication based on different schemes (e.g., different schemes for IMS versus Internet, versus others). So, authentication can be modeled with an authentication enabler that confirms to an application if the authentication has taken place independent of how the authentication is done. Security functions can then be provided via VPN, encrypted RTP and SIP, SSL, and\/or firewalls including but not limited to the examples as described, for example, in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11\/512,585 filed Aug. 29, 2006 by Maes and entitled \u201cCross Network Layer Correlation-Based Firewalls\u201d the entire disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference for all purposes.","The functions  and  as described herein can also include but are not limited to charging functions. For example, such charging functions can be provided via a charging enabler  such as described, for example, in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12\/544,484 filed Aug. 20, 2009 by Maes and entitled \u201cCharging Enabler\u201d the entire disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference for all purposes. Furthermore, according to one embodiment, a smart router or proxy can be implemented that enforces or ensures that traffic passing through the router is charged or calls the charging enabler to perform charging. In such cases, uncharged traffic can be rejected or blocked. For example, this enforcement can be implemented according to the methods and systems described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11\/123,471 filed May 5, 2005 by Maes and entitled \u201cCharging via Policy Enforcement,\u201d U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11\/475,280 filed Jun. 26, 2006 by Maes and entitled \u201cTechniques for Correlation of Charges in Multiple Layers for Content and Service Delivery,\u201d U.S. Pat. No. 7,426,381 filed Mar. 23, 2005 by Maes and entitled \u201cDevice Billing Agent,\u201d U.S. Pat. No. 7,403,763 filed Sep. 19, 2005 by Maes and entitled \u201cDevice Agent,\u201d U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12\/130,101 filed May 30, 2008 by Maes and entitled \u201cDevice Agent,\u201d and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12\/173,797 filed Jul. 15, 2008 by Maes and entitled \u201cDevice Billing Agent\u201d of which the entire disclosure of each is incorporated herein by reference for all purposes.","The functions  and  as described herein can also include but are not limited to subscription management and user profile functions. For example, subscription management and user profile functions can be implemented using a UUP as described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11\/926,738 filed Oct. 29, 2007 by Maes and entitled \u201cShared View of Customers Across Business Support Systems (BSS) and a Service Delivery Platform(SDP)\u201d (e.g., for delegation of subscription management to OSS and BSS), and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12\/019,299 filed Jan. 24, 2008 by Maes and entitled \u201cService-Oriented Architecture (SOA) Management of Data Repository\u201d (e.g., to abstract data sources such as LDAP, HSS, databases, Radius etc.), of which the entire disclosure of each is incorporated herein by reference for all purposes. Additionally or alternatively, subscription management and\/or user profile functions can be implemented according to the methods and systems described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12\/019,335 filed Jan. 24, 2008 by Maes and entitled \u201cIntegrating Operational and Business Support Systems with a Service Delivery Platform\u201d and\/or U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12\/948,450 filed Nov. 17, 2010 by Maes and entitled \u201cMethods and Systems for Implementing Service Level Consolidated User Information Management\u201d of which the entire disclose of each is incorporated herein by reference for all purposes.","The functions  and  as described herein can also include but are not limited to performing and\/or supporting continuity. For example, continuity functions can be performed as described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12\/949,183 filed Nov. 18, 2010 by Maes and entitled \u201cInterface for Communication Session Continuation\u201d and\/or U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12\/949,287 filed Nov. 18, 2010 by Maes and entitled \u201cIn-Session Continuation of a Streaming Media Session\u201d of which the entire disclose of each is incorporated herein by reference for all purposes.","The functions  and  as described herein can also include but are not limited to providing and\/or maintaining Quality of Service (QoS) requirements. QoS can be defined by allocating available bandwidth based on a Service Level Agreement (SLA), reserving for services and allocating more (or blocking other traffic) when QoS is too low, and using many different approaches. For example, maintaining QoS can be performed as described in U.S. patent application Ser No. 12\/544,471 filed Aug. 20, 2009 by Maes and entitled \u201cService Level Networker Quality of Service Policy Enforcement\u201d of which the entire disclosure is incorporated herein by reference for all purposes. QoS functions provided added to the IP network as described herein can support different networks with different bandwidth capacities linked to proxies which are set based on the SLAs. Traffic from authenticated users can be submitted between proxies based on the SLA for that user.","That is, a network such as the Internet or other IP network  can have added thereto a set of one or more telco functions  and . These functions  and  may be implemented in a network as boxes\/network functions, in a Service Delivery Platform (SDP) or differently. Services can be built to use the IP network  and telco functions  and  or assume the network provides the telco functions  and  (e.g. security on transport). According to one embodiment, a system for providing such functions and\/or services can be implemented using a Service Delivery Platform (SDP). For example, a system for providing one or more telco functions can comprise a transport layer. The transport layer can include a communication network. The system can also include a service layer communicatively coupled with the transport layer. The service layer can be adapted to abstract the transport layer and provide the one or more IMS services via the transport layer independent of the communication network of the transport layer. For example, the service layer can comprise a SDP. Such a SDP can be implemented, for example, as described in and the application entitled \u201cFactorization of Concerns to Build a SDP (Service Delivery Platform)\u201d referenced above. As described therein, such an SDP focuses on the service layer independent of the underlying network technologies.","Generally speaking, an SDP such as described in the referenced application can be defined as a horizontal platform that that abstracts underlying network resources via a set of enablers. As will be described in greater detail below, these enablers can comprise service components performing or providing access to various functions or services as described above (e.g. Call Control, Presence, Charging, Messaging, location, user profile, media server control, and other custom functions, etc.) and providing various adapters (e.g., SIP, HTTP, JCA 1.5, etc.) to access those functions or services. The SDP comprises a converged container\/environment including Application Servers (OSA, SIP, HTTP) with enabler implemented on them in which all objects can interact with each other in a single execution environment.","According to embodiments of the present invention and as will be described in greater detail below, such an SDP can be adapted to provide one or more IMS or IMS-like services. Generally speaking, IMS can be viewed as an IP network with a set of useful features for communications service providers (referred to commonly and herein as telco functions): e.g. charging, security (e.g., access control, authentication, firewall, etc.), subscription management, policy enforcement, QoS, logging, support for specific telco services (e.g. voice). The Internet or other IP network along with these Telco functions also allow the development of multimedia services similar as on the IMS. The only difference between the IMS and a IP network with implementations of such Telco functions is that IMS has a pre-specific and hard coded architecture and deployment model while generic IP networks do not prescribe the architecture or how the telco functions are provided. A well-designed SDP according to embodiments of the present invention provides that the same services can be developed and deployed on IMS, Internet with the Telco functions that the service would assume or on legacy networks (PSTN, etc.). If implemented on an SDP that abstracts the network, the same service(s) can work on other network(s) when the network evolves to IMS or on any future network. Additionally or alternatively, the services can be coordinated and coexist or jump from one network to another. Therefore, services\/applications developed this way (with SDP that abstracts the network) can then also be provided or coexist or migrate or be continuously switched to an IMS network deployed layer or any future network variations and\/or, the service can be offered on legacy networks. Additional details of various implementations of the present invention utilizing such an SDP are described below.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0048","num":"0047"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":["305","310","315","310","315","320","325","320","325"]},"The SDP  can include a number of enablers - including but not limited to a Parlay API implementation  a Parlay X implementation  and\/or other enablers  and . The various enablers - are defined to provide reusable, composable components with specific functions and can be adapted to provide an abstract interface to network resources  and ,  and . According to one embodiment, the Parlay API implementation  and Parlay X implementation  (and any other enablers) can be implemented with southbound adapters to SIP or other protocols e.g. via JCA 1.5 or other protocols. When they consist of Parlay, they can be provided by an OSA application server The SDP  can also include one or more bindings - adapted to provide standard northbound interfaces for the one or more enablers -. According to one embodiment, the enablers and interfaces can be implemented according to the methods and systems described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11\/951,500 filed Dec. 6, 2007 by Maes and entitled \u201cAchieving Low Latencies on Network Events in a Non-Real Time Platform\u201d of which the entire disclosure is incorporated herein by reference for all purposes.","Such a horizontal platform can be standards-based and follow the SDP blueprint described in the Application entitled \u201cFactorization of Concerns to Build a SDP (Service Deliver Platform) referenced above. Accordingly, applications  and  can be based on the SOA composition of reusable piece of codes (i.e. enablers -) that expose relevant and intrinsic communications functionalities along with other reusable services which may not be standard or expose intrinsic functions. Intrinsic means that one type of functions relevant to the nature of the enabler is exposed and other aspects that are driven by business rules need not included. So for example, a messaging enabler need not include authentication, authorization, charging etc. These functions can be left to other enablers composed by the application  or  to add these features based on the business rules (aka policies). Enablers - when implemented by driving network resources or OSS\/BSS resources can do that through an adapter approach. The same enabler - can use different adapters to be realized\/implemented on different network technologies or using equipment from different vendors (when non standard). Doing this, the same enablers - can be deployed or even coexist on multiple network technologies like legacy networks (e.g. PSTN, IN, . . . with our without Parlay\/OSA GWs), against other network resources (e.g. messaging GWs), on internet and on IMS and variations (e.g pre-IMS, different release or IMS variations across standard bodies, future IMS etc.).","The SDP  can also include one or more policy enforcers . The policy enforcer  can be adapted to apply one or more policies to messages to or from the one or more enablers -. A policy can be defined as any combination of a condition and one or more associated actions. Therefore, policies can be enforced to implement and\/or enforce a service oriented architecture, factor out business rules, and define interactions between applications  and . Policies can be implemented and\/or enforced by the policy enforcers  of the SDP , for example, according to the methods and systems described in one or more of the following applications: U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11\/024,160 filed Dec. 27, 2004 by Maes and entitled \u201cPolicies as Workflows;\u201d U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10\/855,999 filed May 28, 2004 by Maes and entitled \u201cMethod and Apparatus for Supporting Service Enablers via Service Request Handholding;\u201d U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10\/856,588 filed May 28, 2004 by Maes and entitled \u201cMethod and Apparatus for Supporting Service Enablers via Service Request Composition;\u201d and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11\/565,578 filed Nov. 30, 2006 by Maes and entitled \u201cOrchestration of Policy Engines and Format Technologies\u201d of which the entire disclosure of each is incorporated herein by reference for all purposes.","As noted, enablers - can expose northbound interfaces for their composition and use by other enablers, resources or applications  or . Standard interfaces can lead to Java and web services bindings  and other technologies like C, C+, etc. Enablers - can be composed via SOA. The policy enforcer  can be a SOA composition\/orchestration engine. As such, it applies the business rules when the enablers - are used by applications  and  when trying to use an enabler message and responses can be intercepted by the policy enforcer  that enforces the policies by composing calls to other enablers and resources as specified by the policies. This can be generalized to any composition. Applications  and  can compose enablers - to take advantage of communications features. There are no differences between local and remote, trusted or un-trusted applications. They only differ by the fact that different policies\/business rules apply. Of course, it is possible that local applications rely on different bindings than remote applications. Enablers that are contemplated and considered to be within the scope of the present invention include but are not limited to a call control enabler as described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11\/949,930 filed Dec. 4, 2007 by Maes and entitled \u201cCall Control Enabler Abstracted from Underlying Network Technologies\u201d, a media server control enabler as described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11\/877,129 filed Oct. 23, 2007 by Maes and entitled \u201cNetwork Agnostic Media Server Control Enabler\u201d, an intelligent messaging enabler as described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11\/939,705 filed Nov. 14, 2007 by Maes and entitled \u201cIntelligent Message Processing\u201d of which the entire disclosure of each is incorporated herein by reference for all purposes. As described in the referenced applications and herein, these enablers can operate on different networks with possibly different underlying technologies while abstracting that technologies to the applications utilizing the functions provided by those enablers.","The set of enablers - can expose both network and application specific common, reusable intrinsic functions. Furthermore, the framework for specifying enablers - should be extensible so that additional enablers can be developed as needed. Enablers - can be reusable components that expose a useful set of network or application specific capability through northbound, standardized APIs. In the case of a J2EE realization of the SDP , such APIs can be exposed through either Java APIs, Web Services , or other bindings (e.g. SOAP, REST, etc.) -. Enablers - can be realized via southbound adapters on the underlying network resources\/network technologies. In particular they can be intended to be realizable on vanilla SIP networks (e.g., IETF), IMS, PSTN, IN or any other network technology as appropriate. South bound interfaces to implement the enablers - on any underlying network or resources can rely on JCA 1.5 with a design for high throughput and predictable low latencies, e.g. Parlay Corba adapters to Parlay GW\/SCSs, Diameter, Connectors to legacy\/proprietary resources like messaging GWs, Billing systems (e.g. Oracle BRM); SIP; HTTP as well as towards OSS and BSS. Other technologies can include but are not limited to RA, RMI, etc.","Enablers - can provide functions they're designed to provide (e.g., user location or call control) and should explicitly not provide that are set up by an operator's policies (e.g., security, authentication, authorization, SLA\/QoS, Charging). Execution and enforcement of such policies are appropriately handled by the SOA layer (detailed in a later section). Parlay API implementations  (e.g. Java realizations) and Parlay X API implementations  (i.e. web services bindings) can include, for example, call control, messaging\/notification, charging, location, terminal status, and user interaction.","Generally speaking, the SDP  provides an architecture framework that describes the interaction with and among enablers -, services  and  and resources  and . According to one embodiment, the SDP  can be implemented as a Service Orchestration Architecture (SOA). For example, the blueprint described in the application entitled \u201cFactorization of Concerns to Build a SDP (Service Delivery Platform)\u201d referenced above and derived from the SDP  ensures that enablers - correctly abstract the network technologies. As a result, an application  or  is not affected by the coexistence or migration across network technologies as long that the network can bear the same capabilities.","According to one embodiment, the SDP  can be focused on implementing or supporting the services layer of solutions rather than the network layers (and session layers) of solutions, for areas such as handheld devices and network equipment. Such a service layer can accommodate any choice made by operator customers for the network layers, network and OSS\/BSS resources and handsets. Additionally, the SDP  allows applications  and  to be developed and deployed to coexist across different network technologies and resources, migrate without change from one technology to another in support of convergence where the same services are available for a subscriber independent of the access network (whenever it makes sense and with the services adapted as appropriate) with the same user experience in terms of availability, subscription, support and billing, and where service continuity (switch from one network to another while preserving relevant sessions\/contexts) can be provided when it makes sense.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0057","num":"0056"},"figref":"FIG. 5","b":["400","405","410","405","445","435","440","400","405","415","420"]},"The control layer  can include a number of IMS resources  supporting one or more IMS sessions . One or more SIP, HTTP sessions  can be supported by a number of SIP, HTTP resources , also in the control layer. These sessions can be implemented, for example, on vanilla SIP or any other SIP deployment . Similarly, one or more Parlay service capability servers  and Parlay resources  can support one or more Parlay sessions . These Parlay sessions  can be implemented on any legacy or other network .","As noted, at the service layer  can be implemented following specifications in terms of J2EE, converged HTTP\/SIP containers (e.g. JSR 116 with a roadmap to JSR 289 when available and future releases thereafter) and service layer SDP blueprints. However, it should be understood that this implementation is an exemplary embodiment only and other environments (e.g., .NET, JAIN, SLEE, other SLEEs, etc.) are contemplated and considered to be within the scope of the present invention. In particular, converged communications applications  can be developed and deployed on an extensible horizontal converged container that provides the functions of the SIP AS , the OSA AS , telephony\/multimedia control functions (Telephony AS) and other mobile, voice or communications functions within a single container, where a converged container enables context sharing, in-process and local invocations where appropriate, efficient event marshalling as well as life cycle management (through common, uniform mechanisms) across all the elements of the container. This implies that objects like HTTP servlets, SIP servlets, JCA adapters, enablers , OSA AS  (i.e. Parlay JR and Parlay X components) and other application components implemented in the container can interact with each others at any time. A common horizontal service layer exists , implying that the same (logical) container can be deployed to develop and deploy applications  over any underlying network technology, network access and network resources , , and\/or  (through custom adapters that can be developed when required).","The SIP AS  can be, for example, an IETF Vanilla SIP AS and IMS SIP AS (e.g. following JSR 116 (as well as in the future to JSR 289) and 3GPP\/2 specifications). The OSA AS  can be a Parlay\/OSA AS according to specifications of ETSI, 3GPP\/2. Telephony AS (not shown here) and other mobile, voice or communications functions refer to the enabler  functions described below (e.g., the Call Control Enabler, the Media Server Control Enabler, the Voice Enabler, etc. as referenced above) as well as telephony functions (like call barring, call forwarding, legal intercept, E911, call hunting, queue management, etc.) that can be composed to form applications like VOIP residential, VPBX, and others.","According to the 3GPP specifications, applications can be written in SIP (e.g. as SIP servlets) against the OSA AS  (e.g. Parlay APIs, JR and Parlay X) and the reference points of the IMS sessions . However, such applications do not mix and use these different capabilities in a standard way, e.g., sending a message form SIP application server  etc., and SIP does not expose these messages to third parties. Furthermore, these applications in SIP are typically dedicated to IMS and would need to be changed (e.g., change header, change assumptions on router, authentications, etc.) to execute on\/with Internet or a legacy network. That is, typical applications written assuming the reference points for IMS run only on IMS. Similarly, applications written in the OSA AS  run only on legacy networks with Parlay gateways.","According to one embodiment, an SDP  as described here and in the application entitled \u201cFactorization of Concerns to Build a SDP (Service Delivery Platform)\u201d referenced above, can be adapted to provide the ability to write applications independent of the underlying network technology or technologies. More specifically, according to the methods and systems described in the application entitled \u201cFactorization of Concerns to Build a SDP (Service Delivery Platform)\u201d applications  can be written again the enablers  that abstract the underlying network technologies. The enabler  adapters are written for the SIP AS , OSA AS , and\/or other adapters to networks, gateways, and\/or resources (e.g., messaging gateways, legacy IN protocols without Parlay gateways, etc.). Therefore, an application  does not need to be written to the different networks and it can be moved from one network to another with no change other than maybe building the adapters for the enablers . However, such adapters are then reusable across other applications. An application  can also be migrated from network technology to network technology and\/or can coexist across networks (on different networks the user can find the same applications possibly adapted to the network and\/or means of interaction). Such applications  are in effect \u201cfuture proof\u201d since whatever is tomorrow's network technologies and protocols, new enabler adapters can be built to run on them without requiring changes to the applications .","Accordingly, convergence can be provided with or without IMS so that the services supported by the applications  can be made available on different access networks, i.e., the service application layer  allows coexistence of a service across networks. In other words, the SDP  abstracts the network technologies and is extensible as needed in the service layer  with or without IMS. If implemented on an SDP that abstracts the network, the same service(s) can work on other network(s) when the network evolves to IMS or on any future network. Additionally or alternatively, the services can be coordinated and coexist or jump from one network to another. Therefore, services\/applications developed this way (with SDP that abstracts the network) can then also be provided or coexist or migrate or be continuously switched to an IMS network deployed layer or any future network variations and\/or, the service can be offered on legacy networks. Therefore, various services and\/or capabilities can be implemented as desired. For example, these capabilities can include but are not limited to the capability to recognize, authenticate and manage (e.g. federate) the identity of the users across the different channels. This can be addressed, for example, with identity management across network and service layer (middleware\/SDP and applications). In another example, the capability to share the management of the user information and assets (e.g. subscriptions, bills, assets, etc.) can be achieved by sharing the OSS\/BSS across channels and relying on the same identity management. This is can be implemented, for example, by integrating the OSS\/BSS with the service layer  following the methods and systems described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12\/019,299 filed Jan. 24, 2008, by Maes and entitled \u201cService-Oriented Architecture (SOA) Management of Data Repository\u201d of which the entire disclosure is incorporated herein by reference for all purposes.","Furthermore, continuity can be provided at the service layer . So, for example, with an SDP  as described herein and context in an horizontal service layer , service continuity can be achieved as soon as that network\/radio continuity is supported. For example, Voice Call Continuity (VCC) in the service layer  can be achieved with function calls with many customizable features, e.g., criteria for switching or ways to implement the switch, involved clients, etc. According to one embodiment, a service level Service Capability Interaction Manager (SCIM) can be implemented for IMS. Such a SCIM can provide the same composition capability on Internet IMS and legacy networks. Additionally or alternatively, such a SCIM can provide for use context and ease of composition with other services (e.g. SMS in\/out). The SCIM and\/or SDP can be implemented, for example, according to one or more of the methods and systems described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12\/018,718 filed Jan. 23, 2008 by Maes and entitled \u201cService Oriented Architecture-Based SCIM Platform,\u201d U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12\/791,129 filed Jun. 1, 2010 by Maes and entitled \u201cTelephony Application Services,\u201d U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13\/029,226 filed Feb. 17, 2011 by Maes and entitled \u201cTrue Convergence with End To End Identity Management,\u201d U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12\/831,603 filed Jul. 7, 2010 by Maes and entitled \u201cProtocol Level Communications for Protocol Level Composition with Session Sharing,\u201d U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13\/021,974 filed Feb. 7, 2011 by Maes and entitled \u201cService Deliver Platform Based Support of Interactions Between Next Generation Networks and Legacy Networks,\u201d U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13\/021,982 filed Feb. 7, 2011 by Maes and entitled \u201cService Level Cross Network Coordinated Interaction,\u201d and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13\/021,991 filed Feb. 7, 2011 by Maes and entitled \u201cService Based Consolidation of Applications Across Networks\u201d of which the entire disclosure of each is incorporated herein by reference for all purposes.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0065","num":"0064"},"figref":"FIG. 6","b":["500","501","515","537","501","502","506","502","504","506","508","510","512","514"]},"The control plane  can include a number of different functions -. For example, these functions can include but are not limited to media resource functions , Policy Decision Function (PDF) , a signaling gateway functions , serving call session control functions , interrogating call session control functions , proxy call session control functions , home subscriber system , home location register , breakout gateway control functions , and\/or security gateway .","According to one embodiment of the present invention, the service layer  can include an enabler framework  of an SDP  as described above. The enabler framework  can include an OSA application server  and\/or a SIP servlet  also as described above. Enablers - or the enabler framework  can include but are not limited to: Messaging , e.g., application to person and person to application multi-channel messaging able to support email, SMS, MMS, IM, Voice Messages and SIP; Presence , e.g., Presence, XDM and RLS enabler functions that can be aggregated across multiple presence-enabled networks and sources; Call control , e.g., generic, 3rd party and multi party call control (voice and media) realizable on many network technologies for application routing\/dispatching independently of the network technology; Media server control , e.g., media processing, mixing and streaming control realizable against many network and media server technologies; Voice Access , e.g., inclusion of voice and DTMF dialogs in a call\/interaction with a user; Web and mobile access (not shown here), e.g., multi-channel portal including associated supporting technologies such as device recognition, device repository, adaptation and delivery to multiple channels; Charging , e.g., service level on-line and offline charging including Balance check\/tracking, pre-rated charges, delegated rating and rate inquiries; Device Management (not shown here), e.g., device and network resource provisioning, policy execution, enforcement and management providing functions such as PDP (Policy Decision Point), PEP (Policy Enforcement Point), PEEM (Policy Evaluation Enforcement and Management) (callable and proxy mode), PE (Policy Enforcer); and others. Providing additional\/new enablers or extending them can be accomplished by developing new J2EE components with northbound interfaces, following the enabler principles and reusing the enabler framework functions or by developing new adapters using standard technologies and recipes (e.g. JCA 1.5, SIP, HTTP, etc.) to integrate existing enabler with new resources, protocols or network technologies.","As noted above, the service layer  can intrinsically include a service level SCIM. Such a SCIM can support services\/applications across networks, potentially of different types, with or without IMS. According to one embodiment, the service layer  can implement, for example, IMS Service Switching Functions (IM-SSF) and\/or IMS Service Control Functions (IM-SCF). Therefore, via the SCIM and\/or IM-SSF\/IM-SCF, legacy applications can run on new networks and\/or new applications can interact with legacy networks of different type without modification. The SDP  can also include a number of applications - providing, for example, VoIP services , a virtual PBX , a telephone application server , and\/or a SOA suite . According to one embodiment, a SOA  such as illustrated here can be implemented with an Enterprise Service Bus (ESB) and in turn integrated with OSS\/BSS systems. Via these applications -, the SDP can provide\/support a number of services on one or more networks independent of the underlying network technology. So, for example, various telco functions as described above and\/or IMS or IMS-like services can be implemented\/provided on the Internet with telco functions or another type of network (IN\/legacy etc). Therefore, embodiments of the present invention support development of services in the service layer for an IP network with telco functions (and therefore not requiring IMS but matching or providing some or all of the services that are developed\/provided by IMS) or develop on top of SDP in which case the services can then also be provided (coexist or migrate and\/or possibly providing switching with continuity from one network to another) on any variation of IMS, IN\/legacy networks, etc. If implemented on an SDP that abstracts the network, the same service(s) can work on other network(s) when the network evolves to IMS or on any future network. Additionally or alternatively, the services can be coordinated and coexist or jump from one network to another. Therefore, services\/applications developed this way (with SDP that abstracts the network) can then also be provided or coexist or migrate or be continuously switched to an IMS network deployed layer or any future network variations and\/or, the service can be offered on legacy networks.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0069","num":"0068"},"figref":"FIG. 7","b":["501","537","537","538","538","544","554","650"]},"The service layer  can include applications for providing or supporting VoIP services , a virtual PBX , a telephony application server (not shown here but can be considered as a environment where the services or PBX and VoIP can be composed at will to create new applications), etc. The service layer  can also include applications for supporting or providing multimedia messaging services , one or more custom services , ISV services , identity management , etc. As noted above, a SOA suite  can be implemented in the service layer. The SOA suite  can provide services based on a set of rules  applied to messages to, from, or within the service layer . A portal (e.g. Oracle web center)  can be provided as an interface to the SOA suite  and\/or rules .","The SOA suite  can include and\/or be coupled with an ESB (Enterprise Service bus) . The ESB  can also be coupled with Business Support Systems  and Operation Support Systems . According to one embodiment, the ESB  can be implemented as an Event Driven Architecture (EDA) as described, for example, in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12\/045,220 filed Mar. 10, 2008 by Maes and entitled \u201cPresence-Based Event Driven Architecture\u201d the entire disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference for all purposes.","Accordingly, the SOA  can be integrated with a global data model to maintain context and message transformation to and from each OSS, BSS and SDP component and provide for global processes that can be driven across the overall system with functions or part of processes delegated to the different OSS, BSS and SDP components. Each component can further delegate\/compose other components. Such an approach allows for productized\/pre-packaged business process, ease of customization, introduction of new processes, ease of integration even with legacy OSS and BSS components, and migration towards a product stack.","According to one embodiment, identity management services  can provide a logical, unified profile for subscriber and user Identity Management throughout the service layer  with support for single sign-on, identity management and federation across the service layer , network identities that can span multiple network technologies, OSS and BSS identities (and BSS sharing across access networks), third party service providers, identity and subscription provisioning and life cycle management, delegation of subscription management to OSS\/BSS via SOA.","As noted above, the embodiments of the present invention propose to look at the IMS differently. That is, IMS can be considered to be Internet (IP Network) plus a set of useful features for consumers  and  or Communications Service Providers. These functions can include, for example, Charging, Security (Access control, Authentication, Firewall, etc.), Subscription Management, Policy enforcement, QoS, Logging, Support for specific Telco Services (e.g. Voice). The functions that matter may vary based on what the service provider wants to achieve and what are the dependencies on the network of the applications that the service provider wants to provide. The Internet or other IP network plus these Telco functions allows development of multimedia services as on the IMS. Indeed and as a particular and preferred embodiment, a SDP implemented according to the embodiments described above can provide the same services that can be developed and deployed on any network providing the required capabilities. This is the case of the IMS, Internet plus Telco functions or on legacy networks (PSTN, etc.).","Additionally or alternatively, services like presence, IM, VoIP, PBX, IPTV, video chat, multimedia real-time communications, conferencing, etc. can be implemented by various custom and\/or standard enablers of the enabler framework  of the SDP  as described herein. Other enablers that are contemplated and considered to be within the scope of the present invention include but are not limited to a call control enabler as described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11\/949,930 filed Dec. 4, 2007 by Maes and entitled \u201cCall Control Enabler Abstracted from Underlying Network Technologies\u201d, a media server control enabler as described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11\/877,129 filed Oct. 23, 2007 by Maes and entitled \u201cNetwork Agnostic Media Server Control Enabler\u201d, an intelligent messaging enabler as described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11\/939,705 filed Nov. 14, 2007 by Maes and entitled \u201cIntelligent Message Processing\u201d of which the entire disclosure of each is incorporated herein by reference for all purposes. As described in the referenced applications and herein, these enablers can operate on different networks with possibly different underlying technologies while abstracting that technologies to the applications utilizing the functions provided by those enablers.","Therefore, a service platform like SDP can be used to develop\/deploy services across different networks. In such a system, a recipe can be followed to pragmatically deploy IMS IP Multimedia services on Internet network plus relevant Telco functions as needed by services. IMS can then be migrated to when\/if desired by the operator. Following such approach provides the possibility to offer IMS services immediately without IMS cost. Additionally, modular and incremental approaches can be implemented instead of a hard-coded, monolithic architecture and viable business models and deployments (pay for deployment, validate, coexist with legacy) can be implemented. Embodiments of the present invention thus bring internet technologies, capabilities and business models to IMS.","In the foregoing description, for the purposes of illustration, methods were described in a particular order. It should be appreciated that in alternate embodiments, the methods may be performed in a different order than that described. It should also be appreciated that the methods described above may be performed by hardware components or may be embodied in sequences of machine-executable instructions, which may be used to cause a machine, such as a general-purpose or special-purpose processor or logic circuits programmed with the instructions to perform the methods. These machine-executable instructions may be stored on one or more machine readable mediums, such as CD-ROMs or other type of optical disks, floppy diskettes, ROMs, RAMs, EPROMs, EEPROMs, magnetic or optical cards, flash memory, or other types of machine-readable mediums suitable for storing electronic instructions. Alternatively, the methods may be performed by a combination of hardware and software.","While illustrative and presently preferred embodiments of the invention have been described in detail herein, it is to be understood that the inventive concepts may be otherwise variously embodied and employed, and that the appended claims are intended to be construed to include such variations, except as limited by the prior art."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 7"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
