---
title: Methods, systems, and products for managing access to applications
abstract: Different communications devices, different communications networks, and/or different users are used to generate, enable, and/or manage an API tool set for providing services through a residential communications gateway. The actual physical location of the service and the manner in which it operates are transparent to the user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07933970&OS=07933970&RS=07933970
owner: AT&T Intellectual Property I, L. P.
number: 07933970
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20090114
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS","NOTICE OF COPYRIGHT PROTECTION","FIELD OF THE INVENTION","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["This application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 10\/918,494, filed Aug. 13, 2004, and now issued as U.S. Pat. No. 7,480,724, which is a continuation-in-part of U.S. application Ser. No. 10\/254,183, filed Sep. 25, 2002 now U.S. Pat. No. 7,584,263, with both applications incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.","This application also relates to U.S. application Ser. No. 10\/918,029, filed Aug. 13, 2004, and incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.","A portion of the disclosure of this patent document and its figures contain material subject to copyright protection. The copyright owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction by anyone of the patent document or the patent disclosure, but otherwise reserves all copyrights whatsoever.","This invention generally relates to providing services to devices on heterogeneous networks. This invention more particularly relates to accessing services through a residential communications gateway and to all associated programming interfaces.","In November 2001, there were approximately 6.5 million residential networks in North America, and by 2006, that number is expected to grow to almost 30 million (Meeks, Fleming; ; Barron's Online, Nov. 12, 2001). Families and other members of households use residential networks most often to share files, a printer, and\/or an Internet connection. The needs of each computer user in the family, however, vary with age, interests, and level of comfort with the technology. Ideally, the network recognizes each member of the family\/household as a different user with different preferences and provides helpful links especially for that user. Further, the administration of a network requires specific knowledge that a layperson does not have. Therefore, virtually all residential networks are and will be used by families who do not have the skill or knowledge to correct a problem when it arises. Moreover, families increasingly are saving important information onto their home computers, resulting in additional problems. For example, in order to protect against the loss of the information, the family must save a second copy in a different location. Also, occasionally families need to access the information when away from home or residence.","Conventional approaches to address these issues either are incomplete or require a confusing and often incompatible array of hardware and software. A router is one conventional solution to residential networking. A router, however, merely distributes an Internet connection to several computers, and does not provide personalized settings for different users. An Internet service provider (ISP), on the other hand, almost always allows each account to have several usernames with personalized settings, but in general the usernames are only related to separate email accounts. The services provided do not include that of helping users to maintain residential networks. While the Internet service is compatible with residential networks, the users must set up the networks themselves or have someone do it for them. Another existing solution that does not assist with network upkeep is a family-oriented website, sometimes called a portal, that provides links to other websites that might interest families. Such a portal is external to the residential network and consequently is not able to provide assistance with the network's operation. Finally, such a portal does not offer backup storage space. Data storage services are available on the Internet, but they are generally designed to backup residential computer systems. If a family chooses to use such a service for data storage, the family will have to solve the other issues of residential networking with different services that might not be compatible with the data storage solution and may be difficult to manage.","One conventional approach is to use a router to connect several home computers to one Internet connection. The router may come with software that provides a starting page for browsing the Internet. Often, the starting page is linked to the website of the company that produces the router, and sometimes that website provides data storage space. For example, 2Wire (2Wire, Inc., 1704 Automation Parkway, San Jose, Calif. 95131, 408-428-9500) produces Home Portal\u2122, a router that allows the user to connect computers using phone lines, Ethernet cables, USB connections, or wireless signals. The user loads the included software onto each computer to be connected to the network, and that software provides a beginning screen each time a user wants to access the Internet. The disadvantage of this beginning page is that it is the same on all machines. This is not ideal because children often have different interests than their parents, particularly with regards to content on the Internet. For example, a link to stock market reports usually is not useful to a child, and a link to a chat room usually is not useful to a parent. In most cases, the default homepage for a router is the user configuration page for the router. It is generally specific to the router. This web server is hosted on the router and not in the general Internet. On the other hand, a \u201cportal\u201d is defined traditionally as a web service that is established on the internet, providing user specific details as per the users portal configuration. In the concept, a smart or \u201chome\u201d portal is hosted on the home router and provides user specific content based on content that is pushed to the router based on a user's preference model.","Another approach to family Internet use is to choose an Internet service provider (ISP) that allows each account to have several different usernames. Then, member of the family\/household can be given a username, and consequently each member will receive more personalized attention. For example, America Online, (America Online, Inc., Dulles, Va.) allows each account to have several different screen names and\/or user identities. After a particular user enters a screen name to access the Internet, a beginning page with personalized settings appears. This service is comprehensive for users with only one computer but not for multiple users with multiple computers on a network. Still another weakness of this approach is that although this service limited compatibility with a residential network, it also does not provide assistance in creating or maintaining that network. As a result, the family must either manage the network or procure management services from another entity.","Certain websites, sometimes called portals, exist to provide useful links to a specific group of people. Portals can contain links that are appropriate for families. An example of such a website is The Family Portal at www.familyportal.com. This website provides links to topics that might interest families, but these listings are not personalized for each user. In addition, the website is completely external to the residential network and consequently does not assist in the residential network's creation or maintenance. Finally, the website does not offer backup storage space to the users. Therefore, this website is not a comprehensive solution to the needs of a family of Internet users.","A similarly incomplete solution is a website dedicated solely to data storage. While useful for its limited purpose, it requires the user to find other Internet and networking services elsewhere. For example, backup.com, a service of SkyDesk.com (12348 High Bluff Drive, Suite 200, San Diego, Calif. 92130, 858-720-4400), provides storage space for backup copies of files. After the user subscribes to the service, the user can upload copies of files onto the backup.com website, where they will be stored in case the original files are lost. Aside from data storage and transfer services, however, backup.com does not have any services for a residential network. Moreover, backup.com is not designed to be a link to other sites; therefore, it is not a convenient place for a family to begin browsing the Internet. Also, if an Internet-based data-storage business fails, the subscriber may have difficulty retrieving backed up files.","The current state of residential network services clearly indicates that a comprehensive system for networking home computers and other devices, providing Internet access and residential network access with personalized settings for multiple users, and providing storage space for backup copies of files is needed. Further, there is a need for efficient, personalized interfaces that allow the customer (or authorized user) to manage and control of applications used and\/or accessed by the network.","This invention provides systems and methods for managing and\/or otherwise controlling a broad array of services through a residential communications gateway connecting multiple communications devices and multiple users. According to exemplary embodiments of this invention, a system for providing services includes a residential network in communication with a service provider network (or alternate third party communications network) through a residential communications gateway. For example, the service provider network may be a telecommunications provider, an Internet Service Provider (ISP), a cable system operator, and\/or a data network. A communications device communicates, either directly or indirectly, with the residential communications gateway executing on a portal. The portal includes a plurality of links including a link to at least one first application on the residential network and to at least a single second application on the service provider network. To control access, provide flexibility, and enable a distributed residential network, the system also includes a data store, such as a database, for storing records related to the services, subscribers (e.g., individual responsible for payment of a bill for the service), and\/or users associated with each subscriber's residence. According to other embodiments of this invention, an application programming interface manages and associates each user of the communications device in the residential network with at least one available application on the residential network and with at least one available application on the service provider network. Still in further embodiments, an application services gateway interacts with the application programming interface to execute the applications necessary for providing a service to the communications device. In general the Application Programming Interface (\u201cAPI\u201d) provides an interface whereby a computer program or multiple computer programs are written to manage the user experience, the residential gateway (\u201cRG\u201d), and\/or Application Services Gateway(s) (\u201cASG\u201d).","According to other exemplary embodiments, this invention comprises methods, systems, and apparatus that provide an Application Programming Interface (API) that are controlled by a \u201cbackend\u201d management system on behalf of a subscriber making requests by and not limited to a standard web interface for a typical family portal experience. The API embodies a set of control and command options permitting the control of a data source, such as a database, for storing records associated with the services and with the users.","In an embodiment of this invention, a user uses a communications device to access a service. The communications device may comprise any device capable of presenting a user interface, including communications devices capable of displaying visual communications including text, pictures, and other visual material and presenting audio communications including voice, dual tone multi frequency, and other audio communications. A service application may execute on a communications device in the home\/residence (e.g., also referred to herein as the \u201cresidential address\u201d) or outside the home. In either case, the application executes on a device that includes some type of processor and a means for communicating with the residential network and\/or residential communications gateway.","Any type of application that would be valuable to members of a home or residence may be provided by an embodiment of this invention. For example, an embodiment may include applications, such as a calendar, a bulletin board, a to-do list, unified messaging, and\/or a directory. In addition, applications such as, for example, home security, HVAC control, lighting control, audio distribution, and\/or multimedia-on-demand may prove valuable to a user of this invention.","In a method according to an exemplary embodiment of this invention, a computer program executing on a processor, such as a web server, identifies a first application capable of execution within the home and determines the address and\/or other method for accessing the application. The web server then creates an HTML portal page that includes a link to the application. The web server also includes a second link to a second application that executes outside the home. Since the portal may be provided as an HTML page, the subscriber may access the page from either a communications device in the home or a communications device outside the home that is in communication with the provider network.","Attributes for the services, the subscriber, and other relative components of an embodiment of this invention may be stored in a database. The database is in communication with the residential communications gateway and may be present in the residential network, the provider network, and\/or multiple databases may be stored in both. An embodiment includes a mechanism to identify each individual user and to differentiate service offerings for each identified user.","Exemplary embodiments of this invention may include computer programs encoded on computer-readable medium, such as volatile and non-volatile storage devices. The computer program code may include scripts, object-oriented components, and\/or other types of executable code combined with static elements, such as, for example HTML or extensible markup language (XML) pages and style sheets (XSLT).","Exemplary embodiments of this invention provide numerous advantages over conventional systems and methods. For example, some embodiments of this invention provide a means to integrate the variety of services accessed by the family\/household and further provide various mechanisms for controlling access, sharing, executing, storing, and\/or otherwise managing the services, such as, for example, parental control of children's access to various content. By treating the family as an organizational unit, an embodiment of this invention provides the service provider with an opportunity to differentiate a service offering according to this invention from service offerings provided by the service provider's competitors.","Also, according to exemplary embodiments of this invention, the management of as well as the location of services are transparent to the user. The service provider performs analysis and makes decisions regarding where particular services should be located, where they should execute, and\/or how the subscriber and\/or user should access the available services. The service provider can then install or assist in installation of the necessary packages and thereafter, create and manage entries in the service database so that each user of a subscribing home can access the service.","Further details on these embodiments and other possible embodiments of this invention are set forth below. As is appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art, this invention has wide utility in a number of areas as illustrated by the discussion below. These embodiments may be accomplished singularly, or in combination, in one or more of the implementations of this invention.","This invention now will be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings, in which exemplary embodiments are shown. This invention may, however, be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein; rather, these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete, and will fully convey the scope of the invention to those of ordinary skill in the art. Moreover, all statements herein reciting embodiments of the invention, as well as specific examples thereof, are intended to encompass both structural and functional equivalents thereof. Additionally, it is intended that such equivalents include both currently known equivalents as well as equivalents developed in the future (i.e., any elements developed that perform the same function, regardless of structure).","Thus, for example, it will be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art that the diagrams, schematics, flowcharts, and the like represent conceptual views or processes illustrating systems and methods embodying this invention. The functions of the various elements shown in the figures may be provided through the use of dedicated hardware as well as hardware capable of executing associated software. Similarly, any switches shown in the figures are conceptual only. Their function may be carried out through the operation of program logic, through dedicated logic, through the interaction of program control and dedicated logic, or even manually, the particular technique being selectable by the entity implementing this invention. Those of ordinary skill in the art further understand that the exemplary hardware, software, processes, methods, and\/or operating systems described herein are for illustrative purposes and, thus, are not intended to be limited to any particular named manufacturer.","As used herein, the term \u201ccommunications device\u201d includes wired and wireless communications devices, such as a Plain Old Telephone (POTs) phone, a mobile phone, a wireless phone, a Wide Area Protocol (WAP) phone, a satellite phone, a computer, a modem, a pager, a digital music device, a digital recording device, a personal digital assistant, an interactive television, a digital signal processor, and a Global Positioning System device. Further, as used herein, the term \u201cdata\u201d includes electronic information, such as, for example facsimile, electronic mail (e-mail), text, video, audio, and\/or voice in a variety of formats, such as dual tone multi-frequency, digital, analog, and\/or others. Additionally, the data may include: (1) executable programs, such as a software application, (2) an address, location, and\/or other identifier of the storage location for the data, (3) integrated or otherwise combined files, such as a grouping of destination communications addresses associated with a receiving party, and\/or (4) one or more user profiles associated with an Application Programming Interface (API) of this invention. In various embodiments, the data may be stored by a communications network, a peripheral storage device connected to a communications network, other connected networks, and\/or a communications device.","According to exemplary embodiments, methods and systems of this invention generate, enable, and\/or otherwise manage an application programming interface (API) that seamlessly integrates different communications devices, different communications networks, and\/or different users to provide services through a residential communications gateway. According to exemplary embodiments of this invention, the application programming interface provides a mechanism for accessing a variety of services, such as applications controlling of device and\/or residential system that make up a residential network for a home (also referred to herein as a \u201cresidential address\u201d) and such as applications for a variety of services (e.g., electronic organizer, electronic messaging, word processing, financial management and payment systems, and so on) available in a provider network. A subscriber registers at least one communications device associated with a residential network for a particular service and is then provided access to that service from the provider network. Further, the subscriber then establishes the privileges for each other user of the residential network. The subscriber (or some other authorized individual) acts as an \u201cadministrator\u201d for the other users of the residential network. This \u201cadministrator\u201d registers each user for an appropriate service for that user to access from the provider network and\/or from the home network. The subscribing administrator may thus establish individual privileges for services and for communications devices. For example, the administrating subscriber may be the head of the household and register a landline phone of the residential address, a first cellular phone of a family member, a second cellular phone of another family or household member, a home computer, and\/or an interactive pager of yet another family or household member. Each user of each communications device may be registered for an available service, such as text messaging over the provider's network. For example, a first user of the landline phone may call an access number (e.g., toll-free number, local access number, and so on) to logon to the provider network, enter a user identification and a password, and then retrieve a converted voice message (i.e., the provider network converts the text message to a voice message) left for that user and have the converted voice message played over the landline phone. Still another example is a home or residential computer that allows multiple users in the home to logon to the subscriber network and access services available for each user as well as access residential services (e.g., access an application that controls home security systems). However, each user may be set up to access selected services for each registered communications device. That is, the user may be able to access video-on-demand services to the home computer, but not access these services on a remote computer (e.g., computer located remotely from the residential address). Further, the actual physical location of the service and the manner in which it operates are transparent to the user.","Referring now to the drawings in which like numerals indicate like elements throughout the several Figures,  illustrates an exemplary environment for operation of embodiments of this invention. The embodiments shown include a residential address , a plurality of residential application services , a communications device  located within the residential address  that interfaces with an application services gateway  and an application programming interface , a first user , a second user , a home network , a residential gateway  interfacing with a plurality of external communications networks, shown as telecommunications network  and data network , and a plurality of external communications devices, shown as a modem  and a computer , another computer , a telephone , a cellular phone , and a personal digital assistant (PDA). The external communications networks ,  communicate with an applications repository server  and a storage server . Further, the telecommunications network  and the data network  may communicate with each other via a connection provided by an Internet Service Provider (ISP), such as America Online, or alternatively, may communicate through a gateway (not shown). Still further, the data network  includes a service database  and a web server having a family home page . Alternatively, the service database  may be located within the telecommunications network , within another communications network, and\/or may be a stand alone component. An embodiment of this invention works to enable the family or household as an organizational unit.","The residential network  communicates with the external communications networks ,  through the residential communications gateway . The residential communications gateway  includes various components to facilitate networking. For example, in an embodiment utilizing a digital subscriber line (DSL) connection, residential communications gateway  may include a DSL modem, firewall software, and\/or a router. The residential communications gateway  also includes wide area networking features to allow a user to access components of the residential network  from outside the home .","According to an exemplary embodiment, the application services gateway  facilitates execution of one or more residential service applications  to the communications device  and also facilitates execution of one or more external service applications available via the service database , the storage server , third-party application providers (not shown), and\/or external communications devices, such as, for example computers and . The applications that execute on the applications services gateway  are available to a communications device that operates both inside the home  (such as communications device ) and that operates from outside the home  (such as computer ). The residential service applications  may include applications that control residential systems, such as, a home security application, an HVAC control application, a lighting control application, an audio distribution application, a multimedia-on-demand application, an appliance application, a lawn and garden management application, a communications application, a transportation vehicle management application, a visual monitoring application, and\/or a pet management application. The external services applications may include a variety of applications, such as, for example services that may be offered by a telecommunications provider of the telecommunications network  (e.g., voice messaging), applications available over the data network, applications running on external communications device, third-party applications (e.g., electronic games, movies, etc.), and\/or applications stored in on offsite services database, such as service database . Some further examples of external service applications include, bur are not limited to applications for an electronic calendar, a voice messaging application, a text messaging application, a video messaging application, a digital communications application, an electronic to-do list, an electronic directory, a word procession application, a spreadsheet application, a presentation application, a medical application, a research application, and a billing application.","The residential communications gateway  of the embodiment shown connects to the telecommunications network  and\/or to the data network . The telecommunications network  may include a telecommunications network such as, for example, a public switched telephone network (PSTN), a mobile switching telephone communications network (MSTO), a satellite communications network, and\/or other networks. For example, in an embodiment in which the telecommunications network  includes a DSL network, the residential communications gateway  may include a DSL modem (not shown) and connect to a digital subscriber line access multiplexer (DSLAM) in a central office (not shown) of the telecommunications network  via a local telephone loop. According to other embodiments, the telecommunications network  may be operated by a regional bell operating company. The telecommunications provider performs various tasks, including downloading applications, updating applications and data, maintaining control programs, and allowing third-party access to services within and\/or services managed or otherwise controlled by the telecommunications network . Still further, the data network  may include a world wide electronic data communications network, such as an Intranet, Internet, and\/or Extranet. And, still in further embodiments, this invention may use a hybrid network, such as if the communications device  is embodied as a Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP) communications device that communicates with both the telecommunications network  and the data network ","Also in communication with the residential network  and the telecommunications network  is a web server  having a family\/household home page and a services database . The web server  responds to requests, such as hypertext transfer protocol (HTTP) requests, with documents, such as hypertext markup language (HTML) documents. Further, the service database  may be an Oracle, Microsoft SQL Server, or other database that stores information necessary to provide services to a user. The web server  may also provide applications executing under a common gateway interface (CGI), Microsoft Active Server Pages (ASP), or other environment. The web server  may include various applications, such as a portal service.","In an exemplary embodiment of this invention, the subscriber may use a variety of means to access services provided by the residential communications gateway , such as using a variety of communications devices , including a POTS phone, a mobile phone, a wireless phone, a WAP phone, a satellite phone, a computer, a modem, a pager, a digital music device, a digital recording device, a personal digital assistant, an interactive television, a digital signal processor, and\/or a Global Positioning System device, to access one or more of the home network , the telecommunications network , the data network , and\/or a third party network. Further, the application programming interface (API)  controls and manages each user's communications with the networks and to available applications. That is, API  controls the available applications to a communications device  for the first user  and controls the available applications to the same communications device  for the second user , so that each user has a personalized residential portal over the residential network , the telecommunications network , the data network , and\/or a third party network.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0041","num":"0040"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":["214","212","105","214","216","162","162","166","168","105","220","105","222","220","210","210","212","220","230","232","234","224","250","224","240","240","105","242","244","110","250","105","242","244","250","242","244","105","260","105","105","104","120"],"i":["a","b"]},"The system memory device (shown as memory subsystem  or peripheral storage device ) may also contain one or more application programs. For example, an application program may cooperate with the operating system and with a video display unit (via graphics subsystem ) to provide a GUI for the Application Programming Interface Module . The GUI typically includes a combination of signals communicating with the graphics subsystem  and\/or the keyboard subsystem . The GUI provides a convenient visual and\/or audible interface with the user of the communications device . As is apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art, the user (e.g., receiving party, calling party, and\/or administrator) interacts with the Application Programming Interface Module  over a variety of mediums, such as, for example, a stylus, keyboard, and punch buttons of the keyboard subsystem , a display screen of the graphics subsystem , and\/or a voice-activated menu prompt of the audio subsystem .","According to exemplary embodiments of this invention, the API Module  includes information needed to customize the availability and access of each user ,  for each associated communications device (e.g., , , , , , and\/or ) for each of the network (e.g., , , ). For example, the subscribing customer may be identified as the primary customer account, and that account is associated with the personal name and\/or other identifiers of the primary customer for the portal service, such as, account number, user code, last name, first name, middle name, and\/or title. Further, the primary customer account specifies the residential network  with the personal residential address information related to the primary account holder for the portal service, such as, street address, other address, city, state, and zip code. Still further, the primary customer billing information includes related billing information for the primary subscriber, such as account number, telephone number, billing strategy, billing amount, and billing date information. For each user other than the primary customer, the API includes personalized information for each user that typically includes the secondary user's name (that may be identified by the primary account holder as an authorized user of the portal, such as a family member), account number, user code, and\/or available services for that user via the portal.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0044","num":"0043"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":["302","304","134","306","308"]},"Alternatively, the subscriber may designate a destination for unauthorized service requests to be redirected. For example, a subscriber may designate certain adult-oriented services as blocked from particular members of the subscriber's family. The subscriber may further designate a page, explaining these limitations, as the destination for requests that the web server determines are not authorized to access the blocked sites. When the members of the family that are not authorized to access the service attempt to access the service, the web server redirects the request to the designated page.","If the subscriber is authorized for the service, the web server creates an entry in the service database for the subscriber, service combination . For example, if a subscriber's child wishes to access a backup service, the web server searches the service database to determine whether the subscriber has put any limits on access to the backup service. If the subscriber has not limited access to the service, and there are no other limitations on who may access the service, the web server creates an entry linking the service with the user so that a link to the service appears on the user's portal page.","Referring again to , the web server next generates an HTML page containing a confirmation of the service addition . The HTML page may contain additional information, including any service usage instructions or other pertinent information. The web server next sends the HTML page to the subscriber , and the process ends .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0048","num":"0047"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":["402","404","406"]},"The web server verifies that the subscriber is authorized to access the personalized page . If the authorization fails, the web server allows two additional attempts . If the three attempts fail, the process ends . If the authorization is successful, the web server retrieves service information for the subscriber from the service database . In an embodiment of this invention, the service information includes a variety of individual data elements. These data elements identify the service type, where the service executes, and additional parameters necessary to provide the service to the subscriber. For example, in one embodiment of this invention, the service database includes a uniform resource locator pointing to a family calendar web site on the web server. In another embodiment, the service database includes a reference to a backup program that is installed on each computer in the home  and is operable for backing up data from the computers to a data storage device associated with the provider network.","The web server utilizes the service information to generate an HTML page, which contains links to the various services available to the user , and more specifically, available to the member of the subscriber's family (e.g., second user) who is currently and\/or simultaneously logged in. The web server then sends the resultant HTML page to the user . The process then ends .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0051","num":"0050"},"figref":"FIG. 5","b":["502","504","506","508"]},"The web server may identify multiple applications to which the user has access. In the embodiment shown, the web server identifies a second application that executes on the web server itself . The web server determines the address (of itself) from the data retrieved from the database  and creates a link to the address on the portal page . The web server then provides the portal to the user via the residential communications gateway .","According to exemplary embodiments of this invention, once the user is presented with the web page containing links to services, the user accesses those services. The services may execute on any of the various available platforms illustrated in . Execution of a service may occur on multiple components and may vary over time. For example, a service for providing the user with a way to organize contacts, including names, addresses, and phone numbers, may include a database and a user interface executing on the application services gateway . Later, the service provider may determine that it is more efficient to save all subscribers' databases of contacts on a database within the telecommunications network  but continue to execute the application programming interface  and the application services gateway  to ensure acceptable response times. The provider can accomplish the movement of the application and corresponding references to the application in a number of ways. For example, the provider can manually change the links on various web pages to point to the relocated database. Alternatively, the service provider may create a database of services, such as service database , which allows the provider to simply make changes to records in the database when the location or operation of a service is changed.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0054","num":"0053"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 6","FIG. 1"],"b":["108","602","604","606","608","610"]},"Exemplary Embodiments of this invention include administrative tools for the service provider. For example, the service provider may use a variety of methods for installing applications within the service provider's network. It may be more difficult to install components within the subscriber's home. In order to perform these installations, the service provider has three basic options: (1) the subscriber and\/or authorized user performs the install; (2) the service provider sends someone to the subscriber's home to perform the install; or (3) the service provider installs the components remotely.  is a flow chart illustrating a method of installing the components remotely in an exemplary embodiment of this invention. In the embodiment shown, the service provider creates packages for distributing the components of a particular service [block }. The term \u201cpackage\u201d is to be defined broadly. For example, a package may comprise a .cab (cabinet) file or some other type of self-extracting file. A package may also comprise information stored in a software distribution product, such as Microsoft's System Management Server (SMS). Software distribution products automate the process of distributing software across both homogeneous and heterogeneous networks.","In the embodiment shown in , the provider next enters service component attributes in the service database [block ]. The residential communications gateway uses these attributes to determine where to direct user requests as illustrated in . Once the package has been created, the service provider distributes the components via a service distribution infrastructure [block ]. The infrastructure includes the automated software distribution system, if present, along with any necessary software and\/or hardware for distributing and installing the components. In the embodiments shown, a user cannot access a service until the service provider authorizes that user. In order to authorize the user to utilize a particular service, the service provider adds a user-service relationship entry to the service database [block ]. The residential communications gateway searches for the user-service entry whenever a user requests a particular service.","In exemplary embodiments of this invention, the provider has numerous opportunities to add value for a subscriber. Consequently, the provider has various options for deriving revenue from the installation, recapturing installation costs, provisioning, and support of the various services. For example, a provider may charge the subscriber a monthly charge for each registered service. The service provider may also charge the subscriber a monthly charge for equipment rental for the residential communications gateway, application services gateway, and other components present in an embodiment. In addition, the service provider may establish a minimum service contract period whereby the subscriber is penalized for an early termination.","In addition, the provider may derive revenue from other sources, such as third-party application and content service providers. If the provider of the network and infrastructure provides a mechanism for subscribers to access a third-party service, the provider may charge the third party for providing the mechanism. The third party, in turn, charges the subscribers for accessing the service.","While several exemplary implementations of embodiments of this invention are described herein, various modifications and alternate embodiments will occur to those of ordinary skill in the art. For example, the next generation \u201csoftswitch\u201d in the telecommunications industry simply replaces a service control point (SCP) with an \u201capplication server.\u201d This application server is a conventional computer server that also includes triggers for telecommunications services so that \u201cnew entrants\u201d into telecommunications services (e.g., new telecommunications service providers) don't have to purchase expensive hardware and equipment to process telephone communications. This next-generation packet network represents an alternative operating environment for the systems, methods, programs, and apparatuses of this invention. Here the telecommunications switch includes a packet-based \u201csoftswitch.\u201d This \u201csoftswitch\u201d uses software control to provide voice, data, and video services by dynamically changing its connection data rates and protocols types. An application server interfaces with the \u201csoftswitch\u201d via a packet protocol, such as Session Initiation Protocol (SIP). This application server includes voice service protocols, triggers, and operations that allow the residential network , the telecommunications network , and\/or the data network  to interoperate. Accordingly, this invention is intended to include those other variations, modifications, and alternate embodiments that adhere to the spirit and scope of this invention."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE FIGURES","p":["The above and other embodiments, objects, uses, advantages, and novel features of this invention are more clearly understood by reference to the following description taken in connection with the accompanying figures, wherein:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":"FIG. 7"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
