---
title: Service and method for providing a single point of access for multiple providers' video and audio content
abstract: A method that uses a computer network to provide a single point of access between a plurality of video & audio devices and a plurality of video & audio content provider systems. The present invention is a method for providing a searchable, aggregated directory view of available video & audio content from multiple content providers as well as additional services such as content renting. The present invention includes a method for identifying users as subscribers of content providers' memberships.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07925593&OS=07925593&RS=07925593
owner: 
number: 07925593
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20090528
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS","COPYRIGHT NOTICE\/PERMISSION","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","BRIEF SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION"],"p":["This is a continuation application and claims priority to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10\/831,836, filed Apr. 26, 2004 now U.S. Pat. No. 7,555,465, and entitled \u201cService and Method for Providing a Single Point of Access for Multiple Providers' Video and Audio Content,\u201d the contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.","A portion of the disclosure of this patent document contains material, which is subject to copyright protection. The copyright owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction by anyone of the patent document or the patent disclosure, as it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office patent files or records, but otherwise reserves all copyright rights whatsoever. The following notice applies to the software and data as described below and in the drawings hereto: Copyright 2004, Robert Steven Davidson, All Rights Reserved.","Video-On-Demand (VOD) movies and programs, as well as Internet Radio and audio programs have become widely available on today's Internet. Dozens, if not hundreds, of web sites offer streaming\/downloadable movies and television programs, radio programs, etc. (collectively referred to as content). These web sites allow people to access this content from their computers and download or stream the content, such that it can be viewed or listen to. The popularity of these sites will continue to grow as home broadband Internet access increases and as this content can be viewed or listened to from people's home entertainment systems.","One of the drawbacks of these sites is that people must go to each web site and search the site to determine if the particular content is available. This can be time consuming and frustrating. Another drawback is that each these sites requires a computer to access the programs and shows. These sites only provide access to devices that support the web site (or HTML) interface. The invention will allow people to find content from many different web sites as well as be able to access this content from devices attached to their home entertainment systems as well as from their computers.","Some devices have been created to access video-on-demand content that has been downloaded to their personal computer. Unfortunately, due to lack of standards in video & audio file formats, delivery mechanisms, and content security, many of these devices cannot access the content from the current video-on-demand web sites. This invention will help the devices locate content which they can support.","In addition to web sites, cable companies also offer video-on-demand. Unfortunately, this version of video-on-demand has several drawbacks. For one, only the content provided by the cable company is available. Secondly, at present time, this content is very limited, totally only 500 to 600 hours. This invention will greatly expand the content available to an individual as well as release the individual from the constraint of only accessing content from a single provider.","Some video\/audio device companies will naturally desire to connect with some of the content providers. This invention will provide a single communications protocol for joining many devices to many content providers.","The present invention is a method for providing a searchable, aggregated directory view of available video & audio content from multiple content providers as well as additional services such as content access and renting. Audio and video player devices connect via a network using a specific application programming interface (API) to a Service that provides the content directory view, the content access and renting service, as well as other services. Multiple content providers connect to the same Service via a network using a specific API to expose their available content and to provide their content access and renting service, as well as other services. People use the user interface (UI) on audio and video player devices to search for content and to access and play the content. People use their provider-specific membership credentials to access the content from the specific provider.","The present invention is primarily a method that defines a mechanism for exposing a single directory of available shows and programs (collectively referred to as content), including additional services, available from a plurality of content providers, to a plurality of video & audio (player) devices. The present invention's service sits in the middle of these devices and content providers' systems.","As shown in , player devices  communicate with the present invention's service  via an application programming interface (device API) . The service  communicates with content providers' systems  via an API (provider API) . Once a player device  has permission to access a piece of content from a specific content provider, the player device  communicates directly with the content provider's system  using a protocol for video or audio streaming or downloading .","For the purposes of the present invention, \u201ccontent\u201d, \u201cshows\u201d, and \u201cprograms\u201d refer to any video or audio performance including, but not limited to, movies, television shows, music, radio programs, advertisements\/commercials, movie trailers, live events, etc.","For the purposes of the present invention, \u201ccontent format\u201d is used as a generic term to refer to the specific data format used to encode content, and in some cases the delivery mechanism for the content. Content providers will offer a specific piece of content in one or more content formats. Player devices  will have the ability to play content in specific content formats. Content formats are used to match which player devices  can play which content. Examples of content format would be MPEG2, MPGE4, QuickTime, and Windows Media, or in cases of streaming media, possibly RTSP (real-time streaming protocol). Content format may also be used to define video resolution of the content, such as 480i, 720p, 1080i, etc.","\u201cPlayer devices\u201d  and \u201cVideo & audio devices\u201d are any device capable of audio and\/or video playback. For video playback, these player devices  would have a video screen (such as a television or a computer monitor or even a display as found on a personal digital assistant and a laptop computer). For audio playback, these player devices  would have sound speakers. Additionally, these player devices  would have the means to support a user-interface, such a shown in .","Examples of these player devices  include, but is not limited to, cable set-top boxes, computers, gaming consoles (PlayStation2, Xbox, etc.), DVD players, Digital Video Recorders (TiVo, etc.), and other specialize devices (PRIMISIQ, etc.).","These player devices  may consist of more than one physical or logic device.  shows 3 possible examples, although many more exist. Example 1 is an example of how a computer, a set-top box, and a television work together to provide the single, logical player device . For example, the computer could provide the user interface and the device API  components for interacting with the service  while the set-top box and television perform the actual audio and\/or video playback. Example 2 is an example of how a set-top box and television could provide all the necessary components of the player device  without the aide of a computer. Example 3 is an example of how a set-top box may incorporate thin-client functionality, such as supporting Internet web browser capabilities like HTML and JavaScript, while a computer server is providing the user interface logic and the device API  components. Together the set-top box, television and computer server create the logical player device . An individual trained in the art could create additional player devices  without departing from the spirit and scope of this invention.","The service  consists of one or more computers in a system that contains a computer software program that implements device API  for communicating with player devices  and that contains a computer software program that implements provider API  for communicating with content providers' systems . Both of these computer software programs may be implemented separately or may be implemented in a single computer software program that performs two tasks. This system would have the appropriate mechanisms for sending a receiving data over a network. While the present invention does not require use of a database for the service , someone trained in the art could incorporate a database for various reasons. Some reasons, but certainly not all reasons, might be for better performance and efficiency, to track various data about the service  and the use of the service , and possibly to provide additional services and functionality to the player device .","\u201cContent providers\u201d, or simply \u201cproviders\u201d, are entities that offer content. They may offer the content anonymously or possibly via a membership. The content may be free of charge or provided for a cost. \u201cMembership credentials\u201d are the data used by content providers to identify users for non-anonymous access. Each user would have unique membership credentials at a content provider. Examples of membership credentials would be user names, passwords, email addresses, etc.","Content providers' systems  consists of one or more computer systems per content provider that contains a computer software program that implements provider API  for communicating with the service  and that contains a computer software program that implements video\/audio streaming\/downloading . These systems would have the appropriate mechanisms for sending a receiving data over a network. These systems would have access to a permanent storage mechanism for storing and retrieving content. In some cases, an intermediate service may be incorporated to provide translation to and from Provider API  to another service access point from the content provider. For example, an intermediate service may convert Provider API  into a series of HTTP\/HTML requests for accessing content provider via their public Internet web site. This intermediate service may exist on another entity's system or may exist as part of content provider's system . These components together constitute the content provider's system .","An application programming interface (API) refers to a mechanism for communicating a specific set of actions and data between two entities. Data communicated in this API is in a format that both entities understand. Some examples of this data format include XML, comma-delimited, or binary format. In cases where the two entities exist on different systems, or possibly exist in different processes within the same system, a mechanism would be required to pass the data across a network. Some examples of this mechanism include TCP\/IP, NetBOIS, Serial, etc. This mechanism can be enhanced by using additional services such as HTTP or SOAP. In cases where to the two entities exist in the same system, implementation of this API would not require a network mechanism, although it could be used. An individual trained in art could implement this API using a variety of different techniques. Some of these include inter-process communications, such as DCOM or RPC, or even intra-process communication, such as software function calls.","Device API  is an API where player devices  understand how to instruct the service  to perform specific tasks related to this invention.","Provider API  is an API where the service  understands how to instruct content providers' systems  to perform specific tasks related to this invention. Device API  is different that provider API .","Video\/audio streaming\/downloading  is a mechanism to download or stream content from one device to another device. Downloading refers to receiving and storing content on the receiving device such that it may be accessed at a later time. Streaming refers to receiving content that would not be stored for later access. Some examples of an exiting mechanism for downloading include HTTP and FTP. An example of an existing mechanism for streaming includes RTSP (real-time streaming protocol). Future mechanisms for content access may be devised but are independent of the present invention.","As an example of the present invention, consider a set-top box connected to a television, as shown in Example 2 in , as a player device . On the player device , the user would be prompted with a list of options , as shown in . One of the options would be the ability to search for available content by specifying various search parameters and filter criteria , as shown in . The result of the search would display the matching content available  from a plurality of content providers, as shown in . The user could then select a particular content. If the content was available from multiple content providers, the user could select the desired provider , as shown in . Once a particular content is selected, the user could be shown the more details about the content , as shown in . There would be an option to rent the show , also shown in . Renting may involve a single, one time cost, or possibly renting could be available as part of a subscription plan from the content provider. For purposes of the present invention, the term \u201crenting\u201d includes any access to content, including free, anonymous access.","Once the content is rented, the player device  downloads or streams the content. As shown in , for video content, the player device  displays it  on its video display. For audio content, the player device  plays it though is sound speakers. The player device  could have VCR-like controls, such as fast-forward, rewind, pause, etc. .","At a later point, as shown in , the user could return and see a list of content that had been rented . The user could select a particular content for watching or listening. Rented content may also have an activation or expiration period. An activation period defines when a rented content may first be viewed or listened to. It may be that a user can rent a show before its activation period. An expiration period defines when a rented contact can not longer be viewed or listened to.","Some content providers after free, anonymous access to their content. Other content providers require registration into their membership before their content can be accessed. The first time a user rents content from a content provider where membership access is required, the user would be prompted for their membership credentials , as shown in . If the user does not have a membership with the content provider, the user could be prompted to open a new membership.","Behind the scenes, communications between various computer systems and devices are happening. As shown in , when the player device  is instructed by the user to search for content (step ), the player device  sends a Player Search Content Request  to the service  (steps  and ). The service  in turn loops through each content provider in the search request and sends a Provider Search Content Request  to each content provider's system  (steps , , and ). Each content provider's system  searches local storage based on the search criteria and responds with a Provider Search Content Response  (steps  and ). As each Provider Search Content Response  is received from content providers' systems , the service  aggregates the results into a single list of content (step ) and returns the content list in the Player Search Content Response  (step ) to the player device . Finally, player device  displays the content list to the user (step ). Player Search Content Request  and Player Search Content Response  are a subset of the Device API . Provider Search Content Request  and Provider Search Content Response  are a subset of the Provider API .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0051","num":"0050"},"figref":["FIG. 12","FIG. 11","FIG. 12"],"b":["210","211","210","214","215","215","216","217","215","216","217","218","101","218","214","211","219","219","220","221","222","223","216","217","103","226","215","102","224","218","218","225","225","227","219","226"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0052","num":"0051"},"figref":["FIG. 13","FIG. 11","FIG. 13"],"b":["212","213","212","228","216","217","210","216","217","218","215","213","229","229","229","103","219","226","229"]},"The above description is an example of real-time aggregation of multiple content providers' content. An alternative approach would be a design where the service  requests the complete content list from each content provider's system  on a periodic schedule and stores the results locally, perhaps in a database. Then, when a player device  makes a Player Search Content Request, the service  compiles the results from the locally stored content list.  are examples of such a design. As shown in , on a periodic basis, the service  would loop through each content provider (step ) and send a Provider Content List Request  to content provider's system  (steps  and ). As each Provider Content List Response  is received from content provider's system  (steps  and ), the service  would save the content list in local storage (step ). As shown in , when the player device  is instructed by the user to search for content (step ), the player device  sends a Player Search Content Request  to the service  (steps  and ). The service  in turn searches local storage based on the search criteria, aggregates content from multiple content providers (step ), and responds with a Player Search Content Response  (step ). Finally, player device  displays the content list to the user (step ). While the Player Search Content Request  and the Player Search Content Response  shown in  are the same data as illustrated in , the Provider Content List Request  and the Provider Content List Response  shown in  are variations of the Provider Search Content Request  and the Provider Search Content Response .  illustrates this data. Since all content from provider will be returned, the Provider Content List Request  contains no data elements. The Provider Content List Response  is very similar the Provider Search Content Response . Both contain the same Content Detail  data element, which is a container element that encapsulates the various data elements of a single piece of content. The difference is that Provider Content List Response  returns all available content while the Provider Search Content Response  only returns content matching the search and filter criteria.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0054","num":"0053"},"figref":["FIGS. 11","FIGS. 14","FIG. 17","FIG. 5","FIG. 18"],"b":["12","13","15","16","232","219","233","235","215","224","234","236","219","226"]},"The Search Criteria  data element in the Player Search Content Request , as shown in , may contain some data elements that have a specific range of possible values. The Provider ID  data element, the Category ID  data element, and the Rating ID  data element are examples of this. The player device  needs to understand these ranges of values so that it can properly populate the Search Criteria  data element. To solve this problem, the System Data Request  and System Data Response , as illustrated in , allows the player device  retrieve these ranges of values from the service . System Data Request  requires no data elements. System Data Response  contains the complete list of content providers, contained in the repeating Provider  data element, the complete list of content categories, contained in the repeating Category  data element, and the complete list of content ratings, contained in the repeating Rating  data element. Please note that  only shows a subset of the possible values and that these lists may change over time. When the player device  needs to populate the Provider ID  data element in the Search Criteria  data element, it would use the Provider ID  data elements from one or more of the Provider  data elements. The same would be true such that the Category ID  and Rating ID  data elements in the Search Criteria  data element would be populated from the same data elements in the Category  and Rating  data elements, respectively.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0056","num":"0055"},"figref":"FIG. 20","b":["237","238","101","24","237","102","25","102","26","238","101","27","101","28","237","238","104"]},"If needed, the System Data Response  could be expanded to include additional data to be provided to the player device . Finally, the player device  would use the data in the System Data Response  to display these items in the user interface, as illustrated in .","For content providers that allow for free, anonymous access to their content, no additional API calls would be necessary. For example, the Content Detail  data element from  could be expanded to include additional data fields as required for video\/audio streaming or down loading .","For content providers that require membership access to their content, additional API calls might be necessary. As shown in , when the player device  is instructed by the user to rent a particular content (step ), the player device  sends a Player Rent Content Request  to the service  (steps  and ). The service  in turn sends a Provider Rent Content Request  to specified content provider's system  (steps  and ). Content provider's system  authorizes the user and processes the rent request (step ) then returns an authorization with a Provider Rent Content Response  (steps  and ). The service  then returns the Player Rent Content Response  (steps  and ) to the player device . Finally, player device  begins downloading\/streaming of content (step ). Player Rent Content Request  and Player Rent Content Response  are a subset of the Device API . Provider Rent Content Request  and Provider Rent Content Response  are a subset of the Provider API .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0060","num":"0059"},"figref":["FIG. 22","FIG. 21","FIG. 12","FIG. 22","FIG. 12","FIG. 10"],"b":["242","243","244","245","242","215","224","218","226","211","218","226","101","246","209","243","247","248","106","243","102","242","215","242","244","245","103","243"]},"The above example illustrates a method of renting where the user has a membership at the content provider. There are additional methods of renting that could be implemented. For example, perhaps content providers allow non-membership renting which includes payment via a credit card or some other payment mechanism. In this case, the Membership Credentials  data element could be replace with a data element that contain payment information, such as Credit Card Number, Credit Card Expiration date, Name on Credit Card, etc.","For users who do not have a membership with a particular content provider, device API  and provider API  could be enhanced to support new membership sign-ups. The player device  could prompt the user for required data. Once the data is collected, the player device  could submit a device API  enrollment request to the service , which in turn would submit a player API  enrollment request to content provider's system .","The figures and descriptions above containing the Content ID  data element, illustrate a method where the content provider defines the Content ID  data element. In another embodiment where content is cache to local storage within the service , as illustrated in , a unique Content ID could be assigned to each content, independent of which content providers provided the content. In , the Player Search Content Response  could be changed such that the Content ID  data element could be removed from the Content Provider  data element and added to the Content Detail  data element. Then, the Content ID  data element in the Player Rent Content Request , from , would be the Content ID as assigned by the service . Finally, when the service  is fulfilling a Player Rent Content Request , it would need to translate the Content ID  data element into the provider specific Content ID  in the Provider Rent Content Request .","The described embodiments of the invention are only considered to be preferred and illustrative of the inventive concept, the scope of the invention is not to be restricted to such embodiments. Various and numerous other arrangements may be devised by one skilled in the art without departing from the spirit and scope of this invention.","It is therefore intended by the appended claims to cover any and all such applications, modifications and embodiments within the scope of the present invention."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE SEVERAL VIEWS OF THE DRAWING","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 11"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 12"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 13"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 14"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 15"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 16"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":"FIG. 17"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":"FIG. 18"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIG. 19"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":"FIG. 20"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":"FIG. 21"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":"FIG. 22"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
