---
title: Direct synthesis of magnesium borohydride
abstract: A method is disclosed for directly preparing an alkaline earth metal borohydride, i.e. Mg(BH), from the alkaline earth metal boride MgBby hydrogenating the MgBat an elevated temperature and pressure. The boride may also be doped with small amounts of a metal chloride catalyst such as TiCland/or NiCl. The process provides for charging MgBwith high pressure hydrogen above at least 70 MPa while simultaneously heating the material to about 350° C. to about 400° C. The method is relatively simple and inexpensive and provides a reversible hydride compound having a hydrogen capacity of at least 11 wt %.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08147788&OS=08147788&RS=08147788
owner: Sandia Corporation
number: 08147788
owner_city: Livermore
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20090903
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS","STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENT INTEREST","PARTIES TO A JOINT RESEARCH AGREEMENT","TECHNICAL FIELD","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE EMBODIMENTS OF THE INVENTION","EXAMPLE"],"p":["This application is a continuation-in-part of prior U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11\/807,012 originally filed May 24, 2007 now U.S. Pat. No. 7,608,233 entitled \u201cDirect Synthesis of Calcium Borohydride\u201d from which benefit is claimed.","The United States Government has rights in this invention pursuant to Contract No. DE-AC04-94AL85000 between the United States Department of Energy and Sandia Corporation, for the operation of the Sandia National Laboratories.","The invention claimed herein was made as a result of activities undertaken within the scope of a joint research agreement initiated by the U.S. Department of Energy to establish a Metal Hydride Center of Excellence by and between Sandia National Laboratories and several other partners on Oct. 1, 2004 including Brookhaven National Laboratory (BNL); California Institute of Technology; Carnegie Mellon University; General Electric\u2014Global Research: HRL, LLC; Internatix Corporation; the Jet Propulsion Laboratory (JPL); the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST); Oak Ridge National Laboratory (ORNL); Savannah River National Laboratory (SRNL); Stanford University; the University of Hawaii; the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign; the University of Nevada, Reno; the University of Pittsburgh; and the University of Utah.","This invention relates to a method of directly synthesizing an alkaline earth metal borohydride compound. More particularly, this present invention relates to a method for directly producing magnesium borohydride.","As the cost of energy continues to soar, increasing interest is directed toward the development of new sources of fuels. The continuing and ever increasing consumption of fossil resources is of particular concern due both to the consequences of increased global demand for dwindling reserves of easily obtained petroleum oil and the continuing and growing threat of global warming. In particular, the amount of petroleum oil refined and burned as gasoline in order to fuel automobiles in this country and the amount of natural gas, coal and petroleum fuel for central electric power-generating stations continues to increase with no end in sight. An alternative fuel for either or both of these applications is especially desired in view of the amounts of resources consumed and the amount of greenhouse gases generated annually as a result of converting these fuels into energy through combustion.","One possible and very attractive alternative fuel is hydrogen since it produces only water vapor as a byproduct when burned. However, storage of hydrogen for automotive applications is problematic. Storage of hydrogen as a metal hydride has been extensively investigated for at least the last 40 years. Unfortunately, because of thermodynamic and kinetic constraints, the essential properties needed for a hydride storage material (high hydrogen capacity, low reaction enthalpy, reversibility and low desorption temperature) are very difficult to satisfy simultaneously.","Simple binary hydride compounds, such magnesium hydride (MgH), have shown promise in that it exhibits good hydrogen reversibility, fast reaction kinetics, and a relatively high hydrogen capacity (7.6 wt %). Unfortunately, MgHreaches a hydrogen equilibrium pressure of 1 bar at a temperature of 300\u00b0 C., a temperature well above what is believed to be an operating temperature upper limit of about 120\u00b0 C. for automobile applications.","In order to overcome this shortcoming, several complex metal hydride compounds have been investigated such as alanates and borohydride compounds, particularly calcium borohydride, as disclosed in commonly owned and co-pending U.S. application Ser. No. 11\/807,012. Also of interest is magnesium borohydride. This application describes a new direct solid state route to synthesize Mg(BH)from MgB.","Recently, it was shown that it is possible to prepare calcium borohydride by a new solid-state synthesis route, i.e., CaB(s)+2CaH(s)+10H(g)\u21923Ca(BH)(s) and that addition of a dopant is necessary for formation of this compound (cf. E. R\u00f6nnebro, E. Majzoub, \u201cCalcium Borohydride for Hydrogen Storage: Catalysis and Reversibility\u201d, 2007, v. 111: pp. 12045; U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11\/807,012 filed May 24, 2007, both herein incorporated by reference). What is unique with the present approach is that the starting materials are decomposition products upon release of hydrogen when the material is heated, thus this reaction implies a high-capacity reversible hydrogen storage system. It has recently been shown that Mg(BH)decomposes through a series of intermediated species (see Son-Jong Hwang, Robert C. Bowman, Jr., Joseph W. Reiter, Job Rijssenbeek, Grigorii L. Soloveichik, Ji-Cheng Zhao, Houria Kabbour, and Channing C. Ahn, 2008, v. 112(9): pp. 3164-3169), until all hydrogen is released to form MgB, i.e.,\n\n6Mg(BH)\u21925MgH+Mg(BH)+13H\u2191\u2003\u2003(1)\n\n5MgH+Mg(BH)\u21925Mg+5H\u2191+Mg(BH)\u2003\u2003(2)\n\n5Mg+Mg(BH)\u21926MgB+6H\u2191\u2003\u2003(3)\n\nThus we are here preparing Mg(BH)from its decomposition product in order to show feasibility for application as a reversible storage material with a capacity of 14 wt % hydrogen.\n","Another direct synthesis route of Mg(BH)from magnesium, boron and hydrogen at 923K and 15 MPa of hydrogen was reported by Goerrig (cf. German Patent DE 1,077,644, Dec. 27, 1958).","In an embodiment of the present invention, there is provided a process for direct synthesis of magnesium borohydride.","Therefore, in accordance with one aspect of the invention there is provided a method of producing magnesium borohydride from MgBby high pressure hydrogenation.","In another aspect of this invention, there is provided a method for preparing magnesium borohydride, wherein the step of high pressure hydrogenation comprises high pressure hydrogenation of compacted powders at an elevated temperature.","In a further aspect of this invention, the first step of the method is performed with dry powders, i.e. without a solvent or any other suspension aid. The method is further accomplished by optionally subjecting the reagent materials to a milling means in a dry, inert atmosphere such as argon in order to reduce the materials to a powdered form.","In still another aspect of the invention, the milled powders may be optionally compacted into one or more pressed pellets.","In yet another aspect of the invention, the milled powders are subjected to high pressure hydrogen gas between about 700 bars (70 MPa) to about 1000 bars (100 MPa) at a temperature of about 350\u00b0 C. to about 400\u00b0 C.","Both the foregoing general description and the following detailed description are exemplary and explanatory only and are intended to provide further explanation of the invention as claimed. Further features and advantages of the present invention, as well as the structure and operation of various embodiments of the present invention, are described in detail below with reference to the accompanying drawings.","This disclosure describes a new direct solid state route to synthesize Mg(BH)from a sample of MgBaccording to the reaction formula below:\n\nMgB()+4H()\u2192Mg(BH)().\n\nWhat is unique with the present approach, however, is that the starting materials are the decomposition products upon release of hydrogen when the synthesized material is again heated. Thus this reaction implies a high-capacity reversible hydrogen storage system.\n","It has recently been shown that Mg(BH)decomposes through a series of intermediated species until all hydrogen is released to form MgB(see Hwang, et al., op. cit. 2008, v. 112(9): pp. 3164-3169). We are here preparing Mg(BH)from its decomposition product in order to show feasibility for application as a reversible storage material with a capacity of 14 wt % hydrogen.","In an initial embodiment of the invention, the synthesis of magnesium borohydride comprised mixing powders of a simple alkaline earth boride (e.g. MgB) with a small amount of a metal chloride compound (typically TiCl, NiCl, or a mixture thereof) which is then ball milled under an inert atmosphere at or near room temperature.","However, we have since found that neither the catalyzing agent nor the milling process is necessary to the formation of the borohydride. That is, the presence of the catalyst does not improve the yield of borohydride that is formed during hydrogenation and that milling is redundant if the starting material is available as a powder. Furthermore, the magnesium boride powder is compacted and formed into pellets as a handling convenience only but is otherwise not necessary.","As noted, the powder was placed in a mold assembly at or near room temperature under a high purity atmosphere in an argon filled glove box and pressed into pellet for handling convenience. The pressed pellets were then transferred to a commercial autoclave-type vessel and exposed to high purity (99.999%) hydrogen gas pressurized to several hundred bar and the vessel externally heated. Pressure measurements were taken using a calibrated pressure transducer for the absorption half-cycle and\/or a calibrated capacitance manometer for the desorption half-cycle. Data was recorded with a computer","By way of example, a small amount of MgB(\u02dc0.1 mol) powder was transferred into a stainless steel punch-and-die assembly and formed into pellets to provide a convenient means for handling the material. A CARVER LABORATORY PRESS\u00ae (obtained from Carver Inc., Wabash, Ind. 46992) was used to compact the powder but any similar bench-type hydraulic press, having a gauge clamping-force of about 1 ton would be equally effective.","Once formed, the pellets were then placed into an AE\u00ae Closure Pressure Vessel (manufactured by the AUTOCLAVE ENGINEERS\u00ae Fluid Component Division of SNAP-TITE\u00ae, Inc., Erie, Pa. 16509) having an internal volume of about 100 cm. The vessel was sealed, backfilled with high purity (99.999%) hydrogen gas and initially pressurized to 400 bar (40 MPa) and then heated to 350\u00b0 C., or preferably 400\u00b0 C., to initiate the desired reaction. When the reaction temperature was reached the hydrogen pressure was further raised to either 700 bar (70 MPa) or 900 bar (90 MPa) and thereafter maintained at these conditions for 108 hours before cooling under pressure.","Pressure measurements were taken by using a calibrated pressure transducer for the absorption half-cycle and a calibrated BARATRON\u00ae-type capacitance manometer for the desorption half-cycle. Data was recorded with a computer.","After cooling down, the initially dark brown pellets were partially transformed to a white crystalline product. Rietveld analysis of x-ray data utilizing the program FullProf (available at http:\/\/www.ill.eu\/sites\/fullprof\/php\/downloads.html) indicates that about 75% is \u03b2-Mg(BH), and about 15% is unreacted MgBplus a small amount of MgO, suggesting that nearly complete hydrogenation has been achieved. The formation of the high temperature phase is in accordance with thermodynamic considerations since the synthesis temperatures are above the 190\u00b0 C. \u03b1-\u03b2 phase transition point and once \u03b2-Mg(BH)is formed it is stable and does not revert to \u03b1-Mg(BH)when the temperature is lower.","Differential scanning calorimetry (DSC), thermal gravimetric analysis (TGA) and Fourier transform infrared (FT-IR) spectroscopy were utilized to further identify the reaction products by providing information on phase transitions and weight loss, and absorption bands. These studies provided initial information on phase transitions and weight loss, the latter most likely associated with the release of hydrogen upon decomposition.","As seen in  the TGA\/DSC spectrum was obtained in the 25\u00b0 C.-500\u00b0 C. temperature range using a heating rate of 10\u00b0 C. minand an argon flow rate of 20 ml hour. The spectrum is nearly identical to that obtained for an authentic sample of Mg(BH)thus confirming that it was the major product of the hydrogenation. Moreover, the FT-IR spectra of the product mixture shown in  matches characteristic absorptions previously observed for Mg(BH): BHbending modes at 1120 cmand 1260 cm; B\u2014H stretch modes at 2280 cmand 2380 cm; and the peak at 1381 cmthat has been assigned to Mg\u2014H. Additional small features were observed at 1660 cmand 2500-2650 cmwhich we attributed to the presence of small amounts of boranes. It should be noted that the features of the DSC and TGA curves are quite similar to that which Chlopek, et at (op. cit. 2007, v. 17(33): pp. 3496-3503) have reported for Mg(BH).","Previous studies of the hydrogenation of MgBat lower pressures have shown that the major product of the reaction is amorphous MgBHthat is not detected by x-ray analysis. However, MgBHwas found to be readily observed by B magic angle spinning-nuclear magnetic resonance (MAS-NMR) spectroscopy. Thus it was essential to analyze the product mixture from the high pressure hydrogenation by B MAS-NMR. As is shown in , only one major boron-containing product is observed.","In order to confirm the high levels of conversion of MgBto Mg(BH)that were indicated by the NMR analysis, we monitored the dehydrogenation of several samples of the product using an automated thermal volumetric analyzer (Sievert's type apparatus). The observed dehydrogenation profiles closely match those that have been reported for Mg(BH). We found that heating through the 280\u00b0 C.-530\u00b0 C. temperature range results in the release of 12.8 wt % hydrogen which confirms that >85% levels of hydrogenation are achieved by the high pressure method.","Attempts were made to lower the temperature required for the hydrogenation reaction through catalytic enhancement. However, no change was observed for samples of MgBmechanically milled and doped with 2 mol % of a variety of additives including NiCl, RuCl, Pd, FeCl, and CuCland TiCl.","In summary, we have for the first time, demonstrated the full reversible hydrogenation of MgBto Mg(BH). Thus Mg(BH)stands as an extremely rare example of a material that releases >12 wt % hydrogen upon heating and can be regenerated through direct hydrogenation. It is not clear at this point if the high-pressure reaction pathway is the same as the low-pressure reaction pathway. The minor amount of MgBHthat was detected in the current example could represent either a small amount of an un-reacted intermediate in the reaction pathway that predominates at high pressures or a minor side product resulting from the competing, standard low-pressure pathway. However, our results point to the plausibility of a reaction pathway for reversible dehydrogenation of borohydrides that avoid the kinetic pitfalls presented by intermediates such as (BH) thus opening the door to potential hydrogen storage applications.","Therefore, a new method for the preparation of magnesium borohydride has been demonstrated. To the extent necessary to understand or complete the disclosure of the present embodiment of the invention, all publications, patents, and patent applications mentioned herein are expressly incorporated by reference therein to the same extent as though each were individually so incorporated.","Having thus described exemplary embodiments of the present invention, it should be noted by those skilled in the art that the disclosures herein are exemplary only and that various other alternatives, adaptations, and modifications may be made within the scope of the present invention. Accordingly, the present invention is not limited to the specific embodiments as illustrated herein, but is only limited by the following claims."],"GOVINT":[{},{}],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The accompanying drawings, which are incorporated into and form a part of the specification, illustrate one or more embodiments of the present invention and, together with the description, serve to explain the principles of the invention. The drawings are only for the purpose of illustrating one or more preferred embodiments of the invention and are not to be construed as limiting the invention.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 1","sub":["2 ","4","2"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 2","sub":["4","2 ","4","2 ","2 "]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 3A","sup":["11","11"],"sub":["2 ","4","2"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":["FIG. 3B","FIG. 3A"],"sup":"11","sub":["4","2 ","12","12"]}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
