---
title: Devices, systems, and methods for monitoring driver and vehicle behavior
abstract: Systems, devices, and techniques for remotely tracking vehicle and driver behavior. Embodiments may include an on-board vehicle monitoring device, comprising an interface device and a gateway device. The interface device may include receiving information from a diagnostic system of a vehicle. The gateway device may collect a set of vehicle operating data corresponding to a driver or vehicle behavior. The set of vehicle operating data may comprise at least some of the information from the diagnostic system of the vehicle. A host computer may have instructions for compiling driver behavior data, based at least in part on analysis of received vehicle operating data. The instructions may also include instructions for providing a user interface; and instructions for causing the user interface to display, for a user, information corresponding to the compiled driver behavior data.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08700255&OS=08700255&RS=08700255
owner: Trimble Navigation Limited
number: 08700255
owner_city: Sunnyvale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20091007
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS-REFERENCES TO RELATED APPLICATIONS","FIELD","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","BRIEF SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION"],"p":["This application is a non-provisional of and claims the benefit of Provisional U.S. Patent Application No. 61\/103,653, entitled \u201cMonitoring Driver Behavior\u201d filed on Oct. 8, 2008, the entire disclosure of which is herein incorporated by reference.","The present disclosure relates, in general, to devices, systems, and methods for monitoring vehicle and driver behavior. More particularly, the present disclosure relates to devices, systems, and methods for transmitting and compiling various driver behavior, vehicle behavior, and diagnostic data.","In many businesses, fleets of vehicles are maintained to make deliveries, provide transportation, pickup supplies and\/or customers, and perform countless other activities. Businesses and\/or organizations may maintain fleets of vehicles, ranging from one to thousands, to accomplish these tasks. Monitoring the whereabouts and use of all of these vehicles often presents problems: a driver may misuse a vehicle (such as for personal errands), a driver may take the vehicle at unauthorized times, a driver may take meandering routes (by mistake or on purpose in order to delay or avoid reaching the destination), and\/or a driver may make an unauthorized stop for recreation and\/or sleep.","Beyond these improper uses, drivers, while performing business-related or personal-related operation of the vehicle, may exhibit widely varying driving styles. Some drivers may tend toward cautious driving, such as maintaining a safe distance between their vehicles and the vehicles in front, braking gently, and not accelerating overly quickly. Conversely, some drivers may tend toward more dangerous driving behavior, such as: sudden stops, cutting into traffic, sudden acceleration, exceeding the speed limit, and tailgating. Further, such driving is expensive in terms of wear on the vehicle and excessive fuel use. For example, if a driver tends to accelerate quickly, fuel efficiency may decrease. As another example, if a driver applies the brakes too often, or for too long of a period of time, the brake pads, drums, and\/or discs may wear out prematurely. Such driving behavior may also increase the likelihood of an accident, especially accidents that are primarily the fault of the driver. Such accidents are dangerous, are time-consuming, may result in destroyed goods or injured customers, and are expensive to resolve.","Fleet operators have a preference for safe drivers for many reasons, each which have reduced cost as an end result: less litigation relating to vehicular accidents, reduced fuel use, reduced vehicle maintenance, reduced driver downtime, longer vehicle life, to name only a few examples. Therefore, it would be advantageous for fleet operators to be able to encourage positive driving characteristics and behaviors in their drivers.","A possible way of encouraging positive driving characteristics and behaviors in drivers is through increased driver monitoring, possibly with incentives provided to drivers for efficient and safe driving (or punishment for inefficient and dangerous driving). Accordingly, there is a need in the art for tools and techniques that allow for increased monitoring and metrics to be gathered on driver and vehicle operation.","A set of embodiments provides solutions (including without limitation, devices, systems, methods, software programs, and the like) for monitoring vehicle and driver behavior. Such solutions may include an on-board vehicle monitoring device (\u201cOBVMD\u201d) located on a vehicle capable of collecting vehicle and driver data from the vehicle's diagnostic system. The OBVMD may also collect vehicle and driver data from subsystems, such as a global navigation satellite system receiver, a proximity sensor, and\/or accelerometer. Some or all of the collected vehicle and driver data may be transmitted, via a wireless network, to a host computer system. The host computer system may receive vehicle and driver data from a plurality of vehicles. The driver and vehicle data may be compiled to create statistics for the vehicles and\/or the vehicle driver's. The statistics may be compared to benchmarks, or other data about other drivers, and\/or other vehicles. Further, via the host computer system, a user may be able to request vehicle and driver data from one or more vehicles. Also, when an exception event occurs, such as excessive speeding, a \u201chard brake\u201d event, or a vehicle diagnostic fault, a rolling freeze frame (\u201cRFF\u201d) of data, spanning a period of time before, during, and after the exception event may be transmitted from an OBVMD to the host computer system, thereby possibly providing data sufficient to determine the cause of the exception event.","In some embodiments, a system for remotely tracking vehicle and driver behavior is described. The system may include an on-board vehicle monitoring device, comprising an interface device and a gateway device. The interface device may receive information from a diagnostic system of a vehicle. The gateway device may compile a set of vehicle operating data corresponding to a driver or vehicle behavior. The set of vehicle operating data may comprise at least some of the information from the diagnostic system of the vehicle. The interface device may also transmit at least a portion of the set of vehicle operating data to a host-computer system via a wireless network. The system may also include the host-computer system, comprising a processor and a computer-readable storage medium. The computer-readable storage medium may have encoded thereon a set of instructions to control operation of the host computer system. The set of instructions may comprise instructions for receiving the at least a portion of the set of vehicle operating data. The set of instructions may also comprise instructions for analyzing the received vehicle operating data. Also, the set of instructions may include instructions for compiling driver behavior data, based at least in part on analysis of the received vehicle operating data; instructions for providing a user interface; and","instructions for causing the user interface to display, for a user, information corresponding to the compiled driver behavior data.","In some embodiments, a method for tracking vehicle and driver behavior is described. The method may include providing an on-board vehicle monitoring device, a host computer system, and a user interface. The host computer system may comprise a computer-readable storage medium and a processor. The user interface may be stored at the host computer system on the computer-readable storage medium. The method may include receiving a trigger condition. The method may also include transmitting from the on-board vehicle monitoring system to the host computer system, a set of vehicle operating data. The method may further include receiving, at the host computer system, the set of vehicle operating data. The method may include compiling the receiving vehicle operating data. Also, the method may include determining a driver behavior, based at least in part on analysis of the compiled vehicle operating data. The method may further include storing the compiled vehicle operating data; and providing a user interface. Finally, the method may include displaying information corresponding to the compiled vehicle operating data.","In still other embodiments, an apparatus may be described that includes a computer-readable storage medium having encoded thereon a computer-readable program comprising a set of instructions for directing operation of a computer system. The set of instructions may comprise instructions for receiving a first set of vehicle operating data from a first on-board vehicle monitoring device. The set of instructions may also comprise instructions for receiving other sets of vehicle operating data from other on-board vehicle monitoring devices. The set of instructions may also include instructions for analyzing the received vehicle operating data. The set of instructions may include instructions for compiling statistics on a driver's behavior, based at least in part on analysis of the received vehicle operating data from the first and second on-board vehicle monitoring device. The instruction set may also include instructions for providing a user interface. Finally, the method may also include instructions for causing the user interface to display, for a user, information corresponding to the compiled statistics on the driver's behavior.","While various aspects and features of certain embodiments have been summarized above, the following detailed description illustrates a few exemplary embodiments in further detail to enable one of skill in the art to practice such embodiments. In the following description, for the purposes of explanation, numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the described embodiments. It will be apparent, however, to one skilled in the art that other embodiments of the present invention may be practiced without some of these specific details. In other instances, well-known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form. Several embodiments are described herein, and while various features are ascribed to different embodiments, it should be appreciated that the features described with respect to one embodiment may be incorporated with other embodiments as well. By the same token, however, no single feature or features of any described embodiment should be considered essential to every embodiment of the invention, as other embodiments of the invention may omit such features.","A set of embodiments provide solutions (including without limitation, devices, systems, methods, software programs, and the like) for monitoring vehicle and driver behavior. In particular, some embodiments allow for an on-board vehicle monitoring device (\u201cOBVMD\u201d) to gather information on vehicle diagnostics, location, and\/or acceleration\/deceleration and wirelessly transmit some or all of the data to a central host computer system (\u201chost\u201d). Information received at the host may be stored and compiled to create metrics for one or many drivers and\/or vehicles. Some embodiments employ a gateway device as part of the OBVMD to receive information from a vehicle's diagnostic system and an interface, also part of the OBVMD, to communicate with the host via a wireless network, such as a cellular network. Some embodiments may also employ a global navigation satellite system (\u201cGNSS\u201d) receiver, such as a global positioning system (\u201cGPS\u201d) receiver, to determine the vehicle's location, speed, and\/or direction. In some embodiments, the GNSS receiver may also be used (based on repeated location data being gathered) to determine acceleration\/deceleration and\/or braking. In some embodiments, an accelerometer is used to determine acceleration and braking Some embodiments also employ a proximity sensor. Such a proximity sensor may be used to determine how close the vehicle is to another vehicle (or another object) in front of the vehicle. Such information may be useful in determining whether a driver is following the preceding vehicle in traffic too closely.","In some embodiments, data, such as vehicle diagnostic information, and\/or GNSS location information is transmitted via a wireless network to a host. The information may be stored and compiled at the host. For example, data may be compiled for particular trips taken with the vehicle (for example, measured as the time between when a driver turns on the ignition and turns off the ignition). Alternatively, data may be compiled for a particular driver for a period of time (such as monthly) to allow the driver to be compared to other drivers and\/or benchmarks. Similarly, as opposed to compiling data for a particular driver, data may be compiled for a particular vehicle.","In some embodiments, the vehicle diagnostic information, location information, and\/or other data are transmitted from the OBVMD via a wireless network to the host at regular, or near regular intervals. In some embodiments, when a fault is detected in the vehicle's on-board diagnostic system, data relating to the fault, and\/or current vehicle information (such as speed, location, engine temperature, etc) is transmitted to the host system. In some embodiments, the host may be able to wirelessly request information from the OBVMD. For example, the host may request a \u201csnapshot\u201d of the current diagnostic information of the vehicle. In some embodiments, the host may request information for a period of time prior to, including, and\/or following an event (such as a request), referred to as a rolling freeze frame (\u201cRFF\u201d). A RFF may include data such as location, speed, fuel use, diagnostic information, acceleration, and\/or deceleration, or any other information collected by the OBVMD. Further, the transmission of an RFF may be triggered by a vehicle event, such as a \u201chard brake.\u201d A hard brake event may mean that the vehicle has stopped suddenly, such as by the driver applying the brakes at full or near full force, or the vehicle has crashed. Such an event may result in the OBVMD registering the event by sensing the deceleration with the GNSS receiver, the accelerometer, and\/or a message received at the gateway device from the vehicle's on-board vehicle diagnostic system. What constitutes a \u201chard brake\u201d event may be configured by a user via the user interface (such as, a decrease in speed greater than 15 miles per hour per second). The RFF may then be stored and\/or transmitted to the host.","To illustrate some of these concepts,  illustrates a simplified embodiment of a system  for transmitting information between an OBVMD and a host. In some embodiments, the system  includes an OBVMD , a wireless network , and a host computer system . The system  may further include the ability to interact with a vehicle's on-board diagnostic system , with the OBVMD  and the on-board diagnostic system  residing on the vehicle -.","The on-board diagnostic system  may be installed as standard or optional equipment by the vehicle manufacturer. One common version of on-board diagnostic systems is \u201cOn-Board Diagnostics,\u201d commonly referred to by the acronym \u201cOBD.\u201d OBD exists in several forms, including OBD-I, OBD-1.5, OBD-II, and EOBD (European On-Board Diagnostics). Each form of OBD allows access to diagnostic information for various subsystems of a vehicle. Merely by way of example, OBD systems may collect and\/or store information including data in such categories as: throttle position, engine revolutions per minute (\u201cRPM\u201d), short and long term fuel percent trim, engine coolant temperature, intake air temperature, oxygen sensor voltage, fuel type, fuel pressure, and vehicle speed. Besides OBD, other types of on-board vehicle diagnostic systems may be used to gather vehicle information. For example, J1708 or J1939 may be used. The OBVMD  may have the ability to receive data from these and other types of vehicle diagnostic systems. Whatever type of vehicle diagnostic system , both the vehicle system  and the OBVMD  may reside on the vehicle -. This may involve the OBVMD  being mounting at or near the hardware associated with the on-board diagnostic system. Alternatively, the OBVMD  may be mounted in a separate location on the vehicle, with the OBVMD  being communicatively connected to the on-board diagnostic system .","The OBVMD  may communicate with the host computer system  via a wireless network . In some embodiments, the wireless network  may be a digital or analog cellular network. The use of such a wireless network  may provide near universal wireless coverage, especially in urban areas. In other embodiments, the wireless network may employ satellite communication. The host computer system  may be located in a central location, or may be distributed.","In addition to vehicle -, vehicle - may be present. Vehicle - may have a similar on-board diagnostic system and OBVMD as on vehicle -. For simplicity, the specifics associated with vehicle - are not illustrated. The OBVMD of vehicle - may communicate with host computer system  using the same wireless network  as vehicle - or may use some other wireless network. For example, if vehicle - and - are in different locations, different wireless networks may be used. Further, in addition to vehicles - and -, any number of other vehicles (represented as -n) may employ a similar OBVMD to that of vehicle - and transmit data to and from the host computer system . Such other vehicles may be distributed in a region, a country, or throughout the world.","In some embodiments, a wired connection (not pictured) either in addition to the use of the wireless network  or in place of the wireless network  may be used. Such a wired connection may be used to collect data stored at the OBVMD when the OBVMD is connected to the host computer system or some other electronic device capable of collecting data from the OBVMD. For example, such a wired connection may be used when a driver returns from a delivery, or after a predetermined amount of time, such as once per day.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0034"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 2","FIG. 1"],"b":["200","130","140","120","130","130","130","210","220","230","240","250","260","210","220","130"]},"In some embodiments, a gateway  is present. The gateway  may have the ability to receive information from the vehicle diagnostic system . This may involve the gateway  monitoring data gathered from various vehicle subsystems by the vehicle diagnostic system  and\/or may involve the gateway  actively querying the vehicle diagnostic system  for data. Depending on the type of vehicle diagnostic system , the gateway  may need to be configured differently to interact with the vehicle diagnostic system . For example, the gateway  may include an application programming interface (API) to be able to access data stored in a vehicle's diagnostic system memory. The gateway  may receive requests for vehicle diagnostic system data from a host via the wireless network , or from other components of the OBVMD . In some embodiments, the gateway  gathers some or all information available from the vehicle diagnostic system  at various time intervals. In some embodiments, the gateway only gathers data from the vehicle diagnostic system  when requested by another component of the OBVMD  or the host. The gateway  may gather more data from the vehicle diagnostic system  based on other data it receives. For example, if the vehicle diagnostic system , accelerometer , or GNSS receiver , produces data stating that a exception has occurred (such as a \u201chard brake\u201d event), more data at possibly more frequent intervals may be gathered from the vehicle diagnostic system  by the gateway .","In some embodiments, the OBVMD  includes an interface . The interface  may be capable of communicating with a host via a wireless network . The interface  may include an antenna being present at the OBVMD  or somewhere else inside or outside the vehicle. This antenna may be integrated with the antenna for the GNSS receiver. The interface may receive commands from the host via wireless network . The interface may also receive data from other components of the OBVMD  to be transmitted to the host.","In some embodiments, the OBVMD  includes a GNSS receiver . The GNSS receiver  may be capable of receiving information from a network of positioning satellites. The GNSS receiver  may include an antenna being present either at the OBVMD  or somewhere else within or outside the vehicle. A common form of GNSS is GPS. Therefore, the GNSS receiver  may be a GPS receiver. The GNSS receiver may provide other components of the OBVMD  with position data. In some embodiments, the raw position data (possibly coordinates and\/or timing data) is transmitted to the host via the wireless network . In some embodiments, some or all of the gathered position data by the GNSS receiver  is stored at the storage device  of the OBVMD . Based on repeated position data being received, the host may be able to determine the vehicle's speed, direction, acceleration, and deceleration. Alternatively, the data gathered from the GNSS receiver  may be used at the vehicle to determine speed, direction, acceleration, and deceleration information. This computed information may then be transmitted to the host via the wireless network .","In some embodiments, an inertial sensing device (which is described herein as an accelerometer  but which might also include other devices with similar functionality) is present. The accelerometer  may provide an alternative (to the GNSS receiver ) for determining acceleration and deceleration information. In some embodiments, both a GNSS receiver  and an accelerometer  are present. The acceleration and deceleration information gathered by the accelerometer  may be stored at storage device  and\/or transmitted to the host via the wireless network . The accelerometer , GNSS receiver , or vehicle diagnostic system  registering high acceleration values (such as those consistent with the gas pedal pushed to full throttle) or high deceleration values (such as those consistent with a head-on impact and\/or full application of the brakes, collectively referred to as a \u201chard-brake\u201d event) may result in a message noting as such, along with a snapshot of vehicle and driver data being sent to the host via the wireless network .","Also, in addition to using the accelerometer  to determine acceleration and deceleration information, the same or a different accelerometer may be used to gather lateral acceleration and\/or deceleration information. Such information may be useful if the vehicle swerves, slides, turns abruptly, and\/or is involved in a side impact collision. The GNSS receiver  may also gather such information.","In some embodiments, a storage device  is present. The storage device  may be any form of computer-readable storage device. For example, the storage device  may be random access memory, flash memory, and\/or a hard drive. The storage device  may store all or some data received and\/or created by various OBVMD  components, including the gateway , interface , GNSS receiver , accelerometer , and\/or proximity sensor . In some embodiments, the storage device  only stores data until it has been transmitted to the host via wireless network . The storage device  may store a RFF. The RFF may include some or all data received and\/or created by various OBVMD  components for a particular period of time. For example, an RFF, whenever examined, may include data from each component of the OBVMD  for the previous 10 seconds, up to and including the present. The host may transmit to the interface  a request for an RFF. If such a request for an RFF is received, the storage device may also store data relating to another period of time, such as 5 seconds, following the reception of the request for the RFF. The information from the RFF may then be transmitted to the host via wireless network . Therefore, the RFF would include data for a period of time prior to receiving the request, the time of the request, and\/or a period of time following the request. Such information may be useful to reconstruct events resulting in a vehicular accident. Besides a request from the host, an RFF stored at the storage device  may be transmitted to the host at regular intervals, or on the occurrence of some predetermined event, such as a hard brake event.","In some embodiments, a proximity sensor  is present. As those with skill in the art will understand, proximity sensors may utilize many different techniques to detect the presence of another object, including: inductive, capacitive, magnetic, sonar (both active and passive), laser, radar, thermal, and optical, to name several examples. The proximity sensor, while illustrated as part of the OBVMD , may be located at some other location on the vehicle while remaining communicatively coupled with the OBVMD . The proximity sensor  may be able to detect whether an object (such as another vehicle) is present in front (or to the side or back) of the vehicle within a certain distance. It may also be able to determine the distance between the vehicle and the object. The proximity sensor  may also be able to determine the direction from which an object has entered the path of the vehicle. For example, if an object enters the on-coming path of the vehicle from the side, at a close distance, this may be consistent with the driver executing a potentially dangerous maneuver of \u201ccutting-in\u201d to traffic. The proximity sensor  may also be used to detect tailgating (i.e. the following of another vehicle at a dangerously close distance). The detection of tailgating or a cut-in may trigger a RFF, a message, and\/or other data to be transmitted to the host via wireless network . A \u201ccut-in\u201d may be defined as an object or vehicle entering the proximity sensor's field of view within a certain distance, from the side, and the distance between the vehicle and the object subsequently increasing.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0043","num":"0042"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 1","FIG. 3","FIG. 3"],"b":["300","140"]},"The computer system  is shown comprising hardware elements that can be electrically coupled via a bus  (or may otherwise be in communication, as appropriate). The hardware elements may include one or more processors , including without limitation one or more general-purpose processors and\/or one or more special-purpose processors (such as digital signal processing chips, graphics acceleration processors, and\/or the like); one or more input devices , which can include without limitation a mouse, a keyboard and\/or the like; and one or more output devices , which can include without limitation a display device, a printer and\/or the like.","The computer system  may further include (and\/or be in communication with) one or more storage devices , which can comprise, without limitation, local and\/or network accessible storage, and\/or can include, without limitation, a disk drive, a drive array, an optical storage device, solid-state storage device such as a random access memory (\u201cRAM\u201d) and\/or a read-only memory (\u201cROM\u201d), which can be programmable, flash-updateable and\/or the like.","Such storage devices may be configured to implement any appropriate data stores, including without limitation, various file systems, database structures, and\/or the like.","The computer system  might also include a communications subsystem , which can include without limitation a modem, a network card (wireless or wired), an infra-red communication device, a wireless communication device and\/or chipset (such as a BLUETOOTH device, an 802.11 device, a WiFi device, a WiMax device, cellular communication facilities, etc.), and\/or the like. The communications subsystem  may permit data to be exchanged with a network (such as the network of ), other computer systems, and\/or any other devices described herein. In many embodiments, the computer system  will further comprise a working memory , which can include a RAM or ROM device, as described above.","The computer system  also can comprise software elements, shown as being currently located within the working memory , including an operating system , device drivers, executable libraries, and\/or other code, such as one or more application programs , which may comprise computer programs provided by various embodiments, and\/or may be designed to implement methods, and\/or configure systems, provided by other embodiments, as described herein. Merely by way of example, one or more procedures described with respect to the method(s) discussed above might be implemented as code and\/or instructions executable by a computer (and\/or a processor within a computer); in an aspect, then, such code and\/or instructions can be used to configure and\/or adapt a general purpose computer (or other device) to perform one or more operations in accordance with the described methods.","A set of these instructions and\/or code might be stored on a computer-readable storage medium, such as the storage device(s)  described above. In some cases, the storage medium might be incorporated within a computer system, such as the system . In other embodiments, the storage medium might be separate from a computer system (i.e., a removable medium, such as a compact disc, etc.), and or provided in an installation package, such that the storage medium can be used to program, configure and\/or adapt a general purpose computer with the instructions\/code stored thereon. These instructions might take the form of executable code, which is executable by the computer system  and\/or might take the form of source and\/or installable code, which, upon compilation and\/or installation on the computer system  (e.g., using any of a variety of generally available compilers, installation programs, compression\/decompression utilities, etc.) then takes the form of executable code.","It will be apparent to those skilled in the art that substantial variations may be made in accordance with specific requirements. For example, customized hardware might also be used, and\/or particular elements might be implemented in hardware, software (including portable software, such as applets, etc.), or both. Further, connection to other computing devices such as network input\/output devices may be employed.","As mentioned above, in one aspect, some embodiments may employ a computer system (such as the computer system ) to perform methods in accordance with various embodiments of the invention. According to a set of embodiments, some or all of the procedures of such methods are performed by the computer system  in response to processor  executing one or more sequences of one or more instructions (which might be incorporated into the operating system  and\/or other code, such as an application program ) contained in the working memory . Such instructions may be read into the working memory  from another computer-readable medium, such as one or more of the storage device(s) . Merely by way of example, execution of the sequences of instructions contained in the working memory  might cause the processor(s)  to perform one or more procedures of the methods described herein.","The terms \u201cmachine readable medium\u201d and \u201ccomputer-readable medium,\u201d as used herein, refer to any medium that participates in providing data that causes a machine to operate in a specific fashion. In an embodiment implemented using the computer system , various computer-readable media might be involved in providing instructions\/code to processor(s)  for execution and\/or might be used to store and\/or carry such instructions\/code (e.g., as signals). In many implementations, a computer-readable medium is a physical and\/or tangible storage medium. Such a medium may take many forms, including but not limited to, non-volatile media, volatile media, and transmission media. Non-volatile media includes, for example, optical and\/or magnetic disks, such as the storage device(s) . Volatile media includes, without limitation, dynamic memory, such as the working memory . Transmission media includes, without limitation, coaxial cables, copper wire and fiber optics, including the wires that comprise the bus , as well as the various components of the communication subsystem  (and\/or the media by which the communications subsystem  provides communication with other devices). Hence, transmission media can also take the form of waves (including without limitation radio, acoustic and\/or light waves, such as those generated during radio-wave and infra-red data communications).","Common forms of physical and\/or tangible computer-readable media include, for example, a floppy disk, a flexible disk, hard disk, magnetic tape, or any other magnetic medium, a CD-ROM, any other optical medium, punch cards, paper tape, any other physical medium with patterns of holes, a RAM, a PROM, and EPROM, a FLASH-EPROM, any other memory chip or cartridge, a carrier wave as described hereinafter, or any other medium from which a computer can read instructions and\/or code.","Various forms of computer-readable media may be involved in carrying one or more sequences of one or more instructions to the processor(s)  for execution. Merely by way of example, the instructions may initially be carried on a magnetic disk and\/or optical disc of a remote computer. A remote computer might load the instructions into its dynamic memory and send the instructions as signals over a transmission medium to be received and\/or executed by the computer system . These signals, which might be in the form of electromagnetic signals, acoustic signals, optical signals and\/or the like, are all examples of carrier waves on which instructions can be encoded, in accordance with various embodiments of the invention.","The communications subsystem  (and\/or components thereof) generally will receive the signals, and the bus  then might carry the signals (and\/or the data, instructions, etc. carried by the signals) to the working memory , from which the processor(s)  retrieves and executes the instructions. The instructions received by the working memory  may optionally be stored on a storage device  either before or after execution by the processor(s) .","The host computer system of  may be a single computer, or multiple computers arranged in a network. Merely by way of example,  illustrates a schematic diagram of a system  that can be used in accordance with one set of embodiments. The system  can include one or more user computers . The user computers  can be general purpose personal computers (including, merely by way of example, personal computers and\/or laptop computers running any appropriate flavor of MICROSOFT's WINDOWS and\/or APPLE's MACINTOSH operating systems) and\/or workstation computers running any of a variety of commercially-available UNIX or UNIX-like operating systems. These user computers  can also have any of a variety of applications, including one or more applications configured to perform methods provided by various embodiments (as described above, for example), as well as one or more office applications, database client and\/or server applications, and\/or web browser applications. Alternatively, the user computers  can be any other electronic device, such as a thin-client computer, Internet-enabled mobile telephone, and\/or personal digital assistant, capable of communicating via a network (e.g., the network  described below) and\/or displaying and navigating web pages or other types of electronic documents. Although the exemplary system  is shown with three user computers , any number of user computers can be supported.","Certain embodiments of the invention operate in a networked environment, which can include a network . The network  can be any type of network familiar to those skilled in the art that can support data communications using any of a variety of commercially-available (and\/or free or proprietary) protocols, including without limitation TCP\/IP, SNA, IPX, APPLETALK, and the like. Merely by way of example, the network  can be a local area network (\u201cLAN\u201d), including without limitation an Ethernet network, a Token-Ring network and\/or the like; a wide-area network; a virtual network, including without limitation a virtual private network (\u201cVPN\u201d); the Internet; an intranet; an extranet; a public switched telephone network (\u201cPSTN\u201d); an infra-red network; a wireless network, including without limitation a network operating under any of the IEEE 802.11 suite of protocols, the BLUETOOTH protocol known in the art, and\/or any other wireless protocol; and\/or any combination of these and\/or other networks.","Embodiments of the invention can include one or more server computers . Each of the server computers  may be configured with an operating system, including without limitation any of those discussed above, as well as any commercially (or freely) available server operating systems. Each of the servers  may also be running one or more applications, which can be configured to provide services to one or more clients  and\/or other servers .","Merely by way of example, one of the servers  may be a web server, which can be used, merely by way of example, to process requests for web pages or other electronic documents from user computers . The web server can also run a variety of server applications, including HTTP servers, FTP servers, CGI servers, database servers, Java servers, and the like. In some embodiments of the invention, the web server may be configured to serve web pages that can be operated within a web browser on one or more of the user computers  to perform methods of the invention. Therefore, an interface may be presented to a user remote from any particular host computer system via the presentation of a web-based user interface.","The server computers , in some embodiments, might include one or more application servers, which can be configured with one or more applications accessible by a client running on one or more of the client computers  and\/or other servers . Merely by way of example, the server(s)  can be one or more general purpose computers capable of executing programs or scripts in response to the user computers  and\/or other servers , including without limitation web applications (which might, in some cases, be configured to perform methods provided by various embodiments). Merely by way of example, a web application can be implemented as one or more scripts or programs written in any suitable programming language, such as JAVA, C, C# or C++, and\/or any scripting language, such as Perl, Python, or TCL, as well as combinations of any programming and\/or scripting languages. The application server(s) can also include database servers, including without limitation those commercially available from ORACLE, MICROSOFT, SYBASE, IBM and the like, which can process requests from clients (including, depending on the configuration, dedicated database clients, API clients, web browsers, etc.) running on a user computer  and\/or another server . In some embodiments, an application server can create web pages dynamically for displaying the information in accordance with various embodiments, such as a user interface appropriate to allow a user to view driver and\/or vehicle data. Data provided by an application server may be formatted as one or more web pages (comprising HTML, JAVASCRIPT, etc., for example) and\/or may be forwarded to a user computer  via a web server (as described above, for example). Similarly, a web server might receive web page requests and\/or input data from a user computer  and\/or forward the web page requests and\/or input data to an application server. In some cases a web server may be integrated with an application server.","In accordance with further embodiments, one or more servers  can function as a file server and\/or can include one or more of the files (e.g., application code, data files, etc.) necessary to implement various disclosed methods, incorporated by an application running on a user computer  and\/or another server . Alternatively, as those skilled in the art will appreciate, a file server can include all necessary files, allowing such an application to be invoked remotely by a user computer  and\/or server .","It should be noted that the functions described with respect to various servers herein (e.g., application server, database server, web server, file server, etc.) can be performed by a single server and\/or a plurality of specialized servers, depending on implementation-specific needs and parameters.","In certain embodiments, the system can include one or more databases . The location of the database(s)  is discretionary: merely by way of example, a database might reside on a storage medium local to (and\/or resident in) a server (and\/or a user computer ). Alternatively, a database can be remote from any or all of the computers , , so long as it can be in communication (e.g., via the network ) with one or more of these. In a particular set of embodiments, a database  can reside in a storage-area network (\u201cSAN\u201d) familiar to those skilled in the art. (Likewise, any necessary files for performing the functions attributed to the computers ,  can be stored locally on the respective computer and\/or remotely, as appropriate.) In one set of embodiments, the database  can be a relational database, such as an ORACLE database, that is adapted to store, update, and retrieve data (such as stored driver and\/or vehicle data) in response to SQL-formatted commands. The database might be controlled and\/or maintained by a database server, as described above, for example.","Also illustrated in the embodiment of  is OBVMD . OBVMD  may communicate with the various computers and\/or servers of  functioning as the host computer system via network , or a separate network (not pictured), such as a cellular wireless network.","The OBVMD  of  may communicate via wireless network  with a host computer system, or network of computers serving as the host computer system, as described above in relation to . At the host computer system, data received from the OBVMD  may be compiled, sorted, organized, stored, and\/or displayed to provide a user, such as a fleet manager, with information regarding the performance of vehicles and the drivers operating the vehicles. Based upon the OBVMD  transmitting information regarding a location, acceleration, deceleration, proximity, vehicle diagnostics and\/or \u201chard-brake\u201d events, a large amount of information may be presented to a user or calculated and\/or compiled then presented to a user.","Notably, information regarding particular drivers and\/or vehicles may be compiled over lengthy periods of time as the user wishes. A user may be able to view data spanning weeks, months, or years for a particular vehicle and\/or driver. The user may also be able to customize how the vehicle and\/or driver is recorded and compiled. For example, the user may not want data gathered during trips below a certain distance, time period, speed, engine RPM, and\/or ignition on-time to be considered. Further, the definition of what constitutes a trip, may vary per driver. For example, a driver typically performing short haul routes may have a differed trip definition than a driver performing long haul routes. Based upon these definitions, the user interface may screen out such trips from being included in metrics affecting the vehicle and\/or driver.","A user interface, possibly a graphical user interface, may be provided at the host computer system to allow the user to easily interact with the raw and compiled driver and vehicle data. The user interface may allow the user view various categories of statistics derived from the data received at the host computer. For example, various windows of the user interface may allow the user to compare statistics of various drivers, define which categories of data will be displayed, query vehicles for current vehicle and\/or driver data, and define various parameters for what data is used to calculate the statistics. For example, the user may wish to eliminate any data gathered when the trip driven by the driver was less than 2 minutes. Or, as another example, the user may wish to be presented statistics showing safety performance trends of all drivers, or a select group of drivers, over a period of time, such as 12 weeks. The following several figures provide various examples of windows that may be provided to a user based upon data received at the host computer system from the OBVMD. As a person of ordinary skill in the art will understand, the following categories of data may be rearranged and resorted into various windows and formats present the user with alternative views of the vehicle and driver data.","For example,  illustrates an embodiment of a window from a user interface displaying a summary driver report  to a user. In such a report , at least one vehicle or driver is listed in the driver column . The driver of a particular vehicle may be identified several ways: a particular vehicle may always be associated with a particular driver, based upon a time a trip occurred, the driver may be known, the driver may be required to identify himself via an input device in the vehicle, or the driver may be required to notify a user of the host. The odometer column  may display the current mileage associated with particular drivers or vehicles. The date field column  may represent the dates the last trips were taken by the driver, or the date the last information was received from a OBVMD associated with the driver. The time column  may represent the last time information was received from the OBVMD associated with the driver. Location column  may represent the addresses (or addresses nearest the coordinates received from the vehicle's OBVMD). In some embodiments, the location data is merely a set of coordinates. Such coordinates, or address data, may be overlaid onto a map for display at the host computer system. Status  may be based upon what gear the vehicle is in, or may be based upon the vehicle's location (as measured by the GNSS received) remaining stationary for an amount of time.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0069","num":"0068"},"figref":"FIG. 6","b":["500","610","620","630","640","650","660","670"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0070","num":"0069"},"figref":"FIG. 7","b":["700","710","720","730","740","750","760","770","780","790","780","790","770","760","730","740","720","710"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0071","num":"0070"},"figref":"FIG. 8","b":["800","800","810","820","830","840","850","860","810","820","830","840","830","850","830","860","830","860"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0072","num":"0071"},"figref":"FIG. 9","b":["900","900","910","920","930","940","950","960","970","980","990","910","920","910","920","930","910"]},"The sudden acceleration column  may list the number of instances the driver listed in column  has accelerated his vehicle at a greater rate than some predetermined value. The data for this column may be measured using information gathered from the vehicle's diagnostic system, the GNSS receiver, or an accelerometer. The average locations per minute column  may contain data describing the average revolutions per minute the engine of the vehicle operated by the driver listed in column  rotated at. For example, a high average revolutions per minute may equate to the driver leaving the vehicle in a low gear for too long of time, or driving at too high of a speed. The data for the average revolutions per minute column  may be gathered from the vehicle's diagnostic system. Likewise, data for the top gear time column  may be received from the vehicle's diagnostic system. The data in top gear time column  may equate to the amount of time that the vehicle has spent driving in its highest gear. Driving in top gear may equate to more efficient driving, such as cruising at a steady pace at highway speeds. It may be necessary to configure at the user interface the transmission gear ratio equating to top gear.","The brake count column  may contain data stating the number of times the brakes of the vehicle have been applied by the associated driver. Again, such data may be gathered from the vehicle's diagnostic system. An unusually high brake count may equate to the driver repeatedly tapping the brakes, or applying the brakes too often. The fuel use column  may also list data gathered from the vehicle's diagnostic system. This data may include information on the number of gallons of fuel consumed by the vehicle while being operated by the driver listed in column . The benchmark column  shows an example of benchmark data. Here, benchmarks on the amount of fuel used have been established. For example, for driver Mary","Hogan a fuel benchmark of 400 (gallons) has been established. This driver has only used  gallons of fuel according to the data of column . Therefore, this driver has successfully met the benchmark for fuel use set for her. However, a different driver, Bryan Kelly, has a benchmark fuel use of 500 gallons. Notably, different drivers may have different benchmarks due to known variances in the type of driving they will be performing. For example, one driver may have to perform local deliveries, while another may be performing long-haul driving on a highway. In the case of driver Bryan Kelly, his fuel use, as listed in fuel use column , exceeds his benchmark value listed in column . This may result in an alert being sent to the user of the interface, and\/or to driver Bryan Kelly. Notably, in  a benchmark is only shown for fuel use. However, a benchmark may be displayed for any category of data. Beyond providing a visual comparison between the benchmark and its associated data category, as in columns  and , a window may display whether a driver has or has not met a particular benchmark. For example, in , column  may be configured to state either \u201cyes\u201d or \u201cno,\u201d thereby indicating whether the associated driver has met his or her benchmark for fuel use.","As those with skill in the art will understand, the windows shown in , , , , and  only represent examples of how various categories of data may be arranged. For example, all of the data contained in these figures may be combined into one window, or rearranged in various other permutations for display. How all these windows and categories of data are displayed may be configurable by the user. Further, many other categories of data may be displayed based on data created by the OBVMD and\/or received from the vehicle's diagnostic system. For example other possible categories of data may include: 1) following distance data, as determined using a proximity sensor to determine the distance between the vehicle and a preceding vehicle; 2) maximum speed; 3) maximum RPM; 4) stop count; 5) fuel use during idle; 6) miles traveled in a particular speed range; 7) miles traveled in a particular RPM range; 8) coasting time ignition cycles; and 9) a location where a fault occurred. Further, besides display of the data to a user, the data may be exported in various formats, such as a comma delimited text file, for download, or for use in other programs.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0077","num":"0076"},"figref":"FIG. 10","b":["1000","1010","1020","1030","1040","1020","1040","1050"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0078","num":"0077"},"figref":"FIG. 11","b":["1100","1110","1120","1130","1130","1140","1150"]},"In , an embodiment of a method  is illustrated for transmitting exception data, such as data related to a hard brake event. At block , the OBVMD may receive an indication that a hard brake event has occurred. Notably, while method  is described as relating to hard brake events, it may also be applied to other forms of exceptions. For example, a diagnostic fault may also trigger a rolling freeze-frame (RFF) data to be transmitted to the host. An indication of an exception, such as a hard brake event, may come from a GNSS receiver, an accelerometer, or vehicles diagnostic system. Upon receiving an indication that a hard brake has occurred, rolling freeze frame of vehicle and driver data may be captured and stored at the OBVMD at block . This rolling freeze frame of data may include vehicle and driver data spanning a period of time prior to the hard brake event, during the hard brake event, and following the hard brake event. The rolling freeze-frame of data may include data captured from the vehicle diagnostic system and\/or from subsystems of the OBVMD. Following some or all of the rolling freeze-frame data being captured, some or all of the rolling freeze-frame of data may be transmitted to the host computer system, at block . Following transmission, some or all of the rolling freeze-frame of data may be received at the host computer system at block . Following the reception of some or all the rolling freeze-frame data, information relating to the hard brake event may be stored and\/or displayed to the user at block . This may involve the user being immediately notified (such as by email or text message) that a hard brake event has occurred. Alternatively, information relating to the hard brake may be stored until such information is accessed by the user.","Referring to , an embodiment of a method  is illustrated for requesting data from an OBVMD by a user. Such a request may result in real-time or near real-time vehicle and driver data being sent to the host computer system from the OBVMD. First, a user request for data from an OBVMD may be received at the host computer, at block . The user may have made this request for data from an OBVMD on a particular vehicle, or for data from some or all of the vehicles in a fleet of vehicles. Following the request being received, the request may be transmitted to the appropriate OBVMDs at block . Following transmission through the wireless network, the request may be received at the OBVMD at block . Such a request may be for a particular category of data, such as miles per gallon, or may be for a general status update on the vehicle, such as the vehicle's location, direction, speed, and whether any diagnostic faults have occurred, In some embodiments, the user may be able to remotely modify how the OBVMD collects data. For example, the user may be able to edit the amount of data collected for RFFs, or the conditions under which an RFF is transmitted to the host computer system. Following reception of the request for data, data may be transmitted from the OBVMD to the host computer system via a wireless network at block . The data may then be received at the host computer system at block .","While certain features and aspects have been described with respect to exemplary embodiments, one skilled in the art will recognize that numerous modifications are possible. For example, the methods and processes described herein may be implemented using hardware components, software components, and\/or any combination thereof. Further, while various methods and processes described herein may be described with respect to particular structural and\/or functional components for ease of description, methods provided by various embodiments are not limited to any particular structural and\/or functional architecture but instead can be implemented on any suitable hardware, firmware and\/or software configuration. Similarly, while various functionality is ascribed to certain system components, unless the context dictates otherwise, this functionality can be distributed among various other system components in accordance with the several embodiments.","Moreover, while the procedures of the methods and processes described herein are described in a particular order for ease of description, unless the context dictates otherwise, various procedures may be reordered, added, and\/or omitted in accordance with various embodiments. Moreover, the procedures described with respect to one method or process may be incorporated within other described methods or processes; likewise, system components described according to a particular structural architecture and\/or with respect to one system may be organized in alternative structural architectures and\/or incorporated within other described systems. Hence, while various embodiments are described with\u2014or without\u2014certain features for ease of description and to illustrate exemplary aspects of those embodiments, the various components and\/or features described herein with respect to a particular embodiment can be substituted, added and\/or subtracted from among other described embodiments, unless the context dictates otherwise. Consequently, although several exemplary embodiments are described above, it will be appreciated that the invention is intended to cover all modifications and equivalents within the scope of the following claims."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["A further understanding of the nature and advantages of particular embodiments may be realized by reference to the remaining portions of the specification and the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used throughout the several drawings to refer to similar components. In some instances, a sublabel is associated with a reference numeral to denote one of multiple similar components. When reference is made to a reference numeral without specification to an existing sublabel, it is intended to refer to all such multiple similar components.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":"400"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 11"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 12"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 13"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
