---
title: Method for reorganizing tasks for optimization of resources
abstract: A method of reorganizing a plurality of task for optimization of resources and execution time in an environment is described. In one embodiment, the method includes mapping of each task to obtain qualitative and quantitative assessment of each functional elements and variables within the time frame for execution of each tasks, representation of data obtained from the mapping in terms of a matrix of dimensions N×N, wherein N represents total number of tasks and reorganizing the tasks in accordance with the represented data in the matrix for the execution, wherein reorganizing the tasks provides for both static and dynamic methodologies. It is advantageous that the present invention determines optimal number of resources required to achieve a practical overall task completion time and can be adaptable to non computer applications.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08732714&OS=08732714&RS=08732714
owner: Kpit Technologies Limited
number: 08732714
owner_city: Pune
owner_country: IN
publication_date: 20091203
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["RELATED APPLICATIONS","TECHNICAL FILED","BACKGROUND ART","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION","DEFINITIONS","Example 1","Example 2","Tables"],"p":["This application is the U.S. national stage application which claims priority under 35 U.S.C. \u00a7371 to International Patent Application No.: PCT\/IN2009\/000701, filed on Dec. 3, 2009, which claims priority under 35 U.S.C. \u00a7119, to Indian Patent Application No.: 255\/MUM\/2008, filed on Dec. 8, 2008, the disclosures of which are incorporated by reference herein their entireties.","The present invention in general relates to task management and more particularly, relates to a method for reorganizing tasks for optimization of resources and execution time in an environment, including at least one processing element.","Computer programs include a plurality of tasks that are executed in a particular sequence and time determined by logic of the corresponding source code and constraints of the processing hardware used. Computer systems and, in particular, ones incorporating multiple processing elements can achieve faster execution of these computer programs and yet be rational in their demand for processing hardware resources provided they incorporate a method that is efficient in task organization for execution of tasks comprising said computer programs.","Task organization generally refers to logical assignment of priority among tasks or processes in an execution queue. Identification of execution units in input code and organizing execution thereof to achieve faster, yet accurate, execution of said source code are critical parameters deciding the multitasking efficiency and processing capacity of multi\/parallel processing systems and especially, real time operating systems. Devising task organizing methods tailor-made for multiple processing environments has been a pressing need of the art.","The part of operating systems which provides the task organizing function is known as the task organizer. Responsibility of a task organizer is to allocate CPU time for execution of tasks\/threads\/processes in case of single CPU systems. These task organizers generally implement time sharing policies, where CPU time slot is allotted to each process\/task\/thread for execution. In case of systems with multiple CPUs the task organizer is expected to distribute tasks among different processing elements in such a way that the load is balanced among CPUs and\/or execution time is minimized. The challenges faced for writing better task organizing methods are minimizing synchronization and communication times among dependent tasks, optimizing execution time, optimizing resource or CPU utilization, etc.","In this regard, various prior art references have attempted to address said problems through means such as representing a repetitive sequence of execution in the form of a tiled sequence with the aim to reduce data contention and to maximize the locality of data among them; method that identifies parallelizable tasks and organizing them on different processing units; and a method for parallelization and organizing that is based on distributing tasks of different levels obtained by dividing a total processing time by synchronizing time points in a time sequential order. Other few means includes a method that combines pre-run-time and run-time techniques; method comprising a cluster of embedded processors that share a common code distribution bus; and organizing tasks based on resource requirements of the task.","However, there are drawbacks of the methods in the existing prior art such as the overall efficiency of the parallel processing system is not achieved and methods are restricted to either static or dynamic organizing of tasks. Further, methods depend on architectural feedback and fail to determine the optimized organizing of tasks in terms of number of processing elements used. Also, the methods neither provide the optimal number of processing elements required to organize given tasks, nor provides organization of tasks that is optimized in terms of processing element utilization. Furthermore, the methods does not consider data dependency, function call charts, mapping of available processing elements and other related parameters and thus, fails to accurately arrive at optimized organization of execution of tasks.","Information relevant to attempts to address these problems can be found in EP1416385, EP533445, US20070143759, US20070255929, U.S. Pat. No. 5,452,461, U.S. Pat. No. 7,165,252, US20080263555, U.S. Pat. No. 6,292,822, US20070192545, US20070113038 and US20080263555. However, each one of these references suffers from one or more of the above listed drawbacks.","Therefore, the hitherto available methods have not been able to satisfactorily address said problems of the state of the art. Therefore, there exists a need for a method to address the drawbacks by providing a method for enabling static as well as dynamic reorganizing of tasks which serves for optimal use of execution resources and execution time.","The following presents a simplified summary in order to provide a basic understanding of some aspects of the disclosed invention. This summary is not an extensive overview, and it is not intended to identify key\/critical elements or to delineate the scope thereof. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.","It is an object of the present invention to provide for a method of reorganizing tasks to achieve optimization of resources and execution time in an environment. In one aspect, the present invention describes a method of reorganizing a plurality of task for optimization of resources and execution time including the steps of, each task is mapped to obtain qualitative and quantitative assessment of each functional elements and variables within the time frame for execution of each task; data obtained from the mapping is represented in terms of a matrix of dimensions N\u00d7N, wherein N represents total number of tasks; and the tasks are reorganized in accordance with the represented data in the matrix for execution, wherein reorganizing the tasks provides for both static and dynamic methodologies.","Accordingly, the present invention provides the method, wherein the environment includes multiple processing elements such as but not limited to multi core elements, symmetric elements and asymmetric elements.","It is another object of the present invention to determine optimal number of resources required for execution of the tasks.","Accordingly, the present invention provides the method to determine minimum time required for execution of tasks assuming unlimited availability of resources, to determine minimum resources required for any given execution time, to determine execution time required if the number of resources is fixed, to determine resource utilization if the number of resources is fixed and to determine resource utilization for given execution time and available resources.","It is advantageous that the present invention determines optimal number of resources required to achieve a practical overall task completion time and can be adaptable to non computer applications.","The systems and apparatuses disclosed herein may be implemented in any means for achieving various aspects. Other features will be apparent from the accompanying drawings and from the detailed description that follows.","The present invention is capable of multiple embodiments and not in any way restricted in scope and ambit by the within contained description and drawings.","The embodiments of the present invention will now be explained with reference to the accompanying drawings. It should be understood however that the disclosed embodiments are merely exemplary of the invention, which may be embodied in various forms. The following description and drawings are not to be construed as limiting the invention and numerous specific details are described to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention, as the basis for the claims and as a basis for teaching one skilled in the art about making and\/or using the invention. However in certain instances, well-known or conventional details are not described in order not to unnecessarily obscure the present invention in detail.","The present invention describes a method for reorganizing tasks for optimization of resources and execution time in an environment including at least one processing element. The phrases \u2018resource element\u2019, \u2018processing element\u2019 and \u2018processor\u2019 are used interchangeably through out the document. The task or process or thread can be a computer program code and the \u2018task reorganizer\u2019 or \u2018reorganizer\u2019 reorganizes the execution of the task in accordance with the original execution.","In one exemplary embodiment, a method of reorganizing a plurality of tasks for optimization of resources and execution time in an environment includes the steps of mapping of each task to obtain qualitative and quantitative assessment of each functional elements and variables within the time frame for execution of each task. Thus, the step of mapping reveals characteristics of the subject tasks in accordance to its original execution, including the execution times of individual tasks, sequence of execution, interdependency of the tasks and the schematics of release of downstream tasks as a result of execution of upstream tasks. Further, the data obtained from the mapping is represented in terms of a matrix of dimensions N\u00d7N, wherein N represents total number of tasks. Furthermore, the tasks are reorganized for execution in accordance with the represented data in the matrix, wherein reorganizing the tasks provides for both static and dynamic methodologies.","In other words, the method of reorganizing tasks to achieve effective optimization of execution times and execution resources provides for both static as well as dynamic methodologies. The detailed elaboration is hereby sought to be made to each with reference to their function in identifying executable units (tasks) and subsequently, logical assignment of priority to tasks in the execution pipeline.","Dynamic Method of Reorganizing Tasks","In one embodiment, the main memory of a parallel computing system shares the task program with all the resources or processing element in the parallel computing system. The parallel computing system includes a plurality of processing element. Further, the tasks program runs on all the processing elements of a parallel system. The data structure present in the main memory, which is shared by all the processing elements, contains information about tasks that are to be executed. This data structure is shared by all the task reorganizer programs running on different processing elements. In one exemplary embodiment, locks such as common art Mutex can be used for ensuring exclusive access to the shared data structure. It is to be noted that there is no master slave relationship among processing elements or task reorganizers i.e., all processing elements and task reorganizers are at the same level. The working of the task reorganizer in the above mentioned environment is explained as follows.","In one exemplary embodiment, the task reorganizer, which runs on all the processing elements, accesses the shared data structure to check if there is any task ready to run. The highest priority task that is ready to run is chosen for execution. The task reorganizer then changes status of the task or the flag in the data structure of the task being run and mark the flag or status of the task that the task is executing. This is to ensure that another processing element will not pickup the same task for execution. Further, common art locks such as Mutex and Semaphore can be used to ensure exclusive access to this shared data structure. If lock is not available, task program will wait till the lock becomes available for accessing the shared data structure. Once execution of task is over on any of the processing elements, the next task will start running on that processing element.","Further, the task reorganizer checks again whether any task is ready to run by accessing the shared data structure. If no task is ready to run, then the task reorganizer will keep checking periodically until the task becomes ready to run and then start executing it. In another exemplary embodiment, if multiple tasks are ready to run, the task reorganizer will pick-up task with the highest priority. Thus, working of the task reorganizer and mechanism discussed above will continue on all the processing elements of the environment.","Furthermore, as execution of tasks continues, more and more tasks will be ready to run depending on data dependency analysis which would be done before hand. The shared data structure will contain data dependency information which would be calculated by performing program analysis before hand. There could be multiple data dependencies and the data structure will contain the data dependency information. In another exemplary embodiment, the task program code may be inserted in the task after each data dependency is resolved which will modify shared data structure implying that particular data dependency is completed. If all dependencies are resolved then the task becomes ready to run. The context switching can happen at this time as the task reorganizer picks the task with the highest priority for execution. It is possible that task is waiting for I\/O or for some resource or for some Mutex. In this case, task will not run and its status will be waiting. Once resource is available then the task will become ready to run. Thus, the status of a task could be ready to run, not ready, waiting, running or complete.","For example: once all data dependencies of the task are resolved and the task becomes ready to run and if no processing elements is available to execute that task then following cases may arise:","Case 1: New task is ready to run and another task is running which have lower priority than the ready-to-run task. In such case, task reorganizer will perform context switching and task having higher priority will start running and task with lower priority will be suspended temporarily. The status of suspended task will be \u201cready to run\u201d and status of new task will be \u201crunning\u201d.\n\nCase 2: New task is ready to run and all the tasks that are currently running have higher priority than the new task. In this case, no context switching will happen and the new task will not be executed until processing elements becomes available. Thus, the status of the new task will be \u2018ready to run\u2019.\n\nCase 3: New task is ready to run and all processing elements are busy. But some task is running which have the same priority as that of the new task. In this case, round robin time slice task reorganizer will be used and both the task will run for specified time. During this time, of some other processor becomes available then both the tasks can run simultaneously on two different processing elements.\n","In one exemplary implementation, the system mentioned above is applicable for symmetric multi-processor system. However, the system will run on asymmetric multi-core system as well. In asymmetric multi-processor system, there is one primary processing element, mostly RISC architecture where the application execution takes place and there could be one or more co-processing elements which are specialized for performing certain calculations. The RISC processing element uses secondary processors such as DSP co-processor for executing special instructions and for performing special operations such as, multiply and Accumulate (MAC) operations. In case of such asymmetric multi-processor system, task reorganizer will run on main RISC processor only. In this case, it is compiler responsibility to generate task program code so as to use coprocessors.","Static Method for Reorganizing Tasks","In one embodiment, the methodology of assignment of priority to tasks by static method is based on the fact that more the number of tasks dependent on a particular task, then the task reorganizer try to schedule the task on high priority and thus, more tasks will get released due to execution of a particular task. Further, another task, even if ready, may get delayed due to this strategy. Therefore, there are two main criteria for selecting a task for execution or keep that task for waiting, such as task execution time and number of tasks which are dependent on the current task to be executed.","In addition, the static reorganizing method requires the task program code to be executed many times offline to gather all the required information for deciding the reorganizing policy. The relevant information includes the division of task and dependency of tasks in terms of execution time. Further, based on these inputs, task dependency matrix is prepared. Table I shows data of the program code as revealed by separate chronometric mappings and  illustrates graphical representation of reorganization of tasks in an environment comprising multiple processing elements.","In the Table I, task  can be started as soon as task  has finished with 10 ms execution. Task  can be started when task  has finished 20 ms and task  has finished 10 ms. Here, the 6row says that the task  has duration 20 ms and it can only start after task  is executed for 30 ms, task  is executed for 20 ms, task  is executed for 10 ms and task  is executed for 15 ms as shown in . Based on Table I, a task dependency matrix may be formed.","Therefore, form a matrix A such that along the rows we have tasks being executed. Along the columns we have tasks becoming ready for execution. Each element in the irow is equal to the time of releasing the task j in the jth column. Thus, Tij implies that the itask will release the jtask after Tij time. Once released, the task j is ready for execution.","_T\u2014Absolute wait time required for task i to start after task j has started execution (In above case T=time required for task  to start after task  has started the execution)","Ti\u2014task number i","P\u2014Processor number i","T\u2014Task dependency matrix","Tij\u2014element of task dependency matrix, means task i can start its job once task j has finished execution of Tij unit of time","P\u2014time required for processor i to finish its job and be ready for next available task","P\u2014Processor status (Busy or Available)","Txi\u2014Total serial execution time for task i","Ti\u2014status of task I (executing, finished, not started)","Ti\u2014Number of tasks dependent on Ti","N\u2014Number of processor","Tiexec\u2014Time since Ti is executing<Ti","In one embodiment, the reorganization of tasks is completely based on the task dependency matrix and is done as described below.","For finding the first task to be executed, task which does not have any dependency is chosen. In Table II, task  is the first task. In case there are many tasks which are probable candidate for first task, the priority of execution of tasks is set to decide which of the tasks can be started and which is to be delayed. The three factors to decide the same are: Txi, N, and Ti. Thus, the policy considers these three factors for deciding optimal reorganization of tasks. In case, there are more number of processors available, the task with more Tiwill be given higher priority. Tasks which take more time to execute will not be started earlier than the task which has less Txi. At the same time, number of tasks which gets ready if current task execution is started is deciding factor for deciding the next task to be executed. Therefore, the removal of dependency of other tasks is made sure. Thus, ensuring optimal usage of processors.","In one embodiment, to decide the priority of tasks to be executed, task with\n\n(min(dep)) is given higher priority\u2003\u2003(1)\n","Once the first task starts execution following values are updated:","Tistat\u2014executing","Pistat\u2014running task i","Piwait\u2014Txi (Means Txi time is remaining for the processor to become free)","Further, for finding next task(s) to be started, either task which were identified in the first step or such selected from tasks remaining using equation (1) are chosen. To select the next task, the task dependency matrix should be scanned to check if there are any tasks which depend on the tasks which are currently executing. Suppose Tj is such a task and it depends on task number i which is currently executing. The logic for deciding the priority of execution shall be as follows:\n\n","Properties of Task Dependency Matrix:","Absolute minimum wait time for task i, Tis between 0 to execution time for task i, T. When T=0, it means that the (i+1)task can be started concurrently with task i. On the other hand, if T=Tit means that there is no possibility of executing the next task prior to completion of task i.\n\n0\u2003\u2003Property 1\n\nTotal time for serial execution, \u2003\u2003Property 2\n\nTotal minimum time required for parallel execution, =Max()\u2003\u2003Property 3\n\nwhere i varies from 1 to M i.e. maximum number of tasks\n","In the above case Tis assumed to be all zero and thus all tasks can be started concurrently.\n\nLast execution will always have \n\nExecution time for task \u2003\u2003Property 4\n","When the next task is started on a different processing element, the time remaining for execution on the current processor is (T\u2212T). This is the time one would save by parallelizing.\n\n()=0\u2003\u2003Case 1\n\n",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0047","num":"0054"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00001","num":"00001"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"189pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"(T\u2212 T) > T"]},{"entry":[{},"In this case one needs to carry out the following:"]},{"entry":[{},"sum = 0"]},{"entry":[{},"flag = 0"]},{"entry":[{},"N = 0\u2003, where N is the number of processing elements"]},{"entry":[{},"loop (flag!=1)"]},{"entry":[{},"N = N+1"]},{"entry":[{},"sum = sum + T "]},{"entry":[{},"loop from j =0 to j<N && flag==0"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"175pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"if ( sum > (T \u2212 T ) )"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"161pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"flag=1"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"175pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"j=j+1"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"189pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"end loop"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"203pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"end loop"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}}]}},"br":{},"in-line-formulae":[{},{}],"i":["K","i","N"]},"Assuming N is number of processing elements, j is iteration for processing elements, M is number of tasks and i is iteration for tasks, the time remaining for a processor (same processor) to get freed may be different in case of different tasks being considered. Thus,\n\n\n\nor\n\n\n\nOptimal Number of Processors Vs Optimal Time\n","In another embodiment, the number of processors required for achieving optimal speed of the execution of task is determined. Further, based on the dead time and wait time of the execution of the tasks, the optimal number of processing elements needed for the execution of any given sequential task program can be determined. The optimal number of processing elements is determined by considering the fact that waiting time and dead time is minimal possible with maximal throughput of all the processing elements.","Accordingly, in one embodiment, the optimization of the performance in terms of execution time and\/or in terms of number of processing elements can be accomplished as follows:","Based on the requirement of the application or the user, the method described tunes to give the desired performance by forming the task dependency matrix","Wherein,",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0052","num":"0000"},"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0005","list-style":"none"},"li":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0005-0001","num":"0000"},"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0006","list-style":"none"},"li":["Tij=indicates the wait time for \u2018j\u2019task to start execution, after \u2018i\u2019th task has started executing. i.e. the dependency of \u2018j\u2019task on \u2018i\u2019task is over when \u2018i\u2019task runs for time Tij","Tji=indicates the wait time for task \u2018j\u2019 to start executing after start of \u2018i\u2019task"]}}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0053","num":"0061"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 2","FIG. 2"],"b":["0","5","0"]},"Thus, the absolute wait time for task  would not be T=25, just because it is the maximum of the 3 dependencies (T, Tand T), but the execution time is 30 ms, since task  depends on task  which in-turn depends on task . Hence, the wait times for these previous tasks are to be considered. Thus, in this case the maximum time would be the addition of the wait time for task  i.e. 20 ms and Ti.e. 10 ms. Further, the execution time vs. number of processor is as depicted in table IV.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0055","num":"0063"},"figref":"FIGS. 3","i":["a","b","c","d","T","\/N"],"br":{},"in-line-formulae":[{},{}],"sub":["exec","proc"]},"In yet another embodiment, the optimal number of processors required is determined as described below. In practical cases, it may not be possible to have N number of processors to execute code in parallel. For example, if their exists four processors,","First is master=processor number 0","Second is executing task or function F1=processor number 1","Third is executing task or function F2=processor number 2","Fourth is executing task or function F3=processor number 3","If task F4 is ready for execution and no processors are available, then Dead Time (T) is calculated","Each module will have its own index equal to number of parallelization code index sections in the task program. Further the index is also dependent on the execution time of each task in the neighborhood of the task in the call graph, which includes graphical representation of the sequence in which different tasks are executed in the actual time scale of execution of the sequential computer code.","For example, tasks F1, F2 and F3 takes \u03b1, \u03b1, and \u03b1time for execution respectively. If we have F4 ready for execution, however processors 1, 2, and 3 are busy executing F1, F2, and F3, the task F4 has to wait for minimum of \u03b1, \u03b1, and \u03b1for getting processor available to execute F4. This \u03b1becomes the dead time. One of the solutions for the described situation is to find exclusive time of execution for F1, F2, F3, and F4 and find the maximum execution time. Suppose F4 is taking maximum time to execute F1+F2+F3 or any combination of F1\/F2\/F3 has to execute simultaneously","Further, based on dead time and wait time, the method described herein determines the optimal number of processing elements needed for the execution of any given sequential task program. The optimal number depends is determined by considering the fact that waiting time and dead time is minimal possible with maximal throughput of all the processing elements.","Accordingly, to get optimal number of processors required for any application, task dependency matrix is considered by selecting N=1. The time for execution is noted down for this case. Now Nis increased by one at a time and Tis noted down. There will be one instant when adding extra processor would not make effect in total execution time. Number of processors at this instant is called the optimal number of processors (N) required for this application.\n\n=(after which the execution time become constant=)\n","Therefore, the method described determines the number of processing elements required for any application. There are cases when user is satisfied when the execution time (T<T). In such cases, the simulation has to stop as soon as t>T. In this case, the optimal number of processors N<N. In above example, suppose the user does not need the speed up beyond 95 ms. Hence, the optimal number of processor for such use would be 2 instead of 5. , (), (), () and () illustrate graphically the reorganization of tasks T, T, T, T, T, and T along the real time frame.  is illustration of reorganizing of tasks in an environment comprising multiple processing elements while  () to ) illustrate scenarios comprising one additional processing element.","In summary, the optimization of processing elements is determined by inputting tasks to a plurality of processing element for execution; executing the tasks by the processing elements; recording the total execution time of each task; recording engagement time for each processing element; and dividing the engagement time by the execution time to determine utilization of the resources, thus optimizing the resources required. Further, the number of processing elements utilized for achieving minimum execution time is the minimum number of resources required for achieving fastest execution of the tasks.","In one embodiment, the minimum time required for execution and dollar function (T\u2212T)*(cost function) determine the $s saved if the execution of tasks is parallelized. Therefore, it is to be decided whether it is cost effective to parallelize a given application. Further, the additional cost required for maximum optimization can be determined by the difference of execution time for fixed number of processing elements and infinite number of processing elements.","Task Dependency Analysis and Task Program Code Instrumentation:","In one embodiment, the described method performs data dependency analysis and find out tasks which can be run in parallel. It is to be noted that the task program implies pieces of code that can be run in parallel or ahead of time of their original execution.","Further, the task dependency information and tasks status information are stored in the shared data structure memory. A task may have multiple data dependencies on one or more other tasks. Furthermore, while performing the task program code analysis, the application programming interface (API) call can be inserted in the task program code after each data dependency is resolved. The API will change the shared data structure memory so as to mark that the task dependency is resolved.","In addition, if there are multiple data dependencies then the parallel task will be executed by the task reorganizer only after all the data dependencies, are resolved. This is possible with the help of instrumented code as the API code inserted after each data dependency will keep marking resolution of data dependency in the data structure for each task and for all data dependencies.","For determining the dependencies, chronographic mapping of the individual tasks is necessary.  illustrates flow of data between tasks and their inter-dependencies during execution of the code. Execution times are displayed along with for clarity of time scale.","Data Structure in the Main Storage Memory:","Table V illustrates the various heads under which are the essential elements of the shared data structure which will be accessed by the task reorganizer running on the processing element.","It is to be noted that there will be one such data structure entry for each task. The table V for all the tasks will be generated which would be capable of performing data dependency analysis.","Task ID: Unique number identifying the task","Status: Status of task\u2014Ready, Running, Not ready, Waiting etc","Number of data dependencies: Number of data dependencies to be resolved before starting execution of the task. The API mentioned above (which will be inserted in the task program code) will essentially decrement this number implying that data dependency is resolved. Thus, initially this number represents number of data dependencies of this task. If the field is zero, it represent that all the data dependencies are resolved and the task is ready to run.\n\nNumber of tasks that becomes available due to execution of this task: This field tells how many other tasks are dependent on this task. This serves as priority of the task. If more tasks are dependent on this task, then it should be executed first among all available tasks.\n\nData pointer: Pointer to data which is required for running the task. This may include global variables.\n\nStack pointer: Pointer to stack which will contain call stack and local variables during execution of this task.\n","It is to be noted that, these are the essential fields of the shared data structure required by the task reorganizer. There may be more number of fields required in this table as per the actual implantation of the system.","Deciding priority of tasks: In one embodiment, the priority of a task is decided based on the two facts namely, duration of execution of the task and the total number of other tasks dependent on the task.","Initially priority of the task is set by counting number of other tasks that are dependent on the task. Thus, higher priority gets assigned to task on which many other tasks are dependent. Priorities are then readjusted depending on duration as follows:\n\n","The present invention will now be described in more detail by the way of examples which should not be construed as limiting the invention thereto The following examples, will serve to illustrate the practice of this invention, it being understood that the particulars, shown are by way of example and for purpose of illustrative discussion of embodiments of the invention.","Consider a hypothetical computer application containing 7 tasks having data as represented in Table VI.","Where,","Tid is the task ID is the nomenclature used for naming the tasks in the subject application.","Tx is the time required for execution of corresponding task.","NDT is the number of tasks the execution of which can be initiated only after starting the execution of the corresponding task. While assigning priority to a task due consideration will be given to the number of dependent tasks being released by the particular task.","LDT is the list of task IDs which get released during execution of the corresponding task.","Tw is the time required into the execution of the particular releaser task until which execution of the corresponding task cannot be initiated.","Ts is the absolute time, on the real-time scale, at which the task starts its execution. This time is relative to the first resource on which the first task is scheduled.","Te is the total time elapsed, on the real-time scale, at that instance of time. This time is corresponds to the time elapsed for the resource on which the task is scheduled.","SF is the flag for status of the task having following values:\n\n","Further, having determined the dependency of the tasks, it is an objective of the present invention to achieve logical dispatch of the tasks to individual processing elements to realize the full potential of the multiple processing elements. Mapping of the available multiple processing elements is the next step towards deriving the logic of task reorganization available tasks for processing on said processing environment. Starting with the assumption of having single processor, the same logic leads to the determination of optimal number of processors for fastest practical execution of the subject code. For this, a real time-updated processor status sheet is maintained. Nothing contained within the above contained specification may be construed to be limiting the applicability of the present invention, more particularly illustrated in example 2.","Consider pool of engineers which are of same expertise having access to a central shared database which contains information about various tasks to be done. Each task in the database has specific time duration and there are dependencies of a task on other tasks. What an engineer does is that he periodically checks if any task is ready to be executed and starts doing it. In case, multiple tasks are ready, he always picks task with the highest priority and start doing that task. While doing the task, if dependency of some other tasks gets resolved, the engineer modifies the data against that task in the central database. After modification of this dependency data, higher priority task may become ready to start. In such case, the engineer starts the task with the highest priority. Before starting highest priority task, the engineers stores current state of the current task in the central database so that other engineer, if free, can take up that task where it is left. If an engineer finishes a task, it modifies the data in the central database that the task is done and again checks for ready to start task. If no task is ready at that time, he keeps checking periodically for the same until all tasks are complete.","It is advantageous that the tasks are not synonymous to functions and the task is smallest unit program element that may be considered for task reorganizing. The advantages of the present invention are as follows:\n\n","The invention is more easily comprehended by reference to the specific embodiment's recited hereinabove which are representative of the invention. It must be understood, however, that the recited embodiments are provided for the purpose of illustration, and that the invention may be practiced otherwise than as specifically illustrated without departing from its spirit and scope. As will be realized, the present invention is capable of various other embodiments and that its several components and related details are capable of various alterations, all without departing from the basic concept of the present invention. Accordingly, descriptions will be regarded as illustrative in nature and not as restrictive in any form whatsoever. Modifications and variations of the system and apparatus described herein will be obvious to those skilled in the art. Such modifications and variations are intended to come within the scope of the appended claims.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0090","num":"0108"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00002","num":"00002"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"4"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"21pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"28pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"63pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"105pt","align":"center"}}],"thead":{"row":{"entry":[{},"TABLE I"]}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]},{"entry":[{},{},"Task ","Dependencies"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"5"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"21pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"28pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"63pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"49pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"Task","Duration","Dependent ",{}]},{"entry":[{},"Number","(ms)","Number","Time Offset"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]},{"entry":[{},"1","\u200250","\u2014","\u2014"]},{"entry":[{},"2","\u200230","1","10"]},{"entry":[{},"3","\u200220","1, 2","20, 10"]},{"entry":[{},"4","\u200215","1, 2, 3","15, 25, 10"]},{"entry":[{},"5","\u200220","3, 4","\u20025.10"]},{"entry":[{},"6","\u200220","2, 3, 4, 5","30, 20, 10, 15"]},{"entry":[{},"7","100","1","30"]},{"entry":[{},"8","\u200230","2","15"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}}]}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0091","num":"0109"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00003","num":"00003"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"11"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"28pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"56pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"21pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"14pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"14pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"6","colwidth":"14pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"7","colwidth":"14pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"8","colwidth":"14pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"9","colwidth":"14pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"10","colwidth":"14pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"11","colwidth":"14pt","align":"center"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":"TABLE II"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"11","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":[{},"Execution Time",{},{},{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":["Task","(TX)","Tij","T1","T2","T3","T4","T5","T6","T7","T8"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"11","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":{}}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"11"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"28pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"56pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"21pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"14pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"14pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"6","colwidth":"14pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"7","colwidth":"14pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"8","colwidth":"14pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"9","colwidth":"14pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"10","colwidth":"14pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"11","colwidth":"14pt","align":"char","char":"."}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["1","50","T1","0","10","20","15","0","0","30","15"]},{"entry":["2","30","T2","0","0","10","25","0","30","0","0"]},{"entry":["3","20","T3","0","0","0","10","5","20","0","0"]},{"entry":["4","15","T4","0","0","0","0","10","10","0","0"]},{"entry":["5","20","T5","0","0","0","0","0","0","0","0"]},{"entry":["6","20","T6","0","0","0","0","0","0","0","0"]},{"entry":["7","100","T7","0","0","0","0","0","0","0","0"]},{"entry":["8","30","T8","0","0","0","0","0","0","0","0"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"11","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0092","num":"0110"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00004","num":"00004"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"9"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"28pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"63pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"21pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"14pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"21pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"6","colwidth":"14pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"7","colwidth":"21pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"8","colwidth":"14pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"9","colwidth":"21pt","align":"center"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":"TABLE III"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"9","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":[{},"Execution Time",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":["Task","(TX)","Tij","T0","T1","T2","T3","T4","T5"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"9","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":{}}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"9"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"28pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"63pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"21pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"14pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"21pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"6","colwidth":"14pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"7","colwidth":"21pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"8","colwidth":"14pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"9","colwidth":"21pt","align":"char","char":"."}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["1","50","T0","0","10","20","15","0","0"]},{"entry":["2","30","T1","0","0","10","25","0","30"]},{"entry":["3","20","T2","0","0","0","10","5","20"]},{"entry":["4","15","T3","0","0","0","0","10","10"]},{"entry":["5","20","T4","0","0","0","0","0","15"]},{"entry":["6","20","T5","0","0","0","0","0","0"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"9","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0093","num":"0111"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00005","num":"00005"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"49pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"133pt","align":"center"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":[{},"TABLE IV"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]},{"entry":[{},"Number of ","Execution time"]},{"entry":[{},"Processor","in ms"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"1","155"]},{"entry":[{},"2","\u200295"]},{"entry":[{},"3","\u200285"]},{"entry":[{},"4","\u200280"]},{"entry":[{},"5","\u200280"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}}}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0094","num":"0112"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00006","num":"00006"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"6"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"49pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"49pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"35pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"6","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":"TABLE V"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"6","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Task","Status","Number of data","Number of","Data","Stack"]},{"entry":["ID","of Task","dependencies","tasks that","Pointer.","Pointer"]},{"entry":[{},{},"(Count).","becomes","(Pointer to",{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"Number of","available due to ","data",{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"dependencies","execution of","required",{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"that should be","this task.","for",{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"resolved for",{},"executing",{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"running this",{},"this task.)",{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"task."]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"6","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0095","num":"0113"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00007","num":"00007"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"center"}},"thead":{"row":{"entry":"TABLE VI"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":"DATA FOR SUBJECT CODE FOR TIME = 0"}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"8"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"28pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"21pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"28pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"42pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"6","colwidth":"21pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"7","colwidth":"21pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"8","colwidth":"21pt","align":"center"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["(Tid)","(Tx)","(NDT)","(LDT)","(Tw)","(Ts)","(Te)","(SF)"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"8","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"8"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"28pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"21pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"35pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"28pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"42pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"6","colwidth":"21pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"7","colwidth":"21pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"8","colwidth":"21pt","align":"center"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["1","100","2","2, 3","60, 30","0","0","NS"]},{"entry":["2","200","0","None","0","0","0","NS"]},{"entry":["3","30","3","4, 6, 7","10, 20, 25","0","0","NS"]},{"entry":["4","90","1","5","60","0","0","NS"]},{"entry":["5","100","1","6","50","0","0","NS"]},{"entry":["6","250","0","None","0","0","0","NS"]},{"entry":["7","150","0","None","0","0","0","NS"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"8","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF DRAWINGS","p":["Embodiments are illustrated by way of example and not limitation in the figures of the accompanying drawings, in which like references indicate similar elements and in which:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIGS. 3A","b":["3","3","3"]}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
