---
title: Method and gateway for routing international mobile telephone calls
abstract: A gateway for routing an international mobile telephone call comprises a storage device and a cost-saving routing module. The storage device is configured to store a mapping table and a call record table. The mapping table records a mobile phone number of a roaming subscriber and a fixed network number, and the call record table records a caller's phone number and the mobile phone number of the roaming subscriber. The cost-saving routing module is configured to establish a connection in accordance with the mapping table and call record table.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08340020&OS=08340020&RS=08340020
owner: Industrial Technology Research Institute
number: 08340020
owner_city: Hsinchu
owner_country: TW
publication_date: 20090227
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","PREFERRED EMBODIMENT OF THE PRESENT INVENTION"],"p":["1. Field of the Invention","The present invention relates to a telecommunication service, and more particularly, to a gateway and routing method for optimizing international roaming call services.","2. Description of the Related Art","With the widespread development of mobile telecommunication technology, users can now enjoy mobile telephone service at any location and are not limited to a fixed location where wire equipment has been deployed. In particular, telecommunication providers offer international roaming call services that allow mobile subscribers to easily communication using their mobile phones. However, the international roaming fee is very expensive because the roaming communication usually goes through two international trunks.","Although there are many low cost approaches in the market, such approaches either require the user to dial several times or require the purchase of additional devices such as SIM cards or external boxes. As a result, such approaches might save money but do so at the expense of lost convenience for the user. Other approaches achieve cost savings by modifying existing mobile communication systems, but the cost of replacing existing communication nodes is relatively high. In brief, a solution is needed to meet the demands of both convenience and routing cost for international roaming call services.","The exemplary embodiment consistent with the present invention proposes a gateway for routing an international mobile telephone call. The gateway comprises a storage device and a cost-saving routing module. The storage device is configured to store a mapping table and a call record table. The mapping table records a mobile phone number of a roaming subscriber and a fixed network number or local phone number, and the call record table records a caller's phone number and the mobile phone number of the roaming subscriber. The cost-saving routing module is configured to establish a connection in accordance with the mapping table and call record table.","The exemplary embodiment consistent with the present invention proposes a method for routing an international mobile telephone call, comprising the steps of: recording a mobile phone number of a roaming subscriber and a fixed network number by a mapping table; and recording a caller's phone number and the mobile phone number of the roaming subscriber by a call record table.","The exemplary embodiment consistent with the present invention proposes a method for routing an international mobile telephone call and controlling roaming setup of a mobile phone, comprising the steps of: recording a current location; determining whether the mobile phone is operating in a roaming mode after the mobile phone receives an incoming call from a caller; issuing a rejection if the determining result is affirmative; and calling back to a target PSTN gateway to establish a connection between the mobile phone and the caller.","The exemplary embodiment consistent with the present invention proposes a public switched telephone system (PSTN) gateway for routing an international mobile telephone call. In addition to deploying the PSTN gateways in the originating country, the subscriber's home country and the roaming country, the roaming service provider needs to provide the roaming subscriber with multi-country fixed network number covering the countries the roaming subscriber usually travels to. For example, the subscriber requests a roaming service from a Taiwan roaming service provider. Because the subscriber usually visits the United States and Japan, the roaming service provider assigns a mobile phone number +886-9311111111, a U.S. fixed network number +1-4433333333 and a Japanese fixed network number +81-556666666 to the subscriber.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["10","10","102","104","102","112","114","112","114"]},"The PSTN gateway operates in an originating mode, a home mode or a target mode. The originating mode defines the condition that the PSTN gateway is at the same place with the caller. The home mode defines the condition that the PSTN gateway is in the subscriber's home country. The target mode defines the condition that the PSTN gateway is where the subscriber is roaming.","When the PSTN gateway  is operating in an originating mode, the cost-saving routing module  checks the call record table  and makes a connection with the home gateway (the gateway located in the subscriber's home country) through the Internet when a caller calls the roaming subscriber.","When the PSTN gateway  is operating in a home mode, after the home PSTN gateway receives a connection request from the originating PSTN gateway or an incoming call request from the caller, the cost-saving routing module  checks the call record table , establishes a connection between the caller and callee (the roaming subscriber) or actuates a call-back timer  after a rejection response from the roaming subscriber is received. If no call-back request is received before the call-back timer  expires, the cost-saving routing module  clears the call record table  and releases the connection between the caller and callee. Alternatively, if a call-back request is received before the call-back timer  expires, the cost-saving routing module  checks the call record table  and transfer the call-back request to the originating PSTN gateway.","When the PSTN gateway  is operating in a target mode, if both the caller and callee (roaming subscriber) are in the subscriber's home country, the cost-saving routing module  checks the call record table , and directly establishes the connection between the caller and callee; or if the roaming subscriber rejects the connection to the home gateway and the target PSTN gateway can accept the call-back request from the roaming subscriber, the cost-saving routing module  checks the call record table , and if the corresponding records are found in the call record table  then the cost-saving routing module  establishes the connection between the caller and callee. If the call record table  does not have any corresponding information, the call-back request is routed to the home PSTN gateway.","If the PSTN gateway  operating in the originating mode receives a call-back request first and then receives a rejection from the roaming subscriber, the PSTN gateway  ignores the rejection.","The PSTN gateway  in accordance with one embodiment of the present invention is able to connect to a PSTN. For example, the PSTN gateway  is able to connect to a mobile switching center (MSC), a gateway mobile switching center (GMSC) and a switch, etc. In addition, the PSTN gateway  is able to connect to a telecom-grade IP network.","The PSTN gateway  in accordance with one embodiment of the present invention is compatible with the server utilizing a session initiation protocol (SIP) and a real-time transport protocol (RTP) so that the cost is reduced accordingly.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":["302","320","302","320","30","304","304","30","312","302","30","306","304","30","320","310"],"i":["a ","a ","a ","a ","a","b ","b ","b "]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":["302","320","302","304","30","312","302","30","306","30","30","314","314","320","30","320","310","308","309","318","320","30","30","304","30","314","302","320","30","320","304","314","116"],"i":["a ","a ","a ","a","b ","a ","b ","a","b ","b ","b","a ","a ","a ","a ","b ","b ","b "]},"As in , this embodiment incurs only the costs of two local calls and one network call. In implementing the design, the mobile phone of the roaming subscriber  can build in a function of rejecting incoming calls and automatically calling back.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":["302","320","302","30","306","30","30","314","314","304","30","320","310","312","308","309","316","310","316","320","320","30","30","30","320","320"],"i":["b ","a ","b ","a ","b ","b ","b ","b ","c","b "]},"When receiving the call-back request from the roaming subscriber , the Japanese PSTN gateway in the location of the roaming subscriber  checks whether the call record table has any call record relating to the roaming subscriber . If affirmative, it means that the caller is also in the target country. Otherwise, in this example, the caller  is determined to be in the United States, and therefore the Japanese PSTN gateway learns by inquiring the number (+886-931111111) of the roaming subscriber  that the subscriber's home country is Taiwan and then routes the call-back request to the Taiwan PSTN gateway through the IP network . If the above call-back request is received before the expiry of the call-back timer, the cost-saving routing module inquires the call record table in accordance with the caller's phone number and calls back to the caller in the United States. However, if the above call-back request is received after the expiry of the call-back timer, the cost-saving routing module clears the call record table and releases the connection between the caller  and the roaming subscriber .","When receiving the call-back request from the roaming country, the home Taiwan PSTN gateway identifies the caller's phone number and country in accordance with the call record, and then reroutes the call to the U.S. PSTN gateway through the IP network . The cost-saving routing module of the U.S. PSTN gateway learns by inquiring the call record table that the caller  intends to make a connection with the roaming subscriber . When the U.S. PSTN gateway establishes the call-back connection, the call path, which previously would have gone through two international trunks, is reduced to two local calls and one Voice over IP (VoIP) call, and therefore the original charge of international calls is largely reduced.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":"FIG. 5","b":["501","502","504","505"]},"In another embodiment of the present invention, to capture the current roaming country, e.g. a country code as in step S, the AT+COPS command of the AT command set can be used. Alternatively, the current roaming country can be captured by the lineGetCurrentOperator function of Windows Mobile\/CE Extended Telephony Application Programming Interface (TAPI). In step S, if operating in a non-roaming mode, i.e. when the callee is not currently in his or her home country, a standard mobile phone setup program is actuated.","The present mobile phone features a mechanism of cutting off an international call and automatically calling back to the PSTN gateway. In addition, to further achieve the cost-saving objective, a dual-network mobile phone having a wireless connection function as shown in  can be used. Referring to , when receiving an international call, the roaming subscriber  can connect to a wireless network base station  to call back in a wireless mode. Because this local call is routed by a wireless network, the dialing cost can be further reduced.","The exemplary embodiment consistent with the present invention does not change the way the subscribers usually use their mobile phones, and simultaneously retains the convenience of international roaming. Unlike many products on the market, the present invention achieves the cost-saving objectives both in originating and in target ends. As far as the deploying hardware expense is concerned, compared to existing products, the present invention features a low cost and is compatible with existing equipment and therefore can be adopted by the industry right away.","The above-described embodiments consistent with the present invention are intended to be illustrative only. Numerous alternative embodiments may be devised by persons skilled in the art without departing from the scope of the following claims."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The exemplary embodiment consistent with the invention will be described according to the appended drawings in which:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 6"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
