---
title: Method and system for utilizing packaged content sources to identify and provide information based on contextual information
abstract: A method and system for providing access to content on an electronic device is provided. One embodiment includes receiving contextual information and querying a packaged content source for content related to the contextual information. Available content relating to the contextual information from the packaged content source is then indicated for user access.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08938465&OS=08938465&RS=08938465
owner: Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.
number: 08938465
owner_city: Suwon
owner_country: KR
publication_date: 20090820
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["RELATED APPLICATION","FIELD OF THE INVENTION","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","BRIEF SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION"],"p":["This application claims priority from U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61\/095,922, filed on Sep. 10, 2008, incorporated herein by reference.","The present invention relates to providing access to information based on contextual information.","Software platform technologies such as widgets and downloadable applications\/applets provide packaging a service or content source for consumer electronics devices. A widget comprises a package of graphics and script code that may be overlaid on an electronic device display screen to provide information to the user. For example, a weather widget may present content overlaid on the main data such that the graphic for the current conditions and temperature are made available. Widgets have a simple lifecycle in that they are downloaded, displayed, minimized and stopped. The interaction of the widget with the underlying software platform is limited because the platform only enables the widget to fetch data from the network and display on the screen for user viewing.","Downloadable applications and applets, particularly such as those in Java, are similar to widgets, but provide more extensive Application Programming Interface (API) for interaction. Java applications are capable of providing complex animations as well as complex network protocols. However, as with widgets, Java applications have limited ability to interact with the underlying platform or other software components. In other applications, a search engine is used to obtain content for a particular topic (set of keywords) based on internet infrastructure.","A method and system utilizing packaged content sources to identify and provide information of potential interest to a user based on contextual information is provided. One embodiment comprises a computer-implemented method for providing access to content, including receiving contextual information, and querying a packaged content source for content related to the contextual information. The method further includes indicating content relating to the contextual information available from the packaged content source.","The invention provides a method and system for utilizing packaged content sources to identify and provide information based on contextual information. One embodiment involves a process for interacting with, and relating, content sources and representations with contextual information.","For example, packaged content sources, such as widgets, are utilized to find content sources for recommendation based on contextual information. As such, a search facilitator process according to the invention enables a contextual recommendation system (e.g., See\u2018N\u2019Search) to interact with sources of information to be recommended by the recommendation system. The recommendation system is enabled to interact with packaged content sources.","The search facilitator process allows querying a dynamic packaged content source for available content. The search facilitator process further allows initiating a request to a packaged content source for information (e.g., content) relevant to contextual information, and displaying such information.","In one embodiment, a packaged content source is downloadable code that is executed to provide access to content data. A packaged content source comprises executable program code including a function to obtain information (such as over a network), and includes a function to source content using internal functionality. The packaged content source is executed locally on the processor of an electronic device it is downloaded to. The packaged content source includes interfaces, and when executed the packaged content source operates to obtain content information. The electronic device (e.g., a computer or a consumer electronics device) is provided a packaged content source from a remote location. The electronic device also receives contextual information. The electronic device then executes the packaged content source locally (i.e., local to the contextual information), wherein the packaged content source makes requests to obtain information based on the contextual information.","One embodiment provides a system implementing a search facilitator process for using content sources to source information such that a software module utilizing the facilitator process does not require information about the packaged content sources themselves. Such a software module may be a contextual recommender which may initiate a request to the search facilitator process based on contextual information, such as topics (e.g., set of keywords), that the contextual recommender may wish to suggest to the user. The search facilitator process utilizes packaged content sources that provide content source processing implemented in a packaged content source platform, such as in widget platform application logic. The packaged content sources may also include applets such as Java Applets. The user is provided with information relevant to the contextual information without a need for the contextual recommender to have information about the packaged content sources themselves. An implementation of the invention is described below in conjunction with widgets running on widget platforms.","Widget platforms provide an approach to making information available to users as a package, similar to HTML and a browser for displaying information content on a display screen of an electronic device. Several widget platforms exist, such as Konfabulator (now Yahoo! Widgets), Vista Sidebar, Google Widgets, Nokia Widgets, etc. Rather than assuming an opaque background and full screen display as in a browser, widget platforms take up a small portion of the display, allowing the user to \u201csee through\/around\u201d the content displayed.","In widget platforms, the display is not rendered declaratively (e.g., using HTML), but instead, using a scripting language on a graphics\/networking application programming interface (API). As such, widgets (running on widget platforms) are more suitable for displaying dynamic information because the script code in the widgets can make multiple requests to obtain information (e.g., over a period of time). Widgets are often based on a scripting language and are the web equivalent of Java Applets for Java.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["10","10","103","106","105","106","104","108","104"]},"A packaged content source  may execute on e.g., a device  or the device , which may communicate with the packaged content source platform  that may execute on a device  (remote or local to client ) in a network. The search facilitator  may execute on the device , wherein the client device  or another device  in a network including devices ,  (an example of such a network is provided in relation to  further below). Although in , the devices  and  are shown as separate devices, this is not a requirement. The devices  and  may be the same singular device which includes functionality of both the devices  and .","An overall process utilizing packaged content sources (e.g., widgets) to identify and provide information of potential interest to a user based on contextual information, according to the invention is now described in relation to . One or more topics  (e.g., keywords, etc.) of interest to the user are determined and each topic is passed to the search facilitator  which may include a search manager  and an information display manager . The search manager  queries packaged content sources  for available content related to user-selected topic. Packaged content sources  send content to the system.","The information display manager  selectively displays information about the packaged content sources  that have such content available, on a UI  of the device . The user may select a displayed packaged content source  from the UI  wherein the search facilitator  invokes the selected packaged content source  to execute on the selected packaged content source platform , passing along the user-selected topic to obtain related content. The obtained related content may be directly rendered on the UI  by the packaged content source platform .","A more detailed process utilizing packaged content sources (e.g., widgets) to identify and provide information of potential interest to a user based on contextual information, according to the invention is now described.  shows a functional block diagram of an example system  according to the invention, which includes components of the system , and further includes contextual information  and a contextual recommendation system .  shows a flowchart of a process  implemented by system  for utilizing packaged content sources (e.g., widgets) to identify and provide information of potential interest to a user based on contextual information, according to an embodiment of the invention.","Initially, in block  the packaged content source software platform  has either already downloaded each packaged content source (PCS)  or does so at start up. In block , the contextual recommender system  uses contextual information  to determine current topics. In one example, the contextual recommendation system  uses contextual information  to determine one or more topics  (e.g., keywords, etc.) that is of interest to the user. Contextual information  may include user context, device context, and\/or content context. User context may include, for example, user actions, history, profile. Device context may include, for example, current content accessed by the device or in the network, metadata such as closed-captions, Electronic Programming Guide (EPG). Content context provides content more meaning than simply words.","In block , once one or more topics have been determined, each topic is passed to the search facilitator  (e.g., software component which may include a searching function and an information display manager function).","In block , the search facilitator  may first pass each topic to each packaged content source  as a request, to determine if each packaged content source  has any content for the topic. Each request functions as a callback into the respective packaged content source and causes the program logic of the packaged content source to perform its programmed steps necessary to determine if such requested content is available. In addition a packaged content source may inform the system on its own volition.","In block , information (e.g., identification, hyperlink) about each packaged content source  that responds with \u201cTRUE\u201d for potential content is displayed to the user on the user interface (UI)  of the client device . Optionally, information about all the packaged content sources  is listed to the user for them to select amongst on the UI .","In block , the UI  visually renders information and availability from the packaged content sources  to the user (e.g., Source , . . . , Source n). When multiple topics are available, the UI  may optionally allow the user to switch among such topics to browse the topics and also view the content available from the corresponding packaged content sources.","In block , the UI  invokes the selected packaged content source via the information display manager to run (execute) on the packaged content source platform . The selected topic is passed to the invoked packaged content source.","In block , the packaged content source platform  performs any necessary functions or backend content sources  () such as the Internet or search engines, in order to display content related to the selected topic. The search facilitator may selectively display information from packaged content sources  to the user on a user interface  of a device .","In block , packaged content source invocation causes the UI  of the device  to change to UI A (), wherein the selected packaged content source (i.e., widget) display is rendered on the UI A to the user with obtained content related to the selected topic. Optionally, the invoked packaged content source may ignore the passed topics and display generic information.","The invention provides a mechanism comprising the search facilitator  which allows a software component, such as the contextual recommendation system  to interact with packaged content sources  via the search facilitator , to determine if there is related information that the contextual recommendation system  can use (e.g., recommend to the user). This enables the contextual recommendation system  to avoid using a search engine or database directly to find content related to topic. Instead, the search facilitator  enables the contextual recommendation system  to use packaged content sources  for which a method of fetching results is encapsulated as to be opaque to the rest of the system.","Given contextual information, the search facilitator  enables interaction with packaged content sources  such as (e.g., widgets, packaged downloadable applications) to determine related content for recommendation. Widgets comprise package of graphics and script code that may be overlaid on the screen to provide information to the user.","The system  enables querying (requesting) dynamic packaged content sources  from another software component such as the contextual recommender system , to determine whether content related to a topic is available from such sources. Optionally a packaged content source may inform the platform  of its interests. In the query step it is determined if related content is available, then in the invocation step the packaged content source renders the related content accordingly (e.g., the related content itself may be directly rendered on the UI A by the packaged content source platform ).","The system  enables a software component to initiate a request to package content sources to display content. The system  allows querying packaged content sources, passing a particular (selected or current) topic to the packaged content source, so that they may be related to the initiating request.","The contextual recommendation system determines from a content source a set of topics (e.g., multiple keywords, determined from closed captions of a video program the user is watching of a client device such as a digital TV) that the contextual recommendation system wishes to recommend to the user. For each possible packaged content source, the search facilitator passes each topic to each packaged content source API to determine if any content is available for that source. Information about each packaged content source that returned \u201cTrue\u201d (or met a threshold via a ranking criteria) is then displayed to the user.","The user then selects one of the topic\/source combinations. At which time the search facilitator initiates a call to a selected packaged content source to initiate rendering the widget. Optionally the initiation may pass the current selected topic (or related topics) to the packaged content source so that the packaged content source can display related content on that particular topic. The packaged content source displays its content according to its internal method and optionally uses the passed topic to direct the data that is displayed to the user.","In another embodiment, a software component such as a contextual recommender desiring to use a packaged content source, determines a topic (e.g., multiple keywords, determined from closed captions of a video program the user is watching of a client device such as a TV) and utilizes the search facilitator which queries one or more packaged content sources to check for related information for the user.","Optionally, for each possible packaged content source (e.g., widget, applet), the search facilitator may pass each topic in the form of a set of keywords to each packaged content source API to determine if any content is available from that source. The API called may return a True\/False value or may return a quality value (e.g., x out of 10) to the calling component. For each packaged content source that returned \u2018True\u2019 (or met a threshold via a ranking criteria), the obtained related content is then displayed to the user. For example, \u201cYouTube videos on \u2018George Bush\u2019\u201d.","If the search facilitator did not execute that optional step of passing each topic in the form of a set of keywords to each packaged content source, then for each packaged content source, the search facilitator displays the content source name and the topic to the user. The user then selects one of the topic\/source combinations the user wishes to view the content for. At which time the search facilitator initiates a call to the packaged content source to initiate rendering the content source. The call may pass the current selected topic (or related topics) to the packaged content source so that it can display content to that particular topic. The packaged content source displays its content according to its internal method (program logic) and optionally uses the passed topic to direct the data that is displayed to the user.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0041","num":"0040"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":["40","111","121","104","140","107"]},"The remote network can include devices  and . The local network may implement the Universal Plug and Play (UPnP) protocol or other network communication protocols (e.g., Jini, HAVi, IEEE 1394, etc.). The local network can be a wireless network, a wired network, or a combination thereof. Examples of CE devices include digital televisions (DTVs, PDAs, media players, etc.). The local network further includes a search facilitator  implemented in a CE device  having a UI  and further implementing a contextual recommendation system . The local network may further include a device  implementing packaged content source platform  for package content sources . The remote network may further include a device  implementing packaged content source platform  for package content sources .","The search facilitator  initiates the package content sources  programmatically for the contextual recommendation system . The search facilitator  may request a package content sources  to indicate if it has content available for a particular context (e.g., topic such as a set of keywords). The search facilitator  may parameterize (i.e., provide contextual information) a request to a package content source  in the form of e.g., a topic such as a set of keywords, so that the package content source  may provide information related to the context.","In this way, a contextual recommendation system may access packaged content sources to render information related to contextual information on a display screen without relying on a web browser or video player application.","An example of the contextual recommendation system is described below. The contextual recommendation system provides the following functions:\n\n","In one example, a topic identification function performs the above steps to identify potential data of interest to the user (e.g., source of topics) based on the user's current application state. Current application state refers to the state of the application that the user is using at the time the user desires to access relevant content. For example, if the user is watching a television program on DTV, the channel the DTV is tuned to and the program being broadcast, constitute the application state. The topic identification function identifies the content used\/rendered by the application. Then, the topic identification function obtains metadata information and\/or other associated data for the content being accessed, and identifies potential topics that might represent the data of interest to the user.","When a user accesses content that has structured meta-data available, the topic identification function directly uses field\/value pairs from the metadata as potential topics. For example, if a user is listening to a music album by the artist \u201cSting\u201d and expresses interest to access related content, the topic identification function obtains the following fields from the album's metadata (content=\u201cMusicAlbum\u201d and artist=\u201cSting\u201d) and using these, the topic identification function infers that the user might be interested to access more albums by the same artist and suggests (MusicAlbum, artist, \u201cSting\u201d) as one of the topics to the user.","When a user accesses content such as broadcast TV programs and DVDs, the topic identification function uses the caption data (closed captions), that is embedded in the content stream, to identify topics. This embedded caption data contains useful information in the form of keywords. When a user watches a TV program and expresses interest to access related content, the topic identification function analyzes the TV program's caption text to identify significant keywords and suggests them to the user as possible search topics.","An example of identifying keywords and suggesting them as possible topics by the topic identification function involves utilizing natural language processing (NLP) to analyze closed captions and identify keywords from the captions. The closed captions (CC) of a TV program are embedded in the TV signal by the content provider before it is broadcast. They are primarily for the benefit of the hearing impaired.","In another embodiment, associated with a packaged content source such as a widget is type of information the widget is interested in (implemented as a function call or configuration), and a list of keywords the widget is interested in. Each widget has descriptions attached to it that tells the system what kind of information the widget is interested in (e.g., people, places, dates). As such, a particular widget is invoked only when information of the type the widget is interested in is involved. The information may comprise keywords in contextual information. A packaged content source is configured for informing the system of the type of information of interest to the packaged content source. A search manager configured for querying a packaged content source for content related to the contextual information, based on information of interest to the packaged content source.","As is known to those skilled in the art, the aforementioned example architectures described above, according to the invention, can be implemented in many ways, such as program instructions for execution by a processor, as software modules, microcode, as computer program product on computer readable media, as logic circuits, as application specific integrated circuits, as firmware, etc. Further, embodiments of the invention can take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment, an entirely software embodiment or an embodiment containing both hardware and software elements.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0052","num":"0055"},"figref":"FIG. 5","b":["50","50","301","330","330","302","304","302","330","306","302","304","306","304","330","308","302","304","310","302","302","306","302","304","306","310"]},"The server  may be coupled via the bus  to a display  for displaying information to a computer user. An input device , including alphanumeric and other keys, is coupled to the bus  for communicating information and command selections to the processor . Another type or user input device comprises cursor control , such as a mouse, a trackball, or cursor direction keys for communicating direction information and command selections to the processor  and for controlling cursor movement on the display .","According to one embodiment of the invention, the functions of the invention are performed by the processor  executing one or more sequences of one or more instructions contained in the main memory . Such instructions may be read into the main memory  from another computer-readable medium, such as the storage device . Execution of the sequences of instructions contained in the main memory  causes the processor  to perform the process steps described herein. One or more processors in a multi-processing arrangement may also be employed to execute the sequences of instructions contained in the main memory . In alternative embodiments, hard-wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement the invention. Thus, embodiments of the invention are not limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software.","The terms \u201ccomputer program medium,\u201d \u201ccomputer usable medium,\u201d \u201ccomputer readable medium\u201d, and \u201ccomputer program product,\u201d are used to generally refer to media such as main memory, secondary memory, removable storage drive, a hard disk installed in hard disk drive, and signals. These computer program products are means for providing software to the computer system. The computer readable medium allows the computer system to read data, instructions, messages or message packets, and other computer readable information from the computer readable medium. The computer readable medium, for example, may include non-volatile memory, such as a floppy disk, ROM, flash memory, disk drive memory, a CD-ROM, and other permanent storage. It is useful, for example, for transporting information, such as data and computer instructions, between computer systems. Furthermore, the computer readable medium may comprise computer readable information in a transitory state medium such as a network link and\/or a network interface, including a wired network or a wireless network that allow a computer to read such computer readable information. Computer programs (also called computer control logic) are stored in main memory and\/or secondary memory. Computer programs may also be received via a communications interface. Such computer programs, when executed, enable the computer system to perform the features of the present invention as discussed herein. In particular, the computer programs, when executed, enable the processor multi-core processor to perform the features of the computer system. Accordingly, such computer programs represent controllers of the computer system.","Generally, the term \u201ccomputer-readable medium\u201d as used herein refers to any medium that participated in providing instructions to the processor  for execution. Such a medium may take many forms, including but not limited to, non-volatile media, volatile media, and transmission media. Non-volatile media includes, for example, optical or magnetic disks, such as the storage device . Volatile media includes dynamic memory, such as the main memory . Transmission media includes coaxial cables, copper wire and fiber optics, including the wires that comprise the bus . Transmission media can also take the form of acoustic or light waves, such as those generated during radio wave and infrared data communications.","Common forms of computer-readable media include, for example, a floppy disk, a flexible disk, hard disk, magnetic tape, or any other magnetic medium, a CD-ROM, any other optical medium, punch cards, paper tape, any other physical medium with patterns of holes, a RAM, a PROM, an EPROM, a FLASH-EPROM, any other memory chip or cartridge, a carrier wave as described hereinafter, or any other medium from which a computer can read.","Various forms of computer readable media may be involved in carrying one or more sequences of one or more instructions to the processor  for execution. For example, the instructions may initially be carried on a magnetic disk of a remote computer. The remote computer can load the instructions into its dynamic memory and send the instructions over a telephone line using a modem. A modem local to the server  can receive the data on the telephone line and use an infrared transmitter to convert the data to an infrared signal. An infrared detector coupled to the bus  can receive the data carried in the infrared signal and place the data on the bus . The bus  carries the data to the main memory , from which the processor  retrieves and executes the instructions. The instructions received from the main memory  may optionally be stored on the storage device  either before or after execution by the processor .","The server  also includes a communication interface  coupled to the bus . The communication interface  provides a two-way data communication coupling to a network link  that is connected to the world wide packet data communication network now commonly referred to as the Internet . The Internet  uses electrical, electromagnetic or optical signals that carry digital data streams. The signals through the various networks and the signals on the network link  and through the communication interface , which carry the digital data to and from the server , are exemplary forms or carrier waves transporting the information.","In another embodiment of the server , interface  is connected to a network  via a communication link . For example, the communication interface  may be an integrated services digital network (ISDN) card or a modem to provide a data communication connection to a corresponding type of telephone line, which can comprise part of the network link . As another example, the communication interface  may be a local area network (LAN) card to provide a data communication connection to a compatible LAN. Wireless links may also be implemented. In any such implementation, the communication interface  sends and receives electrical electromagnetic or optical signals that carry digital data streams representing various types of information.","The network link  typically provides data communication through one or more networks to other data devices. For example, the network link  may provide a connection through the local network  to a host computer  or to data equipment operated by an Internet Service Provider (ISP) . The ISP  in turn provides data communication services through the Internet . The local network  and the Internet  both use electrical, electromagnetic or optical signals that carry digital data streams. The signals through the various networks and the signals on the network link  and through the communication interface , which carry the digital data to and from the server , are exemplary forms or carrier waves transporting the information.","The server  can send\/receive messages and data, including e-mail, program code, through the network, the network link  and the communication interface . Further, the communication interface  can comprise a USB\/Tuner and the network link  may be an antenna or cable for connecting the server  to a cable provider, satellite provider or other terrestrial transmission system for receiving messages, data and program code from another source.","The example versions of the invention described herein may be implemented as logical operations in a distributed processing system such as the system  including the servers . The logical operations of the present invention may be implemented as a sequence of steps executing in the server , and as interconnected machine modules within the system . The implementation is a matter of choice and can depend on performance of the system  implementing the invention. As such, the logical operations constituting said example versions of the invention are referred to for e.g., as operations, steps or modules.","Similar to a server  described above, a client device  can include a processor, memory, storage device, display, input device and communication interface (e.g., e-mail interface) for connecting the client device to the Internet , the ISP , or LAN , for communication with the servers .","The system  can further include computers (e.g., personal computers, computing nodes)  operating in the same manner as client devices , wherein a user can utilize one or more computers  to manage data in the server .","The flowchart and block diagrams in the Figures illustrate the architecture, functionality, and operation of possible implementations of systems, methods and computer program products according to various embodiments of the present invention. In this regard, each block in the flowchart or block diagrams may represent a module, segment, or portion of code, which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified logical function(s). It should also be noted that, in some alternative implementations, the functions noted in the block may occur out of the order noted in the figures. For example, two blocks shown in succession may, in fact, be executed substantially concurrently, or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order, depending upon the functionality involved. It will also be noted that each block of the block diagrams and\/or flowchart illustration, and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and\/or flowchart illustration, can be implemented by special purpose hardware-based systems that perform the specified functions or acts, or combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.","The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of the invention. As used herein, the singular forms \u201ca\u201d, \u201can\u201d and \u201cthe\u201d are intended to include the plural forms as well, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms \u201ccomprises\u201d and\/or \u201ccomprising,\u201d when used in this specification, specify the presence of stated features, integers, steps, operations, elements, and\/or components, but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features, integers, steps, operations, elements, components, and\/or groups thereof.","The corresponding structures, materials, acts, and equivalents of all means or step plus function elements in the claims below are intended to include any structure, material, or act for performing the function in combination with other claimed elements as specifically claimed. The description of the present invention has been presented for purposes of illustration and description, but is not intended to be exhaustive or limited to the invention in the form disclosed. Many modifications and variations will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention. The embodiment was chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the invention and the practical application, and to enable others of ordinary skill in the art to understand the invention for various embodiments with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated.","Though the present invention has been described with reference to certain versions thereof; however, other versions are possible. Therefore, the spirit and scope of the appended claims should not be limited to the description of the preferred versions contained herein."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0007","num":"0006"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0008","num":"0007"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 5"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
