---
title: Providing user-controlled resources for cloud computing environments
abstract: A cloud management system can be configured to offer a marketplace for user-controlled resources provided by third party users by performing a valuation for user controlled resources offered to the cloud. The cloud management system can be configured to determine the usage of cloud resources, demands on the clouds resources, and revenue generated by the cloud resources and determine a value for user-controlled resources based on the usage, demands, and revenue. Once the value is determined, the cloud management system can be configured to provide an indication of the value to a set of the third party users. If offered and accepted, the cloud management system can be granted access to the user-controlled resources and allocate the user-controlled resources to the cloud.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09485117&OS=09485117&RS=09485117
owner: Red Hat, Inc.
number: 09485117
owner_city: Raleigh
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20090223
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["FIELD","DESCRIPTION OF THE RELATED ART","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF EMBODIMENTS"],"p":["This invention relates generally to products and services, more particularly, to systems and methods for cloud computing related services and products.","The advent of cloud-based computing architectures has opened new possibilities for the rapid and scalable deployment of virtual Web stores, media outlets, and other on-line sites or services. In general, a cloud-based architecture deploys a set of hosted resources such as processors, operating systems, software and other components that can be combined or strung together to form virtual machines. A user or customer can request the instantiation of a virtual machine or set of machines from those resources from a central server or management system to perform intended tasks or applications. For example, a user may wish to set up and instantiate a virtual server from the cloud to create a storefront to market products or services on a temporary basis, for instance, to sell tickets to an upcoming sports or musical performance. The user can lease or subscribe to the set of resources needed to build and run the set of instantiated virtual machines on a comparatively short-term basis, such as hours or days, for their intended application.","In application specific computing environments, individual users may be able to add their particular computing resources to assist in performing computing processes. For example, the Search for Extraterrestrial Intelligence (SETI) program allows individual users to contribute the processing power of their personal systems for performing mathematical computations on experimental data. In these application specific computing environments, the user does not have an ability to track or receive any compensation of the computing power provided.","For simplicity and illustrative purposes, the principles of the present invention are described by referring mainly to exemplary embodiments thereof. However, one of ordinary skill in the art would readily recognize that the same principles are equally applicable to, and can be implemented in, all types of information and systems, and that any such variations do not depart from the true spirit and scope of the present invention. Moreover, in the following detailed description, references are made to the accompanying figures, which illustrate specific embodiments. Electrical, mechanical, logical and structural changes may be made to the embodiments without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention. The following detailed description is, therefore, not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of the present invention is defined by the appended claims and their equivalents.","Embodiments of the present teachings relate to systems and methods for extending cloud resources to third party resources. More particularly, embodiments relate to platforms and techniques in which a cloud computing environment can offer a marketplace for leasing the third party resources.","According to embodiments, a cloud management system can be configured to offer a marketplace for user-controlled resources provided by third parties by performing a valuation on user-controlled resources offered to the cloud. The cloud management system can be configured to determine the usage of cloud resources, demands on the clouds resources, and revenue generated by the cloud resources and determine a value for user-controlled resources based on the usage, demands, and revenue. Once the value is determined, the cloud management system can be configured to provide an indication of the value to a set of the third party users for purchase or resale to the cloud.","According to embodiments, once the resources are valued and the value is made available to third party users, the cloud management system can be configured to receive requests to provide user-controlled resources to the cloud from the third party users. The cloud management system can be configured to apply the determined value to the particular user-controlled resources offered and provide service level agreements for access to the user-controlled resources based on the valuation. If accepted, the cloud management system can be granted access to the user-controlled resources and allocate the user-controlled resources to the cloud.","According to embodiments, the cloud management system can be configured to re-value additional user-controlled resources provided to the cloud as the user-controlled resources are allocated to the cloud. Likewise, the cloud management system can be configured to offer new service level agreements to the third party users already providing user-controlled resources based on the usage of and demands on the cloud.","By offering value for specific resources contributed to the cloud, an operator of a cloud computing environment can provide incentive to third party users for contributing resources to the environment. Additionally, by tying the grant of access to a service agreement, the operator of the cloud computing environment can enhance the reliability of the third party resources. As such, the operator can enhance the flexibility, power, and reliability of the cloud environment without committing dedicated resources to the cloud.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":["FIG. 1","FIG. 1"],"b":["102","108"]},"In embodiments, the entire set of resource servers  or other hardware or software resources used to support the cloud  along with its instantiated virtual machines can be managed by a cloud management system . The cloud management system  can comprise a dedicated or centralized server and\/or other software, hardware, and network tools that communicate via one or more networks  such as the Internet or other public or private network with all sets of resource servers to manage the cloud  and its operation. To instantiate a new set of virtual machines, a user can transmit an instantiation request to the cloud management system  for the particular type of virtual machine they wish to invoke for their intended application. A user can for instance make a request to instantiate a set of virtual machines configured for email, messaging or other applications from the cloud . The request can be received and processed by the cloud management system , which identifies the type of virtual machine, process, or other resource being requested. The cloud management system  can then identify the collection of resources necessary to instantiate that machine or resource. In embodiments, the set of instantiated virtual machines or other resources can for example comprise virtual transaction servers used to support Web storefronts, or other transaction sites.","In embodiments, the user's instantiation request can specify a variety of parameters defining the operation of the set of virtual machines to be invoked. The instantiation request, for example, can specify a defined period of time for which the instantiated machine or process is needed. The period of time can be, for example, an hour, a day, or other increment of time. In embodiments, the user's instantiation request can specify the instantiation of a set of virtual machines or processes on a task basis, rather than for a predetermined amount of time. For instance, a user could request resources until a software update is completed. The user's instantiation request can specify other parameters that define the configuration and operation of the set of virtual machines or other instantiated resources. For example, the request can specify an amount of processing power or input\/output (I\/O) throughput the user wishes to be available to each instance of the virtual machine or other resource. In embodiments, the requesting user can for instance specify a service level agreement (SLA) acceptable for their application. Other parameters and settings can be used. One skilled in the art will realize that the user's request can likewise include combinations of the foregoing exemplary parameters, and others.","When the request to instantiate a set of virtual machines or other resources has been received and the necessary resources to build that machine or resource have been identified, the cloud management system  can communicate with one or more set of resource servers  to locate resources to supply the required components. The cloud management system  can select providers from the diverse set of resource servers  to assemble the various components needed to build the requested set of virtual machines or other resources. It may be noted that in some embodiments, permanent storage such as hard disk arrays may not be included or located within the set of resource servers  available to the cloud management system , because the set of instantiated virtual machines or other resources may be intended to operate on a purely transient or temporary basis. In embodiments, other hardware, software or other resources not strictly located or hosted in the cloud can be leveraged as needed. For example, other software services that are provided outside of the cloud  and hosted by third parties can be invoked by in-cloud virtual machines. For further example, other non-cloud hardware and\/or storage services can be utilized as an extension to the cloud , either on an on-demand or subscribed or decided basis.","With the resource requirements identified, the cloud management system  can extract and build the set of virtual machines or other resources on a dynamic or on-demand basis. For example, one set of resource servers  can respond to an instantiation request for a given quantity of processor cycles with an offer to deliver that computational power immediately and guaranteed for the next hour. A further set of resource servers  can offer to immediately supply communication bandwidth, for example on a guaranteed minimum or best-efforts basis. In other embodiments, the set of virtual machines or other resources can be built on a batch basis or at a particular future time. For example, a set of resource servers  can respond to a request for instantiation at a programmed time with an offer to deliver the specified quantity of processor cycles within a specific amount of time, such as the next 12 hours.","The cloud management system  can select a group of servers in the set of resource servers  that match or best match the instantiation request for each component needed to build the virtual machine or other resource. The cloud management system  can then coordinate the integration of the completed group of servers from the set of resource servers , to build and launch the requested set of virtual machines or other resources. The cloud management system  can track the combined group of servers selected from the set of resource servers , or other distributed resources that are dynamically or temporarily combined, to produce and manage the requested virtual machine population or other resources.","In embodiments, the cloud management system  can generate a resource aggregation table that identifies the various sets of resource servers that will be used to supply the components of the virtual machine or process. The sets of resource servers can be identified by unique identifiers such as, for instance, Internet Protocol (IP) addresses or other addresses. The cloud management system  can register the finalized group of servers in the set resource servers  contributing to an instantiated machine or process.","The cloud management system  can then set up and launch the initiation process for the virtual machines, processes, or other resources to be delivered from the cloud. The cloud management system  can for instance transmit an instantiation command or instruction to the registered group of servers in set of resource servers . The cloud management system  can receive a confirmation message back from each participating server in a set of resource servers  indicating a status regarding the provisioning of their respective resources. Various sets of resource servers can confirm, for example, the availability of a dedicated amount of processor cycles, amounts of electronic memory, communications bandwidth, or applications or other software prepared to be served.","As shown for example in , the cloud management system  can then instantiate one or more than one set of virtual machines , or other processes based on the resources supplied by the registered set of resource servers . In embodiments, the cloud management system  can instantiate a given number, for example, 10, 500, 1000, or other number of virtual machines to be made available to users on a network , such as the Internet or other public or private network. Each virtual machine can be assigned an instantiated machine ID that can be stored in the resource aggregation table, or other record or image of the instantiated population. Additionally, the cloud management system  can store the duration of each virtual machine and the collection of resources utilized by the complete set of instantiated virtual machines .","In embodiments, the cloud management system  can further store, track and manage a user's identity and associated set of rights or entitlements to software, hardware, and other resources. Each user that populates a set of virtual machines in the cloud can have specific rights and resources assigned and made available to them. The cloud management system  can track and configure specific actions that a user can perform, such as provision a set of virtual machines with software applications or other resources, configure a set of virtual machines to desired specifications, submit jobs to the set of virtual machines or other host, manage other users of the set of instantiated virtual machines  or other resources, and other privileges or actions. The cloud management system  can further generate records of the usage of instantiated virtual machines to permit tracking, billing, and auditing of the services consumed by the user. In embodiments, the cloud management system  can for example meter the usage and\/or duration of the set of instantiated virtual machines , to generate subscription billing records for a user that has launched those machines. Other billing or value arrangements are possible.","The cloud management system  can configure each virtual machine to be made available to users of the one or more networks  via a browser interface, or other interface or mechanism. Each instantiated virtual machine can communicate with the cloud management system  and the underlying registered set of resource servers  via a standard Web application programming interface (API), or via other calls or interfaces. The set of instantiated virtual machines  can likewise communicate with each other, as well as other sites, servers, locations, and resources available via the Internet or other public or private networks, whether within a given cloud  or between clouds.","It may be noted that while a browser interface or other front-end can be used to view and operate the set of instantiated virtual machines  from a client or terminal, the processing, memory, communications, storage, and other hardware as well as software resources required to be combined to build the virtual machines or other resources are all hosted remotely in the cloud . In embodiments, the set of virtual machines  or other resources may not depend on or require the user's own on-premise hardware or other resources. In embodiments, a user can therefore request and instantiate a set of virtual machines or other resources on a purely off-premise basis, for instance to build and launch a virtual storefront or other application.","Because the cloud management system  in one regard specifies, builds, operates and manages the set of instantiated virtual machines  on a logical level, the user can request and receive different sets of virtual machines and other resources on a real-time or near real-time basis, without a need to specify or install any particular hardware. The user's set of instantiated virtual machines , processes, or other resources can be scaled up or down immediately or virtually immediately on an on-demand basis, if desired. In embodiments, the various sets of resource servers that are accessed by the cloud management system  to support a set of instantiated virtual machines  or processes can change or be substituted, over time. The type and operating characteristics of the set of instantiated virtual machines  can nevertheless remain constant or virtually constant, since instances are assembled from abstracted resources that can be selected and maintained from diverse sources based on uniform specifications.","In terms of network management of the set of instantiated virtual machines  that have been successfully configured and instantiated, the cloud management system  can perform various network management tasks including security, maintenance, and metering for billing or subscription purposes. The cloud management system  of a given cloud  can, for example, install or terminate applications or appliances on individual machines. The cloud management system  can monitor operating virtual machines to detect any virus or other rogue process on individual machines, and for instance terminate the infected application or virtual machine. The cloud management system  can likewise manage an entire set of instantiated virtual machines  or other resources on a collective basis, for instance, to push or deliver a software upgrade to all active virtual machines. Other management processes are possible.","In embodiments, more than one set of virtual machines can be instantiated in a given cloud at the same, overlapping or successive times. The cloud management system  can, in such implementations, build, launch and manage multiple sets of virtual machines based on the same or different underlying set of resource servers , with populations of different sets of instantiated virtual machines  such as may be requested by different users. The cloud management system  can institute and enforce security protocols in a cloud  hosting multiple sets of virtual machines. Each of the individual sets of virtual machines can be hosted in a respective partition or sub-cloud of the resources of the cloud . The cloud management system  of a cloud can for example deploy services specific to isolated or defined sub-clouds, or isolate individual workloads\/processes within the cloud to a specific sub-cloud. The subdivision of the cloud  into distinct transient sub-clouds or other sub-components which have assured security and isolation features can assist in establishing a multiple user or multi-tenant cloud arrangement. In a multiple user scenario, each of the multiple users can use the cloud platform as a common utility while retaining the assurance that their information is secure from other users of the overall cloud system. In further embodiments, sub-clouds can nevertheless be configured to share resources, if desired.","In embodiments, and as also shown in , the set of instantiated virtual machines  generated in a first cloud  can also interact with a set of instantiated virtual machines or processes generated in a second, third or further cloud . The cloud management system  of a first cloud  can interface with the cloud management system  of a second cloud , to coordinate those domains and operate the clouds and\/or virtual machines or processes on a combined basis. The cloud management system  of a given cloud  can track and manage individual virtual machines or other resources instantiated in that cloud, as well as the set of instantiated virtual machines or other resources in other clouds.","In the foregoing and other embodiments, the user making an instantiation request or otherwise accessing or utilizing the cloud network can be a person, customer, subscriber, administrator, corporation, organization, or other entity. In embodiments, the user can be or include another virtual machine, application or process. In further embodiments, multiple users or entities can share the use of a set of virtual machines or other resources.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":["102","102","200","205","210"]},"In embodiments, the cloud  can include a pool of resources  under the control of the cloud management system  as described above in . Based on the usage or expected usage of the cloud , the cloud management system  can be required to add additional resources to the pool of resources  in order to meet the demands placed on the cloud . For example, the cloud  can be near 100% utilization of the pool of resources  based on the current processes instantiated in the cloud, or, likewise, based on current demand, the cloud management system  can expect increased utilization of the pool of resources  at a future point. Additionally, the cloud management system  can desire to increase the pool of resources  for any reason, such as increasing revenue generated by the cloud. As such, the cloud management system  may need to add additional resources to the pool of resources . Typically, the pool of resources  can be increased by adding fixed and dedicated resources to the pool of resources .","In embodiments, the cloud management system  can desire to leverage third party resources, such as third party user-controlled resources , in order to increase the resources offered by the cloud . In embodiments, the user-controlled resources  can be any type of computer system under the control of a user, independent of the owner or operator of the cloud . For example, the user-controlled resources  can be one or more personal computers (desktop, laptop, etc.), one or more server computers, and the like, which are under the control of individuals, companies, and the like. The user-controlled resources  can include hardware resources, such as processors, memory, network hardware and bandwidth, storage devices, and the like, and software resources, such as operating systems (OS), application programs, and the like. The third party user of the user-controlled resources  can desire to make the user-controlled resources  available to the cloud . As such, the cloud management system  can utilize the user-controlled resources  in the pool of resources  of the cloud  to host applications, appliances, virtual machines, and the like.","In embodiments, in order to foster the inclusion of third party user-controlled resources, the cloud management system  can be configured to offer value for user-controlled resources provided to the cloud . In embodiments, to achieve this, the cloud management system  can be configured to include a valuation engine . The valuation engine  can be configured to determine a value for user-controlled resources from third party users. The valuation engine  can be configured to determine the value for user-controlled resources based on a number of factors such as usage of the pool of resources , estimated demand on the pool of resources , revenue generated by the pool of resources , and the like.","In embodiments, the valuation engine  can be configured to determine the current usage of the pool of resources in order to value the user-controlled resources based on need. The valuation engine  can be configured to examine the pool of resources  to determine the current usage. For example, the valuation engine  can determine the amount of the pool of resources  that are currently used and the amount of the pool of resources  that are available. For example, the valuation engine  can examine the processes instantiated on the pool of resources  and determine a percent utilization, such as 50%, 60%, etc. The amount can include the current usage of particular resources such as the amount of memory utilized, the amount of computing power (processing cycles) utilized, the amount of communication bandwidth utilized, the amount of storage utilized, the amount of software resources utilized (OS utilization, specific application utilization, etc.), and the like.","In embodiments, once the valuation engine  determines current usage, the valuation engine  can be configured to determine estimated demand for the pool of resources  in the future. The valuation engine  can be configured to determine the estimated demand based on an expected usage of the pool of resources . For example, the valuation engine  can determine that each month for the past year the cloud  increased utilization of the pool of resources  by 2%. Based on this, the valuation engine  can determine that the cloud  may need an increase in resources of at least 2% each month. One skilled in the art will realize that the valuation engine  can be configured to utilize any type of statistical method or algorithm to determine estimated demand. Additionally, the valuation engine  can be configured to determine the estimated demand for each specific resource such as the estimated amount of memory, the estimated amount of computing power, the estimated amount of communication bandwidth, the estimated amount of storage, the estimated amount of software resources utilized, and the like.","In embodiments, the valuation engine  can be configured to determine the revenue received for usage of the cloud  and\/or an expected revenue received for usage of the cloud . For example, the valuation engine  can determine the revenue received as a percentage of the usage of the pool of resources  based on past revenue. Additionally, the valuation engine  can be configured to determine the revenue for each specific resource such as the revenue per amount of memory, the revenue per amount of computing power, the revenue per amount of communication bandwidth, the revenue per amount of storage, the revenue per amount of software resources utilized, and the like.","In embodiments, once the usage, estimated demand, and revenue are determined, the valuation engine  can be configured to determine the value of the user-controlled resources provided to the cloud based on one or more of the usage, estimated demand, and revenue. Based of this, the valuation engine  can determine the value of user-controlled resources provided to the cloud in order to meet the demand on the cloud  and generate positive revenue for the cloud . For example, the valuation engine  can determine that the pool of resources  is 90% utilized, that the cloud usage will increase each month by 2%, and that each 1% of cloud  utilization generates $100 of revenue. Based on this, the valuation engine  can value each 1% of the user-controlled resources provided at, for example, $20 in order to generate positive revenue.","In embodiments, additionally, the valuation engine  can be configured to account for necessity when determining the value of the user-controlled resources. For example, the valuation engine  can determine that the pool of resources  is 40% utilized, that the cloud usage will increase each month by 2%, and that each 1% of the cloud usage generates $100 of revenue. Based on the under utilization of the pool of resources , the valuation engine  can value each 1% of the user-controlled resources provided at, for example, $1.","In embodiments, the valuation engine  can be configured to determine the value for each specific resource such as the value for an amount of memory, the value for an amount of computing power, the value for an amount of communication bandwidth, the value for an amount of storage, the value for an amount of software resources, and the like.","In embodiments, additionally, the valuation engine  can be configured to account for the duration of the user-controlled resources provided when determining the value of the user-controlled resources. For example, the valuation engine  can determine a higher value for the user-controlled resources that are provided for a longer duration and visa versa.","In embodiments as described above, the valuation engine  can be configured to utilize certain factors such as current usage, estimated demand, revenue generated, and duration when determining a value for user-controlled resources. One skilled in the art will realize that the valuation engine  can utilize any number of factors in determining a value for the resources provide to the cloud. For example, the valuation engine  can utilize such factors as cost of adding dedicated resources to the pool of resources , the availability of third party resources, the value placed on third party resources by other clouds, previous determined value of third party resources, the replacement cost of the third party resources, and the like.","In embodiments, once the value of the user-controlled resources is determined, the valuation engine  can be configured to provide an indication  of the value of the user-controlled resources to be provided to the cloud  to third party users, such as a third party user-controlled resources  via network . The valuation engine  can be configured to provide the indication  utilizing any type of communication, such as email, web page, text message, and the like. For example, the valuation engine  can be configured to generate and populate a web site with the value for different resources provide to the cloud . As such, the valuation engine  can contain the necessary logic to generate graphical user interfaces (GUIs), e.g. dialog boxes and web pages, or contain the necessary logic to utilize other programs or applications to communicate with third party users.","In embodiments, once the indication  is provided to third party users, the third party users can offer to provide a portion of the user-controlled resources, such as the user-controlled resources , to the cloud . The cloud management system  can be configured to receive a request to offer the user-controlled resources  via the network . The cloud management system  can be configured to receive the request utilizing any type of communication, such as email, web page, text message, and the like. For example, if a web page is utilized, the valuation engine  can be configured to generate and populate the web site with forms and fields that allow the third party user to submit the request to the cloud management system .","In embodiments, the request to offer the user-controlled resources  can include the specifications of the particular user-controlled resources  provided and the duration for the resources to be provided. For example, the request can include an amount of memory to allocate to the cloud, an amount of computing cycles to allocate to the cloud, an amount of communications bandwidth to allocate to the cloud, an amount of storage to allocate to the cloud, software resources to allocate to the cloud, and the like.","In embodiments, once the request is received, the valuation engine  can be configured to determine the particular value of the user-controlled resources  offered. The valuation engine  can be configured to apply the previously determined value to the specifications of the offered user-controlled resources . For example, if the user-controlled resources  represent 1% of the pool of resources , offered for two months and the value is $20, per 1%, per month, the valuation engine  can determine that the particular value of the offered user-controlled resources  is $20 per month or $40 for two months total.","In embodiments, once the particular value of the offered user-controlled resources  is determined, the cloud management system  can be configured to return the particular value to the user-controlled resources  as a service level agreement for the offered user-controlled resources . If accepted, the cloud management system  can allocate the offered user-controlled resources  to the pool of resources .","In embodiments, to make the offered user-controlled resources  available for allocation, the user-controlled resources  can include a cloud application . The cloud application  can be configured to allow the user to make a set of the resources of the user-controlled resources  available to the cloud management system . The cloud application  can be configured to allow the cloud management system  to request resources from the set of resources. In response to requests, the cloud application  can be configured to provide access to the set of resources for use by the cloud management system .","In embodiments, the cloud application  can be configured to contain necessary logic for identifying and providing accesses to a set of resources of the user-controlled resources  and for communicating with the cloud management system . For example, the cloud application  can be configured to contain logic for communicating with the hardware resources of the user-controlled resources  (e.g. processor, memory, storage devices, communications interfaces, etc.) and software resources of the user-controlled resources  (operating systems, application programs, etc.). For example, the cloud application  can be configured to communicate with the OS to identify and allocate resources accessible by the cloud management system . Additionally, the cloud application  can be configured to allow the user to specify a particular set of resources accessible by the cloud management system , such as the offered user-controlled resources .","In embodiments, the cloud application  can be configured to grant access to the set of resources. For example, the cloud application  can be configured to communicate with the hardware and software resources to grant direct access to the set of resources to the cloud management system  for instance, via TCP\/IP, FTP or other protocols or channels. Likewise, the cloud application  can be configured to receive the processes to be performed on the user-controlled resources  and to instantiate the processes on the set of resources.","In embodiments, the cloud application  can be configured to provide secure communications between the cloud application  and the cloud management system . The cloud application  can be configured to include the necessary logic to perform any known security protocols between the user-controlled resources  and the cloud management system . For example, the cloud application  can be configured to perform authentication (secure login, passwords checks, digital signatures authentication, digital certificate authentication, etc), communication encryption (symmetric cryptography, asymmetric cryptography, etc.), and the like.","Likewise, the cloud management system  can be configured to contain logic to directly access, control, and allocate the hardware and software resources of the user-controlled resources  as described above.","In embodiments, the cloud management system , utilizing the valuation engine , can be configured to determine a new value of the user-controlled resources periodically or upon occurrence of events such as dedicated resources being added to the pool of resources , user-controlled resources being added to the pool of resources , and\/or a change in the factors used to determine the value. Likewise, the cloud management system  can be configured to update or provide a new indication  as the new values are determined.","In embodiments, the cloud management system  can be configured to offer new service level agreements to the third party users already providing user-controlled resources based on a change in the factors used to determine the value. For example, the cloud management system  can be configured to offer a new service level agreement for additional resources to the user-controlled resources  if demand on the pool of resources  increases.","In embodiments, the cloud management system  can be configured to maintain a record  of the value for the user-controlled resources and any user-controlled resources allocated to the pool of resources . The record  can include a list of determined values for the various types of resources and a list of user-controlled resources, such as the user-controlled resources , allocated, the particular value for those resources, and specifications of those resources. The cloud management system  can be configured to maintain the record  in a repository .","In embodiments as described above, the cloud management system  can provide the indication  directly to the third party users. Additionally, the cloud management system can be configured to provide the values placed the user-controlled resources to an independent marketplace for user-controlled resources via the network . The independent marketplace can be a centralized market for user-controlled resources from various clouds. The cloud management system  can be configured to provide the indication  and the request to provide the resources via the independent marketplace.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0060","num":"0059"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":["300","205","210","300","300","302","306","306","300","308","235","230","300","304","210"]},"Processor  also communicates with the cloud management system , to execute control logic and allow for valuation and allocation of the user-controlled resources as described above and below. Other configurations of the computing system , associated network connections, and other hardware and software resources are possible.","While  illustrates the computing system  as a standalone system including a combination of hardware and software, the computing system  can include multiple systems operating in cooperation. The cloud management system , including the valuation module , can be implemented as a software application or program capable of being executed by the computing system , as illustrated, or other conventional computer platforms. Likewise, the cloud management system , including the valuation module , can also be implemented as a software module or program module capable of being incorporated in other software applications and programs. In either case, the cloud management system , including the valuation module , can be implemented in any type of conventional proprietary or open-source computer language.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0063","num":"0062"},"figref":"FIG. 5","b":["502","504","200","220","220","215","215","215"]},"In , the cloud management system  can provide an indication of the value for the user-controlled resources to a set of users. For example, the valuation engine  can be configured to provide an indication  of the value of the user-controlled resources to be provided to the cloud  to third parties, such as a third party user-controlled resources  via network . The valuation engine  can be configured to provide the indication utilizing any type of communication, such as email, web page, text message, and the like. For example, the valuation engine  can be configured to generate and populate a web site with the value for different resources provide to the cloud .","In , the cloud management system  can receive a request to include particular user-controlled resources, such as user-controlled resources , in the cloud from at least one user in the set of the users. The request to offer the user-controlled resources  can include the specifications of the particular user-controlled resources  provided and the duration for the resources to be provided. For example, the request can include an amount of memory to allocate to the cloud, an amount of computing cycles to allocate to the cloud, an amount of communications bandwidth to allocate to the cloud, an amount of storage to allocate to the cloud, and software resources to allocate to the cloud.","In , the cloud management system  can provide an acceptance to allocate the particular user-controlled resources to the cloud. For example, the valuation engine  can be configured to determine the particular value of the user-controlled resources  offered. The valuation engine  can be configured to apply the previously determined value to the specifications of the particular user-controlled resources  provided. Once the particular value of the offered user-controlled resources  is determined, the cloud management system  can be configured to return the particular value to the user-controlled resources  as a service level agreement for the offered user-controlled resources .","In , the cloud management system  can allocate the particular user-controlled resources to the cloud. For example, the cloud management system  can communicate with a cloud application  or directly allocate and access the user controlled resources.","In , the cloud management system  can determine if additional user controlled resources are need. If so, the cloud management system  can re-value the user-controlled resources, if necessary, by returning to . If no other user-controlled resources are needed, in , the process can end, but the process can return to any point and repeat.","While the invention has been described with reference to the exemplary embodiments thereof, those skilled in the art will be able to make various modifications to the described embodiments without departing from the true spirit and scope. The terms and descriptions used herein are set forth by way of illustration only and are not meant as limitations. In particular, although the method has been described by examples, the steps of the method may be performed in a different order than illustrated or simultaneously. Those skilled in the art will recognize that these and other variations are possible within the spirit and scope as defined in the following claims and their equivalents."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["Various features of the embodiments can be more fully appreciated, as the same become better understood with reference to the following detailed description of the embodiments when considered in connection with the accompanying figures, in which:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0006","num":"0005"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0007","num":"0006"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0008","num":"0007"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 5"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
