---
title: Scalable reusable scanning of application networks/systems
abstract: A device schedules a scan of a group of devices associated with an application network/system, and receives, at a scheduled time, scan information from the group of devices, where the scan information is provided in different formats. The device also converts the scan information, in the different formats, into a single normalized format, and processes the normalized scan information to produce enriched, normalized scan information.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09077609&OS=09077609&RS=09077609
owner: Verizon Patent and Licensing Inc.
number: 09077609
owner_city: Basking Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20091207
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["BACKGROUND","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS"],"p":["There are several application management systems that may provide services for application networks\/systems (e.g., intranets, email systems, accounting systems, data networks, financial systems, etc.). The application networks\/systems may be scanned for information, and the scanned information may be provided to the application management system. The scanned information may provide feedback (e.g., to the application management system) as to the performance of the application networks\/systems. One example of such an application management system is a managed security services (MSS) system. A MSS system provides network security services (e.g., vulnerability assessments, management of firewalls, intrusion detection management, etc.) for another entity's application networks\/systems. Another example of an application management system is a governance, risk management, and compliance (GRC) system. Examples of GRC systems include a financial GRC, an information technology (IT) GRC, etc. A GRC system may implement systems to monitor and record current business activity; monitor compliance with policies, rules, laws, etc.; provide corrective action when policies, rules, laws, etc. have not been followed; manage and mitigate risk throughout an organization; etc.","Scanning of application networks\/systems for information may be performed by application management systems (e.g., a MSS system, a GRC system, etc.) that are tailored to the specific application networks\/systems. For example, although a MSS system may scan the application networks\/systems it supports, the MSS system may not be able to scan the application networks\/systems supported by a GRC system (e.g., due to different formats of information obtained from the MSS-supported networks\/systems and the GRC-supported networks\/systems).","The following detailed description refers to the accompanying drawings. The same reference numbers in different drawings may identify the same or similar elements. Also, the following detailed description does not limit the invention.","Implementations described herein may provide systems and\/or methods that may scan a variety of application networks\/systems for information provided in a variety of different formats. Since the systems and\/or methods may scan for information in a variety of formats, the systems and\/or methods may be scalable and reusable. In other words, the systems and\/or methods may be agnostic (i.e., not customer dependent) and may be used to scan various application networks\/systems without being custom tailored to a specific application network\/system.","In an exemplary implementation, the systems and\/or methods may schedule a scan of one or more devices associated with an application network\/system, and may receive scan information, in different formats, from the one or more devices. The systems and\/or methods may convert the scan information (e.g., provided in different formats) into a single normalized format, and may process the normalized scan information to produce enriched\/normalized scan information. The systems and\/or methods may store the enriched\/normalized scan information and\/or may provide the enriched\/normalized scan information to an application management system (e.g., that manages the application network\/system).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":["FIG. 1","FIG. 1"],"b":["100","100","110","120","130","140","100","110","120","130","140","110","120","130","140","100","100"]},"Application management system  may include one or more server devices, or other types of computation or communication devices, that gather, process, search, and\/or provide information in a manner described herein. In one exemplary implementation, application management system  may include a system that manages application network\/system . In one example, application management system  may correspond to a MSS system that provides network security services for another entity's application networks\/systems (e.g., application network\/system ). The MSS system may provide one or more of the following services: vulnerability assessments and penetration testing; management of network firewalls, maintaining firewall traffic routing rules, and generating regular traffic and management reports; intrusion detection management (e.g., at a network level or at an individual host level), providing intrusion alerts, and reporting intrusion attempts and activity; providing mitigation support after an intrusion has occurred; content filtering services (e.g., email and other traffic); and\/or data archival.","In another example, application management system  may correspond to a GRC system that monitors and records current business activity; monitors compliance with policies, rules, laws, etc.; provides corrective action when policies, rules, laws, etc. have not been followed; manages and mitigates risk throughout an organization; etc. The GRC system may include a financial GRC system, an IT GRC system, and a legal GRC system. The financial GRC system may, for example, ensure correct operation of all financial processes, as well as compliance with any finance-related mandates. The IT GRC system may, for example, ensure that an IT organization supports current and future needs of a business, and complies with all IT-related mandates. The legal GRC system may, for example, attempt tie together the financial, IT, and legal GRC systems.","Application network\/system  may include one or more networks\/systems of any type. For example, application network\/system  may include a local area network (LAN), a wide area network (WAN), a metropolitan area network (MAN), a telephone network, such as the Public Switched Telephone Network (PSTN) or Public Land Mobile Network (PLMN), an intranet, the Internet, an optical fiber (or fiber optic)-based network, or a combination of networks. Application network\/system  may also include one or more devices (e.g., computation devices (e.g., servers, personal computers, laptops, etc.); communication devices (e.g., radiotelephones, personal communications system (PCS) terminals, wireless telephones, smart phones, personal digital assistants (PDAs), etc.); data transfer devices (e.g., gateways, routers, switches, firewalls, hubs, bridges, proxy servers, etc.); etc.) provided in any of the networks described above. In an exemplary implementation, application network\/system  may include a network and\/or system that may be managed by application management system . For example, if application management system  is a MSS system, application network\/system may include intranets, email systems, accounting systems, data networks, financial systems, etc. managed by the MSS system.","Scanning server  may include one or more server devices, or other types of computation or communication devices, that gather, process, search, and\/or provide information in a manner described herein. In one exemplary implementation, scanning server  may receive scan information from application network\/system  (e.g., in a variety of formats), and may normalize the scan information into a single format. Scanning server  may process the normalized scan information to create enriched, normalized scan information, and may provide the enriched, normalized scan information to application management system . Further details of scanning server  are provided below in connection with, for example, .","Network  may include one or more networks of any type. For example, network  may include a LAN, a WAN, a MAN, a telephone network, such as the PSTN or PLMN, an intranet, the Internet, an optical fiber (or fiber optic)-based network, or a combination of networks.","Although  shows exemplary components of network , in other implementations, network  may contain fewer, different, differently arranged, or additional components than depicted in .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":["200","110","130","200","210","220","230","240","250","260","270","280","210","200"]},"Processing unit  may include one or more processors, microprocessors, or other types of processing units that may interpret and execute instructions. Main memory  may include one or more random access memories (RAMs) or other types of dynamic storage devices that may store information and instructions for execution by processing unit . ROM  may include one or more ROM devices or other types of static storage devices that may store static information and\/or instructions for use by processing unit . Storage device  may include a magnetic and\/or optical recording medium and its corresponding drive.","Input device  may include a mechanism that permits an operator to input information to device , such as a keyboard, a mouse, a pen, a microphone, voice recognition and\/or biometric mechanisms, a remote control, a touch screen, etc. Output device  may include a mechanism that outputs information to the operator, including a display, a printer, a speaker, etc. Communication interface  may include any transceiver-like mechanism that enables device  to communicate with other devices and\/or systems. For example, communication interface  may include mechanisms for communicating with another device or system via a network, such as network .","As described herein, device  may perform certain operations in response to processing unit  executing software instructions contained in a computer-readable medium, such as main memory . A computer-readable medium may be defined as a physical or logical memory device. A logical memory device may include memory space within a single physical memory device or spread across multiple physical memory devices. The software instructions may be read into main memory  from another computer-readable medium, such as storage device , or from another device via communication interface . The software instructions contained in main memory  may cause processing unit  to perform processes described herein. Alternatively, hardwired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement processes described herein. Thus, implementations described herein are not limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software.","Although  shows exemplary components of device , in other implementations, device  may contain fewer, different, differently arranged, or additional components than depicted in . Alternatively, or additionally, one or more components of device  may perform one or more other tasks described as being performed by one or more other components of device .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIGS. 1 and 2"],"b":["300","100","300","110","120","130","110","120","130"]},"As further shown in , scanning server  may schedule scans  with application network\/system . In one example, scanning server  may schedule a scan of one or more devices (e.g., of components, devices, hardware, etc. of the device) associated with application network\/system  at a particular time. In another example, scanning server  may schedule a scan of some of the devices associated with application network\/system  at a first time, and may schedule a scan of other devices associated with application network\/system  at a second time different than the first time. In still another example, scanning server  may schedule a periodic scan (e.g., with a particular frequency) of one or more devices associated with application network\/system .","When the scheduled scan of application network\/system  occurs, scanning server  may receive scan information  from application network\/system . Scan information  include any information that may be retrieved or received from one or more devices (e.g., associated with application network\/system ) by scanning components, devices, hardware, software, etc. associated with the one or more devices. In an exemplary implementation, scanning server  may receive scan information , in different formats, from the one or more devices associated with application network\/system . For example, one device associated with application network\/system  may provide scan information  in an extensible markup language (XML) format, while another device associated with application network\/system  may provide scan information  in a structured query language (SQL) format.","Scanning server  may convert scan information  (e.g., provided in different formats) into a single normalized format. In an exemplary implementation, scanning server  may convert the different formats of scan information  into a common result format (e.g., as specified by The MITRE Corporation). The common result format is a standardized IT asset assessment result format that facilitates the exchange of assessment results among systems to increase tool interoperability and allow for the aggregation of those results across large enterprises that utilize diverse technologies (e.g., to detect patch levels, policy compliance, vulnerability, asset inventory, and other tasks).","Scanning server  may process the normalized scan information. In one example, scanning server  may apply various rules (e.g., unusual use rules, critical assets rules, device classification rules, risk analysis rules, etc.) to the normalized scan information to produce rules metadata for the devices associated with application network\/system . The rules metadata may include results (e.g., unusual use indications, device classification, risk information, etc.) of the application of the various rules. During the processing, scanning server  may also receive device metadata associated with the devices of application network\/system . The device metadata may include information (e.g., manufacturer, model, capacity, etc.) associated with the devices of application network\/system .","Scanning server  may generate unique identifiers for the devices associated with network\/system , and may identify devices (e.g., of application network\/system ) associated with the normalized scan information based on the generated unique identifiers. Scanning server  may associate the rules metadata and\/or the device metadata (e.g., for the identified devices associated with application network\/system ) with the normalized scan information to produce enriched\/normalized scan information . Enriched\/normalized scan information  may include scan information  that is enhanced by the application of the rules metadata, the device metadata, etc. Scanning server  may store enriched\/normalized scan information  (e.g., in storage device  ()) and\/or may provide enriched\/normalized scan information  to application management system , as shown in .","Application management system  may receive enriched\/normalized scan information , and may utilize enriched\/normalized scan information  to generate management information  for application network\/system . Management information  may include recommendations to improve application network\/system ; reports associated with compliance (e.g., with specifications, policies, standards, regulations, rules, laws, etc.) by application network\/system ; information instructing application network\/system  to perform one or more actions; reports (e.g., vulnerability assessments, regular traffic and management reports, intrusion activity reports, etc.) about application network\/system ; etc. As further shown in , application management system  may provide management information  to application network\/system . In one example, application network\/system  may utilize or implement management information  to improve application network system .","Although  shows exemplary components of network portion , in other implementations, network portion  may contain fewer, different, differently arranged, or additional components than depicted in . Additionally, or alternatively, one or more components of network portion  may perform one or more other tasks described as being performed by one or more other components of network portion .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 4","FIG. 2","FIG. 4"],"b":["130","200","130","400","405","410"]},"Scan scheduler  may include hardware or a combination of hardware and software that may provide an application programming interface (API) for scheduling scans (e.g., with application network\/system ). Scan scheduler  may perform load balancing and distribution of the scans of application network\/system  (e.g., so that scanning server  does not become overloaded). As further shown in , scan scheduler  may schedule scans  of application network\/system  based on Internet protocol (IP) information , a scan configuration , and\/or time information . IP information  may include IP addresses (or ranges of IP addresses) associated with the one or more devices of application network\/system  to be scanned. Scan configuration  may include information about a type of scan (e.g., a security scan, a compliance scan, etc.) to be performed on application network\/system . Time information  may include information indicating when the scan will be performed, and a frequency of the scan. Scan scheduler  may provide a scan status  (e.g., indicating a progression (i.e., \u201cscan 95% complete\u201d) of the scan) to scan normalizer .","Scan normalizer  may include hardware or a combination of hardware and software that may receive scan status  from scan scheduler , may receive scan information  from application network\/system , and may receive format information . Format information  may include information that enables scan normalizer  to convert scan information  (e.g., provided in different formats) into a single normalized format (e.g. into normalized scan information ). For example, format information  may include information regarding a selected normalized format (e.g., the common result format); information regarding how to map the different formats of scan information  into normalized scan information ; etc. In an exemplary implementation, scan normalizer  may use format information  to convert scan information  (e.g., provided in different formats) into a common result format (e.g., as specified by The MITRE Corporation).","In another exemplary implementation, scan normalizer  may convert scan information  into normalized scan information  by mapping scan information  (e.g., operating system (OS), application, vulnerability, etc. information associated with scan information ) to a common set of identifiers. In one example, if scan information  includes OS information, such as \u201cMS Win 95,\u201d \u201cWindows 95,\u201d etc., scan normalizer  may map this OS information to a common identifier (e.g., \u201cMicrosoft Windows 95\u201d). In another example, scan normalizer  may map scan information  to a common set of identifiers using an industry standard technology identifier set (e.g., using common platform enumeration (CPE) provided by The MITRE Corporation). CPE is a structured naming scheme for information technology systems, platforms, and packages.","By converting the different formats of scan information  into normalized scan information  (e.g., into a single normalized format), scanning server  may be used to scan various application networks\/systems without being custom tailored to a specific application network\/system. As further shown in , scan normalizer  may provide normalized scan information  to scan enricher .","Scan enricher  may include hardware or a combination of hardware and software that may receive normalized scan information  from scan normalizer , may receive rules  and device metadata , and may process normalized scan information  to produce enriched\/normalized information  based on rules  and\/or device metadata . Rules  may include various rules used to extract particular information from normalized scan information . For example, rules  may include unusual use rules, critical assets rules, device classification rules, risk analysis rules, etc. Scan enricher  may apply rules  to normalized scan information  to produce rules metadata for the devices associated with application network\/system . The rules metadata may include results (e.g., unusual use indications, device classification, risk information, etc.) of the application of rules . Device metadata  may include information (e.g., manufacturer, model, capacity, etc.) associated with the devices of application network\/system .","Prior to processing normalized scan information , scan enricher  may generate unique identifiers for the devices associated with network\/system . In an exemplary implementation, scan enricher  may generate unique hashes to assist in identifying devices (e.g., of application network\/system ) utilizing a dynamic host configuration protocol (DHCP). DHCP is a protocol for assigning dynamic IP addresses to devices on a network. With dynamic IP addressing, a device may have a different IP address every time the device connects to the network. In some systems, the device's IP address may change while it is still connected to the network. Such DHCP-based devices may be difficult to identify to due to the dynamic IP addresses. Scan enricher  may identify aspects of such DHCP-based devices that may not change, and may assign unique hashes for each identified aspect. For example, scan enricher  may assign the following unique hashes for a single device: Hash1(IPAddress), Hash2(HostName), Hash3(OSName^TCPPortStatus(22, 25, 80, 8080, 443, 3306, . . . )), Hash(CPEAppNames[ ]), etc. In one implementation, scan enricher  may rank the unique hashes based on a likelihood of identifying a device. For example, \u201cHash2\u201d may be ranked higher than \u201cHash1\u201d since a host name associated with a particular device is less likely to change than an IP address associated with the particular device.","Scan enricher  may identify devices (e.g., of application network\/system ) associated with normalized scan information  based on the generated unique identifiers. For example, using the hash examples provided above, scan enricher  may attempt to identify a device using Hash1(IPAddress), and, if unsuccessful, may attempt to identify the device using Hash2(HostName). Scan enricher  may continue this process until a device is identified. Once all of the devices associated with normalized scan information  are identified, scan enricher  may associate the rules metadata and\/or the device metadata (e.g., for the identified devices associated with application network\/system ) with normalized scan information  to produce enriched\/normalized scan information . Scan enricher  may provide enriched\/normalized scan information  to application management system .","Although  shows exemplary functional components of scanning server , in other implementations, scanning server  may contain fewer, different, differently arranged, or additional functional components than depicted in . Alternatively, or additionally, one or more functional components of scanning server  may perform one or more other tasks described as being performed by one or more other functional components of scanning server .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0041","num":"0040"},"figref":"FIGS. 5-8","b":["500","500","130","500","130"]},"As illustrated in , process  may include scheduling a scan of one or more devices associated with an application network\/system (block ), and receiving, at a scheduled time, scan information, in different formats, from the one or more devices (block ). For example, in implementations described above in connection with , scanning server  may schedule scans  with application network\/system . In one example, scanning server  may schedule a scan of one or more devices (e.g., of components, devices, hardware, etc. of the device) associated with application network\/system  at a particular time. When the scheduled scan of application network\/system  occurs, scanning server  may receive scan information  from application network\/system . Scan information  include any information that may be retrieved or received from one or more devices (e.g., associated with application network\/system ) by scanning components, devices, hardware, software, etc. associated with the one or more devices. In one example, scanning server  may receive scan information , in different formats, from the one or more devices associated with application network\/system .","As further shown in , the scan information, in different formats, may be converted into a single normalized format (block ), and the normalized scan information may be processed to produce enriched\/normalized scan information (block ). For example, in implementations described above in connection with , scanning server  may convert scan information  (e.g., provided in different formats) into a single normalized format. In one example, scanning server  may convert the different formats of scan information  into a common result format (e.g., as specified by The MITRE Corporation). Scanning server  may process the normalized scan information. In one example, scanning server  may associate the rules metadata and\/or the device metadata (e.g., for the identified devices associated with application network\/system ) with the normalized scan information to produce enriched\/normalized scan information . Enriched\/normalized scan information  may include scan information  that is enhanced by the application of the rules metadata, the device metadata, etc.","Returning to , process  may include storing the enriched\/normalized scan information (block ) and\/or providing the enriched\/normalized scan information to a management system (block ). For example, in implementations described above in connection with , scanning server  may store enriched\/normalized scan information  (e.g., in storage device ) and\/or may provide enriched\/normalized scan information  to application management system .","Process block  may include the process blocks depicted in . As shown in , process block  may include generating configuration information for the scheduled scan (block ), generating time\/frequency information for the scheduled scan (block ), generating IP information associated with the one or more devices to be scanned (block ), and scheduling the scan of the one or more devices based on the generated information (block ). For example, in implementations described above in connection with , scan scheduler  of scanning server  may schedule scans  of application network\/system  based on IP information , scan configuration , and\/or time information . IP information  may include IP addresses (or ranged of IP addresses) associated with the one or more devices of application network\/system  to be scanned. Scan configuration  may include information about a type of scan (e.g., a security scan, a compliance scan, etc.) to be performed on application network\/system . Time information  may include information indicating when the scan will be performed, and a frequency of the scan.","Process block  may include the process blocks depicted in . As shown in , process block  may include mapping operating system information and application information associated with the scan information to a common set of identifiers (block ), and using the common set of identifiers to convert the scan information, in different formats, into the single normalized format (block ). For example, in implementations described above in connection with , scan normalizer  of scanning server  may convert scan information  into normalized scan information  by mapping scan information  (e.g., operating system (OS), application, vulnerability, etc. information associated with scan information ) to a common set of identifiers. In one example, if scan information  includes OS information, such as \u201cMS Win 95,\u201d \u201cWindows 95,\u201d etc., scan normalizer  may map this OS information to a common identifier (e.g., \u201cMicrosoft Windows 95\u201d). In another example, scan normalizer  may map scan information  to a common set of identifiers using an industry standard technology identifier set (e.g., using CPE).","Process block  may include the process blocks depicted in . As shown in , process block  may include receiving rules and device metadata associated with the one or more devices (block ), and applying the rules to the normalized scan information to produce rules metadata for the one or more devices (block ). For example, in implementations described above in connection with , scan enricher  of scanning server  may receive normalized scan information  from scan normalizer , and may receive rules  and device metadata . Rules  may include various rules used to extract particular information from normalized scan information . For example, rules  may include unusual use rules, critical assets rules, device classification rules, risk analysis rules, etc. Scan enricher  may apply rules  to normalized scan information  to produce rules metadata for the devices associated with application network\/system . The rules metadata may include results (e.g., unusual use indications, device classification, risk information, etc.) of the application of rules . Device metadata  may include information (e.g., manufacturer, model, capacity, etc.) associated with the devices of application network\/system .","As further shown in , process block  may include generating unique identifiers for the one or more devices (block ), identifying device(s) associated with the normalized scan information based on the unique identifiers (block ), and associating the device metadata and the rule metadata, for the identified device(s), with the normalized scan information to produce the enriched\/normalized scan information (block ). For example, in implementations described above in connection with , prior to processing normalized scan information , scan enricher  may generate unique identifiers for the devices associated with network\/system . In one example, scan enricher  may generate unique hashes to assist in identifying devices (e.g., of application network\/system ) utilizing a DHCP. Scan enricher  may identify devices (e.g., of application network\/system ) associated with normalized scan information  based on the generated unique identifiers. Once all of the devices associated with normalized scan information  are identified, scan enricher  may associate the rules metadata and\/or the device metadata (e.g., for the identified devices associated with application network\/system ) with normalized scan information  to produce enriched\/normalized scan information .","Implementations described herein may provide systems and\/or methods that may scan a variety of application networks\/systems for information provided in a variety of different formats. Since the systems and\/or methods may scan for information in a variety of formats, the systems and\/or methods may be scalable and reusable. In other words, the systems and\/or methods may be used to scan various application networks\/systems without being custom tailored to a specific application network\/system. In an exemplary implementation, the systems and\/or methods may identify devices (e.g., DHCP-based devices) associated with scan information so that the scan information may be associated with the correct devices. In another exemplary implementation, the systems and\/or methods may normalize the scan information (e.g., provided in different formats) into a single normalized format, and may enrich (e.g., with metadata) the normalized scan information to produce enriched\/normalized scan information.","The foregoing description of implementations provides illustration and description, but is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise form disclosed. Modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teachings or may be acquired from practice of the invention. For example, while series of blocks have been described with regard to , the order of the blocks may be modified in other implementations. Further, non-dependent blocks may be performed in parallel.","It will be apparent that exemplary aspects, as described above, may be implemented in many different forms of software, firmware, and hardware in the implementations illustrated in the figures. The actual software code or specialized control hardware used to implement these aspects should not be construed as limiting. Thus, the operation and behavior of the aspects were described without reference to the specific software code-it being understood that software and control hardware could be designed to implement the aspects based on the description herein.","Even though particular combinations of features are recited in the claims and\/or disclosed in the specification, these combinations are not intended to limit the invention. In fact, many of these features may be combined in ways not specifically recited in the claims and\/or disclosed in the specification.","No element, block, or instruction used in the present application should be construed as critical or essential to the invention unless explicitly described as such. Also, as used herein, the article \u201ca\u201d is intended to include one or more items. Where only one item is intended, the term \u201cone\u201d or similar language is used. Further, the phrase \u201cbased on\u201d is intended to mean \u201cbased, at least in part, on\u201d unless explicitly stated otherwise."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0004","num":"0003"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0005","num":"0004"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0006","num":"0005"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0007","num":"0006"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0008","num":"0007"},"figref":"FIGS. 5-8"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
