---
title: System and method for replacing application publisher interface branding with identity plates
abstract: Identity plates are described, including importing identity data into an application, the identity data being used to configure one or more identity elements, configuring an identity plate using the one or more identity elements, and presenting the identity plate within an interface associated with the application, the identity plate being configured to display the one or more identity elements in one or more associated positions configured to receive the one or more identity elements.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08032835&OS=08032835&RS=08032835
owner: Adobe Systems Incorporated
number: 08032835
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20090430
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"p":["This application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 11\/445,011 filed Jun. 1, 2006 now U.S. Pat. No. 7,543,236.","The present invention relates generally to software architecture. More specifically, identity plates are described.","Computer programs, software or applications (\u201capplications\u201d) use graphical user interfaces (\u201cinterfaces\u201d) to display information and data to users, enabling functionality and features to be used in a productive and efficient manner. Elements such as graphics, icons, text, and colors may be employed by users to provide for different and individualized user experiences. However, conventional UIs and interfaces are often limited to the application developer or publisher's \u201clook-and-feel\u201d and personalization or customization of an interface is limited, if allowed at all.","Some conventional applications are limited due to little or no ability to individually or personally modify the appearance, content, or context of an interface. For example, office productivity (e.g., word processing, accounting, spreadsheet, project management, and the like) applications have interfaces that are fixed by the developer or publisher (\u201cpublisher\u201d), thus preventing users from customizing individual instances of an application. Other conventional applications use \u201cskins,\u201d which provide pre-set interface environments. However, \u201cskins\u201d are cosmetic in appearance, providing different colors, fonts, typeset, and other display parameters.","Still other conventional applications provide for the use of previously entered registration data, which is displayed in a limited set of areas intended to provide a customized appearance, but failing to integrate with any functionality of an application. Yet other conventional applications are used as tools that allow modification or customization of an interface, but limited only to output generated by an application. In other words, presentation, visual or graphics design, and computer aided design (\u201cCAD\u201d) applications allow customization, but only for files, data, objects, drawings, designs, or other output models (\u201coutput models\u201d) generated using these applications.","Thus, a solution for customizing interfaces without the limitations of conventional techniques is needed.","Various embodiments or examples may be implemented in numerous ways, including as a system, a process, an apparatus, or a series of program instructions on a computer readable medium such as a computer readable storage medium or a computer network where the program instructions are sent over optical, electronic, or wireless communication links. In general, operations of disclosed processes may be performed in an arbitrary order, unless otherwise provided in the claims.","A detailed description of one or more examples is provided below along with accompanying figures. The detailed description is provided in connection with such examples, but is not limited to any particular example. The scope is limited only by the claims and numerous alternatives, modifications, and equivalents are encompassed. Numerous specific details are set forth in the following description in order to provide a thorough understanding. These details are provided as examples and the described techniques may be practiced according to the claims without some or all of the accompanying details. For clarity, technical material that is known in the technical fields related to the embodiments has not been described in detail to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the description.","Identity plates are described, including identity data and identity elements that, when used, provide customized branding or personalized elements (\u201cidentity elements\u201d) within an interface. Identity elements may include logos, graphics, text, audio, video, or other forms of content that may be customized by a user to replace branding or other identity elements, including those provided by application publishers or developers. In some examples, identity plates may include pre-determined sets of data that determine identity elements, parameters for how and where the identity elements are to be displayed, locations for displaying the identity elements within an interface, and other characteristics that may be used to couple an identity plate with a specific set of functionality, content, or other application data. Various examples are provided below for descriptive purposes, but are intended to be neither limiting nor completely comprehensive.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["100","102","104","106","108","110","112","100","108","108","102","100","102","102","102","102","102"]},"In some examples, user interface module  enables system  to send and receive data to a user interface (not shown). When user input is received, user interface module  may receive the information and forward it to application logic , identity plate module , or other modules within system  to use when implementing identity plates. For example, if a user indicates that an identity plate is desired for inclusion on a given page of an application being used (\u201capplication-in-use\u201d) by a user, information and data may be sent by the user to system  that provides parameters on how, where, and when to display the identity plates. Further, the user may specify one, some, or all portions of a user interface in order to customize the appearance or \u201cbrand\u201d the \u201clook-and-feel\u201d of the application. Branding of an application allows a user to, in some examples, to replace branding or personalization elements of an application with his or her own identity elements in order to provide the appearance of a personally branded application. For example, if a photographer\/user is using an application to digitally present, modify, edit, or otherwise work with images, an application may have the initial appearance and branding of that of the application publisher (i.e., an individual developer or development entity that developed the application). The photographer\/user can input information that allows him to replace the publisher's branding with an identity plate. In some examples, an identity plate may be a pre-determined set of logos, text, graphics, display icons, or other content that provide an online \u201cidentity\u201d (\u201cidentity elements\u201d) for a user. When implemented, the identity plate replaces a publisher's or otherwise pre-existing logos, text, graphics, or other display elements with the identity elements belonging to the identity plate. In the above example, the photographer\/user may then use the application to demonstrate a professional appearance when modifying, editing, displaying or otherwise working with a set of images and a customer. The customer may view the application with the implemented identity plate and instead of seeing the publisher's branding, instead views the photographer\/user's branding. In other examples, different applications may be used for different types of contexts, which may provide various types of user experiences and branding. Instead of using fixed branding or advertising content (e.g., logos, graphics, tile and banner advertisements, and other commercial content placed by an advertising or marketing entity), an individual user can brand an application \u201con-the-fly\u201d or immediately, enabling him to use the application as a visual representation or extension of his workplace for the benefit of enhancing brand awareness and identity perception for customers.","Identity plates, identity elements, and associated data (\u201cidentity data\u201d) may be stored in storage . Storage  may be a local or remote repository, database, data warehouse, storage area network, storage array (e.g., RAID, and others), network attached storage (i.e., NAS), or other type of storage facility. Various types of data schemas (e.g., MySQL, Oracle, DB2, and others) may be used with storage , which is not limited to any particular data storage schema. In some examples, identity plate module  may, when directed by a user as indicated by user input received via user interface module , direct the retrieval of an identity plate, identity elements, and identity data from storage . Once retrieved, output models (i.e., how identity elements belonging to an identity plate are to be displayed) are generated by output model module  and rendered on a display (e.g., a user interface (not shown)) by rendering engine  via user interface module . In other examples, system  and the above-described components may be varied in design, function, and implementation and are not limited to the examples described above.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1"],"b":["200","202","204","206","208","210","212","200","202","204","206","208","210","212","202","214","216"]},"In some examples, identity plate functionality may be implemented apart from an application. Here, application  may be implemented apart from identity plate module . In other words, identity plate module  may be implemented on system , which may be on, for example, an operating system, a portion of a memory on a computer, or a separate computer apart from that on which application  is installed. In some examples, a server may be used to implement application  while system  may be implemented on a client. In other examples, application  may be implemented on a peer (e.g., a desktop or notebook computer or server) and system  may be implemented on a different peer (i.e., another desktop or notebook computer or server in data communication with the first peer). In still other examples, different types of distributed implementation environments may be used to implement system  and application . User input provided via user interface modules  and  may be used to exchange information or data with system  and application , respectively. Identity plate module  may, when implemented on a separate computer or processor-based environment, install identity elements on an application that is installed on either the same system (e.g., system  ()) or in a different operating environment (e.g., remote computer or server in data communication with system ). In some examples, \u201cremote\u201d may refer to a separately configured and installed computer that is implemented apart from another separately configured and installed computer, but which may be in data communication with each other. \u201cComputer\u201d may also refer to any type of computing device, including a desktop, notebook or laptop, server, personal computer, mobile computing device, personal digital assistant, smart phone, camera phone, cell phone, and others. As an example, application  may be an office productivity application having an interfacing displaying various icons, tools, menus, and other graphical, video, audio, and text-based content. A user may select an option from the interface associated with application  (not shown). When selected, an option may retrieve an identity plate from system  using identity plate module . In some examples, one or more identity plates, identity elements, and identity data may be stored on storage . In some examples, an identity plate may include a list or table of pointers to data within storage  that identifies identity elements that are to be retrieved and implemented when a given identity plate is selected. Table 1 illustrates an example of a table to retrieve identity plates, identity elements, and identity data from databases stored on storage :",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00001","num":"00001"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"77pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"84pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["Identity Plate Name","Identity Elements","Database"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Identity Plate 2","Graphic A, Icon B, Text C","USE identity1"]},{"entry":["Identity Plate 3","Graphics B-E, Icon C","USE identity 2"]},{"entry":["Identity Plate 4","Icons D-G, Text D","USE identity3"]},{"entry":["Identity Plate 5","Graphic","USE identity4"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}},"In other examples, identity plates, identity elements, and identity data may be stored in storage  differently using other database schemas and formats, which are not limited to the examples shown or described. In still other examples, system , application , and the above-described components may be varied in design, function, and implementation and are not limited to the examples shown or described.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":"FIG. 3A","b":["300","302","304","306","308","310","312","314","318","310","320","336","320","336","312","320","336"]},"As an example, menu options - may be employed to perform certain tasks associated with interface . In some examples, an option may be provided using one or more of menu options - to provide an option for implementing an identity plate to brand interface . In other examples, options may be used differently. Options may also be listed as item in menu , which may be used to present various options for a user to select when working with interface . In still other, scrolls arrows - and scroll bar  may be used to manipulate content displayed in left display area , center display area , preview display area , and feature display areas -. In region , branding elements - are shown. In this example, branding elements - represent a logo (i.e., a tree) and text that is associated with \u201cCompany A,\u201d which may be a publisher of the application associated with interface .","In some examples, branding elements - may be replaced using an identity plate. Selecting one or more of options - or choosing a listed item from menu  (e.g., option  (\u201cImport Identity Elements\u201d)) may allow a user to brand interface  using one or more identity plates, identity elements, and identity data. For example, selecting option  (\u201cImport Identity Elements\u201d) from menu  enables a user to select and import an identity plate or identity elements into interface  to replace branding elements -. In other examples, identity plates, identity elements, and identity data may be implemented in interface  differently and are not limited to the examples shown and described.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":["FIG. 3B","FIG. 3A"],"b":["300","302","370","364","366","372","374","304","372","374","364","366","338","354","356","372","374"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"figref":["FIG. 3C","FIG. 3A"],"b":["300","302","370","364","366","372","374","318","372","374","300","372","374","300","300","300","300","108","364","366","300","302","374"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0034"},"figref":"FIG. 3D","b":["300","364","366","380","372","374","380","380","372","374","320","336","300","302","380"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"figref":"FIG. 3E","b":["300","380","380","300","380","320","336","380","380","300","302","380"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0037","num":"0036"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIGS. 3D-3E"],"b":["400","380","400","402","404","406","408","410","412","414","418","420","422","400","400"]},"In the examples described above in connection with , identity plates may be implemented with a photography application that allows a photographer\/user to personally brand an interface (e.g., interface  ()) using identity plates that are configured using the techniques described. Here, a user may enter a name for an identity plate in name field . The location of a file may be chosen and selected using file location field  and select button . If text is used with an identity plate, font may be configured using the drop down menu in font type field  and entering a size number in font size field . If another identity element is desired for display when the identity plate is selected, identity element fields - may be used. In some examples, more than one identity element may be used and identity element fields - illustrate any number, n, identity element fields that may be implemented with dialog display . Here, identity elements may also be configured for display in a pop-up display (e.g., pop-up display  ()) using pop-up radio button . In other examples, different fields, buttons, functionality, or other selection interface elements may be used to configure an identity plate. Further, identity plate configuration may be varied in design, functionality, and implementation and is not limited to the examples described above.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0039","num":"0038"},"figref":"FIG. 5","b":["502","504","506"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0040","num":"0039"},"figref":"FIG. 6","b":["602","604","606","608","610","612","602","614"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0041","num":"0040"},"figref":"FIG. 7","b":["700","700","702","704","706","708","710","712","714","716","718"]},"According to some examples, computer system  performs specific operations by processor  executing one or more sequences of one or more instructions stored in system memory . Such instructions may be read into system memory  from another computer readable medium, such as static storage device  or disk drive . In some examples, hard-wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions for implementation.","The term \u201ccomputer readable medium\u201d refers to any medium that participates in providing instructions to processor  for execution. Such a medium may take many forms, including but not limited to, non-volatile media, volatile media, and transmission media. Non-volatile media includes, for example, optical or magnetic disks, such as disk drive . Volatile media includes dynamic memory, such as system memory . Transmission media includes coaxial cables, copper wire, and fiber optics, including wires that comprise bus . Transmission media can also take the form of acoustic or light waves, such as those generated during radio wave and infrared data communications.","Common forms of computer readable media includes, for example, floppy disk, flexible disk, hard disk, magnetic tape, any other magnetic medium, CD-ROM, any other optical medium, punch cards, paper tape, any other physical medium with patterns of holes, RAM, PROM, EPROM, FLASH-EPROM, any other memory chip or cartridge, carrier wave, or any other medium from which a computer can read.","In some examples, execution of the sequences of instructions may be performed by a single computer system . According to some examples, two or more computer systems  coupled by communication link  (e.g., LAN, PSTN, or wireless network) may perform the sequence of instructions in coordination with one another. Computer system  may transmit and receive messages, data, and instructions, including program, i.e., application code, through communication link  and communication interface . Received program code may be executed by processor  as it is received, and\/or stored in disk drive , or other non-volatile storage for later execution.","The foregoing examples have been described in some detail for purposes of clarity of understanding, but are not limited to the details provided. There are many alternative ways and techniques for implementation. The disclosed examples are illustrative and not restrictive."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["FIELD OF THE INVENTION","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["Various examples are disclosed in the following detailed description and the accompanying drawings:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 3A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 3B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 3C"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 3D"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 3E"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 7"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
