---
title: Personal data platform
abstract: Receive a plurality of data management policies from a user. Store in a memory the data management policies in association with a context and an identifier of the user. Receive personal data of the user collected in one or more contexts by one or more collection devices. Determine whether the personal data complies with one or more of the data management policies with respect to collecting personal data of the user. If the personal data complies with the data management policies with respect to collecting personal data on the user, then storing in the memory the personal data in association with the identifier of the user. Provide a centralized interface to the user for managing the personal data stored in the memory.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08914342&OS=08914342&RS=08914342
owner: Yahoo! Inc.
number: 08914342
owner_city: Sunnyvale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20090812
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["TECHNICAL FIELD","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["The present disclosure generally relates to data management and more specifically relates to centralized personal data management.","Computer and communications technologies have contributed significantly to the arrival of the Information Age. Massive amounts of data are continuously generated by and about electronic device users, and a percentage of the generated data is collected, processed, analyzed, exchanged, and utilized. Consequently, there is continuous effort to improve on the data management technologies, especially on the management of large quantities of data.","The present disclosure generally relates to data management.","In disclosed embodiments, a method of personal data management includes receiving a plurality of data management policies from a user and storing, in a memory, the data management policies in association with a context and an identifier of the user. The method also can include receiving personal data of the user collected in one or more contexts by one or more collection devices, determining whether the personal data complies with one or more of the data management policies with respect to collecting personal data of the user, and, if the personal data complies with the data management policies with respect to collecting personal data on the user, then storing in the memory the personal data in association with the identifier of the user. The method also can include providing a centralized interface to the user for managing the personal data stored in the memory.","The present disclosure is now described in detail with reference to a few example embodiments thereof as illustrated in the accompanying drawings. In the following description, numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present disclosure. It is apparent, however, to one skilled in the art, that the present disclosure may be practiced without some or all of these specific details. In other instances, well known process steps and\/or structures have not been described in detail in order to not unnecessarily obscure the present disclosure. In addition, while the disclosure is described in conjunction with the particular embodiments, it should be understood that this description is not intended to limit the disclosure to the described embodiments. To the contrary, the description is intended to cover alternatives, modifications, and equivalents as may be included within the spirit and scope of the disclosure as defined by the appended claims.","In the current Information Age, massive amounts of data are continuously generated. Data is, for example and without limitation, information by, about, or on behalf of users, entities, groups, physical objects, vehicles, appliances, sensors, information objects, topics, subjects, times, time periods or durations, events, places, businesses, or buildings. Data may come from a variety of sources, including, for example and without limitation, any real-world or online sources capable of producing and publishing or sharing data. Data is information, and information is data. Such data may come from both public and private sources, and each is capable of generating personal data. Personal data, such as data generated directly or indirectly by individuals such as their activities and associations, may be generated both online and offline as the individual conducts their daily activities. For example and without limitation, when a person becomes a registered user of a website, as a part of the registration process, he may provide the website his demographic data, such as age, gender, ethnicity, residential address, work address, telephone numbers, email address, marital status, family status, education level, profession, annual income, hobbies, interests, etc. When a person meets a new friend or acquaintance, he may store the contact data of the new friend or acquaintance in his communications device. When a person contacts a friend via a mobile telephone, electronic mail (E-mail), or instant message (IM), the communications device or application may record the name and contact data of the friend and the time and length of the communication as well as the content of the communication in some instances. When a person visits various websites, the servers hosting the websites may record the time he visits each of the websites and the actions taken by him at each of the website just as an association with the user is created when they publish online content, publications, annotations or comments left by users including text, audio, image and video media objects. When a person visits a physical location, the navigation system in his vehicle or his mobile telephone may record the physical location he visits and the time of the visit as well as the patterns of movement of the user over time through space and time including co-location information with other user, vehicles, devices or other sensors.","Personal data generated by the individuals may be used in many different ways by many different parties, stored in different locations and in differing formats. For example and without limitation, businesses often utilize an individual's personal data to help deliver personalized services to the individual, such as providing personalized recommendations on services or products based on the individual's disclosed hobbies and interests or the individual's past purchases or online search or browsing behavior. Social network services sometimes help individuals establish social connections to friends, families, coworkers, and other acquaintances and can filter or preference recommendation of new friendships or associations as sources of potential personal data.","Although personal data may provide many benefits to both the individuals generating the data and the third parties servicing the individuals, currently there is no efficient and effective way to enable the individuals to manage their personal data conveniently and through a single interface, capturing as much, if not all, of the user's personal data into one virtual place accessible through many means and potential interfaces such as mobile or personal computing devices. Various pieces of personal data with respect to an individual are collected, stored, and processed by different parties located at different sites, often in an ad hoc manner. The parties rarely share the different pieces of data collected on the same individual, and there is no centralized location from where an individual may manage all of his personal data collected by the different parties. Furthermore, a great amount of personal data is lost due to the deficiencies in the way such data is captured. For example, each time a person becomes a registered user of a different website, he needs to provide his demographic data to the website again. If a person visits different websites, each website only collects and stores data on the actions he takes at the particular website, and the actions he takes at one website is usually not known to, i.e., shared with, the other websites. If a person calls a friend on his mobile telephone, data on the telephone call is only available on his mobile telephone. If the person does not manually store the data, the data is often lost.","To address some of these problems, particular embodiments provide a policy-based system that enables a person to manage the retention, processing, and usage of his personal data via a centralized interface and any collection device or context-specific policy implementation means, e.g., a mobile phone application or web browser plug in, data-sharing agreement with credit card companies, etc. A person may define a set of policies, contexts, and means that govern the monitoring, collecting, aggregating, filtering, processing, storing, publishing, and sharing of his personal data. In addition, a centralized interface is provided that enables the user to monitor data events and trends including the ability to edit the policies and contexts as well as any previously collected personal data. A user thus has complete control over his personal data.","Computer and communications technologies enable individuals to transfer data conveniently, freely, and often with insignificant or short delays. For example and without limitation, wired and wireless client devices connected to the various types of networks enable individuals to access and exchange data.  illustrates an example network environment  via which personal data may be collected, exchanged, and shared. Network environment  includes a network  coupling one or more servers  and one or more clients  to each other. In particular embodiments, network  is an intranet, an extranet, a virtual private network (VPN), a local area network (LAN), a wireless LAN (WLAN), a wide area network (WAN), a metropolitan area network (MAN), a communications network, a satellite network, a portion of the Internet, or another network  or a combination of two or more such networks . The present disclosure contemplates any suitable network .","One or more links  couple servers  or clients  to network . In particular embodiments, one or more links  each includes one or more wired, wireless, or optical links . In particular embodiments, one or more links  each includes an intranet, an extranet, a VPN, a LAN, a WLAN, a WAN, a MAN, a communications network, a satellite network, a portion of the Internet, or another link  or a combination of two or more such links . The present disclosure contemplates any suitable links  coupling servers  and clients  to network .","In particular embodiments, each server  may be a unitary server or may be a distributed server spanning multiple computers or multiple datacenters. Servers  may be of various types, such as, for example and without limitation, web server, news server, mail server, message server, advertising server, file server, application server, exchange server, database server, or proxy server. In particular embodiments, each server  may include hardware, software, or embedded logic components or a combination of two or more such components for carrying out the appropriate functionalities implemented or supported by server . For example, a web server is generally capable of hosting websites containing web pages or particular elements of web pages. More specifically, a web server may host HTML files or other file types, or may dynamically create or constitute files upon a request, and communicate them to clients  in response to HTTP or other requests from clients . A mail server is generally capable of providing electronic mail services to various clients . A database server is generally capable of providing an interface for managing data stored in one or more data stores.","In particular embodiments, a client  may be an electronic device including hardware, software, or embedded logic components or a combination of two or more such components and capable of carrying out the appropriate functionalities implemented or supported by client . For example and without limitation, a client  may be a desktop computer system, a notebook computer system, a netbook computer system, a handheld electronic device, or a mobile telephone. A client  may enable an Internet user at client  to access network . A client  may have a web browser, such as Microsoft Internet Explore, or Mozilla Firefox, and may have one or more add-ons, plug-ins, or other extensions, such as Google Toolbar or Yahoo Toolbar. A client  may enable its user to communicate with other users at other clients . The present disclosure contemplates any suitable clients .","In particular embodiments, one or more data storages  may be communicatively linked to sever  via a link . In particular embodiments, data storage  may be used to store user profiles, user data policies and contexts, user personal data, or other suitable data. In particular embodiments, server  may implement one or more interfaces  that provide access to the data stored in data storage . For example and without limitation, the interface may enable server  to retrieve the data stored in data storage , client  to add data to, delete data from, or modify data stored in data storage , or a user at client  to manage his personal data, profile, or data policies stored in data storage . Particular embodiments may implement interface  as software programs. For example and without limitation, interface  may be application programming interface (API), one or more desktop applications, or one or more web or mobile applications, plug-ins, modules, widgets, toolbars or other form of independent or add-on personal data management interface.","In particular embodiments, client  may implement one or more software applications such as desktop applications, mobile applications, or web applications. The software applications may monitor and collect personal data generated by a user at client  and transmit the collected personal data to server  to be stored in one or more data storages . The software applications may provide a user interface that enables a user at client  to manage his collected personal data or data policies.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":["FIG. 1B","FIG. 2"],"b":["160","160","160","120","160","160","162","164","166","168","170","172","174","120","130"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 2"],"b":["120","210"]},"In particular embodiments, the user profiles of all the registered users may be stored in one or more data storages  communicatively linked to and accessible by personal data exchange engine  residing on one or more servers . In particular embodiments, profile and relations manager  may manage the user profiles. The individual users may access their own user profiles via account manager  residing on their client devices such as clients . Account manager  may in turn communicate with profile and relations manager  on behalf of the individual users.","The user may provide the personal data management service his data management policies that govern how his personal data is to be managed in all or varying contexts (step ). A context may represent a particular situation. A user may specify any number of contexts representing a variety of different situations. The user's data management policies may each apply to individual contexts or to all contexts. For example and without limitation, the user's data management policies may indicate the type of personal data to be collected or not to be collected, the time for collecting the data, the device used to collect the data, the processes applied to the collected data such as aggregation, filtering, characterization, linking, or encryption, what data may be published, what data may be shared with specific parties, etc. In particular embodiments, the personal data management service may also have a set of default policies. The user may choose to use none, some, or all of the default policies and may provide his own data management policies in addition or in place of the default policies or may modify the default policies to suit his needs. With respect to applying data management policies to contexts, for example, one policy may indicate not to accept any telephone calls from a particular person under all circumstances, i.e., applying to all contexts, or another policy may indicate not to accept any telephone calls from a particular person only when the user is at work, i.e., applying to a specific context.","In particular embodiments, the user's data management policies may be stored in data storage  communicatively linked to and accessible by personal data exchange engine  residing on one or more servers  (step ). For example, the user's data management policies may be stored together with the user's user profile, and both may be uniquely identified with the user's username or a unique token or other identifier assigned to the user. Profile and relations manager  may also manage the data management policies of all registered users, and the individual users may access their data management policies using account manager  residing on their client devices such as client .","When the personal data management service receives the user's personal data, e.g., from a client  associated with the user such as a mobile personal device or from a client  not associated with the user such as an environmental sensor that has collected the personal data (step ), the personal data management service ensures that the received personal data complies with the user's data management policies (step ). For example, the personal data management service may determine that the received personal data is indeed the type of data that should be collected according to the specific data collection policies included in the user's data management policies. In particular embodiments, the received personal data may include the user's login or user name or the unique token or other identifier assigned to the user so that the personal data management service may be able to determine to which user the personal data belongs. Ensuring that the collected personal data complies with a user's data management policies may be done either on a server , e.g., by collection and storage manager , or on a client , e.g., by the client responsible for collecting the personal data.","If the received personal data should not have been collected, e.g., the received personal data is not the type that should be collected according to the user's data collection policies, the personal data management service may discard the received personal data, filter the data, blur the data, or otherwise modify the data. On the other hand, if the received personal data complies with the user's data management policies, the personal data management service may further process the received personal data based on the specific data process policies included in the user's data management policies (step ). For example and without limitation, the personal data may be aggregated, filtered, summarized, characterized, modified by a data model, linked to or from, published, stored, shared, etc. There may be a combination of default categories and user defined categories. If the received personal data is relating to a purchase the user has recently made at a website, it may be categorized to an \u201cOnline Commerce Transactions\u201d category and used for future personalization of search results based upon purchases as well as automatically shared with an intimate set of friends as a product recommendation. If the received personal data is relating to an E-mail sent to a friend, it may be categorized to a \u201cSocial Networks\u201d category. In particular embodiments, the personal data may be arranged according to specific data structure such as in a hierarchy for easy access and retrieval. For example, there may be data categories and within each category there may be subcategories, such as within the Social Networks category, there may be \u201cFamilies\u201d, \u201cFriends\u201d, \u201cColleagues\u201d, \u201cCasual Acquaintances\u201d subcategories as well as attribute-defined groups or categories, e.g. friends with whom I have seen a concert. In particular embodiments, the various functionalities that process the collected personal data may be performed by various components of personal data exchange engine , e.g., transaction manager  or filtering and publication manager .","In particular embodiments, to protect user privacy, the user may specify data privacy policies to encrypt or anonymize his personal data. Particular embodiments may use existing encryption or anonymization techniques. For example and without limitation, each user and his profile, data management policies, and personal data may be identified using a unique random token that bears no relationship to the user's real identity.","In particular embodiments, the user may specify data exchange policies. Sometimes, the user may wish to automatically share certain types of data with specific third parties. For example, the user may specify a policy to automatically inform his wife of his physical location data between 8:00 pm and 8:00 am. When the personal data management service receives data on the user's physical location between 8:00 pm and 8:00 am, based on the particular policy, the personal data management service may send an E-mail to an E-mail address provided by the user, e.g., the E-mail address of the user's wife, with the user's physical location data. Conversely, to protect his data, the user may also specify a policy indicating the type of data not to be shared with anyone or with specific parties. In particular embodiments, data sharing satisfaction and third party services module  may perform some or all of the functionalities relating to sharing a user's personal data with specific third parties.","In particular embodiments, the user may specify that one or more data models are to be applied to specific pieces of his personal data through one or more data management policies. For example and without limitation, certain types of data may be more important to the user than others and thus may be processed differently. From the user's social network data, the user may specify one or more individuals as his closest friends. Data on communications with these close friends may be processed differently, e.g., having higher priority or stronger privacy protection, than communications with other individuals.","The personal data, once processed, may be stored in data storage  communicatively linked to and accessible by server  (step ). The user's personal data may be uniquely identified with the user's username or a unique token assigned to the user. Particular embodiments may store the personal data in its raw data format or in a processed format or both. In particular embodiments, data storage  may implement a database, such as a relational database.","In particular embodiments, the user may modify his user profile, data management policies, or personal data at any time, e.g., via account manager . The user may access his account via an interface provided by the personal data management service. For example and without limitation, the interface may be implemented as a web application that may be executed in a browser, mobile application or as a desktop application. The user may verify his identity with the personal data management service by logging into his account using his username and password. Once logged in, the user may update his profile, add new data management policies, delete or modify existing data management policies, review personal data, modify or delete specific pieces of personal data via the interface, publish specific pieces of personal data, or share specific pieces of personal data with specific third parties.","When the personal data management service receives a user modification to his user profile, data management policies, or personal data (step ), the personal data management service modifies the appropriate data stored in data storage  accordingly (step ). In particular embodiments, profile and relations manager  may perform some or all of the functionalities relating to managing users' profile, data management policies, and personal data.","Steps - may be repeated as often as necessary, such as each time new personal data is received. Similarly, steps - may be repeated as often as necessary, such as each time the user wishes to review or modify his data.","In particular embodiments, the interface provides the user with a centralized access point through which the user may manage all of his personal data, regardless of from where and how his personal data is generated, where his personal data is stored, who and what collects his personal data, or when his personal data is collected. Further more, the data management policies ensure that the user's personal data is processed, handled, and used exactly as the user specifies, thus giving the user complete control of his personal data. For example, the user may have both a Yahoo and a Google membership, using each to search sometimes and yet the present invention enables the user to store data generated on both sites into one unified data repository, virtual or actual that is available to further increase personalization.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0037","num":"0036"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 3"],"b":["130","130","160","120","130","130","130","130","130","120"]},"In particular embodiments, the computer software runs continuously, beginning immediately upon user registration and uploading of actual or default personal data polices and is present in every context and on every personal user device thereafter.","In other embodiments, the computer software may be executed automatically when client  is turned on and may run in the background so as not to interfere with the user's usage of client . The user's personal data may be continuously collected (step ), immediately processed according to the appropriate user personal data polices (step ), and transmitted to personal data exchange engine  at appropriate server  (step ). In particular embodiments, the collected personal data may be temporarily stored on client . For example, if the user makes a telephone call using his mobile telephone, the computer software may collect data on the telephone call. However, it may not be desirable to transmit the collected personal data during the telephone call as the transmission may interfere with the telephone call. In this case, the collected personal data on the telephone call may be temporarily stored on the mobile telephone and transmitted to server  after the user has completed the telephone call, e.g., when the mobile telephone is in an idle state. Sometimes, client  may be temporarily disconnected from network . In this case, the personal data collected by client  may be temporarily stored locally on client  and transmitted to server  after client  is reconnected to network . In particular embodiments, the collected personal data may be processed on client  (step ) before it is transmitted to personal data exchange engine . For example, the data that does not comply with the user's data management policies may be discarded by client  without ever being transmitted to personal data exchange engine .","The user's personal data, once collected, may be used in many different ways by the user himself or by authorized third parties. The user may review his past activities, e.g., what he has purchased, which websites he has visited, what friends he has contacted, etc. The user may provide certain pieces of his personal data to trusted third parties so that the third parties may provide him with personalized services. The user may direct the personal data management service to forward his past online purchases from all websites to a particular business so that the business may have more comprehensive data about the user's purchasing activities for the purpose of providing personalized services. One or more third parties may also request some or all of the user's personal data stored in data storage . Upon receiving such a request from a third party, the personal data management service may verify the request against the user's data management policies with respect to sharing his personal data. If the user's data management policies indicate that the third party is authorized to access the requested personal data, the personal data management service may transmit the requested personal data to the third party. Otherwise, the personal data management service may deny the third party's request.","Particular embodiments may be implemented as hardware, software, or a combination of hardware and software. For example and without limitation, one or more computer systems may execute particular logic or software to perform one or more steps of one or more processes described or illustrated herein. One or more of the computer systems may be unitary or distributed, spanning multiple computer systems or multiple datacenters, where appropriate. The present disclosure contemplates any suitable computer system. In particular embodiments, performing one or more steps of one or more processes described or illustrated herein need not necessarily be limited to one or more particular geographic locations and need not necessarily have temporal limitations. As an example and not by way of limitation, one or more computer systems may carry out their functions in \u201creal time,\u201d \u201coffline,\u201d in \u201cbatch mode,\u201d otherwise, or in a suitable combination of the foregoing, where appropriate. One or more of the computer systems may carry out one or more portions of their functions at different times, at different locations, using different processing, where appropriate. Herein, reference to logic may encompass software, and vice versa, where appropriate. Reference to software may encompass one or more computer programs, and vice versa, where appropriate. Reference to software may encompass data, instructions, or both, and vice versa, where appropriate. Similarly, reference to data may encompass instructions, and vice versa, where appropriate.","One or more computer-readable storage media may store or otherwise embody software implementing particular embodiments. A computer-readable medium may be any medium capable of carrying, communicating, containing, holding, maintaining, propagating, retaining, storing, transmitting, transporting, or otherwise embodying software, where appropriate. A computer-readable medium may be a biological, chemical, electronic, electromagnetic, infrared, magnetic, optical, quantum, or other suitable medium or a combination of two or more such media, where appropriate. A computer-readable medium may include one or more nanometer-scale components or otherwise embody nanometer-scale design or fabrication. Example computer-readable storage media include, but are not limited to, compact discs (CDs), field-programmable gate arrays (FPGAs), floppy disks, floptical disks, hard disks, holographic storage devices, integrated circuits (ICs) (such as application-specific integrated circuits (ASICs)), magnetic tape, caches, programmable logic devices (PLDs), random-access memory (RAM) devices, read-only memory (ROM) devices, semiconductor memory devices, and other suitable computer-readable storage media.","Software implementing particular embodiments may be written in any suitable programming language (which may be procedural or object oriented) or combination of programming languages, where appropriate. Any suitable type of computer system (such as a single- or multiple-processor computer system) or systems may execute software implementing particular embodiments, where appropriate. A general-purpose computer system may execute software implementing particular embodiments, where appropriate.","For example,  illustrates an example computer system  suitable for implementing one or more portions of particular embodiments. Although the present disclosure describes and illustrates a particular computer system  having particular components in a particular configuration, the present disclosure contemplates any suitable computer system having any suitable components in any suitable configuration. Moreover, computer system  may have take any suitable physical form, such as for example one or more integrated circuit (ICs), one or more printed circuit boards (PCBs), one or more handheld or other devices (such as mobile telephones or PDAs), one or more personal computers, or one or more super computers.","Computer system  may have one or more input devices  (which may include a keypad, keyboard, mouse, stylus, etc.), one or more output devices  (which may include one or more displays, one or more speakers, one or more printers, etc.), one or more storage devices , and one or more storage medium . An input device  may be external or internal to computer system . An output device  may be external or internal to computer system . A storage device  may be external or internal to computer system . A storage medium  may be external or internal to computer system .","System bus  couples subsystems of computer system  to each other. Herein, reference to a bus encompasses one or more digital signal lines serving a common function. The present disclosure contemplates any suitable system bus  including any suitable bus structures (such as one or more memory buses, one or more peripheral buses, one or more a local buses, or a combination of the foregoing) having any suitable bus architectures. Example bus architectures include, but are not limited to, Industry Standard Architecture (ISA) bus, Enhanced ISA (EISA) bus, Micro Channel Architecture (MCA) bus, Video Electronics Standards Association local (VLB) bus, Peripheral Component Interconnect (PCI) bus, PCI-Express bus (PCI-X), and Accelerated Graphics Port (AGP) bus.","Computer system  includes one or more processors  (or central processing units (CPUs)). A processor  may contain a cache  for temporary local storage of instructions, data, or computer addresses. Processors  are coupled to one or more storage devices, including memory . Memory  may include random access memory (RAM)  and read-only memory (ROM) . Data and instructions may transfer bidirectionally between processors  and RAM . Data and instructions may transfer unidirectionally to processors  from ROM . RAM  and ROM  may include any suitable computer-readable storage media.","Computer system  includes fixed storage  coupled bidirectionally to processors . Fixed storage  may be coupled to processors  via storage control unit . Fixed storage  may provide additional data storage capacity and may include any suitable computer-readable storage media. Fixed storage  may store an operating system (OS) , one or more executables , one or more applications or programs , data , and the like. Fixed storage  is typically a secondary storage medium (such as a hard disk) that is slower than primary storage. In appropriate cases, the data stored by fixed storage  may be incorporated as virtual memory into memory .","Processors  may be coupled to a variety of interfaces, such as, for example, graphics control , video interface , input interface , output interface , and storage interface , which in turn may be respectively coupled to appropriate devices. Example input or output devices include, but are not limited to, video displays, track balls, mice, keyboards, microphones, touch-sensitive displays, transducer card readers, magnetic or paper tape readers, tablets, styli, voice or handwriting recognizers, biometrics readers, or computer systems. Network interface  may couple processors  to another computer system or to network . With network interface , processors  may receive or send data from or to network  in the course of performing steps of particular embodiments. Particular embodiments may execute solely on processors . Particular embodiments may execute on processors  and on one or more remote processors operating together.","In a network environment, where computer system  is connected to network , computer system  may communicate with other devices connected to network . Computer system  may communicate with network  via network interface . For example, computer system  may receive data (such as a request or a response from another device) from network  in the form of one or more incoming packets at network interface  and memory  may store the incoming packets for subsequent processing. Computer system  may send data (such as a request or a response to another device) to network  in the form of one or more outgoing packets from network interface , which memory  may store prior to being sent. Processors  may access an incoming or outgoing packet in memory  to process it, according to particular needs.","Particular embodiments involve one or more computer-storage products that include one or more computer-readable storage media that embody software for performing one or more steps of one or more processes described or illustrated herein. In particular embodiments, one or more portions of the media, the software, or both may be designed and manufactured specifically to perform one or more steps of one or more processes described or illustrated herein. In addition or as an alternative, in particular embodiments, one or more portions of the media, the software, or both may be generally available without design or manufacture specific to processes described or illustrated herein. Example computer-readable storage media include, but are not limited to, CDs (such as CD-ROMs), FPGAs, floppy disks, floptical disks, hard disks, holographic storage devices, ICs (such as ASICs), magnetic tape, caches, PLDs, RAM devices, ROM devices, semiconductor memory devices, and other suitable computer-readable storage media. In particular embodiments, software may be machine code which a compiler may generate or one or more files containing higher-level code which a computer may execute using an interpreter.","As an example and not by way of limitation, memory  may include one or more computer-readable storage media embodying software and computer system  may provide particular functionality described or illustrated herein as a result of processors  executing the software. Memory  may store and processors  may execute the software. Memory  may read the software from the computer-readable storage media in mass storage device  embodying the software or from one or more other sources via network interface . When executing the software, processors  may perform one or more steps of one or more processes described or illustrated herein, which may include defining one or more data structures for storage in memory  and modifying one or more of the data structures as directed by one or more portions the software, according to particular needs. In addition or as an alternative, computer system  may provide particular functionality described or illustrated herein as a result of logic hardwired or otherwise embodied in a circuit, which may operate in place of or together with software to perform one or more steps of one or more processes described or illustrated herein. The present disclosure encompasses any suitable combination of hardware and software, according to particular needs.","Although the present disclosure describes or illustrates particular operations as occurring in a particular order, the present disclosure contemplates any suitable operations occurring in any suitable order. Moreover, the present disclosure contemplates any suitable operations being repeated one or more times in any suitable order. Although the present disclosure describes or illustrates particular operations as occurring in sequence, the present disclosure contemplates any suitable operations occurring at substantially the same time, where appropriate. Any suitable operation or sequence of operations described or illustrated herein may be interrupted, suspended, or otherwise controlled by another process, such as an operating system or kernel, where appropriate. The acts can operate in an operating system environment or as stand-alone routines occupying all or a substantial part of the system processing.","The present disclosure encompasses all changes, substitutions, variations, alterations, and modifications to the example embodiments herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend. Similarly, where appropriate, the appended claims encompass all changes, substitutions, variations, alterations, and modifications to the example embodiments herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0006","num":"0005"},"figref":"FIG. 1A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0007","num":"0006"},"figref":"FIG. 1B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0008","num":"0007"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 4"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
