---
title: Method, system, and graphic user interface for enabling a customer to access information associated with a hosted user profile
abstract: A method, system, GUI, apparatus, and machine-readable media for enabling a customer to access information associated with a hosted user profile via a third party information source are provided. A customer may request information associated with a user profile via a mechanism provided by a third party information source via, for example, a mobile communications device. The customer may be enabled to access the information associated with the hosted user profile and an account associated with the customer may be updated to reflect the access. An account associated with the user may be updated to show the transaction and a statement regarding transactions associated with the user profile may be prepared and presented to the user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09530158&OS=09530158&RS=09530158
owner: IHEARTMEDIA MANAGEMENT SERVICES, INC.
number: 09530158
owner_city: San Antonio
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20090402
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION"],"p":["Field of Invention","This invention relates to a method, system, graphic user interface (GUI), apparatus, and machine-readable media for enabling a customer to access information associated with a hosted user profile via a third party information source.","Discussion of Related Art","Current media file downloading sources such as iTunes\u2122 and Rhapsody\u2122 offer customers the ability to purchase and download media files. Typically, these downloading sources receive media files from a recording industry representative and not from a user or artist. Once received, a media file may then be processed and uploaded to a website hosted by the downloading source so that they may be viewed and\/or purchased by one or more customers. In this way, a user or artist is denied direct access to the downloading source. The lack of direct access to a downloading source causes considerable delay in the time it takes for a media file to get to market. This delay may, in turn, cost the user or artist valuable opportunities and financial benefits. Additionally, the lack of direct access to a downloading source denies a user or artist direct control over a media file they generate or are otherwise associated with.","Other websites, like MySpace.com\u2122 and YouTube.com\u2122, enable users to upload media content that may later be viewed by other users of the website. However, this content is not available for download and\/or purchase by a viewing user.","A method, system, graphic user interface (GUI), apparatus, and machine-readable media for enabling a customer to access information associated with a hosted user profile via a third party information source are provided. Exemplary third party information sources include a third party website, a third party short message service (SMS)\/multimedia messaging service (MMS) gateway, and\/or a wireless application protocol (WAP) site.","According to one embodiment, a customer may be provided with a mechanism to access the hosted user profile via the third party information source through, for example, a personal or mobile computing device. The user profile may hosted on, for example, a website, a SMS\/MMS gateway, and a WAP site. In some cases, the mechanism may be a link or widget that is included on a page displayed by the third party information source. In one embodiment, the mechanism may be provided via a plurality of third party information sources.","A user profile may include information. In some cases, the information may be a media file. Exemplary media files include an MP3 file, a graphic file, a ringtone file, a document file, a game file, a wallpaper file, and a music file. In one embodiment, the information may be a subscription to, for example, information made periodically available on the hosted user profile. In another embodiment, the user profile may be associated with a user account. A user account may include information relating to the transferring of monetary funds to and\/or from the user.","A customer may request access to the user profile via, for example, activating or selecting the mechanism. The customer may be provided with access to the user profile in response to the request. The customer may then request to access information associated with a hosted user profile. The customer may enter personal information and this information may be used to associate the customer with a customer account. The customer account may be updated to reflect the requested to access the information and other transactions. In some embodiments, updating a customer account may include charging the customer account an amount of money and receiving payment.","A customer may be enabled to access the requested information. In some embodiments, accessing the information may include downloading the information. One or more transactions may then be cataloged. A user's account may be updated to, for example, indicate a customer's information access. Updating a user account may include, for example, issuing or receiving an electronic funds transfer and\/or a paper check that may be, for example, transferred from a payment received by the entity hosting the user profile.","A statement may be prepared for the user. This statement may include information regarding various transactions related to the user profile, information associated with the user profile, and\/or a website, a SMS\/MMS gateway, and a WAP site like host website , SMS\/MMS gateway , and WAP site , respectively including the status or cost of a transaction, and\/or any credit due, or debt owed, by the user. In embodiments where a plurality of mechanisms are provided to a user, the statement may include information associated with each of the plurality of mechanisms. The statement may then be provided to the user.","Systems and apparatus for executing the method may include a network and a server computer system. The network may be enabled to facilitate communication between a user, a customer, and a server computer system. The server computer system, may be enabled to provide the customer with a mechanism to access the hosted user profile, wherein the user profile includes information, is associated with a user account, and is hosted on at least one of a website, a SMS\/MMS gateway, and a WAP site. The system may also be enabled to receive a request to access the user profile from a customer via the mechanism, provide the customer with access to the user profile, receive a request to access information associated with a hosted user profile, receive personal information from the customer, and associate the customer with a customer account based on the received personal information. The system may be further enabled to update the customer account to indicate the requested access to the information, enable the customer to access the information update the user account to indicate the customer's access to the information, prepare, and provide a statement for the user based on the updated user account information.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 1A","b":["10","100","24","32","30","40","38","22","48","52","50","52","54","56","46","42","44","58","60","62"]},"User computer system  may communicate with server computer system  via a web site, such as web site , over a network, such as Internet . User mobile device  may communicate with a SMS\/MMS gateway, such as SMS\/MMS gateway  via, for example an SMS\/MMS network such as SMS\/MMS network . User mobile device  may also communicate with a WAP site such as WAP site  via a WAP network  such as WAP network .","Server computer system  may include a file store in the form of file server  and a data store in the form of file database . File database  may store one or more media files and\/or libraries of media files. A library of media files stored by file database  may include media files imported directly from, for example, a media distribution company or a record label like Sony Music\u2122 or Universal Studios\u2122. File database  may be in communication with file server . API  may be a set of instructions, protocols, methods, and\/or functions that enable system  to perform a request from any of the components of system .","Content delivery platform and management system  may, for example, classify and\/or index media files such as ringtones (reduced media content), full-track content, games, wallpaper, graphics, MP3s, and media files using one or more categories. Content delivery platform and management system  may provide information to a customer regarding a media file based on, for example, it's classification and\/or indexing. Media files to be indexed may be from, for example, a file server such as file server . Indexed media files may be stored in, for example, a structured manner that may enable accessing the media file and\/or downloading the indexed media file to a website like website , a WAP site like WAP site , a SMS\/MMS gateway like SMS\/MMS gateway , and\/or a transcoding service like transcoding service . Indexed media files may be stored in a database like file database .","Subscription and purchase management system  may include instructions that may enable the managing of subscriptions to, for example, a host website, a user profile, and\/or a media file. Subscription and purchase management system  may also include instructions that may enable the managing of the purchase of a subscription and\/or access to a media file. Subscription and purchase management system  may enable the updating of a customer account to indicate, for example, the customers access of a website like website , a WAP site like WAP site , a SMS\/MMS gateway like SMS\/MMS gateway , a user profile, or a media file. Subscription and purchase management system  may also enable providing a customer with access to a good or service when the customer communicates with, for example, a website like website , a WAP site like WAP site , a SMS\/MMS gateway like SMS\/MMS gateway .","Transcoding service  may prepare communication suitable for transmission over internet , WAP network , and\/or SMS\/MMS network . Administrator  may be any administrator of server computer system  and may provide instructions to one or more components of server computer system . Third party user  may be any third party not in communication with to the website , SMS\/MMS gateway  and WAP site . Third party user  may be enabled to access API  via, for example, a widget, API, or link external to server computer system .","Communication between one or more components of system  may be made via a communication link like communication link . Communication links  may be any appropriate communication link and may be wired or wireless.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":"FIG. 1B","b":["101","101","44","56","46","130","62","44","105","110","115","120","125"]},"Financial institution  may be any entity capable of conducting financial transactions such as an electronic or paper funds transfer. Exemplary financial institutions include banks, credit card companies, and PayPal\u2122. Financial institution  may be able to access, withdraw, and\/or deposit funds related to user account  and\/or customer account . Financial institution  may also be able to update a user account module  and\/or customer account module  to reflect, for example, a transaction.","User information module  may include information regarding a user. Exemplary information includes login information such as a password and user identification and\/or a user profile and\/or information associated with a user profile and\/or media file. A user profile may include, for example, information regarding the user's interests, a musical group that he or she belongs to, a genre of art that he or she contributes to, and\/or information regarding media files he or she has uploaded to the user profile. User information module  may be in communication with, for example, user account module  and\/or media file module .","User account module  may include, for example, information regarding an account the user has with a host website, SMS\/MMS gateway, and\/or WAP site such as website , SMS\/MMS gateway , and\/or WAP site . Information included in user account module  may be, for example, a list of media files uploaded to user information module , the status of the uploaded media files, how many customers accessed his or her profile and\/or uploaded media file, a statement prepared for the user, and any credit or debit account balance owed or due to the user. User account module  may be in communication with, for example, user information module .","Customer information module  may include information regarding a customer. A customer may be any individual and\/or entity requesting access to a media file. Exemplary information includes login information such as a password and user identification and\/or a customer profile. A customer profile may include, for example, information regarding his or her interests, a genre of art that they contribute to, and\/or information regarding media files he or she has uploaded to the user profile. Customer information module  may also include information regarding media files access and\/or downloaded by the customer and\/or a service or periodically issued media file that the customer subscribes to. Customer information module  may be in communication with, for example, customer account module  and\/or media file module .","Customer account module  may include information regarding an account the user has with a host website, SMS\/MMS gateway, and\/or WAP site such as website , SMS\/MMS gateway , and\/or WAP site . Customer account module  may also include an accounting of the number of media files accessed by and\/or downloaded to customer information module , the status of an accessed\/downloaded media file, the media files and\/or user profiles he or she has accessed, a statement prepared for the customer, and any credit or debit account balance owed, or due to, the customer.","Media file module  may include one or more media files uploaded by a user to his or her profile. A media file uploaded to media file  may be accessed\/downloaded by a customer via, for example, customer information module . Exemplary media files include an MP3 file, a graphic file, a ringtone file, a document file, a game file, and a music file. Media file module  may be accessed by, for example, user information module , and\/or customer information module .","A user and\/or customer may communicate with file database , user information module , user account module , customer information module , customer account module , and\/or media file  via, for example, website , SMS\/MMS gateway , and\/or WAP site  over communication links .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0037","num":"0036"},"figref":"FIG. 1C","b":["150","150","44","56","46","52","130","115","120","62","44","105","110","125"]},"Customer information module  may communicate with API  over communication link . This communication may include a request to, for example, access a user profile or access a media file. API  may be enabled to communicate with content delivery platform and content management system . This communication may include, for example, the request to, for example, access a user profile or access\/download a media file and a response to the request. Content delivery platform and content management system  may be in communication with subscription and purchase management system . This communication may relate to a subscription and\/or payment required from the customer to access a requested profile and\/or media file. Subscription and purchase management system  may be in communication with customer account module  and\/or financial institution  in order to, for example, execute the payment for access a requested profile and\/or media file. Once executed, customer account module  and\/or user account module  may be updated to reflect the transaction.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0039","num":"0038"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":"200"},"The exemplary computer system  includes a processor  (e.g., a central processing unit (CPU), a graphics processing unit (GPU), or both), a main memory  (e.g., read only memory (ROM), flash memory, dynamic random access memory (DRAM) such as synchronous DRAM (SDRAM) or Rambus DRAM (RDRAM), etc.), and a static memory  (e.g., flash memory, static random access memory (SRAM), etc.), which communicate with each other via a bus .","The computer system  may further include a video display  (e.g., a liquid crystal display (LCD) or a cathode ray tube (CRT)). The computer system  may also include an alpha-numeric input device  (e.g., a keyboard or touch screen), a cursor control device  (e.g., a mouse), a disk drive unit , a signal generation device  (e.g., a speaker), and a network interface device .","The disk drive unit  includes a machine-readable medium  on which is stored one or more sets of instructions  (e.g., software) embodying any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. The software may also reside, completely or at least partially, within the main memory  and\/or within the processor  during execution thereof by the computer system , the main memory  and the processor  also constituting machine-readable media.","The software may further be transmitted or received over a network  via the network interface device . Exemplary networks include Internet , SMS\/MMS network , and WAP network .","While machine-readable medium  is shown in an exemplary embodiment to be a single medium, the term \u201cmachine-readable medium\u201d should be taken to include a single medium or multiple media (e.g., a centralized or distributed database, and\/or associated caches and servers) that store the one or more sets of instructions. The term \u201cmachine-readable medium\u201d shall also be taken to include any medium that is capable of storing, encoding, or carrying a set of instructions for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies of the present invention. The term \u201cmachine-readable medium\u201d shall accordingly be taken to include, but not be limited to, solid-state memories, optical and magnetic media, and carrier wave signals.","The GUIs of  may be generated, displayed, and managed by any system and\/or apparatus enabled to generate them and communicate with a user and\/or a customer such as systems , , , and\/or .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0046","num":"0045"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":["300","300","300","310","315","320","320","315","320","325"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0047","num":"0046"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":["400","400","405","410"]},"A user may select a reporting view under a reporting view heading . Selecting a reporting view enables a user to view information related to a source of data associated with their user profile. For example, a user may have mechanisms for accessing their user profile available on various platforms or websites, such as mySpace.com, FaceBook.com, and\/or a personal website. A user may wish to view information related to only one of these platforms. In this case, he or she would select the one of exemplary reporting views ptrx , thpcampid , and thpcid , wherein each of these reporting views is associated with a different platform or website. Upon selection of a reporting view, information regarding activity related to the selected platform or website may be displayed. When a user desires to view information related to all of the platforms or websites associated with their user profile, he or she may select the summary reporting view . Following this selection, a summary of all activity related to the user profile may be displayed as shown in .","A user may also select a manner of sorting the data shown on a report. For example, GUI  shows a sorting option of \u201cby dates\u201d . Other exemplary sorting options include sorting by day, week, month, or most recent activity. Optionally, one or more text boxes  may be displayed wherein a user may enter a date or date range for information to be shown in a statement or report. A user may select or \u201cclick on,\u201d for example, a button  shown on the GUI to apply the selected sorting option to the data provided on the statement or report.","Exemplary information showing activity and\/or transactions regarding a user profile may be provided in table . Table  may include one or more headings that may refer to a category of information. Exemplary categories include the date, volume of traffic, and\/or the number of new\/existing subscriptions, and\/or downloads. Information related the category and the user profile may be provided on the table under the appropriate heading.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0051","num":"0050"},"figref":"FIG. 5","b":["500","100","101","150","200","500"]},"In step , a customer may be provided with a mechanism to access the hosted user profile via the third party information source through, for example, a personal or mobile computing device. Exemplary mobile communication devices include a mobile telephone and PDA. The user profile may be hosted on, for example, a website, a SMS\/MMS gateway, and a WAP site like website , SMS\/MMS gateway , and WAP site , respectively. The mechanism may be, for example, a link or a widget that is included on a page displayed by the third party information source. An exemplary mechanism is shown in . The mechanism may be provided via, for example, a website, a SMS\/MMS gateway, and a WAP site, such as, a user's website or a commercially available site like mySpace.com\u2122 or FaceBook.com\u2122.","The user profile may include information. In some cases, the information may be a media file. Exemplary media files include an MP3 file, a graphic file, a ringtone file, a document file, a game file, a wallpaper file, and a music file. In one embodiment, the information may be a subscription to, for example, information made periodically available on the hosted user profile and\/or entity hosting the user profile.","In one embodiment, the user profile may be associated with a user account. A user account may include information relating to, for example, a user or administrator of the user profile, and\/or information or media files associated with the user profile. A user account may include information relating to the transferring of monetary funds to and\/or from the user. Monetary funds may be transferred from the user account, for example, as payment for services rendered by the entity hosting the user profile. Monetary funds may be transferred to the user account as a credit from the entity hosting the user profile for fees collected from customers who accessed information from the hosted user profile. In some embodiments, the mechanism may be provided via a plurality of third party information sources.","In step , a request to access the user profile may be received from a customer via, for example, the mechanism. An exemplary method for receiving the request may include selecting, by the user, the mechanism by clicking on it with a mouse.","In step , the customer may be provided with access to the user profile. This access may be enabled by a content delivery platform and content management system like content delivery platform and content management system  via, for example, a website, a SMS\/MMS gateway, and a WAP site like website , SMS\/MMS gateway , and WAP site . In step , a request to access information associated with a hosted user profile may be received via, for example, a website, a SMS\/MMS gateway, a WAP site like website , SMS\/MMS gateway , and WAP site .","In step , personal information may be received from the customer via, for example, a website, a SMS\/MMS gateway, and\/or a WAP site like website , SMS\/MMS gateway , and\/or WAP site , respectively. Personal information received from the customer may include, for example, the customer's name, email address, billing information, login information, and\/or a password. The customer may then be associated with a customer account based on the received personal information using, for example, a subscription and purchase management system, such as subscription and purchase management system  and\/or a financial institution like financial institution  (step ). In some cases, the customer may have a previously existing customer account and may be associated with this account based on the received customer information. In other cases, a new customer account may be generated for the customer using the received personal information.","In step , a customer account may be updated to reflect the requested to access the information. In some embodiments, updating a customer account may include charging the customer account an amount of money and receiving payment. A customer account may be, for example, an account with a bank, a utility provider, a mobile communications provider, a telecommunications provider, a lending institution, and an electronic commerce institution, wherein the account is associated with the customer. A customer account may be resident in, for example, a file database like file database  and\/or a customer account module, like customer account module . Updating the customer account may be performed by, for example, a subscription and purchase management system, such as subscription and purchase management system  and\/or a financial institution like financial institution . To update a customer's account, a payment for accessing the requested media file may be transferred from a customer and\/or customer account. Updating the customer account may include, for example, an electronic funds transfer, or a credit card, debit card, or PayPal\u2122 transaction.","In step , a customer may be enabled to access the requested information via, for example, a content delivery platform and\/or content management system such as content delivery platform and content management system  or a website, a SMS\/MMS gateway, and\/or a WAP site such as website , SMS\/MMS gateway , and\/or WAP site , respectively. In some embodiments, accessing the information may include downloading the information.","In step , one or more transactions of process  may be cataloged using, for example, a content delivery platform and content management system like content delivery platform and content management system .","In step , a user's account may be updated to, for example, indicate a customer's information access. A subscription and purchase management system, such as subscription and purchase management system  and\/or a financial institution like financial institution  may be used to update the user's account. Updating a user account may include, for example, issuing or receiving an electronic funds transfer and\/or a paper check that may be, for example, transferred from a payment received by the entity hosting the user profile.","In step , a statement may be prepared for the user using, for example, a subscription and purchase management system, such as subscription and purchase management system  and\/or a financial institution like financial institution . This statement may include information regarding various transactions related to the user profile, information associated with the user profile, and\/or a website, a SMS\/MMS gateway, and a WAP site like host website , SMS\/MMS gateway , and WAP site , respectively including the status or cost of a transaction, and\/or any credit due, or debt owed, by the user. In embodiments where a plurality of mechanisms are provided to a user, the statement may include information associated with each of the plurality of mechanisms. In step , the statement may be provided to the user via, for example, the content delivery platform and content management system. An exemplary statement provided to a user is shown in . Following step , process  may end.","While certain exemplary embodiments have been described and shown in the accompanying drawings, it is to be understood that such embodiments are merely illustrative and not restrictive of the current invention, and that this invention is not restricted to the specific constructions and arrangements shown and described since modifications may occur to those ordinarily skilled in the art."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF DRAWINGS","p":["The present invention is illustrated by way of example, and not limitation, in the figures of the accompanying drawings in which:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 1A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 1B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 1C"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 5","b":"500"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
