---
title: IP mobility for devices with multiple radios
abstract: A wireless transmit/receive unit (WTRU) includes a mobility management function and a multihoming function. The mobility management function may implement the Media Independent Handover (MIH) protocol and the multihoming function may implement the Shim6 protocol. The mobility management function may communicate link status information to the multihoming function. Based on the link status information, the multihoming function may accelerate or decelerate a link failure detection procedure, may modify a list of possible paths for consideration for a path exploration procedure, and/or may determine to initiate a path exploration procedure. The multihoming function may communicate to the mobility management function that additional communications resources are required. In response, the mobility management function may activate an inactive radio interface. Subsequent path exploration procedures may include the exploration of paths that may be established over the activated radio interface.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08259592&OS=08259592&RS=08259592
owner: InterDigital Patent Holdings, Inc.
number: 08259592
owner_city: Wilmington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20090612
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATION","TECHNICAL FIELD","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61\/092,990, filed on Aug. 29, 2008, which is incorporated by reference as if fully set forth.","The current disclosure relates to wireless communications.","Multihoming is the configuration of multiple Internet Protocol (IP) addresses on a device participating in an IP network. Multihoming may be accomplished through different approaches, including assigning multiple IP addresses to a single link and employing multiple physical interfaces with distinct IP addresses. Multihoming may be used to split data into parallel streams, so as to increase throughput and reliability. For example, a data stream may be received at a host over three parallel streams over three distinct IP addresses over three distinct links. The received data may then be recombined at the host.","In the context of IP version 6 (IPv6), the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF) Shim6 protocol may be employed to facilitate multihoming. Shim 6 is host-based, and offers features such as the ability to manage several IP paths, failure detection and recovery, and best path selection. In IP version 4 (IPv4) multihoming, address prefixes were required, which increased the size of routing tables and, consequently, the time required to deliver packets. Using Shim6 and IPv6, the address prefixes are not required, thereby avoiding the performance delays of IPv4 multihoming.","Shim6 works by modifying the network layer in the protocol stack. When two hosts using Shim6 connect, they establish a Shim6 context and exchange information including the multiple IPv6 addresses with which they may be reached. During transmission of a packet, the packet is received at the network layer in the transmitting host from a higher layer with a destination IP address of the intended recipient host. The Shim6 element in the network layer may substitute a different IP address for the destination host, and then communicate the packet up to the transport layer. This substitution may be performed if, for example, the destination IP address originally indicated in the packet identifies a link to the destination host that is no longer viable. This allows for the new path to be used without breaking current transport-layer configurations. In Shim6, the IP addresses revealed to the transport layer are referred to as \u201cidentifiers,\u201d while the IP address revealed to the network and data link layers are referred to as \u201clocators.\u201d The Shim6 element stores mappings between identifiers and locators in order to facilitate path selection.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0007","num":"0006"},"figref":["FIG. 1","FIGS. 2 and 3"],"b":["150","190","192","120","190","192","152","190","192","130","190","1","102","2","104","190","1","1","102","2","2","104","190","106","1","102","2","104","192","3","108","3","108","106","192","3","3","108","150","190","192","120","1","102","3","108","150","192","190","1","2","2","192","1","120","192","190","120","190","190","152","130","152","192","190","1","2","1","192","2","150","192","190","192","150","152"]},"Shim6 defines a Forced Bidirectional Detection (FBD) procedure for detecting link failure. FBD is used to determine the viability (or \u201creachability\u201d) of a used IP address pair between two hosts. Reachability is analyzed in terms of reciprocal traffic; traffic in one direction creates an expectation of traffic in the return direction. The FBD procedure begins after two nodes have successfully established a Shim6 context. A node which implements FBD uses two timers: (1) a send timer to indicate the time since the last packet was sent, and (2) a keepalive timer to indicate the time since the last packet was received. These two timers are mutually exclusive, so that no more than one timer is running at any time. When a host generates an outgoing data packet within the Shim6 context, the send timer is started. If there is a keepalive timer running at the time, the keepalive timer is stopped. When the host receives an incoming data packet, the send timer is stopped and the keepalive timer is started. If the keepalive timer exceeds a keepalive timeout value, a keepalive packet is transmitted to the other host. If the send timer value exceeds a send timeout value, the host determines that the other host is unreachable. Using FBD, it may take the host tens of seconds to determine if the other host is unreachable.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":["290","292","202","204","292","292","206","208","290","210","290","212","290","212","214","292","292","216","292","218","220","290","222","290","292"]},"Host A  then starts  its send timer and sends  a data or keepalive packet . The data or keepalive packet does not reach Host B . The send timer of Host B  expires , indicating a failure of the link to Host A . The send timer of Host A  expires , indicating a failure of the link to Host B . At this point, both Host A and Host B have determined that the link over which they have been communicating is broken.","Shim6 further defines the Locator Pair Exploration procedure, which is used by hosts to explore a viable link when they experience link failure. According to the Locator Pair Exploration procedure, the host that first detects a link failure sends probe messages to the other host using different address pairs. The host iterates through address pair combinations until it receives a probe message back. The responding probe message confirms that the initial probe message has reached the other host, and that the link is functional in both directions.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":["392","302","390","392","392","304","1","1","390","392","306","2","1","390","392","308","390","2","2","390","310","2","2","392","312","390","390","392","2","2","314","2","2"]},"Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) 802.21 MIH (Media Independent Handover) defines a framework for supporting mobility of devices between networks based on heterogeneous link layer (layer one and layer two) technologies. MIH defines mechanisms for handover and link adaptation in response to changing link conditions and quality of service (QoS) requirements. MIH specifies an MIH Function (MIHF), which is an implementation of MIH services and is treated as a logical entity implemented in both MIH devices and in the network.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":["450","400","400","404"]},"The protocol stack  includes a first link layer component  that implements media-specific link layer functionality according to a first radio access technology (RAT). A second link layer component  implements media-specific link layer functionality according to a second RAT. As an example, the first link layer component  may function according to IEEE 802.11 Wireless Local Area Network (WLAN) standards, while the second link layer component  may function according to Third Generation Partnership Project (3GPP) Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN) standards.","In MIH, exchanges of information between functional entities occur via Service Access Points (SAPs). The MIH Users  may communicate with the first link layer component  via a first Logical Link Control (LLC) SAP  and with the second link layer component  via a second LLC_SAP . The MIHF  and the MIH Users  communicate using MIH_SAP . The MIHF  and the first link layer component  communicate via MIH_LINK_SAP . The MIHF  and the second link layer component  communicate via MIH_LINK_SAP . Each MIH_LINK_SAP ,  may be implemented as a media-specific Media Access Control (MAC) SAP, physical layer (PHY) SAP, and\/or Logical Link Control (LLC) SAP.","The first link layer component  may notify the MIHF  of a change in MAC or PHY state via the MIH_LINK_SAP , and the MIHF  may subsequently communicate a notification of the event to the MIH Users  via the MIH_SAP . The MIHF  may additionally communicate with remote MIHFs (not depicted) via a network SAP (MIH_NET_SAP) and receive event notifications from the remote MIHFs regarding, for example, the detection of new access networks and link QoS information.","The purpose of the MIIS is to acquire a global view of available networks to facilitate network selection and handovers. The MIIS provides a mechanism for the exchange of information between MIH devices and MIH-capable networks regarding handover candidates. MIIS information may be communicated in both directions on the MIH_SAP  as well as in both directions on the MIH_LINK_SAPs , .","The MICS allows for the initiation of handover between links. Using the MICS, handover commands are received at the MIHF  from MIH Users  via the MIH_SAP . In response to a handover command, the MIHF  may issue a command to control lower layer entities. For example, the MIHF  may communicate with the first link layer component  and the second link layer component  in order to handover the protocol stack  from one network to another.","While current technologies such as MIH and Shim6 provide mechanisms for improving the connectivity of networking devices, current technologies leave a number of issues unaddressed. Current power-saving techniques for single- and dual-mode wireless devices determine when radio interfaces are turned on and off based on parameters such as link quality and required QoS. However, these techniques do not suggest how power-saving techniques may implemented in multimode, multihoming devices. Additionally, current technologies do not suggest how handover should be performed for multimode, multihoming devices. For example, current technologies do not provide solutions that consider both access network characteristics and multihoming IP path characteristics in making handover decisions. Therefore, technologies for power-saving and IP link\/access network mobility in the context of wireless devices with multiple radio interfaces are required.","A wireless transmit\/receive unit (WTRU) includes a mobility management function and a multihoming function. The mobility management function may implement the Media Independent Handover (MIH) protocol and the multihoming function may implement the Shim6 protocol. The mobility management function may communicate link status information to the multihoming function. Based on the link status information, the multihoming function may accelerate or decelerate a link failure detection procedure, may modify a list of possible paths for consideration for a path exploration procedure, and\/or may determine to initiate a path exploration procedure. The multihoming function may communicate to the mobility management function that additional communications resources are required. In response, the mobility management function may activate an inactive radio interface. Subsequent path exploration procedures may include the exploration of paths that may be established over the activated radio interface.","When referred to hereafter, the terminology \u201cwireless transmit\/receive unit (WTRU)\u201d includes but is not limited to a user equipment (UE), a mobile station, a fixed or mobile subscriber unit, a pager, a cellular telephone, a personal digital assistant (PDA), a computer, or any other type of user device capable of operating in a wireless environment. When referred to hereafter, the terminology \u201clink layer component\u201d is a component that implements layer one and\/or layer two functionality according to a Radio Access Technology (RAT). When referred to hereafter, the terminology \u201cbase station\u201d includes but is not limited to a Node-B, a site controller, an access point (AP), or any other type of interfacing device capable of operating in a wireless environment.","When referred to hereafter, a \u201cmultihoming function\u201d is a module that implements at least some subset of multihoming functionality. Multihoming functionality includes but is not limited to: maintaining a single IP address that corresponds to multiple physical interfaces; maintaining multiple IP addresses that correspond to multiple IP paths; generating and storing IP address pairs that identifying IP paths for multihomed use; detecting link quality (including failure) over multihomed IP links; exploration for pairs of IP addresses for multihomed IP links; inter-domain handover of multihomed IP sessions; and translation\/mapping of IP addresses to deliver payload data over multihomed IP links. A Shim6 implementation is one example of a multihoming function, though the principles described herein are not limited to use with Shim6.","When referred to hereafter, a \u201cmobility management function\u201d is a module that implements at least some subset of mobility management functionality. Mobility management functionality includes but is not limited to: receiving, generating, and\/or storing information relating to available heterogeneous access networks, their attributes, and\/or link status over the access networks; and providing commands to heterogeneous link layer components to perform handover and\/or turn radio interfaces on or off. A Media Independent Handover (MIH) Function (MIHF) is one example of a mobility management function, though the principles described herein are not limited to the use of MIH or the MIHF.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 5","FIG. 5"],"b":["590","592","594","590","502","590","504","592"]},"The first MHF  modifies  the durations of one or more timer parameters used in link failure detection based on the contents of the received link status information. For example, the first MHF  may modify  the durations of keepalive or send timer parameters. The first MHF  may modify one or more of the durations by an amount proportional to the confidence that connectivity on the link will be lost. For example, if the link status information indicates a low confidence that connectivity will be lost, the keepalive timer duration may be set to be half of its previous duration. If the link status information indicates a high confidence that connectivity will be lost, the keepalive timer may be stopped or its duration set to zero, such that a keepalive message will be sent immediately.","The keepalive timer at the first MHF  expires  based on the modified duration, the send timer is started , and the first MHF  sends  a keepalive packet to the second MHF . The  keepalive packet can carry an indication of poor link quality to inform the second MHF  about the link quality. The second MHF  may modify  the timer durations of one or more link failure detection timers, such as the keepalive or send timers based on receiving  the keepalive packet at a time earlier than expected. Alternatively or additionally, the second MHF  may modify  the timer durations based on link status information received from an MMF (not depicted) implemented in the second device.","The keepalive timer at the second MHF  expires  based on the modified duration, the send timer is started , and the second MHF  sends  a data or keepalive packet to the first MHF . In response to the data or keepalive packet, the first MHF  stops  its send timer. The first MHF  sends  a data or keepalive packet and starts  its send timer, though the data or keepalive packet does not reach the second MHF . The send timer (based on a modified duration) at the second MHF  expires , indicating link failure. The send timer (based on a modified duration) at the first MHF  expires , indicating link failure. After link failure is detected, the first MHF  and second MHF  may perform  a procedure to explore paths and\/or establish a new link. The procedure to explore paths and\/or establish a new link may be, for example, a Locator Pair Exploration procedure.","As described above, timer durations may be modified ,  to be shortened where unfavorable link status information is received. Timer durations may alternatively or additionally be modified to be longer when favorable link status information is received from an MMF or when a keepalive timer is received at a time later than expected. Adjusting the duration of a failure detection timer based on link status input from an MMF has the effect of making link failure detection faster or slower, depending upon whether the duration is set to be longer or shorter.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0041","num":"0040"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 6","FIG. 6"],"b":["692","606","690","690","692","694"]},"The MMF  receives  link status information, and communicates  the link status information to the first MHF . The link status information may indicate, for example, the discovery of new links, the destruction of links, and\/or additional information such as link quality, QoS, and link data rates. The first MHF  may maintain information relating to potential link candidates. The link candidate information may be stored in a list, set, or any other appropriate data structure. By way of example, the first MHF  may store information indicating three IP addresses {IP_A, IP_B, and IP_C} with which it may potentially communicate with the second device that includes the second MHF . If the first MHF  receives  link status information indicating that the link corresponding to IP_A is down, then the first MHF  may modify its link candidate information to reflect that IP_A should not be considered a candidate for path exploration\/link establishment. If the first MHF  receives link status information indicating that the link corresponding to IP_B has poor quality, then the first MHF  would consider IP_B a less desirable candidate for path exploration\/link establishment, and would downgrade the desirability of IP_B as a candidate. If the first MHF  maintains an ordered list of candidates, the first MHF  may re-order the list such that other candidates with more favorable corresponding link quality information are selected before IP_B is selected.","The first MHF  and second MHF  perform  a path exploration\/link establishment procedure based on the modified candidate information. The procedure to explore paths and\/or establish a new link may be, for example, a Locator Pair Exploration procedure. Based on the above example involving {IP_A, IP_B, and IP_C}, the first MHF  may perform  the path exploration\/link establishment procedure by sending a first probe request to the second MHF  via IP_C. Only if path exploration using IP_C proved unsuccessful would the first MHF  attempt to explore a path using IP_B. The first MHF  would not attempt to send a probe request using IP_A because IP_A was removed from the list of potential candidates based on the link status information.","The first MHF  may additionally trigger a path exploration\/link establishment procedure based on the received link status information. For example, link status information may indicate that a link considered currently active is down. Based on the link status information, the first MHF  may make a determination to immediately abandon the current link and establish a new link. Whereas the first MHF  may ordinarily wait until the completion of a link failure detection procedure before searching for a new link, the first MHF  may in this instance halt or ignore any failure detection procedures currently in progress in order to immediately begin working towards establishing a new link.","The first MHF  may also determine to initiate a path exploration\/link establishment procedure in response to receiving  link status information that indicates that a new link has been detected or that a previously-discovered link is available for use. This determination may additionally be based on previously-received link status information such as, for example, information indicating a poor current link status.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0046","num":"0045"},"figref":"FIG. 7","b":["790","706","792","790","792","794","792","702","792","704","790","790","706","706","792","794","708"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0047","num":"0046"},"figref":["FIG. 8","FIGS. 5-7"],"b":["890","802","808","890","890","802","808","856","808","806","806","806","802","806","854","854"]},"The WTRU  includes a first link layer component , which implements link layer functionality according to a first RAT. The first link layer component  may communicate with a first radio access network  which operates according to the first RAT. A second link layer component  implements link layer functionality according to a second RAT, and may communicate with second radio access network , which operates according to the second RAT. A third link layer component  implements link layer functionality according to a third RAT, and may communicate with a third radio access network , which operates according to the third RAT. The MMF  communicates with the link layer components , ,  via interfaces , , . The interfaces , ,  may be media dependent interfaces, and may be, for example, MIH_LINK_SAP interfaces. Each of the RATs supported by the link layer link layer components , ,  may be different. The WTRU  may also include additional link layer link layer components (not depicted).","The first MHF  in the WTRU  maintains a first IP address  (\u201cIP_A\u201d), second IP address  (\u201cIP_B\u201d), and third IP address  (\u201cIP_C\u201d) for the WTRU . The first MHF  may establish IP links over IP paths from each of the IP addresses , , , through corresponding link layer link layer components , ,  and radio access networks , , .","The WTRU  is in communication with Host B  through active IP link , which connects the WTRU  and Host B  via the Internet . Host B  may be a WTRU or a non-wireless networking device. Host B includes a second MHF . The second MHF  maintains a fourth IP address  (\u201cIP_D\u201d) and a fifth IP address  (\u201cIP_E\u201d) for Host B . From the perspective of the first MHF  in the WTRU , the active IP link  would be characterized as (IP_C, IP_E), while the active IP link  would be characterized by the second MHF  in Host B  as (IP_E, IP_C).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0051","num":"0050"},"figref":["FIG. 9","FIGS. 5-8"],"b":["900","906","972","900","904","910","912","914","916","910","912","914","916","904","900","904","900"]},"The four RAT stacks , , ,  communicate with four corresponding RAT drivers , , ,  in the WTRU . The RAT drivers , , ,  communicate with corresponding RAT interfaces , , ,  in the MMF . The RAT interfaces , , ,  communicate with the mobility policy module  in the MMF . The mobility policy module  communicates with the network connection controller module  and the user interface module  in the WTRU . The mobility policy module  additionally communicates with a number of interfaces to higher layers, including the Voice Call Continuity (VCC) interface , the Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) interface , the transport layer interface , the Mobile IP (MIP) interface , and the multihoming interface . The mobility policy module  may also communicate with additional higher layer interfaces (not depicted).","Upper layer link layer component  includes a number of modules for implementing upper layer (layer three and above) functionality. VCC client module  communicates with the VCC interface  in the MMF  as well as to the SIP module . The SIP module  additionally communicates with the SIP interface  and the transport layer module . Transport layer module  may implement transport layer protocols such as Transmission Control Protocol (TCP), User Datagram Protocol (UDP), Stream Control Transmission Protocol (SCTP), Datagram Congestion Control Protocol (DCCP), and\/or other transport layer protocols. Transport layer module  communicates with transport layer interface , as well as MIP module , IP module , and MHF . MIP module  implements MIP and communicates with MIP interface . MHF  may be separately connected to IP module  or may be implemented in conjunction with IP module . MHF  communicates with multihoming interface . Multihoming interface  functions as an adaptation layer. It converts and transfers information between the mobility policy module  and the MHF . The multihoming interface  receives link layer information from all of the RAT stacks , , ,  that are in communication with the MMF .","Multihoming interface  may be implemented differently according to the technologies and protocols used at the MHF  and MMF . The communication of messages between the multihoming interface  and the MHF  may be implemented as a language-specific or language-independent Application Programming Interface (API) or other protocol. Table 1 and Table 2 show an example API describing communications between an MMF  that implements MIH functionality and an MHF  that implements Shim6 functionality.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0055","num":"0054"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00001","num":"00001"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"98pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"105pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":[{},"TABLE 1"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]},{"entry":[{},"Message Received","Message Sent From"]},{"entry":[{},"At MMF","MMF To MHF"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"MIH_Link_Going_Down","Shim6_Link_Going_Down"]},{"entry":[{},"MIH_Link_Down","Shim6_Link_Down"]},{"entry":[{},"MIH_Link_Detected","Shim6_Link_Detected"]},{"entry":[{},"MIH_Link_Up","Shim6_Link_Up"]},{"entry":[{},"N\/A","Shim6_Register"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}}}}},"The \u201cMessage Received At MMF\u201d column of Table 1 indicates MIH messages that may be received at an MMF  and provided to the multihoming interface . The multihoming interface  receives an MIH message, generates the corresponding message in the \u201cMessage Sent From MMF To MHF\u201d column, and communicates the generated message to the MMF . MIH messages may be received by the MMF  at a SAP such as an MIH_LINK_SAP, MIH_NET_SAP, or MIH_SAP, or via a different interface.","In response to a Shim6_Link_Going_Down message, the MHF  analyzes if the message relates the current active link. If so, the MHF  may adjust timer parameters to speed up triggering of the Locator Pair Exploration procedure sooner. If the message indicates a high confidence that the link is going down, the MHF  may stop the keepalive timer and send a keepalive message immediately. If the message indicates a low confidence that the link is going down, the MHF  may reduce the keepalive timer to half of its value. If the link described in the message is not the current active link, the MHF  removes the link from consideration for the Locator Pair Exploration. In response to a Shim6_Link_Down message, the MHF  immediately begins the Locator Pair Exploration procedure. In response to a Shim6_Link_Detected message, the MHF  adds the new link as a high-priority candidate for the Locator Pair Exploration procedure. If the currently active link is experiencing problems, the MHF  may immediately attempt to establish a new IP link. To determine if the currently active link is experiencing problems, the MHF  may analyze one or more QoS parameters, and\/or compare one or more QoS parameters to a threshold. In response to a Shim6_Link_Up message, the MHF  begins the Locator Pair Exploration procedure. A Shim6 Register message is not generated in response to an MIH message, but is generated when the MMF  activates in order to establish communications between the MMF  and the MHF . This Shim6_Register messages provides information required by the MHF  to establish communications with the MMF . In response to the Shim6_Register message, the MHF  may call a callback function at the MMF .","Table 2 shows messages that may be sent from the MHF  to the multihoming interface  according to the example API.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0059","num":"0058"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00002","num":"00002"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"98pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"91pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":[{},"TABLE 2"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]},{"entry":[{},{},"Message Sent From"]},{"entry":[{},"Event At MHF","MHF To MMF"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"MHF determines","Shim6_LinkUpReq"]},{"entry":[{},"additional"]},{"entry":[{},"communication"]},{"entry":[{},"resources are required"]},{"entry":[{},"MHF determines","Shim6_Unregister"]},{"entry":[{},"determines to deregister"]},{"entry":[{},"from MMF"]},{"entry":[{},"MHF determines error","Shim6_Unregister"]},{"entry":[{},"has occurred"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}}}}},"The \u201cEvent At MHF\u201d column describes events that occur at the MHF . In response to the events, the MHF  generates the corresponding message in the \u201cMessage Sent From MHF To MMF\u201d column, and communicates the generated message to the multihoming interface .","The MHF  may communicate a Shim6_LinkUpReq message based on a determination that additional communications resources (such as a new IP address and\/or new radio interface) are required for the purpose of increasing available bandwidth. In response to the Shim6_LinkUpReq message, the MMF  may select and turn on an inactive radio interface. Alternatively or additionally, the MMF  may initiate the allocation of a new IP address for the WTRU . The MMF  may communicate with lower layer link layer components in order to active additional radio interfaces by using, for example, a media-dependent MIH_LINK_SAP interface. The MMF  may use, for example, an MIH Link_Action.request message to activate an inactive radio interface. When the MHF  has determined to deregister from the MMF  or when an error has occurred in the MMF , the MHF  may communicate a Shim6_Unregister message to the multihoming interface . In response to the Shim6_Unregister message, the MMF  removes any entries or other data corresponding to the MHF , terminating communications between the MMF  and the MHF .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0062","num":"0061"},"figref":["FIG. 10","FIGS. 5-9"],"b":["1050","1050","1000","1030","1040"]},"The WTRU  includes a processor  in communication with a first transmitter , first receiver , and first antenna . The first transmitter , first receiver , and first antenna  are configurable to implement the first RAT. The processor  is also in communication with a second transmitter , second receiver , and second antenna . The second transmitter , second receiver , and second antenna  are configurable to implement the second RAT. The processor  is configurable to generate, encode, and decode messages and signals as described above with reference to , and is configurable to operate and\/or direct a multihoming function (not depicted) and a mobility management function (not depicted) to implement functionality as described above with reference to . The transmitters ,  and receivers ,  are configurable to send and receive, respectively, messages and signals as described above with reference to . The first transmitter  and first receiver  may be implemented as a transceiver, and\/or the second transmitter  and second receiver  may be implemented as a transceiver. The WTRU  may also include additional transceivers (not depicted) and\/or transmitter\/receiver pairs (not depicted) in communication with the processor  capable of communicating according to additional diverse RATs. Alternatively or additionally, the WTRU  may include one or more transceivers (not depicted) in communication with the processor , each of the one or more transceivers capable of communicating using more than one RAT per transceiver.","The first base station  includes a processor  in communication with a transmitter , receiver , and antenna . The second base station  includes a processor  in communication with a transmitter , receiver , and antenna . The processors ,  are configurable to generate, encode, and decode messages and signals as described above with reference to . The transmitters ,  and receivers ,  are configurable to send and receive, respectively, messages and signals as described above with reference to . The first base station  and\/or second base station  may include a remote MIHF (not depicted). Alternatively or additionally, the first base station  and\/or second base station  may communicate data between the WTRU  and a remote MIHF implemented in a network node in a core network to which the first base station  and\/or second base station  is connected.","RATs which may be implemented in the WTRU  and base stations ,  include but are not limited to technologies such as: Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) Wireless Local Area Network (WLAN) 802.11x; Code Division Multiple Access 2000 (CDMA2000); Universal Mobile Telecommunications System (UMTS); UMTS Radio Access Network (UTRAN); Wideband Code Division Multiple Access (WCDMA); Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access (WiMAX); Global System for Mobile Communications (GSM); GSM Enhanced Data Rates For GSM Evolution (EDGE) Radio Access Network (GERAN); Wireless Broadband (WiBro); Long Term Evolution (LTE); Evolved UTRAN (EUTRAN); and LTE Advanced.","Although features and elements are described above in particular combinations, each feature or element as described above with reference to  can be used alone without the other features and elements or in various combinations with or without other features and elements. The sub-elements of the methods and features described above with reference to  may be performed in any arbitrary order (including concurrently), in any combination or sub-combination. The features and elements described above with reference to  may be implemented in a computer program, software, or firmware incorporated in a computer-readable storage medium for execution by a general purpose computer, a specific-purpose computing or data processing device, and\/or one or more processors. Suitable computer-readable storage media include but are not limited to a register, a cache memory, a read-only memory (ROM), a semiconductor memory device such as a Dynamic Random Access Memory (D-RAM), Static RAM (S-RAM), or other RAM, a magnetic medium such as a flash memory, a hard disk, a magneto-optical medium, an optical medium such as a CD-ROM, a digital versatile disk (DVDs), or Blu-Ray disc (BD), other volatile or non-volatile memory. Suitable processors include but are not limited to a single- or multi-core general purpose processor, a special purpose processor, a conventional processor, a digital signal processor (DSP), a plurality of microprocessors, one or more microprocessors in association with a DSP core, a controller, a microcontroller, one or more Application Specific Integrated Circuits (ASICs), one or more Field Programmable Gate Array (FPGA) circuits, an integrated circuit (IC), a system-on-a-chip (SOC), and a state machine.","The multihoming functions and mobility management functions described above with references to  may be implemented as one or more software modules, one or more processors, or as combinations thereof. Suitable software modules include, by way of example, an executable program, a function, a method call, a procedure, a routine or sub-routine, one or more processor-executable instructions, a script or macro, an object, or a data structure.","A processor in association with software may be used to implement a radio frequency transceiver for use in a wireless transmit receive unit (WTRU), user equipment (UE), terminal, base station, radio network controller (RNC), or any host computer. The WTRU may be used in conjunction with modules, implemented in hardware and\/or software, such as a camera, a video camera module, a videophone, a speakerphone, a vibration device, a speaker, a microphone, a television transceiver, a hands free headset, a keyboard, a Bluetooth\u00ae module, a frequency modulated (FM) radio unit, a liquid crystal display (LCD) display unit, an organic light-emitting diode (OLED) display unit, a digital music player, a media player, a video game player module, an Internet browser, and\/or any wireless local area network (WLAN) or Ultra Wide Band (UWB) module."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["A more detailed understanding may be had from the following description, given by way of example in conjunction with the accompanying drawings wherein:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":"FIG. 9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":["FIG. 10","FIGS. 5-9"]}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
