---
title: Link exchange system and method
abstract: The link exchange system and method  automatically creates links between web sites. Specifically, the method of creating links includes providing an account Owner the opportunity to create and manage whitelists  and blacklists  which are used as filters to automatically accept or decline a proposed link according to criteria set forth in the respective lists. If the link request is accepted, the link is created on the account Owner's link page(s).
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08132091&OS=08132091&RS=08132091
owner: 
number: 08132091
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20090806
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["TECHNICAL FIELD","BACKGROUND ART","DISCLOSURE OF INVENTION","BEST MODES FOR CARRYING OUT THE INVENTION"],"p":["The present invention relates to website management. More specifically, this invention relates to a link exchange system and method for the automated creation, maintenance, and management of links on subscriber websites utilizing a service website, upon which the system resides.","The Internet is a collection of computers linked together throughout the world. Some of these computers act as clients for their users. Other computers act as servers, or hosts, for one or more websites. Each website Internet Protocol (IP) address may be shared by multiple sites or may be unique to one particular website, and these addresses are related to website names conventionally known as Universal Resource Locators (URLs). The URLs on a website's page(s) \u201cpoint\u201d to another site and are referred to as \u201clinks\u201d.","The Owners or managers of websites (Webmasters) all share a common interest: increased user traffic to their websites. A common way this is promoted among Webmasters is their mutual agreement to include links to each other's websites. Users will often utilize these links to navigate to other sites of interest, thus increasing traffic. Navigation is accomplished by the user operating a link by clicking his\/her mouse on the link's web-page representation (i.e., the URL or some symbol, banner or icon representing the URL of the website). This process eliminates the need for the user to enter the URL by typing it into the web browser being used. By simplifying the navigation process, it's been discovered that users are more likely to visit more websites.","When two Webmasters agree to mutual links, these are often referred to as reciprocal links, because of their reciprocal agreement. Should one Webmaster remove a link to the other's website, the \u201coffended\u201d Webmaster needs to know the mutual agreement has been broken so that appropriate action can be taken. Checking for this situation manually is very time-consuming. Accordingly, it is common for link exchange websites to initiate an automated, computer-implemented spidering process through the reciprocally linked Webmasters' sites beginning at their respective link addresses to verify that the reciprocal link information is present at the Webmasters' sites.","In the typical linking process, the Webmaster or Owner of Website B becomes interested in a reciprocal link with Website A. Subsequently, Website B's Owner or Webmaster sends an e-mail message to Website A's Webmaster (typically Webmaster@websiteA.com) identifying themselves (typically websiteB.com) and proposing a reciprocal link. Next, Website A's Owner or Webmaster visits Website B and determines his\/her interest. Then the Owners reach agreement and turn the technical task of implementing the links over to their respective Webmasters. Typically, the Website A Webmaster fulfills his\/her end of the agreement first by editing Website A's web page using an appropriate HTML editor and inserting Website B's URL (converting the address text into a hyperlink) into the appropriate web page on Website A. This may be augmented by some symbol, banner, or icon (either physically-furnished or access-furnished by Website B's Webmaster). If multiple links exist on a single page, it may be necessary to set the font of the link to correspond with other links on the page.","Other parameters concerning the link may also need to be adjusted at this time by the Website A Webmaster, possibly including positional placement on the web page or other attributes. Moreover, Website A Webmaster notifies the Website B Webmaster (typically by e-mail) saying \u201cwe've posted our link to you; you post ours\u201d. Of course, a variety of message types and\/or wording could be utilized to convey the information in the message. Website B Webmaster edits Website B's web page following essentially the same procedure as outlined above.","The practice of automatically linking the web page of the first Webmaster to the web page of the second Webmaster, without any intervention from the first Webmaster, is not believed to always be in the best interest of the first Webmaster. For example, suppose the first site is owned by a politician of a large political party and maintains a website supporting his\/her beliefs and political party. A second Owner has a website for another large political party, and perhaps, is a political opponent of the first Webmaster. Under existing systems, the second Owner (or his Webmaster) could establish a link from the first Owner's website. As another example, perhaps the first Owner is a pro-life activist that maintains a website and the second Owner advocates pro-choice through a website. Obviously, the first Owner may not likely desire the second Owner (or his Webmaster) to establish a link from the first Owner's site to the second Owner's site.","Accordingly, a need exists for a method of automatically establishing links according to criteria predefined by the website owner(s), and even bi-directional (or reciprocal) links between two websites. Specifically, a need exists for creating web site links, which greatly simplifies the traditional method of creating web sites, but still provides for approval according to criteria set by the first site's Webmaster to allow the second site's Webmaster to establish a link to the first web site.","Thus, a link exchange system and method solving the aforementioned problems is desired.","The link exchange system and method automatically creates and hosts links between web sites. The links can be hosted on the account owner's server\/web site. Specifically, the method of creating links includes providing an account Owner the opportunity to create and manage whitelists and blacklists through the settings in multiple criteria sections, which are used as filters to automatically accept or decline a proposed link according to the criteria set. If the link request is accepted, the link is created on the account Owner's link page(s). Links can be categorized on the link page(s).","Moreover, links can be rotated on the link page(s) (any page on the site can be a link page) to provide the opportunity for more visibility of at least some links on a particular web page. Additionally, rotation of the links may improve search engine optimization.","These and other features of the present invention will become readily apparent upon further review of the following specification and drawings.","Similar reference characters denote corresponding features consistently throughout the attached drawings.","The present invention relates to a link exchange system  and method that automatically creates and hosts links between web sites published by web servers  and  (shown in ). Specifically, the method of creating links includes providing an account Owner the opportunity to create, manage and use whitelists  (shown in ) and blacklists  (shown in ) through the settings in multiple criteria sections, which are used as filters to automatically accept or decline a proposed link according to the criteria set. As shown in , data and\/or website whitelist entries are made on the whitelist entry page , and include a link title field , a link URL field , and a link description field . Whitelist page  includes a title column , a description column , a URL column , a date added column , a checkbox column , and an edit column . If the link request is accepted, the link is created on the account Owner's link page(s). As shown in , an exemplary Blacklist entry page  may provide a link title , a link URL field , and a link description field . As shown in , the blacklist page  may include a title column , a description column , a URL column , a date added column , a checkbox column , and an edit column . An erase action button  is also provided.","As shown in , the system  may comprise at least one web server  with connectivity to a plurality of data storage units , ,  and  for storage and retrieval of application data, website data, a first plurality WL (shown stored in data storage unit  in ) of whitelists  (shown in ) that are applicable to webmasters, a second plurality BL (shown stored in data storage unit  in ) of blacklists  (shown in ) that are applicable to webmasters, a third plurality GWL (shown stored in data storage unit  in ) of whitelists  that are applicable to the system globally, and a fourth plurality GBL (shown stored in data storage unit  in ) of blacklists  that are applicable to the system globally.","The web server  is accessible to users via a network . Preferably, the network  is the Internet, which would provide for the largest number of users over the widest area of coverage. Users are generally webmasters of other websites. A first webmaster may control a website published by web server . A second webmaster may control a website served by web server . The users (account owners of web servers  and ) provide their respective link information to the system's web server . As used herein, the term \u201clink information\u201d includes any necessary information that enables the system's web server  to establish a link to their web site, or from their web site to another web site. Link information includes at least the URL of the web site, and may also include the category of the web site, tags, image URLs, banner URLs, directory and file name information for the site's link page, permissions required for accessing and modifying the site's link page, etc. After providing link information, the users may then specify filter criteria for sites that they are willing to establish links (either reciprocal or unilateral) to (the whitelist ) and\/or filter criteria for sites that they are not willing to establish links to (the blacklist). With appropriate logins and passwords the first webmaster and the second webmaster can also have user access (via Internet ) to applications in the link exchange system  residing in link exchange server . The system's web server  will compare each web server's link information to the filter criteria on the whitelists and blacklists. If even one item of link information is on a blacklist, then a link exchange will not be established between the two web servers  and . If no link information appears on a blacklist and at least one item of link information appears on a whitelist, then the system's web server  will automatically establish reciprocal hyperlinks on the websites of both web servers  and .","Exemplary applications include search engine optimization, web services, and account management for registered users of the system . Exemplary applications may run on a single computer, or in a distributed processing environment, or the like.","Exemplary data storage units , ,  and  may communicate with the server  and store web pages, blacklists  and whitelists , active website links and the like. The system  utilizes application programming interfaces (API's) and\/or user interfaces (UI's) to accept requests from website owners\/account holders and process the whitelists , blacklists , or other data requiring updates and maintenance by the system .","Whitelists  include identifiers or filter criteria for permissible links and blacklists include identifiers or filter criteria for impermissible links. Examples of identifiers include, but are not limited to, a website name, domain name, IP address, keywords associated with the website, or the like.","The whitelists  and blacklists  each have a static portion and a dynamic portion. The static portion is maintained and controlled by the webmasters. The dynamic portion is maintained and controlled by the system . The whitelists  and blacklists  can be dynamically maintained based on manual updates, automatic updates, or both of the aforementioned multiple criteria, the static updating being initiated by webmasters associated with the websites, or in the automatic case, the updating is initiated by the system . Automatically adding bad websites, i.e., known spammers, or the like, to a global blacklist is also contemplated. A webmaster has an ability to add more than one website to his account. Each website can have different subject matter. For that reason each website can have its own set of blacklists  and whitelists . Static portions of blacklists  and whitelists  can be interlinked between websites having a common owner. Global whitelists are also contemplated. As used herein, the terms \u201cglobal whitelist\u201d and \u201cglobal blacklist\u201d refer to a whitelist or a blacklist, respectively, that is created by the administrator of the web server  and that contains filter criteria applicable to all users of the system as to web sites that are acceptable to link to (the whitelist) or that are not acceptable to link to (the blacklist), respectively.","Preferably, using the appropriate API's and UI's, for access to webmasters' websites, blacklists  and whitelists , and the like, the system  can accept and maintain a plurality of websites and their descriptions in a system database. The system  provides an intermediary website for the webmasters to manage their websites and links to other websites. Preferably the link exchange system  may be utilized on the Internet, the World Wide Web, Intranets, or any other grouping of networked computers.","The system  allows you to carry out an automatic, manual link exchange and ABC-linking. The main advantage of the system  is automatic check of back-link, conformity of the back-link, as well as conformity of the website to preset conditions of an exchange. If there is no reciprocal link, or the site is not conforming to the conditions, the exchange will be broken off by the system .","As shown in , a login web page  is provided. A login form  is provided to allow username and password to be entered and submitted. Depending on the business model utilized by operators of link exchange system , a donation form  may be provided. The donation form  allows a user to make a monetary donation associated with the service provided, by the system . Several modes of operations are described under Program Highlights . As shown in , functions of the link exchange system  may be navigated via the program menu . The program menu  has branches to the catalog menu  (which branches to the catalog  and the catalog search ), the exchange menu  (which branches to a current links list , a list submitted by form , exchange settings , ABC linking , and Appendix presets ), the tools menu  (which branches to mass addition , reciprocal checking , and page ranking ), the profile menu  (which branches to Add My Sites to Whitelists , Link Exchange Between My Sites , Site Profile , and user profile ), and the \u201cother\u201d menu , the \u201cother menu\u201d supporting branches to the messaging system  and the tech support function . The easiest to use operational mode is an Auto-exchange . It is accessible from the exchange menu , and it is enough to turn on this function and to enter conditions of an exchange: categories and minimal page rank (PR) of sites with which your site will exchange. Additional exchange parameters  (shown in ) are available from the exchange settings program selection . The system  will automatically pick up partners and will carry out an exchange with them on its own. Moreover, the system will independently watch the presence of reciprocal links and their conformity to conditions of an exchange.","To answer to the most demanding inquiries of the webmasters, such functions as ABC-linking (accessible from the ABC linking page ) are also implemented within system . ABC linking makes it possible to create <<non-reciprocal>> link exchanges, in which case site A would link to site B, and site B would link to site C, thus essentially raising the \u201cweight\u201d, i.e., the page ranking, of the links in the \u201ceyes\u201d of search engines.","In addition to the aforementioned features, link exchange can be carried out in a manual mode with the assistance of an advanced cataloging and site registering capability in system . The system  sorts sites by categories, by Google\u00ae page rank (PR), and by keywords, and other search engine optimization (SEO) related technical information may also be used by the system  to sort sites.","Additional features of the system  include an advanced catalogue that allows you to simplify the process of choosing a site or sites for an exchange, and a messaging function that allows for communication among website owners, the messages being delivered to the appropriate destinations. Moreover, a technical support center can answer any and all of consumer questions and help to solve any of problem related to use of the website.","Furthermore, the system  provides a mass addition tool that allows a user to include all of the links at once. Instead of long and tiresome form filling, a webmaster can use the mass addition tool to enter all of the links at once or import the links from a text file.","Due to the external form exchange system that is provided by the system , and which can be placed on a webmaster's site, links may be added by form by even those who do not have an account with the system . A last added site display  (last added to the system ) is also presented on login page . The time added  is displayed as well as the added website URL . Title and keywords  are also displayed. A page rank progress bar  is displayed next to the URL and account user name display . The page rank progress bar  graphically and numerically illustrates the page rank (PR) level of the associated website . The name of the account user of system  is also present there.","The link exchange system  may be programmed using any of a plurality of web programming languages, including but not limited to JavaScript\u00ae. Dynamic web pages within the inventive website may be programmed using PHP or other suitable server-side compatible, dynamic page scripting language. Preferably the website document type definition (DTD) is defined to be compatible with the World Wide Web Consortium's (W3C's) International Standards Organization (ISO) HTML 4.0 standard or greater.","The link exchange system  can accept user specification of where each link for each link partner will appear on the user's site, which means that Webmaster 1, who is exchanging links with Webmaster2 (who has, for example, 3 sites), can, if he so chooses, specify where each link will appear on his site(s).","The link exchange system  also includes multiple site pools, e.g., pools , (shown in ), including the tools required by an administrator to create and maintain the site pools. As shown in , utilizing tools of system , step  permits creation of a site pool. Step  permits editing, addition, and deletion of a site pool. Step  allows association of criteria for each site pool. At step , a comparison of a new request to join a pool is done against the associated criteria for that pool. At step , only matches are allowed into the specified pool. The link exchange system  provides an option to opt into the pool exchange as publishers, as advertisers or both. The link exchange system  accepts administrator specification of multiple criteria associated with each pool. The link exchange system  accepts responses from the site publishers, compares those responses and conformity of the publisher's site to the administrator-specified multiple criteria (a similar task is performed by system  with advertisers' sites), and then allows into the pool only those site publishers' sites who have matched the criteria set forth by the administrator. Within system , site owners are given an ability to choose whether to be included in only one pool or in all pools, since pools will be constructed in hierarchical model from lower to higher, based on multiple criteria.","Sites that choose to participate in the pool exchange program are added or removed from pools based on multiple criteria, e.g., via whitelists  and blacklists . The system  performs criteria checking to add or drop sites from the pools on a periodic basis, e.g., daily or the like. Sites can be demoted, promoted, or moved from one pool to another. The system  accepts multiple criteria specified by publishers, the publisher-specified criteria being used to specify which types of sites the publishers want to link to (preferably for a predetermined fee set by the system  owner\/administrator of the link exchange system  or by each webmaster on a case-by-case basis). The link exchange system  allows site publishers to place advertisers' links in a specified location, e.g., the front page, a footer, a header, two levels deep, three levels deep, or the like, or on a specific page, or the like. Just as publishers can be moved from pool to pool, the link exchange system  may move advertisers from the site of one publisher to the site of another in a dynamic manner, depending on a comparison of multiple criteria set by the advertiser(s) with multiple criteria set by the publisher(s). For example, if an advertiser's site went from page rank PR4 to page rank PR2 and a publisher requires a minimum PR of three for sites he advertises, the comparison performed by the system  will fail and the system  will then break off the exchange.","Moreover, under auto exchange settings , the link exchange system  allows each publisher to specify a maximum number of links to publish  on their respective sites, and in the example described above, the system  automatically substitutes the link removed for another one if such is available. Max links per day  and required minimum page rank  are also provided for entry by the webmaster. Action buttons provided can save , clear per day , or clear the total . The link exchange system  will act similarly with links of the advertisers; if the publisher's site went from PR4 to PR2 and the advertiser requires a minimum page rank of PR3, the system  automatically removes the link and places it on the publisher's site who's PR is matching the min PR that was specified by the advertiser in the multiple criteria section, if such site is available. In a case where there are no more sites to publish a particular link to, the system  will preferably prorate the fee and credit the advertiser's account. All pro-ratings and movement of advertisers' sites from publisher to publisher, and of publishers' sites from pool to pool, or the like, will be done automatically by the link exchange system . (Multiple criteria will be constantly modified, perfected, added, and removed throughout the whole site).","Pools, such as exemplary pools and , can be created by the administrator, who, via a messaging system within the link exchange system , can receive user requests for new pools, industry specific pools, country\/region specific pools, keyword specific pools, or the like.  shows an exemplary criteria selection page . The system  contemplates a similarly constructed page to be used for selecting multiple criteria settings for pool exchange and other system functions requiring selection of multiple criteria.","As shown in , the link exchange system  provides an exemplary manual exchange of sites having a common owner or within the same account. Checkboxes  allow a user to make a link exchange between the sites listed in the rows and the columns, the exchange matrix  being accessible by the account owners. The action with selected option comprises initiating an exchange by clicking on the exchange button or the breakoff exchange button ","As shown in , the link exchange system  can automatically (and in real time or with a delay, based on system resources) display in column  how many potential publishers\/advertisers are available, depending on the criteria (CR1 through CR5) selected. The system  also displays in column  how much potential dollar amount can be earned or spent, given the specified criteria in criteria columns  (CR1 through CR5) selected as applied to the websites displayed in the exchange column . The link exchange system  will crawl the Internet and find potential sites for exchange, based on each client's multiple criteria, i.e., criteria CR1 through CR5, which could be words, page content, a combination of words and page content, or the like, and will exchange links with those sites on behalf of a webmaster based on those multiple criteria. The system  will also monitor these links automatically. Moreover, links can be rotated on the link page(s) to provide the opportunity for more visibility of at least some links on a particular web page. Webmasters\/account owners of system  are given code to be included on their servers and\/or in their pages to display and\/or host links and other media, as well as displaying other related information. The link rotation option is provided by the system  and is selectable by a webmaster for web pages under his\/her control. The web page rotation can be randomized or have a fall-out rate based on some criteria or formula.","In settings, the system  allows webmasters to have multiple anchor text, i.e., text\/words they use in links to link back to their site from sites of their link partners, or for other media such as clips, images, movies, or the like.","For example abcdeflaw.com might link back to their site with the words \u201cpatent law\u201d or \u201cpatent attorney\u201d etc., as follows:","<a href=\u201chttp:\/\/www.abcdeflaw.com\/\u201d>Patent Law<\/a>","<a href=\u201chttp:\/\/www.abcdeflaw.com\/\u201d>Patent attorney<\/a>.","Users of the system  can receive requests for link exchange from webmasters via email messages. The content of a link exchange request email message may have the site's URL and description, or just the URL. Upon email receipt, the system  automatically scans URLs against the links that are already present in the database of the webmaster that sent the email. This feature allows the webmaster to select links from the body if the link is not yet in the database and links were not exchanged with this site, and also select the category in which to include the site. The system  will also let the webmaster know if a reciprocal URL from a target site to the webmaster's site is present.","The system  also provides link exchanges between a webmaster's sites at random, by content, by keyword present in the body and\/or description and\/or meta tags, and the like, or manually. Each webmaster has an account on the system  where he\/she can enter domains (sites). Within the system  each site has its own location for setting criteria.","Additionally, there is a function within the system , wherein the webmaster can copy a site structure from one site to the next to avoid reentering settings. In this way the webmaster can change only those things that differ from site to site, if such differences exist.","Moreover, in addition to exchanging page links, the link exchange system  can exchange banners (picture files), audio files, music files, multimedia files, and the like, with or without page links. For example, the system  allows entry of an image location, alternatively allowing an upload of the image, depending on a desired hosting location. (the image can reside on the link exchange system server  or somewhere else). For each exchange data type, the link exchange system  allows entry of the description in a description field. The link exchange system  then generates the code automatically to display on a partner's site.","Moreover, the system  monitors the availability of the image in its place. The image must be hosted on a webmaster's site or on the Link exchange system to ensure integrity of the link. If the image is hosted on the partner's site, then the need for image recognition software comes into play. It is contemplated that the link exchange system includes such image recognition software to further ensure link integrity in such instances.","Movies would be exchanged in the same fashion. The location of the movie would be embedded in the code. The webmaster can host the movie on server  of the link exchange system  or on his own server. Music would be displayed similarly. In the examples above, links could be made out of the media itself or placed somewhere near by like, as in the example that follows. Music and Videos would be linked in the similar fashion. Music and video references can be embedded in the code. The multimedia data exchanged can have media player controls, e.g., play, stop, pause, or the like, on the same page or in a new window. \u201cIframes\u201d are known in the art and may be used to accomplish multimedia exchange among websites. Utilizing the link exchange system  for multimedia exchange, webmasters are assured of mutually reciprocal links, the idea being \u201cyou share yours, I share mine, if you stop sharing yours, I want to know and stop sharing mine, automatically\u201d, i.e., the link exchange system  will automatically break a link of a non-compliant partner.","Another example of advantageous use of the link exchange system  is when two networks decide to share live feed of a certain event or different events, but are in \u201carms length\u201d relationship, i.e., they don't trust each other enough or they have no way of checking (maybe there are thousands of feeds to check). If the other side is sharing all that it contracted\/agreed to do, the link exchange system  would permit the links\/media exchange. As part of the criteria (whitelist\/blacklist), the system  may also monitor sound and video quality, and if the quality meets a minimum standard, the mutual links are whitelisted, but if the quality drops below the minimum standard, the mutual links are blacklisted. It is within the contemplation of the present invention that mobile devices over wireless networks, or over the Internet or other channels, can utilize the link exchange system  to allow or deny (based on the aforementioned criteria) exchange of a variety of types of media and channels of communications.","Timeout delay will be implemented by users for each\/all of the media types (Links, Videos, Music, Images, or the like. Users will have an option on the link exchange system  to set these type of parameters). In case of force majeur circumstances, network outage, or the server being down, they will have in their settings the ability to enable and control how much time they give each or all partners in such cases. This feature also applies to links or the like.","Fallout exchange is also contemplated by the link exchange system . Let's say five webmasters participate in this type of exchange. They have the choice in their settings to specify how many links (or a percentage of links) they are willing to use for \u201cfall out\u201d exchange out of the total normal two-way links. (between 1%-100%). The system  then would mix and match sites based on those settings and use sites in this type of exchange, meaning the system  will not display links from webmaster 1's site to webmaster 2's site, participating in this type of exchange automatically, based on the webmasters' multiple criteria for this particular task. If webmaster1 and webmaster2 are participating in \u201cfallout exchange\u201d, there are a total of one hundred webmasters, and both webmaster1 and webmaster2 specify that they are willing to use 25% for this type of exchange, the system  will automatically calculate and use 25% of the total websites participating, thereby using 25 sites. At any given time, webmaster1 can have fewer links pointing at him (e.g., 75) than he points out to other webmasters (in this case 99) or have more links pointing at him (let's say, 99) than he points out to other webmasters (in this case, 75). The number of dropped links can vary, and will be determined by the system automatically, so that dropped links will be, for this example, between 1 and 25 links.","It is to be understood that the present invention is not limited to the embodiment described above, but encompasses any and all embodiments within the scope of the following claims."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 3A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 3B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 5A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 5B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 6A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 6B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 7A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 7B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIGS. 8A","b":["8","8"]}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
