---
title: Reducing latency in a prepaid group communication session within a wireless communications system
abstract: Embodiments are directed to managing a prepaid server-arbitrated group communication session within a wireless communications system. A server receives, from a session originator, a request to setup a prepaid group communication session with at least one session target, the prepaid group communication session requiring each session participant to have an available prepaid account balance above a threshold level. The server sends a query to an online charging system to determine whether at least the session originator has a prepaid account with an available balance at least equal to the threshold level. The server initiates setup of the requested prepaid group communication session without waiting to receive a response to the query, thereby reducing latency associated with set-up of the prepaid group communication session.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08346211&OS=08346211&RS=08346211
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 08346211
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20090713
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CLAIM OF PRIORITY UNDER 35 U.S.C. \u00a7119","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["The present Application for Patent claims priority to Provisional Application No. 61\/080,946 entitled \u201cSYSTEM AND METHOD FOR REDUCING LATENCY IN A PREPAID GROUP COMMUNICATION FROM A WIRELESS COMMUNICATION DEVICE\u201d filed on Jul. 15, 2008 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.","1. Field of the Invention","Embodiments of the present invention relate to reducing latency of prepaid group communication sessions within a wireless communications system.","2. Description of the Related Art","In wireless telecommunication devices, such as cellular phones, PDAs, mini-laptops, and advanced pagers, the devices typically communicate over long distances by bridging telephone calls through existing cellular telephone networks and passing data packets across the network. These wireless devices often have limited to significant data processing and computing capability, and can accordingly send and receive software programs, in addition to voice, across the telephone network.","There exists a wireless telecommunication service that provides a quick one-to-one or one-to-many communication that is generically referred to as \u201cPush-To-Talk\u201d (PTT) capability. The specific PTT group of recipient devices for the communicating wireless device is commonly set up by the carrier. A PTT communication connection is typically initiated by a single button-push on the wireless device that activates a half-duplex link between the speaker and each member device of the group and once the button is released, the device can receive incoming PTT transmissions. In some arrangements, the PTT speaker will have the \u201cfloor\u201d where no other group member can speak while the speaker is speaking. Once the speaker or floorholder releases the PTT button, any other individual member of the group can engage their PTT button and they will have the floor.","There also exist \u201cpre-pay\u201d service plans for wireless devices. Where a customer chooses such a plan, the customer puts money into their account, and that account is debited according to the user's service usage. When such a customer attempts to place a call, many time-consuming steps are executed before the call goes through. The application server that the wireless device communicates with receives a call initiation trigger from the wireless device and then queries an online charging system (OCS). The OCS checks the user's available balance, and if the user has a sufficient balance, the OCS sends an indication to the application server that the user is permitted make the call. The application server then forwards the call invitation (e.g., announce message) to the target user's communications device.","Accordingly, the application server waits to receive the authorization and available balance for the originator of the call before attempting to bring the target user into the call by sending the invite to the target user's wireless communication device. The verification of the originator's ability to pay for the call adds extra processing delays as well as delays due to message exchanges between the application server and the online charge server in the call setup procedure for the call. This increases initial call setup latency and initial media latency for such a pre-pay customer.","While call setup is slightly delayed due to the verification procedure in pre-paid communication sessions, most communication sessions do not undergo significant performance degradation due to such delays. However, such delays may be less acceptable in delay-sensitive communications (e.g., PTT sessions, etc.). Thus, the experience of a pre-paid PTT customer may be degraded due to call setup delays associated with the above-noted verification procedure.","Embodiments are directed to managing a prepaid server-arbitrated group communication session within a wireless communications system. A server receives, from a session originator, a request to setup a prepaid group communication session with at least one session target, the prepaid group communication session requiring each session participant to have an available prepaid account balance above a threshold level. The server sends a query to an online charging system to determine whether at least the session originator has a prepaid account with an available balance at least equal to the threshold level. The server initiates setup of the requested prepaid group communication session without waiting to receive a response to the query, thereby reducing latency associated with set-up of the prepaid group communication session.","Aspects of the invention are disclosed in the following description and related drawings directed to specific embodiments of the invention. Alternate embodiments may be devised without departing from the scope of the invention. Additionally, well-known elements of the invention will not be described in detail or will be omitted so as not to obscure the relevant details of the invention.","In this description, the terms \u201ccommunication device,\u201d \u201cwireless device,\u201d \u201cwireless communications device,\u201d \u201cPTT communication device,\u201d \u201chandheld device,\u201d \u201cmobile device,\u201d and \u201chandset\u201d are used interchangeably. The terms \u201ccall\u201d and \u201ccommunication\u201d are also used interchangeably. A \u201cgroup communication\u201d is intended to encompass any communication that requires a fast setup, with low latency, such a half-duplex push-to-talk voice call, data call or other communication such as a full duplex VoIP call and Video or other teleconferencing, the group communication can also be point-to-point, e.g. one to one, or one-to-multipoint, e.g. one to many. The term \u201capplication\u201d as used herein is intended to encompass executable and non-executable software files, raw data, aggregated data, patches, and other code segments. The term \u201cexemplary\u201d means that the disclosed element or embodiment is only an example, and does not indicate any preference of user. Further, like numerals refer to like elements throughout the several views, and the articles \u201ca\u201d and \u201cthe\u201d includes plural references, unless otherwise specified in the description.","The words \u201cexemplary\u201d and\/or \u201cexample\u201d are used herein to mean \u201cserving as an example, instance, or illustration.\u201d Any embodiment described herein as \u201cexemplary\u201d and\/or \u201cexample\u201d is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other embodiments. Likewise, the term \u201cembodiments of the invention\u201d does not require that all embodiments of the invention include the discussed feature, advantage or mode of operation.","Further, many embodiments are described in terms of sequences of actions to be performed by, for example, elements of a computing device. It will be recognized that various actions described herein can be performed by specific circuits (e.g., application specific integrated circuits (ASICs)), by program instructions being executed by one or more processors, or by a combination of both. Additionally, these sequence of actions described herein can be considered to be embodied entirely within any form of computer readable storage medium having stored therein a corresponding set of computer instructions that upon execution would cause an associated processor to perform the functionality described herein. Thus, the various aspects of the invention may be embodied in a number of different forms, all of which have been contemplated to be within the scope of the claimed subject matter. In addition, for each of the embodiments described herein, the corresponding form of any such embodiments may be described herein as, for example, \u201clogic configured to\u201d perform the described action.","A High Data Rate (HDR) subscriber station, referred to herein as an access terminal (AT), may be mobile or stationary, and may communicate with one or more HDR base stations, referred to herein as modem pool transceivers (MPTs) or base stations (BS). An access terminal transmits and receives data packets through one or more modem pool transceivers to an HDR base station controller, referred to as a modem pool controller (MPC), base station controller (BSC) and\/or packet control function (PCF). Modem pool transceivers and modem pool controllers are parts of a network called an access network. An access network transports data packets between multiple access terminals.","The access network may be further connected to additional networks outside the access network, such as a corporate intranet or the Internet, and may transport data packets between each access terminal and such outside networks. An access terminal that has established an active traffic channel connection with one or more modem pool transceivers is called an active access terminal, and is said to be in a traffic state. An access terminal that is in the process of establishing an active traffic channel connection with one or more modem pool transceivers is said to be in a connection setup state. An access terminal may be any data device that communicates through a wireless channel or through a wired channel, for example using fiber optic or coaxial cables. An access terminal may further be any of a number of types of devices including but not limited to PC card, compact flash, external or internal modem, or wireless or wireline phone. The communication link through which the access terminal sends signals to the modem pool transceiver is called a reverse link or traffic channel. The communication link through which a modem pool transceiver sends signals to an access terminal is called a forward link or traffic channel. As used herein the term traffic channel can refer to either a forward or reverse traffic channel.","Furthermore, in embodiments described below, a system (e.g., system  in ) is shown here in several embodiments as operating in a CDMA2000 network architecture. Reference can be had to the known standards and construction of CDMA2000 systems and network interfaces as would be known to one of skill in the art. Other telecommunication standards, such as CDMA2000 Evolution Data-Optimized (EvDO) or IMT-2000, UMTS, or GSM can likewise be used in implementation of the present system .","With reference to the figures in which like numerals represent like elements throughout,  illustrates one embodiment of a system  with a application server  and one or more wireless telecommunication devices in a communication group , such as wireless telephone , smart pager , and personal digital assistant (PDA) , that communicate with other wireless telecommunication devices across a wireless network . In the system , each wireless telecommunication device , ,  is capable of selectively and directly communicating across the wireless communication network  with a target set of one or more other wireless telecommunication devices. For example, the target set for mobile telephone  can be all devices in the communication group  or a subset thereof, such as pager  and\/or PDA .","In this embodiment, the wireless telecommunication device (such as mobile telephone ) notifies the group communication computer device, shown here as application server , which is present on a server-side LAN  across the wireless network , to indicate that the wireless device is present, i.e. accessible, on the wireless network . The group communication computer device  can share this information with the set of target wireless telecommunication devices designated by the first wireless telecommunication device, or can also share the information with other computer devices resident on the server-side LAN  or accessible across the wireless network . The group communication computer device  can have an attached or accessible database  to store the group identification data for the wireless devices.","As is more fully described herein, also shown on the server-side LAN  is an online charging system  that is configured to maintain user prepaid account data for prepaid accounts, such as prepaid group communications. The user can be charged for the specific airtime while the group communications are established, can be charged a flat rate for each group communication, and\/or can be charged in other manners for prepaid group communication services. It should be appreciated that the number of computer components resident on server-side LAN , or across the wireless network , or Internet generally, are not limited. Moreover, the application server  can also include the functionality of the online charging system .","In an example, the group communication, such as a PTT communication, can be established through a half-duplex channel between the communicating wireless telecommunication device , ,  and the one or more other wireless telecommunication devices of the target set of devices. While embodiments of the invention are described as generally being directed to half-duplex communication sessions, it will be readily apparent that other embodiments can be directed to any server-arbitrated communication session, including full-duplex communication sessions (e.g., VoIP, etc.). Also, the group communication computer device  can attempt to bridge the requested direct communication with the target set if at least one of the wireless telecommunication devices of the target set have informed the group communication computer device  of their presence on the wireless network .","The group communication computer device  can also inform the wireless telecommunication device , ,  of the inability to bridge a direct communication to the target set  if one or more of the wireless telecommunication devices of the target set have not informed the group communication computer device  of their presence on the wireless network . Further, while the group communication computer device  is shown here as having the attached database  of group identification data, the group communication computer device  can have group identity data resident thereupon, and perform all storage functions described herein.","The group communication can be voice, applications, graphic media, such as pictures in JPEG, TIF, and the like, or audio files such as MP3, MP4, WAV, and the like. The media can also be video or streaming media, such as a multimedia application (PowerPoint, MOV file, and the like). Also, in an example, the group communication session can correspond to a half-duplex audio conference among members of the communication group . As will be appreciated, in this type of group communication session, the speed of the connection and the quality of media delivery (e.g., voice data) are important to maintain Quality of Service (QoS) to the end-user(s).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":["32","70","72","74","76","20","32","50","32","50","36","36"]},"The application server  is connected to a wireless service provider's packet data service node (PDSN), such as PDSN , and\/or a broadcast serving node (BSN) , shown here resident as on a carrier network . The PDSN  and BSN  with the associated base stations  can constitute a regional communication system (e.g., an access network or radio access network), and may further include other server side  components, that will collectively control communications to the wireless communication devices ,,, for a geographical or virtual region. Each PDSN  or BSN  can interface with a base station controller  of a base station  through a packet control function (PCF) . The PCF  is typically located in the base station . The carrier network  controls messages (generally in the form of data packets) sent to a mobile switching center (\u201cMSC\u201d) . The carrier network  communicates with the MSC  by a network, the Internet and\/or POTS (\u201cplain ordinary telephone system\u201d). Typically, the network or Internet connection between the carrier network  and the MSC  transfers data, and the POTS transfers voice information. The MSC  can be connected to one or more base stations . In a similar manner to the carrier network, the MSC  is typically connected to the base transceiver station (sometimes referred to as \u201cbranch-to-source\u201d) (BTS)  by both the network and\/or Internet for data transfer and POTS for voice information. The BTS  ultimately broadcasts and receives messages wirelessly to and from the wireless devices, such as cellular telephones ,,,, by short messaging service (\u201cSMS\u201d), or other over-the-air methods known in the art. It should also be noted that carrier boundaries and\/or PTT operator network boundaries do not inhibit or prohibit the sharing of data as described herein.","Cellular telephones and mobile telecommunication devices, such as wireless telephone , are being manufactured with increased computing capabilities and are becoming tantamount to personal computers and hand-held PDAs. These \u201csmart\u201d cellular telephones allow software developers to create software applications that are downloadable and executable on the processor of the wireless device. The wireless device, such as cellular telephone , can download many types of applications, such as web pages, applets, MIDlets, games and data. In wireless devices that have designated a communication group  (), the wireless communication device can directly connect with the other member of the set and engage in voice and data communication session. However, all such group-direct communication sessions may be \u2018server-arbitrated\u2019, which means that the communication sessions occur through, or be at the control of, the application server . Each data packet of the devices does not necessarily have to travel through the application server  itself, but the application server  may be able to ultimately control the communication session because the application server  will typically be the only server-side  component that is aware of and\/or can retrieve the identity of the members of the communication group, or direct the identity of the members of the communication group  to another computer device.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 3"],"b":["14","14","78","12","14","80","14","14","82","20","82","84","84","84","86","84","88"]},"As shown here, while the wireless device  can be a mobile telephone with a graphics display , in alternative embodiments the wireless device can correspond to any type of wireless device with a computer platform  as known in the art, such as a personal digital assistant (PDA), a pager with a graphics display, or even a separate computer platform that has a wireless communication portal, and may otherwise have a wired connection to a network or the Internet. Further, the memory  can include read-only or random-access memory (RAM and ROM), EPROM, EEPROM, flash cards, or any memory common to computer platforms. The computer platform  can also include a local database  for storage of software applications not actively used in memory . The local database  is typically comprised of one or more flash memory cells, but can be any secondary or tertiary storage device as known in the art, such as magnetic media, EPROM, EEPROM, optical media, tape, or soft or hard disk.","In an embodiment of the wireless communication device  of , the computer platform  also includes a direct communication interface  that can open the direct communication channel from the wireless device (e.g., for a half-duplex voice communication in a PTT call). The direct communication interface  may also be part of the standard communication interface for the wireless device which ordinarily carries the voice and data transmitted to and from the wireless device. The direct communication interface  typically includes hardware as is known in the art.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0034"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},"Referring to , a session originator  sends a call request message to the access network, which then forwards the call request message to the application server , . As shown in , in a SIP call set-up implementation, the call request message may correspond to a SIP invite message. Upon receiving the call request message from the session originator , the application server  identifies the call targets for the session, and then announces the group communication session to target users  and ,  and . As shown in , in a SIP call set-up implementation, the call announcement messages may correspond to SIP invite messages.","After the application server  receives the call request message from the session originator , the application server  acknowledges receipt of the call request message, . As shown in , in a SIP call set-up implementation, the call message acknowledgment may correspond to a 200 OK message. Then, after the application server  receives a message from a first target device that indicates acceptance of the announced group communication session (i.e., a \u201cfirst responder\u201d), the application server  sends a status message to the session originator  that indicates that the session originator  can begin buffering and\/or sending media for the session to the application server  to be forwarded to one or more call targets that have joined the session, . As shown in , in a SIP call set-up implementation, the status message may correspond to a talk burst control protocol (TBCP) Talk Burst Granted message, which functions to grant the session originator  floor-holder status for the session.","As will be appreciated, in , upon receiving the call request message in , the application server  does not wait for credit authorization of the session originator  before announcing the session (e.g.,  and ) and\/or granting the floor to the session originator  (e.g., ). Thus, it will be appreciated that the pre-paid group communication session of  can be set-up more quickly than conventional pre-paid group communication sessions for at least this reason, because conventional prepaid group communication sessions wait for balance-verification before call announcement. However, it is of course still important to verify that the session originator, as well as the targets to the session, can actually afford to participate in the pre-paid group communication session.","Accordingly, the application server  sends a credit control request (CCR) for the session originator  to an online charging system (OCS) , , and waits to receive a credit control answer (CCA) for the session originator  from the OCS  while continuing to setup the prepaid group communication session. The OCS  is well-known in the art, and is configured to manage account balances, including prepaid account balances, for subscribers within the wireless communications system , and further to report these balances upon request to network entities such as the application server  or . Thus, while waiting for the CCR response, the application server  sends a message to the call targets  and ,  and , indicating that the session originator  has been granted the floor and is going to begin forwarding media associated with the prepaid group communication session. As shown in , in a SIP call-setup implementation, the message sent to session target  in  and\/or the message sent to session target  in  may each correspond to a talk burst control protocol (TBCP) Talk Burst Taken message.","Accordingly, after block , the prepaid group communication session between the session originator  and the call targets  and  is setup (e.g., although it is appreciated that all messaging associated with setting up the prepaid group communication session is not necessarily shown in , e.g., a contact message (not shown) may be sent to each session participant so that each session participant knows how to contact a server hosting the actual exchange of media at the application server , etc.). However, the session participants have not yet been verified as having a sufficient balance (e.g., a funds or cash balance, a credit balance, etc.) to participate in the prepaid group communication session. Thus, in response to the CCR for the session originator  (e.g., which requests whether the session originator  has a sufficient available balance to place the call) from , the OCS  sends a CCA to the application server  that is indicative of whether the session originator  has a sufficient balance to initiate and\/or participate in the prepaid group communication session, .","Upon receiving the CCA for the session originator , the application server  determines whether the session originator  has a balance sufficient to participate in the prepaid group communication session, . In an example, the verification of the session originator's balance can occur before verification of the balances of the call targets because an inadequate balance of the session originator may result in immediate termination of the entire session, in contrast with a mere dropping of individual call targets that have insufficient balances while permitting the remaining parties to continue with the prepaid group communication session. In a further example, if the decision block  determines to terminate the prepaid group communication session due to inadequate funds and\/or credit on the part of the session originator , the session originator  may be sent a message indicating that its balance is low and to refrain from subsequent session initiation requests at least until his\/her balance is replenished.","Alternatively, it is also possible that the CCRs for each potential call participant (e.g., both session originator  and session targets  and\/or ) are bundled together, and the responsive CCAs are also bundled together, such that the CCRs are requested by the application server  concurrently, and the CCAs are received at the application server  concurrently. Thus, the decision block of  need not occur before the CCAs for call targets are evaluated in other embodiments of the invention, but can rather occur concurrently or in parallel.","In another embodiment, the application server  may allow the call to proceed even if the decision block  determines the session originator  has an insufficient balance (i.e., a balance that is below a given threshold level). In this alternative embodiment, the OCS  may be instructed to debit the session originator's  client account after termination of the call (e.g., which means that this is a post-paid call for the session originator , although the call is still \u2018prepaid\u2019 from the perspective of the session targets  and\/or ). In a further embodiment, after a \u2018postpaid\u2019 session for the session originator  resulting from the originator having an insufficient balance, the session originator  may be unable to initiate another session until the available balance has been raised above a threshold level. In an example, the session originator  may be sent a message that informs the originator of the low-balance status. In other words, during a first instance in which the session originator  has an insufficient balance, the call may be permitted to continue and an attempt to bill the originator can be performed after call termination. This first instance thereby acts as a warning to the originator, and puts a user thereof on notice that his\/her funds require replenishment (e.g., after a message is sent to the originator that informs the originator of his\/her low balance). If the originator fails to replenish his\/her funds, future call origination attempts by the same user will be denied until his\/her funds are replenished.","Returning to , assume that the session originator  has a sufficient balance (e.g., funds and\/or credit) available, and as such the application server  sends, to the online charging system , a CCR for session target , , and session target , . Accordingly, the OCS  evaluates the account balances for the session targets  and , and sends a CCA for each of the session targets  and  to the application server ,  and . Again, in an alternative embodiment, the CCRs and\/or CCAs for the session participants can be bundled together to reduce signaling between the application server  and the OCS .","Next, the application server  evaluates the CCA for each call target (e.g., in this case, session targets  and ) and determines whether one or more session targets can participate in the call, . In an example, while not shown in , if no call targets are permitted to participate in the prepaid group communication session, the entire session can be terminated. In another example, while not shown in , if each call target is permitted to participate in the prepaid group communication session, the session continues in an unrestricted fashion (e.g., although the application server  can still track the balances of the session participants to ensure that the respective balances do not become overdrawn, as discussed below with respect to  through ). In a further example, if at least one and less than all call target are permitted to participate in the call based on the CCAs received from the OCS , then only the call targets without the sufficient account balance are restricted or blocked from the prepaid group communication session.","Referring to , for convenience of explanation, assume that the application server  determines that the session originator  and the session target  are permitted to participate in the prepaid group communication session, and that the session target  is not permitted to participate in the prepaid group communication session, . Accordingly, the session target  is dropped from the prepaid group communication session in . As shown in , in a SIP call set-up implementation, the session target  is dropped from the prepaid group communication session by sending the session target  a SIP BYE message.","Next, in , the remaining call participants (e.g., the session originator  and the session target ) engage in the prepaid group communication session such that media (e.g., voice, video, etc.) is exchanged between the remaining call participants. During the prepaid group communication session, the application server  may perform a \u2018quota control procedure\u2019. In other words, the application server  may (i) periodically confirm that the active session participants (e.g., session originator  and session target ) continue to have a sufficient balances for call participation, and\/or (ii) periodically confirm that any inactive call participants that were dropped due to an insufficient balance (e.g., call target  in ) continue to have an insufficient balance. Thus, the application server  sends one or more CCRs to the OCS  to check the balances of the group members, , and the OCS  responds with CCAs indicative of whether the group members have sufficient balances for call participation, .","Based on the CCAs received in , the application server  determines whether to adjust the prepaid group communication session, . For example, if the CCAs from  indicate that a balance of one or more active call participants has fallen below a threshold level and is now insufficient for call participation, those call participants may be dropped from the session. In an example, if the remaining number of call participants is below a threshold level, or one of the dropped call participants is the session originator  and\/or the current floorholder, the entire session can be terminated (e.g., if the originator's balance becomes insufficient the call cannot continue, if only one participant remains with a sufficient balance the session cannot continue, etc.). In another example, if the CCAs from  indicate that a balance of one or more previously dropped call participants is greater than or equal to the threshold level and is now sufficient for call participation, the previously dropped call participant(s) may be invited to re-join the session. Otherwise, if no adjustments to the session participation are determined to be necessary in , the process advances to  and the call continues. At some later point in time, the prepaid group communication session ends, .","As will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art, the application server  need not wait for explicit credit authorization before initiating setup for a delay-sensitive server-arbitrated prepaid group communication session. Rather, the prepaid session can be setup concurrently with credit approval, such that setup latency is reduced in the event that credit approval is obtained successfully. In the case that credit approval is denied for the prepaid session or for individual session participants, the prepaid session can either be terminated, or the deficient session participant(s) can be selectively dropped from the session.","Further, while above-described examples of prepaid group communication sessions are primarily given as half-duplex PTT sessions, it will be appreciated that other embodiments can be directed to any server-arbitrated group communication session (e.g., VoIP, a full-duplex session, a PTX session, etc.).","Further, while above-described embodiments of the invention include references to prepaid group communication sessions generally, it will be appreciated that the group communication sessions referred to herein can correspond to multicast sessions or group calls supported by IP multicasting protocols (e.g., one or more sectors transmits messaging on a downlink shared channel intended to be decoded, potentially, by multiple access terminals (ATs) in the sector), and\/or group calls supported by IP unicasting protocols (e.g., each registered group member receives unicast messaging for the group session that is specifically intended for one particular group member). Thus, the above-described embodiments are compatible with either scenario or a combination thereof (e.g., where the same group session supports one or more ATs via IP unicast and one or more other ATs via IP multicast).","Those of skill in the art will appreciate that information and signals may be represented using any of a variety of different technologies and techniques. For example, data, instructions, commands, information, signals, bits, symbols, and chips that may be referenced throughout the above description may be represented by voltages, currents, electromagnetic waves, magnetic fields or particles, optical fields or particles, or any combination thereof.","Further, those of skill in the art will appreciate that the various illustrative logical blocks, modules, circuits, and algorithm steps described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented as electronic hardware, computer software, or combinations of both. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software, various illustrative components, blocks, modules, circuits, and steps have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. Skilled artisans may implement the described functionality in varying ways for each particular application, but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of the present invention.","The various illustrative logical blocks, modules, and circuits described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor, a digital signal processor (DSP), an application specific integrated circuit (ASIC), a field programmable gate array (FPGA) or other programmable logic device, discrete gate or transistor logic, discrete hardware components, or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor, but in the alternative, the processor may be any conventional processor, controller, microcontroller, or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices, e.g., a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor, a plurality of microprocessors, one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core, or any other such configuration.","The methods, sequences and\/or algorithms described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware, in a software module executed by a processor, or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory, flash memory, ROM memory, EPROM memory, EEPROM memory, registers, hard disk, a removable disk, a CD-ROM, or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium is coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from, and write information to, the storage medium. In the alternative, the storage medium may be integral to the processor. The processor and the storage medium may reside in an ASIC. The ASIC may reside in a user terminal (e.g., access terminal). In the alternative, the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a user terminal.","In one or more exemplary embodiments, the functions described may be implemented in hardware, software, firmware, or any combination thereof. If implemented in software, the functions may be stored on or transmitted over as one or more instructions or code on a computer-readable medium. Computer-readable media includes computer storage media, including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one place to another. A storage media may be any available media that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example, and not limitation, such computer-readable media can comprise RAM, ROM, EEPROM, CD-ROM or other optical disk storage, magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices, or any other medium that can be used to store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. Disk and disc, as used herein, includes compact disc (CD), laser disc, optical disc, digital versatile disc (DVD), floppy disk and blu-ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically, while discs reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer-readable media.","While the foregoing disclosure shows illustrative embodiments of the invention, it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims. The functions, steps and\/or actions of the method claims in accordance with the embodiments of the invention described herein need not be performed in any particular order. Furthermore, although elements of the invention may be described or claimed in the singular, the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 4"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
