---
title: Immigration application management apparatus, systems, and methods
abstract: Application management apparatus, systems, and methods to process government agency forms and applications such as, for example, immigration forms, petitions and applications to increase the likelihood of acceptance.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08244659&OS=08244659&RS=08244659
owner: 
number: 08244659
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20090612
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["RELATED APPLICATION","FIELD","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["This application is a non-provisional application of prior U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61\/132,066, filed Jun. 16, 2008, which is herein incorporated by reference in its entirety.","Embodiments of the present invention relate in general to the field of computer systems, apparatus, and computer-implemented methods, and in particular to immigration application management systems, apparatus, and methods.","The U.S. government's E-filing initiative is designed to increase the number of filings (either required or for discretionary benefits) that may be accomplished via the Internet without benefit of an exchange of actual paper. This initiative falls under the broader rubric of E-Government\u2014the latter being the sum of all the features available on-line through U.S. federal and state government websites. The Internal Revenue Service was among the first federal agencies in the United States to embrace e-filing on a large scale. Other present-day large government users of e-filing applications include: the U.S. Postal Service, the Social Security Administration, the Department of State, the Department of Veterans Affairs, the Department of Education, the Department of Housing and Urban Development, and the Department of Homeland Security. Within the Department of Homeland Security, the component entity U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) currently processes most immigration applications and filings.","According to the 2007 Taubman Center for Public Policy (Brown University) E-Government report, 86 percent of federal and state websites now offer fully executable online services\u2014up from 77 percent in 2006. The top five states for E-Government were: (1) Delaware, (2) Michigan, (3) Maine, (4) Kentucky, and (5) Tennessee. In the federal space, the Social Security Administration was ranked 4out of 50 major federal agencies and departments, and the Department of Homeland Security was ranked 26.","When it comes to filing immigration applications with the U.S. Government, the process may be very difficult and overwhelming. This is especially true with the recent changes the U.S. Government has made with the way immigration is handled. In June of 2002, the U.S. Congress received a request from the President of the United States to transfer the personnel and functions of the Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS) from the Department of Justice to the newly conceived Department of Homeland Security (DHS). On Mar. 1, 2003, the relevant changes to U.S. law took effect and INS personnel and functions were, in fact, transferred to DHS. Unlike earlier transfers of immigration powers, however, such as the collective movement of the immigration function from the Treasury Department to the Labor Department in 1913, and the movement from the Department of Labor to the Department of Justice in 1940, in this instance the entire organization hitherto for responsible for all U.S. immigration functions (the INS) was formally disbanded, and ceased to exist.","Similarly, not only were the personnel and functions of the U.S. Customs Service transferred to DHS in 2003, but the Customs Service itself was formally disbanded, and ceased to exist. Within DHS, there are now three separately organized and structured entities that have some responsibility for certain immigration functions. The function of U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) at DHS is to handle all U.S. immigration services and benefits, including citizenship, applications for permanent residence, non-immigrant applications, asylum, and refugee services.","USCIS is headed by a Director, who holds Undersecretary rank within DHS. U.S. immigration enforcement functions at the border, including inspection, are now handled by the DHS's Bureau of Customs and Border Protection (CBP), and interior enforcement of U.S. immigration laws, including detention and removal, are the responsibility of DHS's Bureau of U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE). CBP and ICE are headed by, respectively, an Assistant Secretary and a Commissioner (who also holds Assistant Secretary rank within DHS). Although USCIS is staffed in part, but not exclusively, by employees of the former INS, parts of the former U.S. Customs Service combined with the former Inspections Program of the INS, the former Plant Protection and Quarantine program from the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA), and the Border Patrol of the former INS to form US Customs and Border Protection, and the Federal Protective Service, along with the investigative arms of the former U.S. Customs Service and the former INS combined to form US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, USCIS, CBP and ICE are not direct successor organizations to any prior organization within the U.S. government. In contrast, other DHS component entities such as the U.S. Coast Guard and the U.S. Secret Service were transferred into DHS with their existing personnel, corporate charters, historical structures and organizational identities intact.","It is, therefore, evident that the process for navigating these different agencies and the forms required as well as the manner in which they should be answered and submitted is challenging. It is difficult for non-experts to navigate the multiplicity of forms and applications related to immigration petitions. Much like U.S. tax law, U.S. immigration law is lengthy, complex, and filled with apparent contradictions. Often, it is difficult to determine which applications would best be filed together, or sequentially, depending on individual circumstances.","Additionally, as in many areas of public policy, some recent state and local actions regarding immigration have been enacted in advance of federal requirements. In particular, many government entities below the federal level now require employers to check the immigration status of their employees. Current methods for doing so are inefficient and incomplete.","There is a need for a solution that addresses the above and other problems.","Therefore, it is an aspect of one or more embodiments of the present invention to provide an apparatus, system and method for a user to use to determine the type of status, benefit or visa or other government benefit, document and\/or award that is appropriate for the user, determine what forms should be filed, assist the user in providing appropriate responses to the questions in the forms, assist the user in determining what attachments, related documentation and fees are required and the sequence and timing for filing.","It is another aspect to improve the accuracy and speed in which a government document, immigration status, immigration benefit or visa, other government benefit or award is obtained.","It is another aspect to provide an apparatus, system and method whereby a government application, and\/or an immigration application may be filled out correctly by a non-lawyer and minimize the time a lawyer must spend and the expense an applicant must pay to apply for a government document, government benefit, award, contract and\/or an immigration status, benefit or visa.","In accordance with an aspect of the invention, a computer-implemented government application management method and system is provided that provides one or more questions on a computerized display device to a user wherein the one or more questions relate to questions relevant to a government application. The invention requests one or more answers corresponding to the one or more questions and then determines whether the one or more answers are acceptable to a government agency ultimately to receive the government application, and that the one or more answers will likely not result in a rejection or return of the government application. The invention provides guidance to the user to correct any unacceptable answers or suggest one or more appropriate answers. The invention uses a decision tree analysis to determine a form filing strategy based on the one or more answers and determines whether any other documents are required for or should be filed with the government application. The invention completes one or more forms based on the form filing strategy and assists the user with properly filing the forms and any other required documents.","The invention includes a computer-implemented immigration application management method and system.","Reference will now be made in detail to embodiments of the present invention, examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying drawings, wherein like reference numerals refer to the like elements throughout. The embodiments are described below to explain the present invention by referring to the figures.","As used in this application, the terms \u201ca\u201d, \u201can\u201d and \u201cthe\u201d may refer to one or more than one of an item. The terms \u201cand\u201d and \u201cor\u201d may be used in the conjunctive or disjunctive sense and will generally be understood to be equivalent to \u201cand\/or\u201d. For brevity and clarity, a particular quantity of an item may be described or shown while the actual quantity of the item may differ. Features from an embodiment may be combined with features of another. By way of non-limiting example, various components (e.g., rules engine , business rules , etc.) are described and shown which may perform various functions and interact with each other. These components may be separated based on their function merely for the sake of description and may represent computer hardware and executable software code which may be stored on a computer-readable storage medium for execution on appropriate computing hardware. The various functions of the different components may be combined or separated as hardware or software stored on a computer-readable storage medium in any manner, and may be used separately or in combination.","One or more embodiments of the present invention may be directed to apparatus, systems, and methods for obtaining a desired status, benefit, award or document with or from the government. The status, benefit, award and\/or document may be obtained by an application process which may include the filling out and filing of forms, which may also include attachments and fees, in a government mandated manner. The term \u201capplication\u201d as used herein is intended to additionally include the completion of a response to a government Request For Proposal (RFP). The term \u201cforms\u201d as used herein is intended to include government forms or government format documents. More specifically, embodiments may be directed to computer-readable storage media, systems, and computer-implemented methods that may, in an embodiment, link a user to a website and to the government in such a way that a user may determine the appropriate actions (e.g., the appropriate responses) to take to obtain a desired result. It should be noted at this point that the definition of an \u201cappropriate response\u201d and an \u201cappropriate answer\u201d may be a response that is accurate and that also would be accepted by a government reviewer. The terms \u201cuser\u201d and \u201capplicant\u201d as used herein may be synonymous.","If the desired result is to obtain a immigration status, benefit or visa, the apparatus, systems, and methods may assist a user in identifying the correct type of status, benefit or visa, the forms required, the appropriate responses for the forms, the timing or sequence of filing the forms, any attachments or fees that may be required, signing the forms and submitting the forms to the government agency. Likewise, if the desired result is to complete another type of government application, such as, for example only, an application for taxpayer identification number, employer identification number, change of address, passport, social security number, social security benefit, request for birth certificate, request for marriage certificate, AR-11 change of address, immigration appointment, immigration status, zoning, driver's license, vehicle documents such as vehicle registration, vehicle license plates, to name a few, or response to a RFP, the system and method described herein will assist a user in identifying the correct type of application, forms required, the appropriate responses for the forms, the timing or sequence of filing the forms and any attachments or fees that may be required, signing the forms and submitting the forms to the government agency. The apparatus, systems, and methods may be updated contemporaneously with any changes or rule updates by the government and may notify the user of the appropriate actions required relative to the rule changes. A complete strategy may be determined by the apparatus, systems, and method, for executing and submitting appropriate forms to achieve the desired results (by way of non-limiting example, a particular immigration status, benefit, or visa).","The apparatus, systems, and method may also be used, under a program adopted by the U.S. government to attempt the \u201cregularization\u201d or registration of the approximately 12 to 14 million undocumented aliens living, and in most cases working, inside the territorial borders of the United States, to process applications or registrations from this defined group\u2014particularly if any such program envisions a large-scale bureaucratic undertaking of limited duration. Specifically, the apparatus, systems, and methods could undertake operations or registrations that may include by way of non-limiting example: (1) processing proof of real identity that would meet current standards for secure identity documents, (2) processing proof of residence within the U.S. before to whatever standards may be specified, (3) taking fingerprints and other biometric records from applicants, (4) transmitting fingerprints and other biometric data to the relevant U.S. government organizations for law enforcement\/intelligence screening and clearance, (5) collecting and processing a fee, and (6) providing a secure receipt or other documentation back to those aliens who meet the standards for registration (or whatever the benefit is called) when those aliens are approved. Because such a process may have to be undertaken in a geographic dispersal pattern across the United States that may or may not mirror the current location of U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) or other U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) or U.S. government offices or presences, a solution that is not geographically constrained, such as an embodiment of the present invention, may prove especially useful. In addition, an embodiment of the present invention may assist in relieving strain on full-time USCIS and DHS resources by completing, by way of non-limiting example, the above operations outside of formal adjudication systems. Doing so may maximize the non-inherently governmental functions of the above operations, and so not distract from the regular annual workflow cadence of USCIS and DHS.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["100","102","102","102"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":["200","200","216","220","214","200","212","220","200","222","220"]},"The system  may be designed to guide users through a government application process in a step-by-step fashion using a question and answer methodology. The methodology may be based on an intricate set of business rules governed by decision tree analysis. The decision trees developed within the system  may provide both additional speed and additional reliability for end users who conduct immigration-related transactions with the one or more government databases  of government agencies\/entities. The decision trees may be stored as a set of business rules  on computer readable storage medium and may be executed by a rules engine , which may be a computer and memory programmed with computer software. Further, the source data and decision trees in the system  may be fluid\u2014constantly optimized and refined. Note that the business rules , the rules engine , and the database  may be located on the same computer or may be on separate computers. The server application  may include business rules , rules engine , database , and other application logic , including by way of non-limiting example, user management, workflows, and auditing.","The system  may utilize a database and \u201cwizard\u201d methodology (question and answer) to walk users through the decision making process of creating, processing, and submitting immigration-related applications and petitions. The database  may be an electronic computer database which stores data such as, by way of non-limiting example, customer account information, customer data, in-progress or incomplete customer transactions, immigration forms , and other government forms . By way of non-limiting example, the following types of information may be stored by the database  or other components of the system : applicant information including name, DOB, gender, etc., addresses of applicant's prior residences, employment history, names & addresses of family members, scanned documents\u2014police reports, identification cards, etc., digital data\u2014fingerprint scans, retinal scans, digital pictures, etc.; business rules (the herein discussed decision trees); and, data licensed to by used by the system  from third-party providers, including Dunn & Bradstreet company financial data, data mappings of geospatial coordinates to zip codes, and title & salary data. The computer implemented immigration application can store such information and normalize answers containing this information in corresponding fields.","The wizard methodology and decision tree analysis may assist and suggest the user in the selection of the proper type of status, benefit or visa and the correct forms  that correspond to the correct status, benefit or visa. It should be understood that there may be many types of status, benefit or visas that are available and the correct status, benefit or visa depends on the individual circumstances and needs of the applicant. Users may be shown the actual form or forms  and asked the actual questions on the form.","The wizard may pose a series of questions, and the next step to take\u2014which could be to ask another question, another series of questions, no further questions, or some other action\u2014may in part be determined based upon the prior responses provided by the user. The process may assist the user in understanding the form through helpful instructions as well as assist the applicant in filling in the appropriate response. It should be noted that the appropriate response may not always be obvious from the forms . Inserting an incorrect or ambiguous response may result in long delays and rejections in an application process with the government. The wizard may warn the user of answers that may be rejected. The wizard may in certain instances offer a selection of appropriate answers and assist the applicant in determining which response is appropriate. For example, if a government form asks the applicant if he has ever been convicted of a crime, the wizard may indicate to the user what constitutes a crime in the context of that form. If, for instance a driving violation constitutes a crime for a particular application, the wizard will assist the user in answering the form correctly. The wizard may in certain instances offer additional or clarifying questions not asked on the form. The wizard also may screen user information to sift through what is relevant to the form filling in process. If a user of the system  would like additional professional guidance regarding an application processed through the system , the system  may provide referral to, by way of non-limiting example, specialized immigration law counsel. Such referral may be an integrated part of the system , and may be accessed by the user at his or her discretion.","The actions of the wizard may be based upon the business rules  and the rules engine  which may execute the business rules .","In some instances, the government forms process may include a series of forms  that must be submitted in a proper sequence and at the proper time. The system  may have programmed therein, the form filing requirements and notices and reminders for the user of when to file the forms . The system  may also notify the user of what attachments and fees may be required for a complete and proper submission. The system  may also provide sample resumes, sample letters and other sample documents that are appropriate and helpful to the user. Based on the answers to the wizard questions, a status, benefit or visa selection may be made, the forms  may be determined, and the filing strategy may be identified and communicated to the user. In other words, the wizard may perform a total case management process for the application complete with notifications, docketing, and integration with government calendars. Any government rules changes that occur during the application process may be communicated to the user with instructions on what to do to be in compliance. In this regard, the system  may proactively notify a user of a situation that may require their attention. This notification may occur even when the user is not actively engaged with the system  and may be in the form of, by way of non-limiting example, a text message or email. For instance, there may be an upcoming increase in application fees, and the system  may actively notify the user that the user should expedite the completion of their application so it may be filed under the existing (i.e., old) fee structure.","The system  may be compatible with electronic verification systems such as E-verify\u00ae systems and the applicant may be able to set up a user name and password through the system so that the forms, when completed may be technically \u201cfrom the applicant\u201d even though submitted through the system. This may be important because many government agencies require that the actual applicant submit a particular form. By way of non-limiting example, the E-Verify\u00ae program may permit companies to directly submit their I-9 forms electronically to the government agency, and the system may have the ability to perform the electronic submission. The system  may in other cases not interface with government system. By way of non-limiting example, there is presently no electronic way to submit H-1B applications directly to a government agency. In such cases, the forms  may be printed out in a properly formatted and completed form, and sent through parcel post.","A user may interact with the system  via a number of client application types  including by way of non-limiting example, a web browser, a specially-built computer application running on a desktop personal computer, or a specially-built computer application running on a personal digital assistant. These client types  may utilize a number of methods to communicate with the Server Application . Client types  including \u201cfat client\u201d and applications built with a software development kit (SDK) may have the ability to provide a subset of the system's  functionality without having constant network communication between the client and the server, known as \u201coffline usage\u201d. While these client's types  may have the ability to provide offline usage, the invention is not limited to client types  which may do so.","The system  methodology may include, in an embodiment, providing a network-based immigration service with a specialized user interface comprised of the following operations:\n\n","Exchanges from the databases maintained by the government may include by way of non-limiting example, forms, notices, and replies. Exchanges to the databases maintained by the government may include by way of non-limiting example, forms, applications, filings, petitions, corrections, cancellations, and status requests.","The end result may be the alignment of the proper forms , immigration forms  for example, and applications that may best meet the sets of criteria entered by the user. In addition, the specific methodology and uniqueness of the system  may speed up the processing of these forms  by retaining and applying standardized or required data across form types, thereby increasing accuracy, quality, and reliability within the immigration application process for both the applicant and the eventual U.S. government processing entity. The system  may provide an articulate conversation between a government agency and the applicant wherein the desired result is properly filled in forms  and the granting of the appropriate status, benefit, or visa.","The operation of the immigration application management system  is now described with reference to , which is an exemplary data-flow diagram  for a specific immigration application through in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. A user (e.g., end customer ) may access the system to correctly complete and file a government application that includes forms. By way of non-limiting example, a user may access the system  to apply for a temporary worker classification of visa.","The user may initiate a session (e.g., launch an application or access a portal ) in the system . The system  may provide questions to the user, and the user may be requested to enter answers to those questions  into the system . The questions may relate to questions relevant to the government application. The system  may determine  whether the answers are optimal and would likely be acceptable  to a government entity that may ultimately receive and process the government application. The system  may provide guidance  to the user to correct any unacceptable answers or suggest one or more appropriate  answers. The process of receiving answers, determining if the answers will be acceptable, and providing guidance and suggesting answers may be iterative. The system  may also provide additional information to the user. With respect to the temporary working example, the system  may guide the user through the requirements for that classification. This requirement is communicated in an \u201cexchange.\u201d Those requirements may include by way of non-limiting example, the requirement to advertize a position, the timing and the amount of fees paid, what forms must be submitted when and to whom, and other special instructions relevant to that particular visa classification. In providing such strategic guidance, the system  may have internalized within its system and method the decision rules and policy guidance used by immigration officials in making decisions about applications when they review them, thus ensuring that the user's final product better conforms to what immigration officials see as the standard for application approval. Examples of such rules and guidance include, but are not limited to: the Adjudicator's Field Manual, the Affirmative Asylum Procedures Manual, the E-Verify Employer Manual, the M-274 Handbook for Employers, the M-603 USCIS is Making Photos Simpler document, USCIS Policy and Procedural Memoranda on H1B Non-Immigrant Visas (Neufeld AC21 Memo, et al), USCIS Policy and Procedural Memoranda on Affidavit of Support and I-94, USCIS Policy and Procedural Memoranda on Adjustment of Status, RFE's, and Medical Requirements, USCIS Policy and Procedural Memoranda on E1 & E2 Non-immigrant Investor Visas, USCIS Policy and Procedural Memoranda on EB-5 Immigrant Investor Visas, USCIS Policy and Procedural Memoranda on L1 & Blanket L1 Non-immigrant Visas, USCIS Policy and Procedural Memoranda on I-140 Immigrant Visas, USCIS Policy and Procedural Memoranda on Citizenship, and the M-480 Naturalization Eligibility Worksheet.","The user of the system , then, may not only be asked for answers to the questions on the relevant application forms and answers to clarifying questions generated by the system  itself, but may also be provided with specific guidance regarding how answers given may be interpreted by immigration officials. For instance, the system  may flag for an applicant that although the current employment shown for a temporary worker classification may meet the technical requirements for such a classification, the larger work history of the applicant does not seem consistent with what is being presently claimed. Or, the system  may flag for an applicant the potential problem that his or her academic credentials are not easily convertible into US academic credentials, and therefore third party credential evaluation and translation should accompany the application. In addition, the system  may advise an applicant that the employer data presented in an application does not match that currently available through global commercial databases, a discrepancy that can significantly delay an application, generate cumbersome requests for evidence (RFE's) or even cause application denial.","Turning back to , the system  may use a decision tree analysis (e.g., the business rules  and the rules engine ) to determine  a form filing strategy based on the answers . The system  may determine  whether any other documents are required or should be provided for the government application to improve its likelihood of acceptance. At this point, the system  updates and verifies current government rule compliance of the application and notifies user. The system determines whether the application is final and ready for submission  or requires editing . The system  may complete forms  based on the form filing strategy. When the application is complete and finalized, the system  may assist the user with properly filing  the forms and any other required documents.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0043","num":"0050"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 2"],"b":["200","400","500","200","400","500","200","200","400","400","500","402","404","500","502","504","400","500","200","400","500","200","400","500","200","204"]},"Accordingly, immigration application management apparatus, systems, and methods are provided. One application of the apparatus, systems, and methods may be to speed the work of immigration professionals, such as immigrations attorneys. Another application of the apparatus, systems, and methods may be to assist businesses and individuals with filing and monitoring their own applications. Other applications and services may be developed using a software development kit (SDK) component of the apparatus, systems, and methods. Another application of the apparatus, systems, and methods may be to provide value-added services to customers. For example, human resources professionals in businesses may use the apparatus, systems, and methods to better interface with E-Verify, a U.S. government-run process for verify employment status. E-Verify (formerly known as the Basic Pilot\/Employment Eligibility Verification Program) is an Internet-based system operated by the Department of Homeland Security in partnership with the Social Security Administration that allows participating employers to electronically verify the employment eligibility of their newly hired employees. Another application of the apparatus, systems, and methods may be to meet the societal goals of streamlined immigration application processing and backlog reduction.","Modifications of the above-disclosed embodiments of the present invention of which fall within the scope of the invention will be readily apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art. For instance, although in some embodiments, an immigration system for use by an individual is disclosed, alternative embodiments are contemplated and are considered to be within the scope of the present invention.","In one embodiment, a computer application may be provided to be used by businesses and individuals to provide them with an effective strategy for interfacing with governmental agencies such as the Social Security Administration, USCIS, and other Department of Homeland Security component entities that deal with immigration applications and petitions, and to assist them in executing that strategy. This strategy may include by way of non-limiting example, guidance on how to accurately answer specific questions on a status, benefit, or visa application; and suggested parallel, contingent activities to serve as a backup plan should the primary tact not achieve the desired results. Note that the strategy defined by the present invention may not be limited to instructions on where to mail a completed application, verifying that required fields are not null, etc., but also may include domain expertise about the immigration process which may not be found in any publication or manual, but provided by skilled professional knowledgeable in the field. Not only does this embodiment of the present invention make the application process better for the applicant and the immigration attorney, but the accuracy, completeness, and application strategy make the overall process more efficient for all involved parties, including the U.S. government.","In another embodiment, a computer application may be provided to be used by businesses and individuals to provide them with an effective strategy for interfacing with U.S. federal, state, and local governmental agencies, and to assist them in executing that strategy. Specialized domain expertise contained within with this embodiment may be incorporated into the analysis to develop a strategy specific to the applicant, their needs, and their situation.","In another embodiment, a computer application may be provided to be used by businesses and individuals to provide them with an effective strategy for interfacing with non-U.S. governmental entities, and to assist them in executing that strategy.","In another embodiment, a computer application may be provided that may be compatible with and assist with form submission relating to government registration of undocumented workers or persons.","In another embodiment of the invention, the path through the decision tree and the questions the wizard asks may change depending upon cultural factors associated with a language, dialect, or locale. For example, in some cultures the definition of a family member may include individuals that would not be considered to be family members under relevant United States law, or do not consider siblings they have disowned to be family members. When asking the applicant a question about their family, the invention keys off previous responses, such as the applicant's primary language. Should there be a potential discrepancy in the definition of family member, the invention then informs the applicant that the question applies only and to all individuals with whom they are related under relevant United States law certain operations are shown as occurring at particular times relative to other operations, the operations may occur at other times.","The components of the exemplary embodiments of  are for exemplary purposes, as many variations of the specific hardware used to implement the exemplary embodiments are possible, as will be appreciated by those skilled in the relevant arts. By way of non-limiting example, the functionality of one or more of the components of the exemplary embodiments of  can be implemented via one or more programmed computer systems or devices, including server computers, client computers, and the like.","To implement such variations as well as other variations, a single computer system can be programmed to perform the special purpose functions of one or more of the components of the exemplary embodiments of . On the other hand, two or more programmed computer systems or devices can be substituted for any one of the components of the exemplary embodiments of . Accordingly, principles and advantages of distributed processing, such as redundancy, replication, and the like, also can be implemented, as desired, to increase the robustness and performance of the components of the exemplary embodiments of .","The components of the exemplary embodiments of  can store information relating to various processes described herein. This information can be stored in one or more memories, such as a hard disk, optical disk, magneto-optical disk, RAM, and the like, of the components of the exemplary embodiments of . One or more databases of the components of the exemplary embodiments of  can store the information used to implement the exemplary embodiments of the present invention. The databases can be organized using data structures (e.g., records, tables, arrays, fields, graphs, trees, lists, and the like) included in one or more memories or storage devices listed herein. The processes described with respect to the exemplary embodiments of  can include appropriate data structures for storing data collected and\/or generated by the processes of the components of the exemplary embodiments of  in one or more databases thereof.","All or a portion of the components of the exemplary embodiments of  can be conveniently implemented using one or more general purpose computer systems, microprocessors, digital signal processors, micro-controllers, and the like, programmed according to the teachings of the exemplary embodiments of the present invention, as will be appreciated by those skilled in the computer and software arts. Appropriate software can be readily prepared by programmers of ordinary skill based on the teachings of the exemplary embodiments, as will be appreciated by those skilled in the software art. Further, the components of the exemplary embodiments of  can be implemented on the World Wide Web. In addition, the components of the exemplary embodiments of  can be implemented by the preparation of application-specific integrated circuits or by interconnecting an appropriate network of conventional component circuits, as will be appreciated by those skilled in the electrical arts. Thus, the exemplary embodiments are not limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and\/or software.","As stated above, the components of the exemplary embodiments of  can include computer readable storage media or memories for holding instructions programmed according to the teachings of the present invention and for holding data structures, tables, records, and\/or other data described herein. Computer readable storage media can include any suitable medium that participates in providing instructions to a processor for execution. Such a medium can take many forms, including but not limited to, non-volatile media, volatile media, transmission media, and the like. Non-volatile media can include, by way of non-limiting example, optical or magnetic disks, magneto-optical disks, and the like. Volatile media can include dynamic memories, and the like. Transmission media can include coaxial cables, copper wire, fiber optics, and the like. Transmission media also can take the form of acoustic, optical, electromagnetic waves, and the like, such as those generated during radio frequency (RF) communications, infrared (IR) data communications, and the like. Common forms of computer-readable storage media can include, by way of non-limiting example, a floppy disk, a flexible disk, hard disk, magnetic tape, any other suitable magnetic medium, a CD-ROM, CDRW, DVD, any other suitable optical medium, punch cards, paper tape, optical mark sheets, any other suitable physical medium with patterns of holes or other optically recognizable indicia, a RAM, a PROM, an EPROM, a FLASH-EPROM, any other suitable memory chip or cartridge, a carrier wave, or any other suitable medium from which a computer can read.","Accordingly, although embodiments of the present invention have been shown and described, it would be appreciated by those skilled in the art that changes may be made in these embodiments without departing from the principles and spirit of the invention, the scope of which is defined in the claims and their equivalents."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF FIGURES","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 2"]}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
