---
title: Fault management system in multistage copy configuration
abstract: A data storing system including: a first, second and third storage systems providing first, second and third logical volumes; wherein the first logical volume and the second logical volume forms a first replication pair which indicates the first logical volume is a replication source and the second logical volume is a replication destination, and the second logical volume and the third logical volume forms a second copy pair which indicates the second logical volume is the replication source and the third logical volume is the replication destination. The replication pairs may adopt differing possible pair statuses, which may affect consistency between such pairs.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07954003&OS=07954003&RS=07954003
owner: Hitachi, Ltd.
number: 07954003
owner_city: Tokyo
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20091208
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATION","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS"],"p":["This is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 11\/079,237, filed Mar. 15, 2005 now U.S. Pat. No. 7,644,301. This application relates to and claims priority from Japanese Patent Application No. 2004-377176, filed on Dec. 27, 2004. The entirety of the contents and subject matter of all of the above is incorporated herein by reference.","This invention relates to data management of a storage system applying a data replication technique.","When a fault occurs in a network composed of a plurality of apparatuses, it is necessary to determine a site where the fault occurs to restore the network. However, when the network increases in scale, and its configuration becomes complicated, it is difficult to determine the site of the fault.","JP 10-22947 A discloses a network management system for determining a site where a fault occurs by allowing a management apparatus and a management apparatus agent to monitor the status of a path on the network.","In the field of a recent data storage, in order to protect data stored in a storage system, data is replicated using a copy technique of a storage. According to the copy technique, a logical volume in a storage system is paired with at least one logical volume in the same or another storage system. Furthermore, those pairs can also be connected in a multistage. A pair configuration thus connected in a multistage is called a cascade configuration. By controlling the execution of data replication in each pair, replication data at an arbitrary point can be created and saved.","In such a pair configuration, because of the change in status of any pair, data of another pair may be lost. For example, when data is being replicated in one pair, and a fault occurs in that pair, the data replication is interrupted. Consequently, the logical data consistency of a logical volume of a replication destination is lost.","However, in each logical volume, backup data at a different point from that of data stored in a logical volume of a copy source may be stored. Therefore, in order to determine whether data is to be inconsistent when the status of a pair changes, it is necessary to refer to the version of the data.","Furthermore, there are a plurality of kinds in the normal status of a pair. Whether data is to be inconsistent when a fault occurs depends upon the status of a pair before the fault occurs.","Thus, data to be inconsistent when a fault occurs cannot be determined by a conventional method of determining a fault site.","According to one embodiment of this invention, there is provided a management computer connected to a storage system included in a computer system, characterized in that the storage system includes: a primary logical volume in which data is stored and an secondary logical volume in which a replication of the data stored in the primary logical volume is stored; the primary logical volume and the secondary logical volume form a pair; the management computer comprises a data management module for managing data stored in the primary and secondary logical volumes; and the data management module obtains an event regarding the pair, determines whether the event is caused by a fault occurring in the pair, determines data made to be inconsistent by the fault in the case where the event is caused by the fault, and outputs information on the inconsistent data.","According to this invention, data to be inconsistent when a fault occurs in a pair is determined. Furthermore, according to this invention, whether inconsistent data can be restored is displayed. Furthermore, this invention supports the restoration of inconsistent data.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},"The computer system of this embodiment is composed of a management server , at least one application server , and at least one storage system .","The management server  and the application server  are connected via a network  so as to communicate with each other. The network  is, for example, an IP network such as a LAN or a so-called Internet.","The application server  and the storage system  are connected to each other via a storage area network (SAN)  so as to communicate with each other. The SAN  is a network dedicated to a storage, and performs communications with an FC protocol, an FCIP protocol, or the like.","The storage system  may further be connected to the management server  and the like via the network  so as to communicate therewith.","The management server  is a computer for managing a computer system of this embodiment. The management server  is composed of an input\/output unit , a disk device , a CPU , a main memory , a network interface (I\/F) , and a bus  connecting them.","The input\/output unit  is, for example, a display screen, a keyboard, a mouse, or the like.","The disk device  is, for example, one hard disk drive, and stores a program executed by the CPU  and data required for executing the program, as shown in .","The CPU  is a processor for controlling the management server , and executes a program stored in the disk device .","The main memory  is, for example, a semiconductor memory, and used when the CPU  executes a program.","A network I\/F  is an interface for the management server  to communicate with the application server  and the like via the network .","The application server  is a computer for providing a file system by using the storage system , and supporting transactions of a user by executing an application such as a DBMS. The application server  is composed of an input\/output unit , a network I\/F , a CPU , a main memory , a disk device , a data I\/F , and a bus  connecting them.","The input\/output unit  is, for example, a display screen, a keyboard, a mouse, or the like.","The network I\/F  is an interface for the application server  to communicate with the management server  and the like via the network .","The CPU  is a processor for controlling the application server , and executes a program stored in the disk device .","The main memory  is, for example, a semiconductor memory, and used when the CPU  executes a program.","The disk device  is, for example, one hard disk drive, and stores a program executed by the CPU  and data required for executing the program, as shown in .","The data I\/F  is an interface for the application server  to communicate with the storage system  and the like via the SAN .","Although the configuration of the application server C is not shown, it is similar to those of the application servers A and B. The computer system of this embodiment may include more application servers .","The storage system  stores data according to a request from the application server .","The storage system  is composed of a management port , a port , a disk device , and a disk controller  for controlling them.","The management port  is an interface for the storage system  to communicate with the management server  and the like via the network . The storage system  may not be connected to the network . In the case where the storage system  is not connected to the network , the management port  may not be provided.","The port  is an interface for the storage system  to communicate with the application server  and the like via the SAN .","A logical volume  may be composed of a plurality of hard disk drives (for example, RAID). In this embodiment, each logical volume  is assumed to be a RAID composed of a plurality of hard disk drives.","The logical volume refers to a storage region logically dealt with as one disk drive. Data used by the application server  in the storage system  is stored in the logical volume .","Although the configuration of the storage system C is not shown, it is similar to those of the storage systems A and B. The computer system of this embodiment may include more storage systems .","Data stored in the logical volume  of the storage system  can be replicated (copied) to the logical volume  of another storage system  via the SAN  without using the application server . Such data replication is called a remote copy. Furthermore, data stored in the logical volume  of the storage system  can also be replicated to another logical volume  of the same storage system . Such data replication is called a local copy.","As described above, in the case where data is replicated between the logical volumes , a combination of the logical volume  of a replication source and the logical volume  of a replication destination is called a pair. The logical volume  of a replication source is called a primary logical volume (PVOL), and the logical volume  of a replication destination is called a secondary logical volume (SVOL).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0060","num":"0059"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":["102","100"]},"The disk device  stores at least a data management program , a pair status\/application status management table , a volume\/data correspondence management table , and a fault detail code table . The configurations of the program and tables will be described later in detail.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0062","num":"0061"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":["125","120"]},"At least one of the application servers  connected to the storage system  stores a pair management program  and a pair configuration definition table .","The pair management program  executes a pair operation for switching the status of a pair of the logical volumes  in response to an instruction from the management server  or the like.","A pair has five statuses: \u201cPAIR\u201d, \u201cSUSPEND\u201d, \u201cCOPY\u201d, \u201cREVERSE-COPY\u201d, and \u201cERROR\u201d.","The \u201cPAIR\u201d is a status in which the same data is stored (i.e., data is duplexed) in the PVOL and the SVOL as a result of data replication. When data in the PVOL of the pair in the \u201cPAIR\u201d status is updated, the updated data is replicated to the SVOL by data replication (local copy or remote copy). Consequently, the data consistency between the PVOL and the SVOL is maintained. In the case where synchronous copy is performed, the identity of the data in the PVOL and the SVOL is maintained in the \u201cPAIR\u201d status (mirroring).","The \u201cSUSPEND\u201d is a status in which data replication is stopped as a result of a pair operation \u201cSPRIT\u201d described later. Even if the data in the PVOL of the pair in the \u201cSUSPEND\u201d status is updated, the updated data is not replicated to the SVOL. Therefore, in the PVOL and the SVOL of the pair in the \u201cSUSPEND\u201d status, different data may be stored.","The \u201cCOPY\u201d and the \u201cREVERSE COPY\u201d are statuses in which data replication for switching the \u201cSUSPEND\u201d status to the \u201cPAIR\u201d status is being performed (i.e., status in which data replication has been started and has not been completed). The \u201cCOPY\u201d is a status in which data replication from the PVOL to the SVOL is performed. The \u201cREVERSE COPY\u201d is a status in which data replication from the SVOL to the PVOL is performed.","The \u201cERROR\u201d is a status in which data replication is stopped as a result of the occurrence of a fault. Herein, the fault refers to, for example, a network fault occurring in the SAN  or a fault occurring in the storage system . In the pair in the \u201cERROR\u201d status, similar to in the \u201cSUSPEND\u201d status, data replication is not performed. Therefore, the \u201cERROR\u201d status is also called a \u201cSUSPEND ERROR\u201d. Thus, in the PVOL and the SVOL of the pair in the \u201cERROR\u201d status, different data may be stored.","The pair management program  performs three pair operations: \u201cSPLIT\u201d, \u201cRESYNC\u201d, and \u201cREVERSE-RESYNC\u201d. The \u201cREVERSE-RESYNC\u201d is also called \u201cRESTORE\u201d.","When the \u201cSPLIT\u201d is performed in the pair in the \u201cPAIR\u201d status, the pair is placed in the \u201cSUSPEND\u201d status.","When the \u201cRESYNC\u201d is performed in the pair in the \u201cSUSPEND\u201d status, the pair is placed in the \u201cCOPY\u201d status, and the data in the PVOL is replicated to the SVOL. When the replication is completed, the pair is placed in the \u201cPAIR\u201d status.","As described later, in the case where the degree of a fault occurring in a pair is small, the \u201cRESYNC\u201d can be performed in the pair in the \u201cERROR\u201d status (\u201cSUSPEND ERROR\u201d status). The result of the execution is the same as that obtained when the \u201cRESYNC\u201d is performed in the pair in the \u201cSUSPEND\u201d status. More specifically, the pair in the \u201cERROR\u201d status in which the \u201cRESYNC\u201d is performed is placed in the \u201cCOPY\u201d status, and the data in the PVOL is replicated to the SVOL. When the replication is completed, the pair is placed in the \u201cPAIR\u201d status.","When the \u201cRESTORE\u201d is performed in the pair in the \u201cSUSPEND\u201d status, the pair is placed in the \u201cREVERSE-COPY\u201d status, and the data in the SVOL is replicated to the PVOL. When the replication is completed, the pair is placed in the \u201cPAIR\u201d status.","The pair management program  may detect that the status of a pair has been changed, and notify the management server  of the change. Specifically, when another software performs a pair operation and a fault occurs in a pair, as well as when the pair management program  performs a pair operation, the pair management program  notifies the management server  that the status of the pair has been changed and of the changed status of the pair.","The storage system  may directly notify the management server  of the change in the status of the pair via the management port .","The pair management program  may further detect that the status of an application has been changed, and notify the management server  of the change. Specifically, the pair management program  detects that an application has been staticized (in other words, an application has been made to be quiescent) or a staticized application has been destaticized with respect to any of the logical volumes , and notifies the management server  that the status of the application has been changed and the changed status of the application.","The pair configuration definition table  includes information regarding a pair to which each logical volume in the storage system , to which the application server  is connected, belongs. The pair configuration definition table  will be described later in detail referring to .","The pair management program  and the pair configuration definition table  may be stored in the disk device  of the management server . In this case, the pair management program  performs a pair operation of the logical volume  in the storage system  via the management port  connected to the network .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0080","num":"0079"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},"In the example shown in , DKC (disk controller), DKC, and DKC are storage systems . For example, the DKC, DKC, and DKC may be storage systems A, B, and C, respectively. In , the SAN , the application server , and the like are not shown.","The DKC includes three logical volumes : VOL, VOL, and VOL. The DKC includes three logical volumes : VOL, VOL, and VOL. The DKC includes six logical volumes : VOL, VOL, VOL, VOL, VOL, and VOL.","The data in the VOL is replicated to the VOL  between the DKC and the DKC. In other words, the VOL and the VOL forms a pair. Herein, the VOL is PVOL, and the VOL is SVOL. The pair formed by the VOL and the VOL is referred to as a pair P.","Similarly, the VOL and the VOL forms a pair P. Herein, the VOL is PVOL, and the VOL is SVOL.","The VOL and the VOL forms a pair P. Herein, the VOL is PVOL, and the VOL is SVOL.","These three pairs are those which are formed by the remote copy between the DKC and the DKC.","The pairs P, P, and P form a copy group CG. The copy group refers to a collection of pairs, and can be set to be a unit for a pair operation. Although a pair operation can be performed with respect to each pair, a plurality of pair operations can also be performed collectively by determining a copy group. In the case where a copy group ensures data consistency, in one copy group, when PVOLs are updated, SVOLs are updated in the order of the update of the PVOLs. For example, in the case where data A (not shown) in the VOL is updated and then data B (not shown) in the VOL is updated, the data A is replicated from the VOL to the VOL, and then the data B is replicated from the VOL to the VOL. Thus, the update order of data is maintained, whereby the mutual consistency of data in a copy group is maintained.","For example, a plurality of pairs regarding one instance of one application may be set to be one copy group, and a plurality of pairs regarding one database may be set to be one copy group.","Similarly, the VOL, VOL, and VOL respectively form pairs P, P, and P by the remote copy, together with the VOL, VOL, and VOL. In these pairs, the VOL, VOL, and VOL are PVOLs, and the VOL, VOL, and VOL are SVOLs. These three pairs form a copy group CG.","Further, the VOL, VOL, and VOL respectively form pairs P, P, and P by the local copy, together with the VOL, VOL, and VOL. In these pairs, the VOL, VOL, and VOL are PVOLs, and the VOL, VOL, and VOL are SVOLs. These three pairs form a copy group CG.","In a copy path extending from the DKC to the DKC, a PVOL side is defined as an upper stage, and an SVOL side is defined as a lower stage. For example, based on the pair P, the pair P is in an upper stage, and the pair P is in a lower stage. The pair P is adjacent to the upper stage of the pair P, and the pair P is adjacent to the lower stage of the pair P. On the other hand, the pair P is in the upper stage of the pair P, and is not adjacent to the pair P.","Referring to , the summary of this invention will be described next. Herein, although only the VOL, VOL, VOL, and VOL will be described, the descriptions are also applied to another logical volume .","In the case where the pair status of all the pairs shown in  are in the \u201cPAIR\u201d, for example, when the application server  updates the data in the VOL of the DKC, the update is reflected to the VOL and the VOL by the remote copy, and further is reflected to the VOL by the local copy. Consequently, the same data is stored in the VOL, VOL, VOL, and VOL.","Next, when the \u201cSPLIT\u201d is performed with respect to the pair P, the pair status of the pair P is placed in the \u201cSUSPEND\u201d, whereby the remote copy of the pair P is suspended.","Thereafter, when the data in the VOL is updated, the update is reflected to the VOL by the remote copy. However, since the remote copy of the pair P is suspended, the update is not reflected to the VOL and the VOL. Consequently, the data stored in the VOL and the VOL is not the same as that stored in the VOL and the VOL.","At this time, when a fault occurs in the pair P, as long as the application is not suspended, the logical consistency of the data stored in the VOL cannot be ensured (although consistency may be kept in some cases, it cannot be ensured). Since the data whose consistency is not ensured cannot be used, the data in the VOL is lost.","On the other hand, in the case where the pair P is normal, when the \u201cRESYNC\u201d is performed with respect to the pair P, the pair status is placed in the \u201cCOPY\u201d, and the data in the VOL is replicated to the VOL. When the replication is completed, the pair status is placed in the \u201cPAIR\u201d. At this time, among the data stored in the VOL before the commencement of the replication, the data different from that in the VOL is lost when the data in the VOL is overwritten.","Furthermore, since the pair status of the pair P is in the \u201cPAIR\u201d, the update of the VOL is reflected to the VOL. Consequently, among the data stored in the VOL, the data different from that in the VOL is lost when the data in the VOL is overwritten.","Furthermore, in the case where a fault occurs in the pair P when the pair status is in the \u201cCOPY\u201d and replication of data is suspended, the consistency of the data stored in the VOL  is not ensured. Therefore, the data in the VOL is lost (more specifically, the data in the VOL is to be inconsistent).","Furthermore, since the pair status of the pair P is in the \u201cPAIR\u201d, the update of the VOL is reflected to the VOL. In other words, the data whose consistency is not ensured is replicated from the VOL to the VOL. Consequently, the data in the VOL is also lost.","When a pair status is changed by a fault or a pair operation, the data management program  of this invention determines data to be inconsistent or data to be overwritten by the change and notifies a user of the data.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0102","num":"0101"},"figref":"FIG. 5","b":"202"},"The pair status\/application status management table  includes information for managing data in the logical volume , and is referred to by the data management program .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0104","num":"0103"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 4","FIG. 1"],"b":["202","202","140","100"]},"In , a PVOL  and a SVOL  are names of a PVOL and an SVOL forming each pair. In the PVOL  and the SVOL , \u201cVOL\u201d, \u201cVOL\u201d, and the like are described.","A copy group name  is a name of a copy group to which each pair belongs. In the copy group name , \u201cCG\u201d and the like are described.","A pair name  is a name of each pair. In the pair name , \u201cP\u201d and the like are described.","A pair status  is a pair status of each pair. In the pair status , the \u201cPAIR\u201d, \u201cSUSPEND\u201d, \u201cCOPY\u201d, or \u201cERROR\u201d is described. In the example shown in , the pair statuses of the pairs P, P, and P are in the \u201cSUSPEND\u201d, and the pair statuses of the other pairs are in the \u201cPAIR\u201d. This shows that, in , the remote copy or the local copy is performed in the pairs belonging to the copy groups CG and CG, and the remote copy of the pairs belonging to the copy group CG is suspended.","The application  shows a pair including the logical volume  in which the application is performed by the application server  (i.e., which receives data I\/O directly from the application server ). In the example shown in , since the application server  using the DKC performs an application, \u201cO\u201d is described with respect to the pairs including the VOL, VOL, and VOL.","A static flag  shows whether an application is staticized. Staticization refers to the suspension of (direct or indirect) data access (I\/O) from the application server  to the logical volume . When the application is staticized, \u201cO\u201d is described with respect to the pairs directly providing the application. It should be noted that only the pairs in which \u201cO\u201d is described in the application  are targeted for description.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0111","num":"0110"},"figref":"FIG. 6","b":"203"},"The volume\/data correspondence management table  includes information for managing data in the logical volume , and is referred to by the data management program .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0113","num":"0112"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 4","FIG. 1","FIG. 5"],"b":["203","203","144","140","100"]},"In , a volume  is a name of each logical volume . In the volume , the \u201cVOL\u201d, \u201cVOL\u201d, and the like are described.","A data name  is a name for identifying data to be stored in each logical volume . The data is identified, for example, based on an application by which the data is created, the application server  performing the application, and the name of an instance.","In the example shown in , the data in the VOLs to  are created by the application of \u201cSQL server\u201d of the application server  called \u201cHOST\u201d, and the instance name is \u201cSQL instance \u201d. The \u201cHOST\u201d is a name of the application server  using the DKC.","The VOLs to  are replications of the VOLs to . Therefore, the data names  of the VOLs to  are the same as those of the VOLs to . This also applies to the VOLs to  and the VOLs to . In the case where an instance name is changed or the like, the data name  in the upper stage is not necessarily matched with that in the lower stage.","An application staticized time  is a time when the application is staticized with respect to each logical volume . In , the VOLs to  and the VOLs to  are not staticized (in other words, data write processing to each of these logical volumes is not suspended), so the \u201cLATEST\u201d is described in the application staticized time . On the other hand, since the VOLs to  and the VOLs to  are staticized (in other words, data write processing to each of these logical volumes is suspended), a staticized time (\u201c0:00 on May 10, 2004\u201d in the example shown in ) is described in the application staticized time .","The data name  and the application staticized time  can be used as an identifier of data. In other words, the contents of data with the same data name  and the same application staticized time  are the same.","A backup ID  is an identifier of backup. The value of the backup ID  is given when the application is staticized with respect to each logical volume . The same backup ID  is given to the logical volumes  having the same data name  and the same application staticized time . On the other hand, different backup IDs  are given to the logical volumes  in which at least one of the data name  and the application staticized time  is different. In , the VOLs to  and the VOLs to  are not staticized, so the backup ID is vacant. On the other hand, since the VOLs to  and the VOLs to  are staticized, a backup ID (\u201cBID\u201d in the example shown in ) given when they are staticized is described in the backup ID .","Data can also be identified uniquely based on a combination of the data name  and the application staticized time , in place of the backup ID , so the backup ID  is not necessary.","The application volume  corresponds to the logical volume  that receives data I\/O from the application server , among the logical volumes  in a copy path including each logical volume .","The copy path refers to a sequence of pairs connected in a cascade shape. For example, in , the P, P, and P connected in a cascade shape correspond to one copy path.","In , the VOL, VOL, VOL, and VOL belong to the same copy path. Among these logical volumes , the VOL receives data I\/O from the application server . Therefore, the application volume  of the VOL is the VOL. Similarly, the application volume  of the VOL and the VOL is also the VOL.","On the other hand, the application volume  of the VOL, VOL, and VOL is the VOL. Furthermore, the application volume  of the VOL, VOL, and VOL is the VOL.","The volume\/data correspondence management table  may include information on a mount point with respect to each logical volume .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0127","num":"0126"},"figref":"FIG. 7","b":"302"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0128","num":"0127"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 4"],"b":["302","120","1"]},"In , a volume  is a name of a logical volume included in the DKC. In the example shown in , in the volume , the \u201cVOL\u201d, \u201cVOL\u201d, and \u201cVOL\u201d are described.","A copy group name  is a name of a copy group to which each logical volume  belongs. In the example shown in , \u201cCG\u201d is described in the copy group name  of the VOL to VOL.","A pair name  is a name of a pair to which each logical volume  belongs. In the example shown in , the \u201cP\u201d, \u201cP\u201d, and \u201cP\u201d are described respectively in the pair name  of the VOL, VOL, and VOL.","The pair configuration definition table  of the application server  using the DKC and the DKC is not shown. However, in the pair configuration definition table  of the application server , the names of the logical volumes  included in the DKC or the DKC and the name of a copy group and a pair to which they belong are described.","The pair configuration definition table  is referred to when the management server  creates the pair status\/application status management table  and the volume\/data correspondence management table , and when these tables are updated to the latest contents.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0134","num":"0133"},"figref":"FIG. 8","b":"201"},"Herein, the case where the pair status is changed includes the case where a fault occurs in a pair, and the case where a user allows the pair management program  to perform a pair operation.","As the precondition for performing the processing in , it is necessary that the contents of the pair status\/application status management table  and the volume\/data correspondence management table  are latest. Specifically, the management server  obtains information related to the contents of these tables from each application server , and updates these tables. Alternatively, the user may operate the input\/output unit  of the management server  to update these tables. This update may be performed before or after a request for monitoring a pair status is received from the user.","In this embodiment, as described later in detail, when the pair status or the application status is changed, the processing shown in  or  is performed. Consequently, the contents of the pair status\/application status management table  and the volume\/data correspondence management table  are updated to latest values. Thus, according to this embodiment, the latest values are always stored in these tables.","The processing in  is started when the user requests the management server  to monitor a pair status.","Upon receiving a request for monitoring a pair status from the user, the data management program  starts monitoring a pair status (). Then, the data management program  waits for a pair status change event (). Specifically, the data management program  waits for the reception of a notification of a change in pair status from the pair management program  in the application server .","When obtaining a pair status change event (i.e., receiving a notification of a change in pair status) (), the data management program  determines whether the pair status after the change is in the \u201cERROR\u201d ().","In the step , when the data management program  determines that the changed pair status is in the \u201cERROR\u201d, a fault occurs in a pair whose pair status has been changed. Therefore, the data management program  then determines data made to be inconsistent by the fault occurring in the pair (). At this time, the pair status before the occurrence of the fault in the pair, the pair status of each pair in a copy path including the pair in which the fault occurs, and an application status are referred to. The procedure of processing in the step  will be described later in detail with reference to .","Next, the data management program  outputs information on data determined in the step  (i.e., data made to be inconsistent by the fault) (). Specifically, the data management program  outputs information such as the name (identifier) of the data, the application staticized time thereof, the name (identifier) of a storage system in which the data is stored, and the like is output from the input\/output unit  of the management server . The information output at this time will be described later in detail with reference to .","On the other hand, in the step , in the case where the data management program  determines that the changed pair status is not in the \u201cERROR\u201d, the pair status has been changed by the execution of a pair operation in the pair. Therefore, the data management program  determines the correspondence relationship between the logical volume  changed by the pair operation and the data stored in the logical volume  (). At this time, the pair status before the execution of the pair operation, the pair status of each pair in a copy path including the pair in which the pair operation is executed, and the application status thereof are referred to. The procedure of processing in the step  will be described later in detail with reference to .","After performing the step  or , the data management program  updates the contents of the pair status\/application status management table  and the volume\/data correspondence management table  so that they are matched with the changed pair status (). The procedure of the update will be described later in detail with reference to .","Next, the data management program  determines whether to complete the monitoring of a pair status (). Specifically, the data management program  determines, for example, whether the user has input an instruction of completing the monitoring of a pair status.","In the step , in the case where the data management program  determines not to complete the monitoring of a pair status, the data management program  returns to the step  so as to continue to monitor a pair status.","On the other hand, in the step , in the case where the data management program  determines to complete the monitoring of a pair status, the data management program  completes the monitoring of a pair status (), whereby the processing in  is completed.","As described above, according to the processing in , when a pair status is changed, the processing of determining data to be inconsistent or data to be overwritten is performed with the detection of the change as a trigger. Therefore, even in the case where a fault occurs in a pair or a pair status is changed by another application program or the like, as well as when the user performs a pair operation using the pair management program , the processing shown in  is performed, and data to be inconsistent or data to be overwritten is determined.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0149","num":"0148"},"figref":"FIG. 9","b":"201"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0150","num":"0149"},"figref":["FIG. 9","FIG. 8","FIGS. 4","FIG. 8"],"b":["806","1","2","5","6","1","2","144","2","806","144","2"]},"The relationship among a pair in which a fault occurs, the pair status of the pair, and the data made to be inconsistent by the fault will be described later in detail with reference to .","Among the information  on the data to be inconsistent, an output information type  represents the kind of information to be output, and includes a data name , an application staticized time , and a storage system name .","The data name  further includes an application server name , an application name , and an instance name . In the case where the application is a file system, the data name  includes the application server name , a file system name (not shown), and a mount point (not shown). The data name  may include other information for identifying data to be inconsistent. The storage system name  is classified into a local  and a remote .","A content  corresponds to the output information type . In the example shown in , data to be inconsistent is the data in the VOLs to  shown in . Thus, the content  of the data name  is the same as that of the data name  of the logical volume  thereof. Specifically, the application server name  is \u201cHOST\u201d, the application name  is \u201cSQL server\u201d, and the instance name is \u201cSQL instance \u201d.","Similarly, the content  of the application staticized time  is \u201cLATEST\u201d in the same way as in the application staticized time  shown in .","The content  of the storage system name  is a name (identifier) of the storage system  in which data to be inconsistent is stored. Herein, one row corresponds to one logical volume in which data to be inconsistent is stored.","The storage system name  is classified into the local  and the remote . The local  is the storage system  in which a logical volume used directly for an application by the application server  is stored, and the remote  is the storage system  different from the storage system  in which the logical volume used directly for an application is stored. The remote  may be connected by the remote copy in a plurality of stages.","In the example shown in , the DKC is used for an application by the application server , so the storage system name  of the DKC is classified into the local . The DKC and the DKC are not used for the application by the application server , so the storage system name  of the DKC and the DKC is classified into the remote .","According to , the data to be inconsistent is not stored in the DKC. Therefore, the content  of the local  is vacant.","According to , the data to be inconsistent is stored in the DKC. Therefore, the content  of the remote  is an identifier of the DKC. Specifically, in the content , the name (identifier) of the storage system  including the logical volume  in which the data to be inconsistent is stored is described.","\u201cAbc13468@192.16.1.1\u201d is an identifier of the DKC. \u201c(REMOTE COPY)\u201d shows that the data stored in the DKC is replicated from another storage system  (DKC in this case) by the remote copy.","The information  on the data to be inconsistent may be output from the input\/output unit  as text data. Alternatively, for example, the information  may be output together with the drawings such as a figure showing a configuration of a computer system and the like.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0163","num":"0162"},"figref":"FIG. 10"},"The processing in  is performed by the data management program  in the step  in .","When the processing in  is started, the data management program  determines whether the pair status immediately before the occurrence of a fault is in the \u201cCOPY\u201d, \u201cPAIR\u201d, or \u201cSUSPEND\u201d (). Specifically, the data management program  refers to the pair status  of the pair status\/application status management table  with respect to the pair in which the fault occurs.","In the case where the data management program  determines that the pair status immediately before the occurrence of a fault is in the \u201cSUSPEND\u201d, the consistency of the data in the SVOL of the pair is not lost by the fault. Therefore, the data management program  determines that the data is not inconsistent () and completes the processing.","On the other hand, in the case where the data management program  determines that the pair status immediately before the occurrence of a fault is in the \u201cCOPY\u201d, the consistency of the data in the SVOL of the pair is lost by the fault. Therefore, the process proceeds to a step .","On the other hand, in the case where the data management program  determines that the pair status immediately before the occurrence of a fault is in the \u201cPAIR\u201d, the consistency of the data in the SVOL of the pair may be lost by the fault.","Therefore, the data management program  then determines whether data has been written in the pair in which the fault has occurred (or there is a possibility that data has been written) (, ). The reason for this is as follows. When data is written in the pair in which the fault has occurred, there is a possibility that the consistency of the data in the SVOL of the pair may be lost.","In the step , the data management program  determines whether a pair whose pair status is in the \u201cCOPY\u201d is present in the upper stage of the pair in which the fault has occurred. Specifically, the data management program  refers to the pair status  of the pair status\/application status management table  with respect to all the pairs in the upper stage of the pair in which the fault has occurred. Then, the data management program  determines that a pair whose pair status  is in the \u201cCOPY\u201d is present in the upper stage of the pair in which the fault has occurred, the data management program  determines whether the pair status  of all the pairs between the pair whose pair status  is in the \u201cCOPY\u201d and the pair in which the fault has occurred is in the \u201cPAIR\u201d.","Consequently, in the case where a pair whose pair status  is in the \u201cCOPY\u201d is present in the upper stage of the pair in which the fault has occurred, and the pair status  of all the pairs between the pair whose pair status  is in the \u201cCOPY\u201d and the pair in which the fault has occurred is in the \u201cPAIR\u201d, the determination result in the step  is \u201cYes\u201d. In this case, data is written in the pair in which the fault has occurred (or there is a possibility that data may be written therein), so there is a possibility that the consistency of the data may have been lost. Therefore, the process proceeds to the step .","On the other hand, in the case where a pair whose pair status  is in the \u201cCOPY\u201d is not present in the upper stage of the pair in which the fault has occurred, the determination result in the step  is \u201cNo\u201d. Furthermore, even in the case where a pair whose pair status  is in the \u201cCOPY\u201d is present in the upper stage of the pair in which the fault has occurred, and the pair status  of at least one pair between the pair whose pair status  is in the \u201cCOPY\u201d and the pair in which the fault has occurred is not in the \u201cPAIR\u201d, the determination result in the step  is \u201cNo\u201d. In this case, there is no possibility that data is written in the pair in which the fault has occurred. Therefore, the data management program  determines that the consistency of the data is not lost (i.e., the data is not inconsistent) () and completes the processing.","In the step , the data management program  determines whether the pair in which the fault has occurred is synchronized with the application volume . Specifically, the data management program  determines whether the pair status  of all the pairs present between the PVOL of the pair in which the fault has occurred and the application volume  in a copy path including the PVOL is in the \u201cPAIR\u201d.","In the case where the data management program  determines that the pair status  of all the pairs is not in the \u201cPAIR\u201d (i.e., at least one pair in the \u201cSUSPEND\u201d is present), the pair in which the fault has occurred is not synchronized with the application volume . In this case, the consistency of the data in the SVOL of the pair in which the fault has occurred is not lost by the fault. Therefore, the data management program  determines that the data is not inconsistent () and completes the processing.","On the other hand, in the case where the data management program  determines that the pair status  of all the pairs is in the \u201cPAIR\u201d, the pair in which the fault has occurred is synchronized with the application volume . In this case, the consistency of the data in the SVOL of the pair in which the fault has occurred may be lost by the fault.","Therefore, the data management program  determines whether the application has been staticized (). Specifically, the data management program  refers to the static flag  of the pair status\/application status management table  with respect to the application volume  of the pair in which the fault has occurred.","In the case where the data management program  determines that the application has been staticized, the consistency of the data in the SVOL of the pair in which the fault has occurred is not lost by the fault. Therefore, the data management program  determines that the data is not inconsistent () and completes the processing.","On the other hand, in the case where the data management program  determines that the application has not been staticized, there is a possibility that the consistency of the data in the SVOL of the pair in which the fault has occurred may have been lost by the fault. Since the data whose consistency is not ensured cannot be used, the data in the SVOL of the pair in which the fault has occurred is inconsistent ().","Therefore, the data management program  then determines whether the data in another logical volume is inconsistent by the fault. First, the SVOL of the pair in which the fault has occurred is assumed to be the logical volume  (search target volume) first targeted for a search (). Furthermore, the search target volume is registered in a target list (not shown). Herein, the target list is a list of the logical volume  in which data is inconsistent by a fault.","Next, among the pairs adjacent to the lower stage of the search target volume, a pair whose pair status is neither in the \u201cPAIR\u201d nor in the \u201cCOPY\u201d is assumed to have been searched ().","Then, the data management program  determines whether an unsearched pair is present in the pairs adjacent to the lower stage of the search target volume ().","In the case where the data management program  determines that an unsearched pair is present in the pairs adjacent to the lower stage of the search target volume, the consistency of the data in the SVOL of the unsearched pair is lost. Therefore, the SVOL of the unsearched pair is set to be a new search target volume, and the SVOL is added to the target list (). Then, the unsearched pair is set to have been searched, and the process returns to the step .","On the other hand, in the step , in the case where an unsearched pair is not present in the pairs adjacent to the lower stage of the search target volume, the logical volume  in which data is inconsistent is not present any more in the lower stage of the search target volume.","Therefore, next, the data management program  determines whether the search target volume is an initial search target volume (see the step ) or an unsearched pair is present ().","In the case where the search target volume is not an initial search target volume, and an unsearched pair is present, an unsearched pair remains in the lower stage of the first search target volume. Therefore, the pair whose search target volume is an SVOL is set to have been searched. Then, the logical volume  adjacent to the upper stage of the search target volume (i.e., the PVOL of the pair whose search target volume is an SVOL) is set to be a new search target volume (), and the process returns to the step .","On the other hand, in the step , in the case where the search target volume is an initial search target volume (see the step ), or an unsearched pair is not present, the search for all the pairs in the lower stage of the initial search target volume has been completed.","Therefore, next, information on the logical volume  registered in the target list is output (), whereby the processing is completed. Specifically, information shown in  is output with respect to the logical volume  registered in the target list.","In the above processing shown in , a depth first search is used for the search (the steps  to ) of the logical volume . However, even when another search method such as a breadth first search is used, this invention can be carried out.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0189","num":"0188"},"figref":"FIG. 11"},"By performing the processing in , the correspondence relationship between the logical volume  and the data to be stored in the logical volume is determined.","The processing in  is performed by the data management program  in the step  in .","When the processing in  is started, the data management program  determines whether the pair status immediately before being changed is in the \u201cCOPY\u201d, \u201cPAIR\u201d, or \u201cSUSPEND\u201d with respect to a pair whose pair status has been changed ().","In the case where the data management program  determines that the pair status immediately before being changed is in the \u201cPAIR\u201d, the changed pair status is in the \u201cSUSPEND\u201d. Thus, the change in the pair status into the \u201cSUSPEND\u201d is notified (). In this case, data is not overwritten in an SVOL of the pair. In other words, the data stored in the SVOL immediately before the pair status has been changed is the same as the data stored in the SVOL immediately after the pair status has been changed. Therefore, the correspondence relationship between the logical volume  and the data does not change (). Thus, it is confirmed that there is no data to be overwritten (), whereby the processing is completed.","On the other hand, in the step , in the case where the data management program  determines that the pair status immediately before being changed is in the \u201cSUSPEND\u201d, the changed pair status is in the \u201cCOPY\u201d or \u201cPAIR\u201d. Thus, the change in the pair status into the \u201cCOPY\u201d or the \u201cPAIR\u201d is notified ().","If the data stored in the PVOL and SVOL of the pair immediately before the pair status has been changed are the same, data replication is not performed, and the \u201cPAIR\u201d status is obtained immediately. In this case, the data replication is not performed, so the correspondence relationship between the logical volume  and the data does not change (). In other words, the data stored in the SVOL immediately before the pair status has been changed is the same as the data stored in the SVOL immediately after the pair status has been changed. Thus, it is confirmed that there is no data to be overwritten (), whereby the processing is completed.","On the other hand, if the data stored in the PVOL and the SVOL of the pair are not the same, the \u201cCOPY\u201d status is obtained, and data replication is performed. Thereafter, the \u201cPAIR\u201d status is obtained. In this case, although the data replication is performed, the data stored in the SVOL is not confirmed until the data replication is completed. Therefore, at a time when the \u201cSUSPEND\u201d status has been changed to the \u201cCOPY\u201d status, it is confirmed that there is no data to be overwritten (), whereby the processing is completed.","On the other hand, in the step , in the case where the data management program  determines that the pair status immediately before being changed is in the \u201cCOPY\u201d, the changed pair status is in the \u201cPAIR\u201d. Thus, the change in the pair status into the \u201cPAIR\u201d is notified (). Then, the processing for determining data to be overwritten is started.","Initially, data stored in a pair whose pair status has been changed (hereinafter, referred to as a \u201cstatus-changed pair\u201d) is determined (). Specifically, the data management program  refers to the data name , the application staticized time , the backup ID , and the like in the volume\/data correspondence management table  with respect to the status-changed pair.","Then, the status-changed pair is assumed to be an initial search target pair (). Furthermore, the SVOL of the status-changed pair is registered in an overwrite target volume list (not shown). Herein, the overwrite target volume list is a list of the logical volume  in which data is overwritten by a change in pair status.","In other words, as a result of the change in pair status, it is determined that the correspondence relationship between the logical volume  and the data changes in the SVOL. Specifically, as a result that the data in the PVOL is overwritten onto the SVOL, the data stored in the SVOL becomes the same as the data stored in the PVOL.","Then, the data management program  determines whether an unsearched pair is present in the pairs adjacent to the lower stage of the search target pair ().","In the case where the data management program  determines that there is an unsearched pair, among the logical volumes  in which data is overwritten by the change in pair status, there may be those which are not registered in the overwrite target volume in the lower stage of the search target pair.","Therefore, next, the unsearched pair adjacent to the lower stage of the search target pair is set to be a new search target pair ().","Then, the data management program  determines whether the pair status of the newly set search target pair is in the \u201cPAIR\u201d or the \u201cSUSPEND\u201d ().","In the case where the data management program  determines that the pair status is in the \u201cSUSPEND\u201d, data replication is not performed in the search target pair. Thus, data is not overwritten onto the SVOL of the search target pair. Furthermore, there is no logical volume  in which data is overwritten in the lower stage of the search target pair. Therefore, the search target pair is set to have been searched, and the process returns to the step .","On the other hand, in the step , in the case where the data management program  determines that the pair status is in the \u201cPAIR\u201d, the data replication is performed in the search target pair. Thus, data is overwritten onto the SVOL of the search target pair. Therefore, the SVOL is added to the overwrite target volume list ().","In other words, as a result of the change in pair status, it is determined that the correspondence relationship between the logical volume  and the data changes in the SVOL. Specifically, as a result that the data in the PVOL is overwritten onto the SVOL, the data stored in the SVOL becomes the same as the data stored in the PVOL.","When the step  is completed, the process returns to the step .","On the other hand, in the step , in the case where the data management program  determines that there is no unsearched pair, among the logical volumes  in which data is overwritten by the change in pair status, those which are present in the lower stage of the search target pair have been all registered in the overwrite target volume list.","Therefore, next, it is determined whether the search target pair is a status-changed pair ().","In the case where it is determined that the search target pair is not a status-changed pair, among the logical volumes  in which data is overwritten by the change in pair status, those which are not registered in the overwrite target volume list may be present in the lower stage of the status-changed pair. Therefore, the pair adjacent to the upper stage of the search target pair is set to be a new search target pair (), whereby the process returns to the step .","On the other hand, in the case where it is determined that the search target pair is a status-changed pair, the logical volumes  in which data is overwritten by the change in pair status have been all registered in the overwrite target volume list. Therefore, the data to be overwritten and the logical volume  in which the data is stored are confirmed (), whereby the processing is completed.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0213","num":"0212"},"figref":"FIG. 12"},"The table update processing in  is performed by the data management program  in the step  in .","When the table update processing is started, first, the pair status  of the pair status\/application status management table  is updated with respect to a pair whose pair status has been changed ().","Next, it is determined whether there is data made to be inconsistent by a fault or data overwritten by a change in pair status (). Specifically, in the case where a fault occurs in a pair, it is determined whether there is data made to be inconsistent by the fault with reference to the result of the processing in . In the case where a pair operation is performed, it is determined whether there is data overwritten by the change of the pair status with reference to the result of the processing in .","In the case where it is determined that there is no data made to be inconsistent by the fault and no data overwritten by the change in the pair status in the step , the processing is completed.","On the other hand, in the step , in the case where it is determined that there is data made to be inconsistent by the fault or the data overwritten by the change in the pair status, the volume\/data correspondence management table  is updated (). Specifically, the values of the data name , the application staticized time , the backup ID , and the application volume  of the logical volume  in which data has been overwritten are updated to the same values as those of the logical volume  of a replication source of data to be updated.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0219","num":"0218"},"figref":"FIG. 13","b":"201"},"In the description of , the detailed description will be omitted with respect to the portions common to those of the processing (performed by the data management program  when a pair status is changed) in .","The change in an application status includes staticization of an application and cancel of staticization (i.e. destaticization) of an application. When an application is staticized, the application server  does not write data in the logical volume . On the other hand, when the staticization of an application is cancelled, the application server  can write data in the logical volume . When the application server  overwrites data in the logical volume , old data stored in the logical volume  is lost.","The processing in  is started when the user requests the management server  to monitor a pair status and an application status.","Upon receiving a request for monitoring a pair status and an application status from the user, the data management program  starts monitoring these statuses (). Then, the data management program  waits for a pair status change event or an application status change event (). More specifically, the data management program  waits for receiving a notification of a pair status change or an application status change from the pair management program  of the application server .","Upon receiving a pair status change event or an application status change event (), the data management program  then determines whether a pair status has been changed to the \u201cERROR\u201d ().","In the case where it is determined that the pair status has been changed to the \u201cERROR\u201d in the step , a fault occurs in a pair whose pair status has been changed. Therefore, the data management program  then determines data made to be inconsistent by the fault occurring in the pair (). The procedure of the processing in the step  is as described in .","Next, the data management program  outputs information regarding data (i.e., data made to be inconsistent by a fault) determined in the step . The information output at this time is as described in .","Next, the data management program  updates the contents of the pair status\/application status management table  and the volume\/data correspondence management table  so that they are matched with the changed pair status (). The procedure of the update is as described in .","Next, the data management program  determines whether to complete the monitoring of a pair status and an application status (). More specifically, for example, the data management program  determines whether the user inputs an instruction of completing the monitoring of a pair status and an application status.","In the step , in the case of determining not to complete the monitoring of a pair status and an application status, the data management program  returns to the step  so as to continue the monitoring.","On the other hand, in the step , in the case of determining to complete the monitoring of a pair status and an application status, the data management program  completes the monitoring of a pair status ().","On the other hand, in the step , in the case of determining that the pair status has not been changed to the \u201cERROR\u201d, a pair operation has been performed in the pair or the application status has been changed. When the pair operation has been performed, the pair status has been changed. Consequently, the correspondence relationship between the logical volume  and the data may be changed. Furthermore, even when the application status has been changed, the correspondence relationship between the logical volume  and the data may be changed. Therefore, next, the data management program  determines the correspondence relationship between the logical volume  and the data (). The procedure of the processing in the step  will be described later in detail (see ). When the step  is completed, the process proceeds to the step .","As described above, according to the processing in , when a pair status or an application status is changed, the processing of determining data to be inconsistent or data to be overwritten is performed with the detection of the change as a trigger. Therefore, in the case where a fault occurs in a pair or a pair status or an application status is changed by another application or the like, as well as in the case where the user performs a pair operation using the pair management program  or the like or updates an application status, the processing in  is performed, and the data to be inconsistent or the data to be overwritten is determined.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0233","num":"0232"},"figref":"FIG. 14"},"The processing in  is performed by the data management program  in the step  in .","When the processing in  is started, the data management program  determines which of an application status and a pair status has been changed ().","In the case of determining that the pair status has been changed, the data management program  performs the processing of determining data to be overwritten by the change in the pair status (). This processing has been described in , so the description thereof will be omitted here.","On the other hand, in the case of determining that the application status has been changed, next, the data management program  then determines whether an application has been staticized or the application staticization has been cancelled (). In the case where the application staticization has been performed, data is not lost by overwrite (), so the process proceeds to a step .","On the other hand, in the case where the application staticization has been cancelled, data may be lost by overwrite. Therefore, next, the logical volume  used directly for an application (i.e., the logical volume  directly accessed by the application server) is set to be the logical volume  to be first targeted for a search (search target volume) (). Furthermore, the search target volume is registered in the overwrite target volume list. The overwrite target volume list is the same as that described in . Furthermore, the data to be stored in the search target volume is assumed to be the data to be overwritten.","Furthermore, the data in the logical volume  in the lower stage of the search target volume may be lost by overwrite. More specifically, the data in the logical volume  connected by at least one pair whose pair status is in the \u201cPAIR\u201d in the lower stage of the search target volume is lost by overwrite. In order to determine the logical volume  in the lower stage in which data is overwritten, the logical volume  in the lower stage of the search target volume starts being searched for.","Next, it is determined whether there is an SVOL that forms a pair with the search target volume and has not been searched ().","In the case where there is an SVOL that forms a pair with the search target volume and has not been searched, the search for the logical volume  in the lower stage of the search target volume has not been completed. Therefore, next, it is determined whether the pair status of the pair formed by the search target volume and the unsearched SVOL is in the \u201cPAIR\u201d or \u201cSUSPEND\u201d ().","In the case where the pair status is in the \u201cSUSPEND\u201d, data is not overwritten on the SVOL. Therefore, the SVOL is set to have been searched, and in order to check another SVOL, the process returns to the step . At this time, data is not overwritten even on the logical volume  in the lower stage of the SVOL. Therefore, it is not necessary to conduct a search for the logical volume  in the lower stage of the SVOL.","On the other hand, in the case where the pair status is in the \u201cPAIR\u201d in the step , data is overwritten on the SVOL. Therefore, the SVOL is added to an overwrite target volume list ().","Next, the search target volume is set to have been searched, and the SVOL is set as a new search target volume (); thereafter, the process returns to the step .","On the other hand, in the step , in the case where there is no SVOL that forms a pair with a search target volume and has not been searched, the search for the logical volume  in the lower stage of the search target volume has been completed. Therefore, next, it is determined whether the search target volume is the logical volume  to be directly used for an application ().","In the case where the search target volume is not the logical volume  to be directly used for an application, an unsearched logical volume  may remain. Therefore, in order to search for the unsearched logical volume , the search target volume is set to have been searched, and the logical volume  adjacent to the upper stage of the logical volume  is set as a new search target volume (); thereafter, the process returns to the step .","On the other hand, in the case where the search target volume is the logical volume  to be used directly for an application, the search for the logical volume  has been completed. Therefore, data to be overwritten and an overwrite target volume are confirmed (), and the processing is completed.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0248","num":"0247"},"figref":"FIG. 15"},"The table update processing in  is performed by the data management program  in the step  in .","When the table update processing is started, first, the pair status\/application status management table  is updated (). More specifically, in the case where a pair status is changed, the pair status  of the pair status\/application status management table  is updated with respect to the pair whose pair status has been changed. In the case where an application status is changed, the application  of the pair status\/application status management table  is updated with respect to the application whose application status has been changed.","Next, it is determined whether there is data made to be inconsistent by a fault or data overwritten by the change in the pair status or the change in the application status (). More specifically, in the case where a fault occurs in a pair, the result of the processing in  is referred to, whereby it is determined whether there is data made to be inconsistent by a fault. In the case where a pair operation is performed, the result of the processing in  is referred to, whereby it is determined whether there is overwritten data. In the case where an application status is changed, the result of the processing in  is referred to, whereby it is determined whether there is overwritten data.","In the step , in the case where it is determined that there is neither inconsistent data nor overwritten data, the processing is completed.","On the other hand, in the step , in the case where there is inconsistent data or overwritten data, the volume\/data correspondence management table  is updated (). More specifically, the values of the data name , the application staticized time , the backup ID , and the application volume  of the logical volume  in which data has been overwritten are updated to the same values as those of the logical volume  of a replication source of data to be overwritten.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0254","num":"0253"},"figref":"FIG. 16"},"The processing in  is performed by the data management program .","In the processing in , the detailed description of the parts common to those in  will be omitted.","In , steps  to  are respectively the same as the steps  to  in . Furthermore, steps , , and  are respectively the same as the steps , , and .","As the precondition for performing the processing in , it is necessary that the contents of the pair status\/application status management table  and the volume\/data correspondence management table  be the latest.","The processing in  is started when a user requests the management server  to monitor a pair status.","Upon receiving a request for monitoring of a pair status from the user, the data management program  starts monitoring a pair status (). Then, the data management program  waits for a pair status change event ().","Upon obtaining the pair status change event (i.e., receiving a notification of a pair status change) (), the data management program  determines whether the changed pair status is in the \u201cERROR\u201d ().","In the step , in the case where it is determined that the changed pair status is in the \u201cERROR\u201d, a fault occurs in a pair whose pair status has been changed. Therefore, next, the data management program  determines data made to be inconsistent by the fault occurring in the pair (). The procedure of the processing in the step  is as shown in .","On the other hand, in the step , in the case where it is determined that the changed pair status is not in the \u201cERROR\u201d, a pair operation is performed in the pair. Therefore, the data management program  determines the correspondence relationship between the logical volume  changed by the pair operation and data (). The procedure of the processing in the step  is as shown in .","After performing the step  or , the data management program  updates the contents of the pair status\/application status management table  and the volume\/data correspondence management table  so that they are matched with the changed pair status (). The procedure of the update is as shown in .","Next, the data management program  outputs information on the data (i.e., data made to be inconsistent by a fault) determined in the step  (). The information output at this time is as shown in .","Next, the data management program  determines whether the logical volume  in which consistent data, which can recover the data made to be inconsistent by the fault occurring in the pair, is stored is present in a copy path ().","More specifically, the data management program  refers to the information output in the step  () and the volume\/data correspondence management table  (). Then, the data management program  determines whether there is the volume  in which the value of the data name  is the same as the content  of the data name , and in which the value of the application staticized time  is the same as the content  of the application staticized time . In the case where there is the volume  in which they are the same, the consistent data, which can recover the data made to be inconsistent by the fault occurring in the pair, is stored in the logical volume  corresponding to the volume .","In the step , in the case where the data management program  determines that the logical volume  in which the consistent data, which can recover the data made to be inconsistent by the fault occurring in the pair, is stored is present in a copy path, the data management program  notifies the management server  that the inconsistent data can be restored by using the data in the logical volume  (). At this time, in the input\/output unit  of the management server , the logical volume  in which the inconsistent data is stored, and the logical volume  in which the consistent data, which can recover the inconsistent data, is stored may be shown (see ).","The user can restore the inconsistent data based on the information (including the information shown in ) notified in the step .","On the other hand, in the step , in the case where the data management program  determines that the logical volume  in which the consistent data which can recover the data made to be inconsistent by the fault occurring in the pair is stored is not present in the copy path, the data management program  notifies the management server  that the consistent data which can recover the inconsistent data is not present ().","After performing the step  or , the data management program  determines whether to complete the monitoring of a pair status ().","In the step , in the case where the data management program  determines not to complete the monitoring of a pair status, the data management program  returns to the step  so as to continue monitoring a pair status.","On the other hand, in the step , in the case of determining to complete the monitoring of the pair status, the data management program  completes the monitoring of a pair status (), whereby the processing in  is completed.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0274","num":"0273"},"figref":"FIG. 17"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0275","num":"0274"},"figref":["FIG. 17","FIG. 16"],"b":"1609"},"The screen display is, for example, output from a screen display (not shown) of the input\/output unit  of the management server .","In , a storage , a storage , and a storage  correspond to the storage system .","The VOL and the VOL correspond to the logical volumes  stored in the storage .","The VOL and the VOL correspond to the logical volumes  stored in the storage .","The VOL, the VOL, and the VOL correspond to the logical volumes  stored in the storage .","The VOL to VOL form one copy path.","The VOL and the VOL  form a pair P. In the pair P, the VOL is a PVOL, the VOL is an SVOL, and the pair status is in the \u201cSUSPEND\u201d.","The VOL and the VOL form a pair P. In the pair P, the VOL is a PVOL, the VOL is an SVOL, and the pair status is in the \u201cSUSPEND\u201d.","The VOL and the VOL form a pair P. In the pair P, the VOL is a PVOL, the VOL is an SVOL, and the pair status is in the \u201cSUSPEND\u201d.","The VOL and the VOL form a pair P. In the pair P, the VOL is a PVOL, the VOL is an SVOL, and the pair status is in the \u201cCOPY\u201d.","The VOL and the VOL form a pair P. In the pair P, the VOL is a PVOL, the VOL is an SVOL, and the pair status is in the \u201cSUSPEND\u201d.","The VOL and the VOL form a pair P. In the pair P, the VOL is a PVOL, the VOL is an SVOL, and the pair status is in the \u201cPAIR\u201d.","The origin of an arrow displaying each pair is on the PVOL side, and the tip end thereof is on the SVOL side.","In , the pairs P and P are those which are formed by the remote copy, and the pairs P, P, P, and P are those which are formed by the local copy.","In , first, the pair status of the pair P is in the \u201cCOPY\u201d.","At this time, in the VOL, data in which the backup ID  is in the \u201cLATEST\u201d is stored.","In the VOL, data in which the backup ID  is in the \u201cBID\u201d is stored.","In the VOL, data in which the backup ID  is in the \u201cBID\u201d is stored.","Since the pair status of the pair P is in the \u201cCOPY\u201d, data replication is being performed in the pair P. In other words, in the VOL, a part of data (i.e., \u201cBID\u201d) of the VOL is replicated.","Since the pair status of the pair P is in the \u201cPAIR\u201d, the data in the VOL is reflected on the VOL. In other words, a part of the data (i.e., \u201cBID\u201d) of the VOL is replicated even in the VOL.","In the VOL, data in which the backup ID  is in the \u201cBID\u201d is stored.","In the VOL, data is not stored (\u201cNO_Data\u201d).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0298","num":"0297"},"figref":"FIG. 17","b":["35","35","3","5","02","5","57","5","7","02","5","7","02"]},"On the other hand, the data \u201cBID\u201d stored in the VOL is not influenced by the fault of the pair P. Therefore, the data \u201cBID\u201d of the VOL is also present even after the fault has occurred in the pair P.","In the example shown in , data made to be inconsistent by a pair fault (i.e., data \u201cBID\u201d of the VOL and the VOL) is displayed in reverse video (outline). Furthermore, in the case where the consistent data, which can recover the inconsistent data, is present in the copy path, that data (i.e., data \u201cBID\u201d of the VOL) is displayed in italicized letters.","The user is capable of knowing that the data in the VOL and the VOL have been made to be inconsistent by the fault of the pair P, with reference to the display in . Furthermore, the user is capable of knowing that the consistent data, which can recover the inconsistent data in the VOL and the VOL, is stored in the VOL. Therefore, the user can perform the processing of restoring the inconsistent data. For example, by performing the \u201cRESYNC\u201d in the pair P after the fault of the pair P has been restored, the data \u201cBID\u201d is replicated from the VOL to the VOL and the VOL. Consequently, the inconsistent data is restored.","Next, the processing of restoring inconsistent data in the case where data is made to be inconsistent by a pair fault in this embodiment will be described.","Even in the case where data is made to be inconsistent by a pair fault, the inconsistent data may be restored by performing the pair operation \u201cRESYNC\u201d in the pair in which the fault has occurred. For example, in , when the \u201cRESYNC\u201d is performed in the pair P, the data in the VOL and VOL are restored. Whether the pair operation \u201cRESYNC\u201d can be performed in the pair in which the fault has occurred is determined by the degree of the occurring fault.","As the precondition for the following processing, the event of a fault must be provided with a fault detail code. The fault detail code refers to attribute information representing the degree of a fault.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0305","num":"0304"},"figref":"FIG. 18"},"The processing in  is performed by the data management program .","In , steps  to  are respectively the same as the steps  to  in . Furthermore, steps , , , and  are respectively the same as the steps , , , and . Therefore, the description of those steps will be omitted.","In , when a pair fault occurs (), data made to be inconsistent by the fault is determined (), and each table is updated (), information on the data made to be inconsistent by the fault is output (). In the following description, the output may be to display a display screen (not shown) of the input\/output unit  of the management server , to transmit the information to a predetermined address, to write the information in a file (not shown) of a management log, or the like.","Next, the inconsistent data is compared with the data stored in the logical volume in the upper stage of the pair in which the fault has occurred, whereby it is determined whether there is the logical volume  in which the consistent data which can recover the inconsistent data is stored ().","In the case where there is the logical volume  in which the consistent data which can recover the inconsistent data is stored, and the pair statuses of all the pairs in the copy path between the logical volume  and the pair in which the fault has occurred are in the \u201cPAIR\u201d, \u201cYes\u201d is determined in the step . On the other hand, in the case where there is no logical volume  in which the consistent data which can recover the inconsistent data is stored, or in the case where there is a pair in a status other than the \u201cPAIR\u201d in the copy path between the logical volume  and the pair in which the fault has occurred, \u201cNo\u201d is determined in the step .","Whether there is the logical volume  in which the consistent data which can recover the inconsistent data is stored is determined with reference to, for example, the backup ID of the volume\/data correspondence management table .","In the case where \u201cNo\u201d is determined in the step , the consistent data which can recover the inconsistent data is not present on the storage system , or the inconsistent data cannot be restored by performing the \u201cRESYNC\u201d in the pair in which the fault has occurred. Therefore, the data management program  outputs the fact that the pair operation is not performed (), and proceeds to a step . In the step , the data management program  may output the fact that the consistent data which can recover the inconsistent data is not present on the storage system , or the inconsistent data cannot be restored by performing the \u201cRESYNC\u201d in the pair in which the fault has occurred.","On the other hand, in the case where \u201cYes\u201d is determined in the step , next, it is determined whether the degree of the fault is low, i.e., whether a pair operation \u201cRESYNC\u201d can be performed in the pair in which the fault has occurred (). This determination is performed with reference to the fault detail code provided to the event of the fault and a fault detail code table . The fault detail code table  will be described in detail later (see ).","In the step , in the case where it is determined that the degree of the fault is high (i.e., the pair operation \u201cRESYNC\u201d cannot be performed in the pair in which the fault has occurred), the process proceeds to a step .","On the other hand, in the step , it is determined that the degree of the fault is low (i.e., the pair operation \u201cRESYNC\u201d can be performed in the pair in which the fault has occurred), next, the data management program  output a display for confirming whether to permit the restoration of the inconsistent data by performing the pair operation \u201cRESYNC\u201d in the pair in which the fault has occurred, and waits for a response from the user ().","In the step , in the case where there is a response that the pair operation \u201cRESYNC\u201d is not permitted to be performed, or in the case where a pair status change event is received while the data management program  waits for a response from the user, the process returns to the step .","On the other hand, in the step , in the case where there is a response that the pair operation \u201cRESYNC\u201d is permitted to be performed, the pair operation \u201cRESYNC\u201d is performed in the pair in which the fault has occurred ().","Next, it is determined whether to complete the monitoring of a pair status (). In the case where it is determined that the monitoring of a pair status is not completed, the process returns to the step . In the case where it is determined that the monitoring of a pair status is completed, the monitoring of a pair status is completed (), and the processing in  is completed.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0319","num":"0318"},"figref":"FIG. 19","b":"204"},"The fault detail code table  is stored in the disk device  of the management server , and is referred to by the data management program  (more specifically, the processing shown in ). The fault detail code table  associates the fault detail code with the information showing whether the pair operation \u201cRESYNC\u201d can be performed in the pair in which the fault has occurred.","The fault detail code table  is composed of a fault detail code number (#) , a fault detail code , and a RESYNC acceptance\/rejection .","The fault detail code number  is a serial number provided to the fault detail code.","The fault detail code  is a code representing the degree of a fault. A fault event is provided with any of the fault detail code .","The RESYNC acceptance\/rejection  represents whether the pair operation \u201cRESYNC\u201d can be performed with respect to each fault detail code .","In the example shown in , the RESYNC acceptance\/rejection  of the fault detail code  \u201cx001\u201d and \u201cxca0\u201d is \u201crejection\u201d. This shows that the fault corresponding to \u201cx001\u201d and \u201cxca0\u201d is serious, and the pair operation \u201cRESYNC\u201d cannot be performed with respect to the pair in which these faults have occurred.","For example, in the case where a fault detail code provided to an event of a fault is \u201cx001\u201d, in the step  in , the fault detail code table  is referred to. Then, since the RESYNC acceptance\/rejection  corresponding to the fault detail code  \u201cx001\u201d is \u201crejection\u201d, it is determined that the fault is serious, and the pair operation \u201cRESYNC\u201d cannot be performed.","On the other hand, the RESYNC acceptance\/rejection  of the fault detail code  \u201cx002\u201d and \u201cxc99\u201d are both \u201cacceptance\u201d. This shows that the fault corresponding to \u201cx002\u201d and \u201cxc99\u201d is not serious, and the pair operation \u201cRESYNC\u201d can be performed with respect to the pair in which these faults have occurred.","For example, in the case where the fault detail code provided to the event of the fault is \u201cx002\u201d, in the step  in , the fault detail code table  is referred to. Then, since the RESYNC acceptance\/rejection  corresponding to the fault detail code  \u201cx002\u201d is \u201cacceptance\u201d, it is determined that the fault is not serious, and the pair operation \u201cRESYNC\u201d can be performed.","According to this embodiment as described above, when a pair status or an application status is changed, the processing for determining data to be inconsistent or overwritten is performed with the detection of the change as a trigger. Therefore, when a pair status or an application status is changed by another application program or the like, as well as when a user performs a pair operation or changes an application status, data to be overwritten on a logical volume by the change is determined.","Consequently, the contents of a latest pair status and application status, and a logical volume (i.e., correspondence between the logical volume and the data) can be grasped at all times.","Furthermore, when a fault occurs in a pair, the above-mentioned latest pair status and the like are referred to, whereby data made to be inconsistent by the occurring fault can be accurately determined.","Furthermore, in the case where data is made to be inconsistent by the fault of the pair, it is determined whether there is the consistent data which can recover the inconsistent data in any of the logical volumes. In the case where there is the consistent data which can recover the inconsistent data, the location of the consistent data which can recover the inconsistent data is displayed. The user can perform the processing of restoring the inconsistent data by referring to the display.","Furthermore, it is determined whether the inconsistent data can be restored by performing the pair operation \u201cRESYNC\u201d in the pair in which the fault has occurred. In the case where the data can be restored, the user is inquired about whether the \u201cRESYNC\u201d is performed. In the case where the user permits the \u201cRESYNC\u201d to be performed, the \u201cRESYNC\u201d is performed, whereby the inconsistent data is restored.","Thus, this embodiment supports the restoration of data made to be inconsistent by the fault occurring in the pair."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 11"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 12"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 13"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":"FIG. 14"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":"FIG. 15"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIG. 16"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":"FIG. 17"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":"FIG. 18"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":"FIG. 19"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
