---
title: System and circuitry to provide stable transconductance for biasing
abstract: An amplifier system can include an input amplifier configured to receive an analog input signal and provide an amplified signal corresponding to the analog input signal. A tracking loop is configured to employ delta modulation for tracking the amplified signal, the tracking loop providing a corresponding output signal. A biasing circuit is configured to adjust a bias current to maintain stable transconductance over temperature variations, the biasing circuit providing at least one bias signal for biasing at least one of the input amplifier and the tracking loop, whereby the circuitry receiving the at least one bias signal exhibits stable performance over the temperature variations. In another embodiment the biasing circuit can be utilized in other applications.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08299844&OS=08299844&RS=08299844
owner: Case Western Reserve University
number: 08299844
owner_city: Cleveland
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20090319
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS","GOVERNMENT RIGHTS","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["This application is a continuation-in-part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11\/537,488, which was filed on Sep. 29, 2006 now U.S. Pat. No. 7,562,581 and entitled WIRELESS SENSOR PLATFORM FOR HARSH ENVIRONMENTS, and which claims the benefit of provisional patent application No. 60\/721,649 filed Sep. 29, 2005, each of which prior applications is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.","This application is made with government support under NCA3-201 awarded by NASA\u2014Glenn Research Center. The United States Government has certain rights in this invention.","Various applications, ranging from small to large, simple to complex, use sensors to monitor certain aspects of an environment. For instance, sensors can detect motion in a room to determine whether its ceiling lights should be turned on. Likewise, sensors can be applied to more complex applications, including engine and vehicle control for automotive and aerospace systems, as well as environmental monitoring in mining, geothermal, and well logging. Accordingly, a wide variety of users (e.g., consumers, scientists, and engineers) regularly depend on the consistency and accuracy of sensor data collection and transmission. With the proliferation of technology in control systems, the importance of reliable monitoring and sensing platforms is apparent.","In particular, commercial, industrial, and military applications rely on sensors to provide data relating to safety conditions, travel speeds, and warning signals. While a household or office environment may be fairly easy to monitor, an operating automotive or aerospace system is considerably more difficult to work with. Complications that include temperature, distance, and power considerations distort the signals that the sensors need to monitor. In general, sensors for commercial applications are rated for temperatures as high as 70\u00b0 C., industrial applications at 85\u00b0 C., and military applications at 125\u00b0 C.","While slight distortions may not adversely impact the entire system, severe distortions may flag a false signal (or fail to flag an existing signal) which in turn can expose people to dangerous situations. When sensors fail to properly perform, the resulting effect may be at the least, inconvenient, and at the most, life threatening. For example, if a motion detecting sensor fails to signal the lights on in a room, a person in the room would merely be inconvenienced into walking over to the wall to manually flip the light switch on. Meanwhile, if an automobile brake sensor fails to activate the anti-lock braking system while the vehicle is traveling at high speeds, the car could spin out of control and put the driver and passengers (along with others in the vicinity) in severe danger.","The following presents a simplified summary of the subject matter in order to provide a basic understanding of some aspects of subject matter embodiments. This summary is not an extensive overview of the subject matter. It is not intended to identify key\/critical elements of the embodiments or to delineate the scope of the subject matter. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts of the subject matter in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.","One embodiment provides an amplifier system that includes an input amplifier configured to receive an analog input signal and provide an amplified signal corresponding to the analog input signal. A tracking loop is configured to employ delta modulation for tracking the amplified signal, the tracking loop providing a corresponding output signal. A biasing circuit is configured to adjust a bias current to maintain stable transconductance over temperature variations, the biasing circuit providing at least one bias signal for biasing at least one of the input amplifier and the tracking loop, whereby the circuitry receiving the at least one bias signal exhibits stable performance over the temperature variations.","Another embodiment of the invention provides a bias generator for providing adaptive bias control that provides stabilization of transconductance over temperature for associated circuitry. The bias generator includes a first arrangement of transistors that is configured as a first current mirror portion, the first current mirror portion being connected to a first reference voltage. A second arrangement of transistors and a resistor is configured as a second current mirror portion having a non-linear characteristic to provide a bias current through the resistor that is inversely proportional to mobility. The first current mirror is connected with the second current mirror portion between the first voltage reference and a second voltage reference and being arranged in a feedback relationship to stabilize the bias current through the resistor. A bias voltage is provided from at least one of the first current mirror portion and the second current mirror portion based on the bias current.","To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends, certain illustrative aspects of embodiments are described herein in connection with the following description and the annexed drawings. These aspects are indicative, however, of but a few of the various ways in which the principles of the subject matter may be employed, and the subject matter is intended to include all such aspects and their equivalents. Other advantages and novel features of the subject matter may become apparent from the following detailed description when considered in conjunction with the drawings.","The subject matter is now described with reference to the drawings, wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description, for purposes of explanation, numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the subject matter. It may be evident, however, that subject matter embodiments may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances, well-known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing the embodiments.","In , a block diagram of a high-temperature, low power sensor module  that facilitates reliable sensing in harsh environments is illustrated. The sensor module  comprises a sensor  that retrieves information from an environment, an integrated circuit with digital transmitter  that performs signal processing, including amplification, conversion, and filtering, and an antenna  that communicates the resulting output signal to a receiver. The sensor  receives an analog input signal to be processed by the integrated circuit . The sensor may be resistive, capacitive, or a combination of the two. Regardless of which type of sensor is implemented, the AC admittance of the sensor can be recovered by the amplifier through conventional digital demodulation of the signal. More specifically, the integrated circuit  amplifies the received analog signal, converts the signal into digital form, and filters the resulting digital signal. Such signal is output by a digital transmitter as part of the integrated circuit  and antenna  so that it may be received wirelessly by a receiver. One advantage of wireless implementation is the absence of tangled wires, especially for rotating systems such as automotive wheels. Another advantage is a less restricted range in distance from which the module can operate.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":["120","120","210","210"]},"The integrated circuit  also comprises an A\/D converter , such as an SOI-CMOS 1.sup.st-order sigma-delta A\/D converter, that converts the received analog input signal into digital format. The SOI-CMOS 1-order sigma-delta A\/D converter  is capable of high-temperature performance with imprecise components using fully differential switched-capacitor circuits plus dynamic element matching, dithering, and chopper stabilization. The binary output of the comparator results in quantization error. However, the output tracks the input and reduces the error by the oversampling ratio, and the signal proceeds through a low-pass decimation filter  that removes the quantization error. Further included in the integrated circuit  is a digital transmitter (i.e., voltage-controlled oscillator) . The digital FSK (frequency shift keying) transmitter  facilitates propagation through harsh environments through the selection of a relatively low carrier frequency and corresponding longer wavelength. A loop antenna (not shown) serves as an inductor and combines with the capacitance of a tunnel diode and PMOS varactor to form a tank circuit. The wireless transmission of data can then be sent to a receiver for further evaluation or processing. Overall, the integrated circuit  facilitates the process of amplifying an analog signal, converting the analog signal to digital form, and filtering the digital signal to remove errors.","The SOI-CMOS transimpedance amplifier  can serve a dual purpose: to acquire data from MEMS-based impedance sensors and to construct an oscillator using a MEMS resonator. The amplifier  functions while maintaining a wide gain-bandwidth at all temperatures (e.g., up to about 300\u00b0 C.), sustaining low power consumption (e.g., under about 1 mW), and utilizing a small die area (e.g., about 8500 \u03bcmor less).","The sigma-delta A\/D converter  receives an amplified analog signal from the amplifier , converts the signal from analog to digital format, and sends a digitally converted signal to the decimation filter . The A\/D converter  achieves a high SNR (signal to noise ratio) while drawing a low level of static power. In one example, at room temperature the A\/D converter  achieves an SNR above 50 dB while drawing 1.32 mW from a 3.3 V power supply. In another example, at temperatures greater than 250\u00b0 C., the A\/D converter  achieves an SNR above 40 dB while drawing less than 2 mW, also from a 3.3 V power supply. After the signal conversion, the decimation filter  receives the digital signal from the A\/D converter  and proceeds by removing the quantization error introduced by the A\/D converter, through low-pass filtering. The digital transmitter  is essentially a voltage-controlled oscillator and wirelessly transmits the digital signal via the loop antenna.","In , a schematic block diagram of a wireless sensor module  is presented. The sensor module  comprises a sensor  that collects information from an environment and two instances of the transimpedance amplifier  (an oscillator  and a sensor interface amplifier ) that provides for amplification. The wireless sensor module  also includes a sigma-delta A\/D converter  that manages conversion of an analog signal to digital form and a decimation filter  that removes errors from the resulting digital signal. The wireless sensor module also includes an FSK transmitter\/voltage-controlled oscillator  that provides transmission assistance in harsh environments, and an antenna  that broadcasts the signal transmission.","First, the sensor  receives an analog signal. One instance of the amplifier  is used in conjunction with a MEMS resonator to construct the oscillator . The second instance of the amplifier  is used in a synchronous detection scheme to measure sensor impedance . The amplifier  can be used to counteract the series resistance of a resonant device to form a stable oscillator , through a design that provides the gain and bandwidth necessary to construct high-temperature high-Q integrated oscillators , such as by using SiC MEMS lateral and vertical resonators having motional resistance (or equivalent series resistance at natural resonance thereof) that is over 1 M\u03a9 and resonant frequencies as high as 1 MHz. The sensor interface amplifier  is able to acquire data from high-impedance sensors (e.g., MEMS capacitive sensors) and can recover the AC admittance of the sensor  via synchronous demodulation with in-phase and\/or a quadrature reference signal, regardless of whether the sensor is resistive, capacitive, or a combination.","The analog signal is then converted into digital form by the A\/D converter  and filtered by a low pass decimation filter . The resulting digital signal is transmitted by the FSK transmitter (essentially a voltage-controlled oscillator operated with binary input)  and antenna .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0039","num":"0038"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":["400","400","410","420","430","440","430","430","410","420","430","440","420","410","410","400"],"sub":["f","in","f","v1 ","v1 ","m","v2","f","v2","m4"],"br":[{},{}],"in-line-formulae":[{},{}],"i":["R","\u2248R","\/A"]},"The input of the transimpedance amplifier should be less than the impedance of parasitic capacitance at the input, C, in order to avoid excessive loss of signal at the desired operating frequency of 1 MHz. In order to facilitate biasing of the second stage , and to reduce die area, Rwas implemented using a source follower stage having a transconductance of g=10 \u03bcS to achieve a small-signal resistance 100 k\u03a9. Since the amplitude of the first stage output  is less than 10 mV, this implementation has acceptable linearity.","The bandwidth of the feedback biasing loop, and therefore the low-frequency cutoff of the signal path, is set by the transconductance of the feedback amplifier , the compensation capacitor C, and the voltage gain of the cascode bias circuit used by the second stage . In one instance, the transconductance of the feedback amplifier  has been made relatively large such that an off-chip capacitor of a convenient value such as 100 nF can be used to customize the low-frequency cutoff of the signal path. However, Ccould be integrated by using a low-gfeedback amplifier. In one embodiment, the compensation capacitor Ccan be implemented as a single off-chip capacitor, whereas the remaining circuitry of the amplifier  is integrated on-chip.","Turning to , a transistor level circuit schematic of an amplifier  that amplifies the initial input signal is presented. The labels M through M in the schematic refer to transistors. The circuit schematic  is comprised of various stages, namely the transimpedance amplifier , level shifter , bias , voltage amplifier , push-pull buffer , feedback biasing amplifier , and bias .","The first (M-M)  and second (M-M)  stages employ cascoded common-source stages to improve voltage gain. A source-follower level-shifter (M-M)  is inserted between the first  and second  stages in order to minimize capacitance loading on the first stage  and to establish the necessary bias voltage for the second stage  input.","The output resistance of the first stage  is dominated by the output resistance of M, r, since the resistance due to the M-M cascode is much larger. Therefore, Ais approximately gr, which is proportional to L, the channel length of M. L is made relatively large to obtain high voltage gain, but is limited by the need to obtain a resistance that is low enough to obtain a satisfactory non-dominant pole frequency in the first stage  feedback loop.","The Class AB output stage (M-M)  employs a simple push-pull configuration that takes advantage of the near-zero-threshold transistors that are available in the process technology. Accordingly, the push-pull buffer does not exhibit the cross-over distortion that is typical for this configuration. Bias current in this stage is sensitive to process variations, but variation is within tolerable limits and the simple implementation has high bandwidth and low power dissipation. Reference voltage Vand bias voltage Pare provided, for example, by an on-chip bandgap-voltage reference circuit, and cascode bias voltages are generated within the transimpedance amplifier .","Transistors with near-zero-threshold voltage may be used to minimize the supply voltage. Alternatively, current mirrors can be designed using transistors with larger room-temperature threshold voltages since the threshold voltages of enhancement devices shift toward zero at elevated temperatures, ultimately causing depletion-mode behavior and degrading the desired behavior of diode-connected transistors.","Continuing to , a block diagram of an A\/D converter  that manages the conversion of the analog input signal into digital form is depicted. The block diagram of a 1-order \u03a3\u0394 A\/D converter  includes an integrator  and comparator  in a feedback configuration . Two-level quantization is performed through the use of a comparator , resulting in quantization error. Since the low-frequency gain of the integrator  is very large, the output tracks the input  and the non-idealities from quantization are reduced by the oversampling ratio.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0048","num":"0047"},"figref":"FIG. 7","b":["700","710","710","730"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0049","num":"0048"},"figref":"FIG. 8","b":["800","1","2","800","810","820"]},"A chopping signal \u201cCHOP\u201d is generated at 1\/64 of the sampling clock and used to perform dynamic element matching by swapping C-C, to add a dither of V\/16 using C-C, and to stabilize the integrator operational amplifier by swapping C-C. The comparator  is offset-cancelled by chopper stabilization using C-C. The integrator  uses a folded cascode operational amplifier that is biased using a common-mode feedback loop. A bottom-plate sampling scheme is used to minimize charge injection and capacitance on the summing node.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0051","num":"0050"},"figref":"FIG. 9","b":["204","240","910","912","914","910","910","912","920","910","130","910","930","130","130","1","1","920","910"]},"The tunnel diode bias voltage  biases the tunnel diode , for example, with a bias of about 0.21 V and 1.75 mA. The biasing from the bias voltage  thus can operate the tunnel diode  to provide a negative resistance that compensates for losses in the LC tank circuit in order for oscillations to be sustained. When the binary (digital) input switches from low to high, the varactor  switches from depletion to inversion with a three-times measured change in its capacitance. This results in a significant and reliable shift in oscillation frequency for the transmitter  according to the digital input signal received at .","Such numerical ranges and biases may be adjusted as desired for a specific situation or application. The FCC ISM (industrial, scientific, medical) frequency band, located mainly at low frequencies (i.e., less than 50 MHz) and high frequencies (i.e., above 1 GHz), was utilized to avoid potential interferences. In consideration of this specific embodiment, the lowest ISM frequency consistent with the desired data rate (i.e., 80 kbps) was selected. Various digital modulation choices include ASK (amplitude shift keying), PSK (phase shift keying), and FSK (frequency shift keying), via binary-modulation or M-ary modulation. In one implementation, BFSK (binary frequency shift keying) was selected to reduce the required amplitude resolution in the demodulator and provide a simple and efficient implementation.","As opposed to ASK, FSK is not highly sensitive to amplitude noise\u2014such consideration is relevant in this implementation. In terms of signal quality, spectral efficiency, and power efficiency, the following comparison summarizes BFSK and BPSK performance.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0055","num":"0054"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00001","num":"00001"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"70pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"77pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"70pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]},{"entry":[{},"BFSK","BPSK"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":{}}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"70pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"77pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"70pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["BER",{"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00001","num":"00001"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"P","mrow":{"mi":["e","BFSK"],"mo":","}},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mi":"Q","mo":["(",")"],"msqrt":{"mfrac":{"msub":[{"mi":["E","b"]},{"mi":"N","mn":"0"}]}}}}}}},{"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00002","num":"00002"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"P","mrow":{"mi":["e","BPSK"],"mo":","}},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mi":"Q","mo":["(",")"],"msqrt":{"mfrac":{"mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":"\u2062","msub":{"mi":["E","b"]}},"msub":{"mi":"N","mn":"0"}}}}}}}}]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["Spectral efficiency","BW = 2f + \u0394f","BW = 2f"]},{"entry":["Power efficiency","Good","Poor"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}},"Signal quality is expressed in terms of BER (bit error rate), which is the probability of error in the presence of noise and other interferences. As shown above, BER is a function of energy per bit E, noise N, and probability of error Q(x), assuming the received signal is corrupted by additive white noise. Ecan be written as E=AAT\/2 where Tis the bit duration, 1\/Tis the bit rate f, Ais the amplitude of the modulated signals. Q(x) in an FSK system is given by:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0057","num":"0056"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00003","num":"00003"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mi":"Q","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"x"}},{"mrow":[{"mn":["1","2"],"mo":"\/"},{"mi":"erfc","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mfrac":{"mi":"x","msqrt":{"mn":"2"}}}}],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}}],"mo":"="}}}},"where erfc is the complementary error function. The BER can be lowered by increasing the signal power or decreasing the data rate. Note that the transmit power can be 3 dB lower in BPSK than BFSK for the same BER.","BPSK occupies twice of the bit rate, 2 f, while BFSK depends on the bit rate fand the frequency spacing \u0394f that separates a logic 0 from a logic 1. Frequency deviation \u0394f can be as low as 0.5 f, but 2 fprovides robust communication. If \u0394f is 2 f, the total spectrum occupied by BFSK spreading is 4 f, twice that required by BPSK. Nevertheless, BFSK may be used in low data rate applications where Ecan be maximized by a long bit period.","The FSK technique has better power efficiency performance than PSK since the FSK signal has no abrupt phase change and does not require \u201cspectral regrowth\u201d to smooth the waveform. Accordingly, FSK has a better adjacent channel power ratio, while PSK requires a more complicated circuit to achieve similar performance.","The planar loop antenna  may be implemented using a gold-on-ceramic module suitable for high-temperature applications. Considering the transmission distance in short range, the antenna operates in the near field (r<<wavelength) by induction. With the goal of 2.58 cm diameter, the square loop was selected to maximize the area because radiation power is proportional to the square of loop area. For example, a 2-turn, square-shape loop having 2.58 cm side length (diameter) planar loop antenna  may be employed to increase the radiation power.","The varactor  is SOI MOS fabricated using the Peregrine UTSi 0.5 \u03bcm process. The MOS capacitance consists of overlap capacitance and parallel plate capacitance. The overlap capacitance is due to overlap of the gate polysilicon over the edge of the drain region. This capacitance is relatively constant with the applied gate voltage V. The parallel plate capacitance is the gate oxide capacitance, which is highly variable, depending on V.","When V>|V|, the device is in the inversion region and the capacitance is dominated by the parallel plate capacitance (Cox). When V<|V|, the device is the depletion region and the capacitance is dominated by overlap capacitance. With the gate of the PMOS biased at 0.21V, for binary 0, V=\u22120.21V; and for binary 1, Vis well above V. When the binary data input is switched from low to high, the capacitance changes distinctly, causing the shift in oscillation frequency.  depicts a graph of the measured C-V characteristic of a SOI PMOS transistor (W\/L=120 \u03bcm\/50 \u03bcm) at 500 kHz, such as can be obtained using a Keithley 590 C-V meter or like device.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0064","num":"0063"},"figref":"FIG. 10","b":["1000","1000"],"sub":["out+","out\u2212","out"]},"The amplifier  includes a correlated double sampling (CDS) amplifier  at an input stage thereof. A mixed signal tracking loop  includes a comparator  and an integrator  configured to perform delta modulation on the amplified input signal from the CDS amplifier . As described herein, the tracking loop can be a switched capacitor implementation of a delta modulator. The input signal from the CDS amplifier  is differenced with its predicted version, which is fed back from the output of the tracking loop. The resulting error signal is quantized at the sampling rate of fto give a one-bit digital code D(demonstrated as differential signal D and D) which indicates the direction of rate of change of the input signal (e.g., corresponding to the derivative of the input signal). Thus by integrating the digital code D, a corresponding analog output signal V(demonstrated as differential output V and V).","The amplifier system  further includes a constant-gbias circuit  that operates to stabilize gover a range of temperatures. For instance, the bias generator  can provide pbias and nbias signals for biasing p-type and n-type transistors circuitry that form the amplifier . An example of a constant-gbias circuit is shown and described herein with respect to . As a result of the constant-gbiasing provided by the bias generator , the amplifier  can be fabricated from common CMOS processes and exhibit improved performance in harsh environments, including extreme variations in temperature.","In the example of , the CDS amplifier  receives differential inputs  and  from a sensor . The amplifier  includes a fully differential operational amplifier (FDOA) . For instance, the FDOA can be implemented as a conventional folded-cascode transconductance amplifier that is biased according to the substantially constant gm biasing (pbias and nbias) from the bias generator . The inputs  and  from the sensor  are coupled to respective inputs of the FDOA through input capacitors C. The CDS amplifier  also includes feedback coupled between each respective input and output of the FDOA .","In the example of , the differential CDS amplifier  employs a switched capacitance (SC) common mode feedback (CMFB) circuit. The SC CMFB circuit includes a reset switch  that is connected in parallel with a variable feedback capacitance C. For example, Ccan be implemented as a bank of parallel capacitors having predetermined capacitance (e.g., about 0.3 pF each) that are selectively connected between the input and output of the FDOA by control logic (not shown) to set the capacitance C. The variable capacitor Caffords the amplifier a variable amount of gain that depends on the resulting capacitance C. During operation, the reset switches  are controlled by an AReset signal that is provided by a clock generator  to cancel offset from the amplifier  using the technique of correlated double sampling. As described herein (see, e.g., ), the clock generator  provides clock phases that control various switches during operation of the amplifier .","The size and current for the input pair for the CDS amplifier  can be selected based on the consideration of noise, which, referred to the track loop output, can be expressed as follows:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0070","num":"0069"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00004","num":"00004"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"msup":{"mover":{"mrow":{"msubsup":{"mi":["v","on"],"mn":"2"},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":["\u00d7","\u00d7"],"msubsup":{"mi":["G","D"],"mn":"2"},"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mfrac":{"mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":["C","F"]},{"mi":["C","S"]},{"mi":["C","gs"]},{"mi":["C","gd"]},{"mi":["C","p"]}],"mo":["+","+","+","+"]},"msub":{"mi":["C","F"]}}}}},"mi":"_"},"mn":"2"},"mo":["\u00d7","\u00d7","\u00d7","\u00d7"],"mn":"2","mfrac":[{"mi":"\u03c0","mn":"2"},{"mrow":[{"mn":"8","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mi":"kT"},{"mn":"3","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"msub":{"mi":"g","mrow":{"mrow":{"mi":"m","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mn":"1"},"mo":",","mn":"2"}}}]}],"mi":"B"}},{"mrow":{"mi":["Eq",".1"],"mo":"\u2062"}}]}}}}},"where: Cand Crepresent the small-signal capacitance of the input transistors,","Cis the input parasitic capacitance,","gis the transconductance of the input transistor of the FDOA ,","B is the noise bandwidth set by the CDS amplifier bandwidth,","The first factor of two is due to the differential pair, the second factor of two is due to folding of thermal noise, and","\u03c0\/2 is the leaky factor of a first order low-pass filter.","The CDS amplifier  provides a programmable gain G(e.g., of 6, 12, 24, or other value), which is set by the product of the ratio of C\/C(e.g., 3, 6 or 12) and a CDS gain of 2. The CDS gain of 2 in the example of  is 2 as the CDS amplifier  amplifies the difference between the positive sensor signal and the negative sensor signal, which is double the sensor signal. Correlated double-sampling (CDS) can be performed at the amplifier  via the AReset signal controlling the switches . CDS operates to reduce the effect of offset, 1\/f noise, charge injection, and KT\/C noise. Those skilled in the art will understand other techniques and circuits that can be employed to provide for sampling of the inputs at  and  that mitigates noise and offset.","The outputs from the CDS amplifier  drive the tracking loop  through respective buffers . The tracking loop includes a multi-stage comparator  and an integrator . The tracking loop  also includes two pair of input capacitors Cand C. The tracking loop  can be configured to provide an additional gain Gfor the amplifier , which can be set by the ratio of the input capacitors C\/C(e.g., set to 2, 4, 8 or other value). In the example of , the capacitors Care implemented as variable capacitors, such as a bank of parallel capacitors and switches that can be set by control logic (not shown) associated with the amplifier system .","The tracking loop  is implemented to convert the difference between the output from the CDS amplifier  and the output of the integrator  to a continuous-time differential analog output signal, demonstrated at V and V, analogous to delta modulation. This difference can be amplified by the tracking loop  with very low offset. Besides the analog output V and V, the tracking loop  also provides a digital output Dfrom its comparator  that is proportional to the time derivative of the input. Since the signal is highly oversampled, the effect of the in-band thermal noise is also greatly reduced.","In the embodiment of , the comparator  includes a plurality (e.g., two or three or more) cascaded offset-compensated pre-amplifier stages, indicated at . The preamplifier stages  amplify the differential input (corresponding to the difference between the output from the CDS amplifier and the output of the integrator ) and are configured to achieve required precision. The preamplifier stages  can employ the same topology as the oscillator delay cell (see, e.g., ) that is employed to provide the oscillator , but without the load capacitor. Each of the preamplifier stages  are also biased by the constant-gbias generator  so that gain and bandwidth of the tracking loop can be maintained over temperature. As part of the switched capacitance topology of the tracking loop , each of the preamplifier stages , includes a switch  coupled between the input and output thereof. Each of the switches  is controlled by a respective comparator sample reset signal CReset.","In one embodiment, the comparator  includes three preamplifier stages , each controlled by a respective comparator sample reset signal, such as can correspond to a clock phase signal CReset, CReset\u2032 and CReset\u2033 provided by the clock generator. For example, the reset switches  are initially closed, then sequentially opened, first to last, according to the CReset, CReset\u2032 and CReset\u2033 signals to amplify this difference with very low offset. Each of the CReset, CReset\u2032 and CReset\u2033 signals can be provided as a delayed version of the previous signal; namely, CReset\u2032 is a delayed version of CReset and CReset\u2033 is a further delayed version of CReset\u2032, such as shown with respect to .","The preamplifier stages  provide the comparator output signal to a regenerative comparator . The regenerative comparator  latches the comparator output signal of the preamplifier stages to drive the integrator  positively or negatively in an effort to track the amplified sensor signal. For instance, the regenerative comparator  provides a pair of digital outputs D and D to the integrator  of the tracking loop . The digital output D and D is proportional to the time derivative of the input, the sampled signal provided at  and .","The integrator  can be configured to perform 1-bit digital-to-analog (DAC) conversion and low-gain integration to obtain the correct trade-off between sample rate and resolution. The low-gain integrator requires large, off-chip capacitance C. As an example, the integrator  could be implemented using a 1-bit IDAC, but a mismatch or instability between reference current and integration capacitor could affect resolution. The integrator  can be implemented as a SC integrator that is biased by the constant-gm bias generator . The differential outputs of the integrator  are fed back to the input of the tracking loop  via switches .","The switches  are coupled to respective inputs of the first preamplifier stage through the variable capacitors C. The switches  are controlled by an AMP signal, which can be provided as a clock phase by the clock generator , which can be the same AMP signal that is provided to activate the sensor . The node interconnecting each Cand respective switch  is also selectively connectable to a reference voltage, depicted as ground, through a corresponding reset switch . Each reset switch  can be controlled by an IReset signal that is provided by the clock generator . The respective switches  and  can thus be controlled to operate substantially out-of-phase from each other to facilitate charging of the capacitors Cbased on the integrator output signals during sampling and discharging thereof before the next sampling cycle. In this way the tracking loop  can provide an effective switched capacitor implementation of a delta modulator.","By way of further example,  illustrates the integrator  as a fully-differential SC integrator. It will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that the circuit arrangement of the integrator of  enables a reduction in off-chip components. For instance, the integrator  can be implemented with a single off-chip capacitor C. The integrator  is connected between voltage rails, depicted as positive and negative rails Vand V. The integrator  employs SC CMFB circuit that controls current references  based on a common mode reference voltage Vcmref and the respective output voltage signals V and V. The integration capacitor Cis connected between outputs  and  of the integrator , which correspond to the output voltages V and V.","The digital outputs D and D from the regenerative comparator drive the integrator  by controlling activation and deactivation of switches  and  that are coupled to respective positive and negative reference voltages V and V. The switches  and  are coupled to a virtual ground node X through a charge sampler circuit . Similarly, the digital outputs D and D control of switches  and  that are coupled to the respective negative and positive reference voltages V and V. The switches  and  are coupled to another virtual ground node Y via another charge sampler . Each of the charge sampler circuits includes switches coupled to a reference capacitor Cin an H-bridge arrangement. The switches are controlled according to the clock phases IReset and AMP provided by the clock generator  (see, e.g., ). The charge sampler circuits  and  thus inject charge into virtual ground nodes X and Y for each clock cycle according to digital outputs D and D.","In the example of , the charge injected at the nodes X and Y is transferred to the integration capacitor Cthrough a pair of cascode NMOS devices, which are connected between outputs  and  and the nodes X and Y to provide the respective output voltage signals V and V. The cascode NMOS devices are gated by a bias signal ncas, which is provided by the bias generator  (). Another pair of cascode NMOS devices, which are biased by nbias (also provided by the bias generator ), couple the nodes X and Y to a low voltage rail V. A Replica bias signal is provided to the nodes X and Y through the charge sampler circuits  and . The Replica bias is set (e.g., by the bias generator  or other associated circuitry) to match each of voltage at X and Y to a desired voltage level, which in one embodiment is the same for each node. The integration capacitor Cmitigates the need for precise current reference for the integrator . Settling time of the pedestal is decided by the transconductance of NMOS cascode devices. The magnitude of injected charge difference on X and Y is:\n\nC(V+\u2212V)\u2003\u2003Eq. 2\n","and its polarity depends on the comparator output D. Accordingly, the quantization step on the differential output of the integrator can be expressed as follows:\n\nC(V+\u2212V)\/C\u2003\u2003Eq. 3\n","This value for the quantization step is stable over temperature since both the capacitor ratio and reference voltage have excellent temperature stability due to the substantially constant gm-biasing provided by the bias generator .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0090","num":"0089"},"figref":["FIG. 11B","FIG. 10"],"b":["1050","1050","1050","1050"],"sub":["DD ","SS ","B "]},"In the example of , the bias generator  of  includes a constant-gm biasing circuit  that provides pbias and nbias voltages. The bias generator  also includes a cascode bias generator circuit , which generates cascode bias signals ncas and pcas based on the nbias and pbias signals.","The bias generator  includes a start-up circuit  that is utilized to supply initial voltages to an arrangement of current mirrors that mirror the bias current Ito provide bias. A first current mirror is formed by transistors M, M, M, and M. A second current mirror is formed by transistors M, M, M, Mand R. This second current mirror of M, M, M, Mand Ris configured with a non-linear characteristic to obtain a desired bias current Ithat is proportional to 1\/\u03bc. In this configuration of constant gm bias generator , the nbias corresponds to the voltage at the common gates of Mand M, which is coupled to the source of M in the current mirror configuration. Similarly, pbias corresponds to the voltage at the common gates of Mand M, which is coupled to the source of Mof the current mirror configuration. The current mirrors are arranged in a feedback relationship to stabilize the bias current Iduring normal operation. During operation, the current mirror formed by transistors M, M, M, and Mcause the current through Mto be equal to the bias current Ithrough M.","As a further example, the transconductance of a transistor Mbiased by the current Ihas a temperature dependence proportional to 1\/R. For instance, assuming matched transistors, and neglecting channel length modulation and the backgate effect on threshold voltage, the bias current Ithrough the resistor Rcan be expressed as follows:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0094","num":"0093"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00005","num":"00005"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["I","B"]},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mfrac":{"mn":"2","mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":["\u03bc","n"]},{"mi":["C","ox"]}],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"msubsup":{"mi":["R","B"],"mn":"2"}}},"mo":"\u2062","msup":{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msqrt":[{"mfrac":{"msub":[{"mi":"L","mn":"1"},{"mi":"W","mn":"1"}]}},{"mfrac":{"msub":[{"mi":"L","mn":"2"},{"mi":"W","mn":"2"}]}}],"mo":"-"}},"mn":"2"}}}},{"mrow":{"mi":"Eq","mo":[".","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},"mn":"4"}}]}}}}},"where W and L are the channel width and length of the transistors Mand M,","Ris the resistance,","\u03bcis the mobility,","Cis the capacitance of the oxide layer of the transistors.","It will be appreciated that in Eq. 4, \u03bcand Rare the primary sources of temperature dependence. As temperature increases, the constant-gbias circuit  will compensate for degraded mobility. In other words, the slew rate increases over temperature. Therefore, slew rate is not an issue at high temperature (e.g., >300 C).","From Eq. 4, it can be further shown that the transconductance is proportional to R, which can be expressed as follows:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0101","num":"0100"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00006","num":"00006"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["g","m"]},"mo":"\u221d","mfrac":{"mn":"1","mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["R","B"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mn":"1","mo":"+","mfrac":{"msub":{"mi":["\u03b3","n"]},"mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":"\u2062","msqrt":{"mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":"\u2062","msub":{"mi":["\u03d5","F"]}}}}}}}}}}},{"mrow":{"mi":"Eq","mo":[".","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},"mn":"5"}}]}}}}},"where Ris the resistance of the biasing resistor;","\u03b3=the body-effect constant;","\u03c6=is the Fermi potential of the bulk, which is;",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0105","num":"0104"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00007","num":"00007"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["\u03d5","F"]},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mfrac":{"mi":["kT","q"]},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mi":"ln","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mfrac":{"msub":[{"mi":["N","B"]},{"mi":["n","i"]}]}}}}},"mo":","}}},"br":{},"sub":"B "},"Eq. 5 demonstrates that the backgate effect tends to make the temperature coefficient of gm negative. Such an effect could be avoided by connecting source to body of the cascode transistor; although this generally cannot be done in a standard bulk CMOS process.","In practice, the bias current should be sufficiently large to minimize the leakage current effect on bias. As one example, it is assumed that I=9 \u03bcA at 300 K can be selected. In a situation where Mis twice the size of M, then Rcan be 11.9 k\u03a9 according to the Eq. 4, solved for I, with \u03c6=0.35 V. Simulation using SPICE can be performed to show that Rin this example would be 8.6 k\u03a9 to obtain the desired current. The difference between hand calculation and SPICE is due to the neglected second order effects, such as channel length modulation.","The square-law model predicts that the transconductance gof a transistor biased with this current is simply proportional to 1\/R. As one example, substantially temperature resistant resistors formed of alloys such as nichrome, sichrome, nickel or other alloys can be used to provide R. As another example, the resistor Rcan be implemented as a polyl biasing resistor having a rated temperature coefficient (TC) of about 1000 ppm\/\u00b0 C. with acceptable performance. Thus, those skilled in the art will appreciate various types of resistors that can be implemented for Rfor providing the bias current therethrough to achieve the substantially constant gm biasing for the bias generator . Due to interactions between linear and non-linear (slewing) behavior in the bias generator , very stable results at high temperatures (e.g., >300 C) can be achieved even when the bias generator  and the other portions of the amplifier circuitry  () are fabricated using a conventional bulk CMOS IC processes.","As illustrated in , a fully-integrated oscillator  that can be utilized to provide the clock signal MCLK in  is detailed. The oscillator circuit  employs a three-stage differential ring in which the gain of each stage, which should be \u22672 to satisfy the oscillation criterion, is set by the ratio g\/g, both of which are temperature stabilized. The oscillation frequency is proportional to g\/C, which is stabilized by the constant-gbiasing scheme. The differential pair in each stage can be implemented as a scaled down replica of the differential pair in the amplifiers in the instrumentation amplifier, such that the oscillator frequency fis proportional to the gain bandwidth (GBW) of those amplifiers, which in turn corresponds to the settling speed of the amplifier. Therefore, the settling time of the main amplifiers is locked to the oscillator frequency, and the oscillation frequency is stabilized by the constant-gbiasing scheme described herein. In other words, accurate settling is maintained over a wide temperature range, and sampling rate, which sets resolution and\/or throughout rate in an ADC or cutoff frequency in an SC filter, is also stabilized.","An enlarged example implementation of each of the delay cell stages is depicted at . The delay cell  includes a differential input Vin+ and Vin\u2212 at the gates of transistors M and M. A variable capacitor C is coupled between the drains of M and M to provide corresponding outputs Vout\u2212 and Vout+. The delay cell is biased by applying the bias nbias to the gate of transistor M, which is connected between the common source of M and M and a low voltage rail V. Transistors M, M, M and M are coupled between the respective drains of M and M and a high voltage rail V. The common gate of M and M are biased by pbias according to the difference between Vand pbias. The output of the three-stage differential ring oscillator is converted to a single voltage by a converter . A clock divider circuit  divides the resulting output to the corresponding clock signal MCLK having the desired frequency.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0111","num":"0110"},"figref":["FIG. 11D","FIG. 10","FIGS. 10 and 11A","FIG. 10"],"b":["1150","1000","1050"]},"As depicted in , the clock signal MCLK is the main clock signal provided by the oscillator of . The rising edge of MCLK triggers a REGEN signal pulse. The REGEN pulse causes an AMP signal to go low for controlling operation of the input amplifier . The AMP signal triggers an ARREST signal to go high as well as the sequential comparator reset signals CReset\/CReset\u2032\/CReset\u2033. That is when the ARESET signal goes low, the comparator reset signals CReset\/CReset\u2032\/CReset\u2033 sequentially go low to close respective switches  in the comparator  to propagate the sampled signal through the tracking loop . This signal further triggers the IReset and Latch signals to go low such that the output from the regenerative comparator  drives the integrator to provide corresponding output voltages Vout+ and Vout\u2212 across the output capacitor Cint.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0113","num":"0112"},"figref":"FIG. 12","sup":["nd","nd","nd"],"b":["1206","1208","1200","1206","1208","1202","110","1202","1202","1204"],"sub":"m "},"In the example implementation of , there are two instances of the 2nd-order sigma-delta modulator, indicated at  and . A first sigma-delta modulator  is connected with the CDS pre-amplifier to interface with the sensor and is thus configured to provide a corresponding digital output Dout according to the input provided by the sensor . Similar to the example of , supporting circuits include a sensor driver , clock generator , an oscillator , and a constant-gm bias circuit . Such circuitry can be integrated to provide a single-chip solution for sensor interfacing. The integrated circuit can also include a thermometer . In one example, the thermometer can provide an analog output voltage that can be selectively connected as an input the CDS amplifier , which is converted to a corresponding digital output by the circuit . It will be appreciated that the circuit  can be implemented with only one off-chip capacitor for power supply by-pass. The sensor output and modulator reference are both scaled by the power supply V, so the converter output is independent of supply voltage.","The fully differential topology used throughout the integrated circuit is relatively immune to many high temperature effects, including bulk junction leakage, but is ultimately limited by catastrophic loss of bias current to junction leakage. In an n-well process, PMOS transistors have much less leakage current at high temperature than do NMOS. Thus, PMOS switches can be used at critical nodes of the SC circuitry to reduce errors caused by leakage. Dynamic logic is avoided in the digital circuits.","Precise transient behavior of any SC circuits is unimportant providing that charge is conserved and the circuitry is fully settled at the end of each clock cycle. Thus, accuracy depends primarily on capacitor ratios and the ratio of clock frequency fto op-amp gain bandwidth (GBW). Capacitor ratios have very weak temperature dependence. As described with respect to , constant gbias circuit is used to stabilize transconductance for the circuit  over temperature. Additionally, the amplifier  can be implemented as a finite-gain-compensated CDS pre-amplifier to remove low-frequency noise and finite amplifier gain error by way of double sampling, effectively squaring the open-loop gain of the operational amplifier. Since the temperature stability of the fully-differential operational amplifier affects performance of the pre-amplifier and modulator, a folded cascade topology may be used, so that transconductance is stabilized over temperature similar to as discussed with respect to .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0117","num":"0116"},"figref":"FIG. 13A","b":["1300","1216"],"sup":"st","sub":"m "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0118","num":"0117"},"figref":["FIG. 13B","FIG. 13B","FIG. 13B","FIG. 13C"],"b":["1350","1352","1350","1350","1212"],"sub":["in ","2in ","2d ","2d","1d ","2d ","1 ","2","DD ","SS ","ref+","ref\u2212","ref+","ref\u2212","1d "]},"In the example of , the reference and input signals of the SC CDS integrator  use different input capacitors C and C, respectively, instead of sharing the same capacitor. This provides at least two advantages. First, it permits reference scaling, so Vand Vcan be used for V and V, while choosing C=C\/2 sets the maximum modulator differential input range to \u00b1V\/2. Second, capacitor sharing can cause harmonic distortion since the current drawn from the reference is signal-dependent. C and C are selected to provide for corresponding integration of the input signal Vaccording to operation of the switches controlled by \u03c6and \u03c6.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0120","num":"0119"},"figref":["FIG. 13C","FIG. 12","FIG. 13","FIG. 10"],"b":["1206","1208","1212","1200"],"sub":["2","2in","2d","1ee","1e","1","1d","1d ","2","2in","2d","out"]},"What has been described above includes examples of the embodiments. It is, of course, not possible to describe every conceivable combination of components or methodologies for purposes of describing the embodiments, but one of ordinary skill in the art may recognize that many further combinations and permutations of the embodiments are possible. Accordingly, the subject matter is intended to embrace all such alterations, modifications, and variations that fall within the spirit and scope of the appended claims. Furthermore, to the extent that the term \u201cincludes\u201d is used in either the detailed description or the claims, such term is intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term \u201ccomprising\u201d as \u201ccomprising\u201d is interpreted when employed as a transitional word in a claim."],"GOVINT":[{},{}],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 6","sup":"st"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 11A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 11B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 11C"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":["FIG. 11D","FIG. 10"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 12","sup":"nd"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":"FIG. 13A","sup":"nd"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":"FIG. 13B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":["FIG. 13C","FIG. 12"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":"FIG. 14"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
