---
title: Methods and apparatuses for user interest modeling
abstract: Methods and apparatuses are provided for user interest modeling. A method may include accessing logged interactive user history data for a user data for a user. The method may additionally include determining at least one user interest topic for the user by utilizing a topic model acting upon at least a portion of the logged interactive user history data and one or more seed documents generated from a topic feature source. Corresponding apparatuses are also provided.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09031952&OS=09031952&RS=09031952
owner: Nokia Corporation
number: 09031952
owner_city: Espoo
owner_country: FI
publication_date: 20091231
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["RELATED APPLICATION","TECHNOLOGICAL FIELD","BACKGROUND","BRIEF SUMMARY OF SOME EXAMPLES OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["This application was originally filed as PCT Application No. PCT\/CN2009\/076355 filed Dec. 31, 2009.","Embodiments of the present invention relate generally to the provision of targeted content and, more particularly, relate to methods and apparatuses for user interest modeling.","The modern communications era has brought about a tremendous expansion of wireline and wireless networks. Computer networks, television networks, and telephony networks are experiencing an unprecedented technological expansion, fueled by consumer demand. Wireless and mobile networking technologies have addressed related consumer demands, while providing more flexibility and immediacy of information transfer.","Current and future networking technologies as well as evolved computing devices making use of networking technologies continue to facilitate ease of information transfer and convenience to users. Evolved networking technologies and computing devices facilitate accessing a wide array of content from remote content providers for consumption at a user's local computing device as well as exchanging data with other users. Content providers and network service providers often defray the costs of providing content and facilitating the exchange of data between users through advertising. In order for advertising to have the most value to advertisers and thus to enable content providers to charge a premium value for advertising space, the advertisements need to attract the interest of users that are provided with the advertisements so as to induce users to purchase advertised products and services. Accordingly, advertisers attempt to \u201ctarget\u201d advertisements to specific users.","Further, some content providers attempt to provide content targeted to user interests as a service to users. In order for targeted content provided by targeted content providers to be deemed valuable by users, the targeted content should be targeted toward user interests so as to accurately reflect the user interests. Additionally, content and\/or service providers may attempt to facilitate the formation of interest groups or social networks by users having similar interests.","Methods, apparatuses, and computer program products are herein provided for user interest modeling. In this regard, systems, methods, apparatuses, and computer program products are provided that may provide several advantages to service providers, content providers, computing devices and computing device users. Embodiments of the invention provide for the determination of user interest topics defining a user's interests. Embodiments of the invention facilitate leveraging determined user interest topics for providing targeted content, such as, for example, targeted advertising to users. In this regard, embodiments of the invention mine logged interactive user history data to determine user interest topics for a user. In accordance with some embodiments of the invention, the logged interactive user history data comprises data produced, received, and\/or accessed by a user in the course of everyday use of a computing device.","As patterns of usage of a device by the user may reflect a user's interests, embodiments of the invention provide for statistical modeling of logged interactive user history data by way of a novel topic model configured to act upon one or more seed documents generated from a topic feature source. One such topic model provided by an embodiment of the invention is labeled latent Dirichlet allocation with topic feature (LLDA-TF) algorithm. In accordance with embodiments of the invention, predefined topic category labels comprising human readable and understandable names are determined through statistical modeling from logged interactive user history data. These predefined topic category labels provide more meaningful information about user interest topics than previous models, which merely provide a list of keywords representing a latent topic.","In a first example embodiment, a method is provided, which comprises accessing logged interactive user history data for a user. The method of this embodiment further comprises determining at least one user interest topic for the user utilizing a topic model acting upon at least a portion of the logged interactive user history data and one or more seed documents generated from a topic feature source.","In another example embodiment, an apparatus is provided. The apparatus of this embodiment comprises at least one processor and at least one memory storing computer program code, wherein the at least one memory and stored computer program code are configured to, with the at least one processor, cause the apparatus to at least access logged interactive user history data for a user. The at least one memory and stored computer program code are configured to, with the at least one processor, further cause the apparatus of this embodiment to determine at least one user interest topic for the user utilizing a topic model acting upon at least a portion of the logged interactive user history data and one or more seed documents generated from a topic feature source.","In another example embodiment, a computer program product is provided. The computer program product of this embodiment includes at least one computer-readable storage medium having computer-readable program instructions stored therein. The program instructions of this embodiment comprise program instructions configured to access logged interactive user history data for a user. The program instructions of this embodiment further comprise program instructions configured to determine at least one user interest topic for the user utilizing a topic model acting upon at least a portion of the logged interactive user history data and one or more seed documents generated from a topic feature source.","In another example embodiment, an apparatus is provided that comprises means for accessing logged interactive user history data for a user. The apparatus of this embodiment further comprises means for determining at least one user interest topic for the user utilizing a topic model acting upon at least a portion of the logged interactive user history data and one or more seed documents generated from a topic feature source.","In another exemplary embodiment, a computer-readable storage medium carrying computer-readable program instructions is provided. The computer-readable program instructions comprise program instructions configured to access logged interactive user history data for a user. The computer-readable program instructions further comprise program instructions configured to determine at least one user interest topic for the user utilizing a topic model acting upon at least a portion of the logged interactive user history data and one or more seed documents generated from a topic feature source.","The above summary is provided merely for purposes of summarizing some example embodiments of the invention so as to provide a basic understanding of some aspects of the invention. Accordingly, it will be appreciated that the above described example embodiments are merely examples and should not be construed to narrow the scope or spirit of the invention in any way. It will be appreciated that the scope of the invention encompasses many potential embodiments, some of which will be further described below, in addition to those here summarized.","Some embodiments of the present invention will now be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings, in which some, but not all embodiments of the invention are shown. Indeed, the invention may be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein; rather, these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will satisfy applicable legal requirements. Like reference numerals refer to like elements throughout.","As used herein, the term \u2018circuitry\u2019 refers to (a) hardware-only circuit implementations (e.g., implementations in analog circuitry and\/or digital circuitry); (b) combinations of circuits and computer program product(s) comprising software and\/or firmware instructions stored on one or more computer readable memories that work together to cause an apparatus to perform one or more functions described herein; and (c) circuits, such as, for example, a microprocessor(s) or a portion of a microprocessor(s), that require software or firmware for operation even if the software or firmware is not physically present. This definition of \u2018circuitry\u2019 applies to all uses of this term herein, including in any claims. As a further example, as used herein, the term \u2018circuitry\u2019 also includes an implementation comprising one or more processors and\/or portion(s) thereof and accompanying software and\/or firmware. As another example, the term \u2018circuitry\u2019 as used herein also includes, for example, a baseband integrated circuit or applications processor integrated circuit for a mobile phone or a similar integrated circuit in a server, a cellular network device, other network device, and\/or other computing device.","Latent Dirichlet allocation (LDA) is a full probabilistic generative model having mathematical modeling capability. The computational complexity of LDA algorithm is not directly influenced by the quantity of training documents input into the model, making it suitable and scalable for large-scaled corpus.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":["FIG. 1","FIG. 1"],"sub":"d "},"With reference to , the generative process for each document d in a corpus D may be represented as:\n\n","Gibbs samples are one way used to estimate parameters of LDA model. For each Gibbs sampling iteration, the topic of each word in each document is sampled according to the posterior of z, that is p(z|w, \u03b1, \u03b2). Further, for each iteration, the algorithm updates p(z|w, \u03b1, \u03b2), which is used for the next iteration as the prior distribution. In the Gibbs sampling, the posterior p(z|w, \u03b1, \u03b2) is only related to the co-occurrence of the words and topics as well as the co-occurrence of the documents and topics. The function of p(z|w, \u03b1, \u03b2) is:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0033"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00001","num":"00001"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mi":"p","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["z","di"]},"mo":"|","mi":"w"},"mo":[",",","],"mi":["\u03b1","\u03b2"]}}},{"mfrac":[{"mrow":[{"msub":[{"mi":"n","mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":["z","di"]},{"mi":["w","di"]}],"mo":"\u2062"}},{"mi":"\u03b2","msub":{"mi":["w","di"]}}],"mo":["+","-"],"mn":"1"},{"mrow":{"munderover":{"mo":"\u2211","mrow":{"mi":"v","mo":"=","mn":"1"},"mi":"V"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":"n","mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["z","di"]},"mo":",","mi":"v"}},{"mi":["\u03b2","v"]}],"mo":"+"}}},"mo":"-","mn":"1"}]},{"mrow":[{"msub":[{"mi":"m","mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":["d","di"]},{"mi":["z","di"]}],"mo":","}},{"mi":"\u03b1","msub":{"mi":["z","di"]}}],"mo":["+","-"],"mn":"1"},{"mrow":{"munderover":{"mo":"\u2211","mrow":{"mi":"z","mo":"=","mn":"1"},"mi":"T"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":"n","mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["d","di"]},"mo":",","mi":"z"}},{"mi":["\u03b1","z"]}],"mo":"+"}}},"mo":"-","mn":"1"}]}],"mo":"\u00d7"}],"mo":"="},"mo":","}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"1"}}]}}}}},"where, nis the number of tokens of word v and is assigned to topic z, mis the number of tokens in document d and is assigned to topic z. The posterior of \u03b8 and \u03a6 are then updated using:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0035"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00002","num":"00002"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["\u03b8","dz"]},"mo":"=","mfrac":{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":["m","dz"]},"mo":"+","mi":"\u03b1"},{"mrow":[{"munderover":{"mo":"\u2211","mrow":{"mi":"z","mo":"=","mn":"1"},"mi":"T"},"mo":"\u2062","msub":{"mi":["m","dz"]}},{"mi":["\u03b1","T"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}}],"mo":"+"}]}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"2"}}]},{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["\u03c6","zw"]},"mo":"=","mfrac":{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":["n","zw"]},"mo":"+","mi":"\u03b2"},{"mrow":[{"munderover":{"mo":"\u2211","mrow":{"mi":"w","mo":"=","mn":"1"},"mi":"V"},"mo":"\u2062","msub":{"mi":["n","zw"]}},{"mi":["\u03b2","V"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}}],"mo":"+"}]}},"mo":","}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"3"}}]}]}}}},"where, T is the number of topics, and V is the size of the vocabulary. In this regard, the posterior of \u03b8 and \u03a6 may be updated after the sampling process.","LDA is limited in that it can not directly output topic information but only a list of keywords that represent a latent topic that may not align to human defined or understandable topic, thus inhibiting the ability to analyze and leverage user interests. Moreover, the keywords representing a topic the algorithm finally decodes represent the latent state, which is generally not readable or understandable in a meaningful way by humans.","Embodiments of the invention provide new topic models and methods, apparatuses, and computer program products using the new topic models for user interest modeling that may overcome some of the deficiencies in LDA and other topic models. The topic models provided by some embodiments of the invention are configured to act upon one or more seed documents generated from a topic feature source (e.g., seed documents including topic feature(s) and\/or indications thereof). Some embodiments of the invention provide for an improved LDA model, referred to herein as LLDA-TF (labeled latent Dirichlet allocation with topic feature). It will be appreciated, however, that LLDA-TF is merely an example of one embodiment of a topic model configured to utilize topic features in accordance with embodiments of the invention. Accordingly, it will be appreciated that where use of LLDA-TF is described, the description is provided as an example of one topic model configured to use topic features in accordance with embodiments of the invention. Accordingly, the invention contemplates any topic model configured to act upon one or more seed documents generated from a topic feature source as described further below and not just LDA-based topic models.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0039"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 2","FIG. 2"],"b":["202","202"]},"The apparatus  may be embodied as a desktop computer, laptop computer, mobile terminal, mobile computer, mobile phone, mobile communication device, one or more servers, one or more network nodes, game device, digital camera\/camcorder, audio\/video player, television device, radio receiver, digital video recorder, positioning device, user terminal (e.g., the user terminal  illustrated in ), targeted content provider (e.g., the targeted content provider  illustrated in ), any combination thereof, and\/or the like. In an example embodiment, the apparatus  is embodied as a mobile terminal, such as that illustrated in .","In this regard,  illustrates a block diagram of a mobile terminal  representative of one embodiment of an apparatus  in accordance with embodiments of the present invention. It should be understood, however, that the mobile terminal  illustrated and hereinafter described is merely illustrative of one type of apparatus  that may implement and\/or benefit from embodiments of the present invention and, therefore, should not be taken to limit the scope of the present invention. While several embodiments of the electronic device are illustrated and will be hereinafter described for purposes of example, other types of electronic devices, such as mobile telephones, mobile computers, portable digital assistants (PDAs), pagers, laptop computers, desktop computers, gaming devices, televisions, and other types of electronic systems, may employ embodiments of the present invention.","As shown, the mobile terminal  may include an antenna  (or multiple antennas ) in communication with a transmitter  and a receiver . The mobile terminal  may also include a processor  configured to provide signals to and receive signals from the transmitter and receiver, respectively. The processor  may, for example, be embodied as various means including circuitry, one or more microprocessors with accompanying digital signal processor(s), one or more processor(s) without an accompanying digital signal processor, one or more coprocessors, one or more multi-core processors, one or more controllers, processing circuitry, one or more computers, various other processing elements including integrated circuits such as, for example, an ASIC (application specific integrated circuit) or FPGA (field programmable gate array), or some combination thereof. Accordingly, although illustrated in  as a single processor, in some embodiments the processor  comprises a plurality of processors. These signals sent and received by the processor  may include signaling information in accordance with an air interface standard of an applicable cellular system, and\/or any number of different wireline or wireless networking techniques, comprising but not limited to Wireless-Fidelity (Wi-Fi), wireless local access network (WLAN) techniques such as Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) 802.11, 802.16, and\/or the like. In addition, these signals may include speech data, user generated data, user requested data, and\/or the like. In this regard, the mobile terminal may be capable of operating with one or more air interface standards, communication protocols, modulation types, access types, and\/or the like. More particularly, the mobile terminal may be capable of operating in accordance with various first generation (1G), second generation (2G), 2.5G, third-generation (3G) communication protocols, fourth-generation (4G) communication protocols, Internet Protocol Multimedia Subsystem (IMS) communication protocols (e.g., session initiation protocol (SIP)), and\/or the like. For example, the mobile terminal may be capable of operating in accordance with 2G wireless communication protocols IS-136 (Time Division Multiple Access (TDMA)), Global System for Mobile communications (GSM), IS-95 (Code Division Multiple Access (CDMA)), and\/or the like. Also, for example, the mobile terminal may be capable of operating in accordance with 2.5G wireless communication protocols General Packet Radio Service (GPRS), Enhanced Data GSM Environment (EDGE), and\/or the like. Further, for example, the mobile terminal may be capable of operating in accordance with 3G wireless communication protocols such as Universal Mobile Telecommunications System (UMTS), Code Division Multiple Access 2000 (CDMA2000), Wideband Code Division Multiple Access (WCDMA), Time Division-Synchronous Code Division Multiple Access (TD-SCDMA), and\/or the like. The mobile terminal may be additionally capable of operating in accordance with 3.9G wireless communication protocols such as Long Term Evolution (LTE) or Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN) and\/or the like. Additionally, for example, the mobile terminal may be capable of operating in accordance with fourth-generation (4G) wireless communication protocols and\/or the like as well as similar wireless communication protocols that may be developed in the future.","Some Narrow-band Advanced Mobile Phone System (NAMPS), as well as Total Access Communication System (TACS), mobile terminals may also benefit from embodiments of this invention, as should dual or higher mode phones (e.g., digital\/analog or TDMA\/CDMA\/analog phones). Additionally, the mobile terminal  may be capable of operating according to Wireless Fidelity (Wi-Fi) or Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access (WiMAX) protocols.","It is understood that the processor  may comprise circuitry for implementing audio\/video and logic functions of the mobile terminal . For example, the processor  may comprise a digital signal processor device, a microprocessor device, an analog-to-digital converter, a digital-to-analog converter, and\/or the like. Control and signal processing functions of the mobile terminal may be allocated between these devices according to their respective capabilities. The processor may additionally comprise an internal voice coder (VC) , an internal data modem (DM) , and\/or the like. Further, the processor may comprise functionality to operate one or more software programs, which may be stored in memory. For example, the processor  may be capable of operating a connectivity program, such as a web browser. The connectivity program may allow the mobile terminal  to transmit and receive web content, such as location-based content, according to a protocol, such as Wireless Application Protocol (WAP), hypertext transfer protocol (HTTP), and\/or the like. The mobile terminal  may be capable of using a Transmission Control Protocol\/Internet Protocol (TCP\/IP) to transmit and receive web content across the internet or other networks.","The mobile terminal  may also comprise a user interface including, for example, an earphone or speaker , a ringer , a microphone , a display , a user input interface, and\/or the like, which may be operationally coupled to the processor . In this regard, the processor  may comprise user interface circuitry configured to control at least some functions of one or more elements of the user interface, such as, for example, the speaker , the ringer , the microphone , the display , and\/or the like. The processor  and\/or user interface circuitry comprising the processor  may be configured to control one or more functions of one or more elements of the user interface through computer program instructions (e.g., software and\/or firmware) stored on a memory accessible to the processor  (e.g., volatile memory , non-volatile memory , and\/or the like). Although not shown, the mobile terminal may comprise a battery for powering various circuits related to the mobile terminal, for example, a circuit to provide mechanical vibration as a detectable output. The user input interface may comprise devices allowing the mobile terminal to receive data, such as a keypad , a touch display (not shown), a joystick (not shown), and\/or other input device. In embodiments including a keypad, the keypad may comprise numeric (0-9) and related keys (#, *), and\/or other keys for operating the mobile terminal.","As shown in , the mobile terminal  may also include one or more means for sharing and\/or obtaining data. For example, the mobile terminal may comprise a short-range radio frequency (RF) transceiver and\/or interrogator  so data may be shared with and\/or obtained from electronic devices in accordance with RF techniques. The mobile terminal may comprise other short-range transceivers, such as, for example, an infrared (IR) transceiver , a Bluetooth\u2122 (BT) transceiver  operating using Bluetooth\u2122 brand wireless technology developed by the Bluetooth\u2122 Special Interest Group, a wireless universal serial bus (USB) transceiver  and\/or the like. The Bluetooth\u2122 transceiver  may be capable of operating according to ultra-low power Bluetooth\u2122 technology (e.g., Wibree\u2122) radio standards. In this regard, the mobile terminal  and, in particular, the short-range transceiver may be capable of transmitting data to and\/or receiving data from electronic devices within a proximity of the mobile terminal, such as within 10 meters, for example. Although not shown, the mobile terminal may be capable of transmitting and\/or receiving data from electronic devices according to various wireless networking techniques, including Wireless Fidelity (Wi-Fi), WLAN techniques such as IEEE 802.11 techniques, IEEE 802.15 techniques, IEEE 802.16 techniques, and\/or the like.","The mobile terminal  may comprise memory, such as a subscriber identity module (SIM) , a removable user identity module (R-UIM), and\/or the like, which may store information elements related to a mobile subscriber. In addition to the SIM, the mobile terminal may comprise other removable and\/or fixed memory. The mobile terminal  may include volatile memory  and\/or non-volatile memory . For example, volatile memory  may include Random Access Memory (RAM) including dynamic and\/or static RAM, on-chip or off-chip cache memory, and\/or the like. Non-volatile memory , which may be embedded and\/or removable, may include, for example, read-only memory, flash memory, magnetic storage devices (e.g., hard disks, floppy disk drives, magnetic tape, etc.), optical disc drives and\/or media, non-volatile random access memory (NVRAM), and\/or the like. Like volatile memory  non-volatile memory  may include a cache area for temporary storage of data. The memories may store one or more software programs, instructions, pieces of information, data, and\/or the like which may be used by the mobile terminal for performing functions of the mobile terminal. For example, the memories may comprise an identifier, such as an international mobile equipment identification (IMEI) code, capable of uniquely identifying the mobile terminal .","Returning to , in an example embodiment, the apparatus  includes various means, such as a processor , memory , communication interface , user interface , and interest modeling circuitry  for performing the various functions herein described. These means of the apparatus  as described herein may be embodied as, for example, circuitry, hardware elements (e.g., a suitably programmed processor, combinational logic circuit, and\/or the like), a computer program product comprising computer-readable program instructions (e.g., software or firmware) stored on a computer-readable medium (e.g. memory ) that is executable by a suitably configured processing device (e.g., the processor ), or some combination thereof.","The processor  may, for example, be embodied as various means including one or more microprocessors with accompanying digital signal processor(s), one or more processor(s) without an accompanying digital signal processor, one or more coprocessors, one or more multi-core processors, one or more controllers, processing circuitry, one or more computers, various other processing elements including integrated circuits such as, for example, an ASIC (application specific integrated circuit) or FPGA (field programmable gate array), or some combination thereof. Accordingly, although illustrated in  as a single processor, in some embodiments the processor  comprises a plurality of processors. The plurality of processors may be in operative communication with each other and may be collectively configured to perform one or more functionalities of the apparatus  as described herein. The plurality of processors may be embodied on a single computing device or distributed across a plurality of computing devices collectively configured to function as the apparatus . In embodiments wherein the apparatus  is embodied as a mobile terminal , the processor  may be embodied as or comprise the processor . In an example embodiment, the processor  is configured to execute instructions stored in the memory  or otherwise accessible to the processor . These instructions, when executed by the processor , may cause the apparatus  to perform one or more of the functionalities of the apparatus  as described herein. As such, whether configured by hardware or software methods, or by a combination thereof, the processor  may comprise an entity capable of performing operations according to embodiments of the present invention while configured accordingly. Thus, for example, when the processor  is embodied as an ASIC, FPGA or the like, the processor  may comprise specifically configured hardware for conducting one or more operations described herein. Alternatively, as another example, when the processor  is embodied as an executor of instructions, such as may be stored in the memory , the instructions may specifically configure the processor  to perform one or more algorithms and operations described herein.","The memory  may comprise, for example, volatile memory, non-volatile memory, or some combination thereof. Although illustrated in  as a single memory, the memory  may comprise a plurality of memories. The plurality of memories may be embodied on a single computing device or may be distributed across a plurality of computing devices collectively configured to function as the apparatus . In various embodiments, the memory  may comprise, for example, a hard disk, random access memory, cache memory, flash memory, a compact disc read only memory (CD-ROM), digital versatile disc read only memory (DVD-ROM), an optical disc, circuitry configured to store information, or some combination thereof. In embodiments wherein the apparatus  is embodied as a mobile terminal , the memory  may comprise the volatile memory  and\/or the non-volatile memory . The memory  may be configured to store information, data, applications, instructions, or the like for enabling the apparatus  to carry out various functions in accordance with example embodiments of the present invention. For example, in at least some embodiments, the memory  is configured to buffer input data for processing by the processor . Additionally or alternatively, in at least some embodiments, the memory  is configured to store program instructions for execution by the processor . The memory  may store information in the form of static and\/or dynamic information. The stored information may include, for example, logged interactive user history data. This stored information may be stored and\/or used by interest modeling circuitry  during the course of performing its functionalities.","The communication interface  may be embodied as any device or means embodied in circuitry, hardware, a computer program product comprising computer readable program instructions stored on a computer readable medium (e.g., the memory ) and executed by a processing device (e.g., the processor ), or a combination thereof that is configured to receive and\/or transmit data from\/to an entity. For example, the communication interface  may be configured to communicate with a user terminal  and\/or targeted content provider  over the network  illustrated in . In at least one embodiment, the communication interface  is at least partially embodied as or otherwise controlled by the processor . In this regard, the communication interface  may be in communication with the processor , such as via a bus. The communication interface  may include, for example, an antenna, a transmitter, a receiver, a transceiver and\/or supporting hardware or software for enabling communications with one or more remote computing devices. The communication interface  may be configured to receive and\/or transmit data using any protocol that may be used for communications between computing devices. In this regard, the communication interface  may be configured to receive and\/or transmit data using any protocol that may be used for transmission of data over a wireless network, wireline network, some combination thereof, or the like by which the apparatus  and one or more remote computing devices are in communication. The communication interface  may additionally be in communication with the memory , user interface , and\/or interest modeling circuitry , such as via a bus.","The user interface  may be in communication with the processor  to receive an indication of a user input and\/or to provide an audible, visual, mechanical, or other output to a user. As such, the user interface  may include, for example, a keyboard, a mouse, a joystick, a display, a touch screen display, a microphone, a speaker, and\/or other input\/output mechanisms. In embodiments wherein the apparatus  is embodied as one or more servers, aspects of the user interface  may be reduced or the user interface  may even be eliminated. The user interface  may be in communication with the memory , communication interface , and\/or interest modeling circuitry , such as via a bus.","The interest modeling circuitry  may be embodied as various means, such as circuitry, hardware, a computer program product comprising computer readable program instructions stored on a computer readable medium (e.g., the memory ) and executed by a processing device (e.g., the processor ), or some combination thereof and, in one embodiment, is embodied as or otherwise controlled by the processor . In embodiments wherein the interest modeling circuitry  is embodied separately from the processor , the interest modeling circuitry  may be in communication with the processor . The interest modeling circuitry  may further be in communication with one or more of the memory , communication interface , or user interface , such as via a bus.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0051","num":"0054"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":["400","400","402","406","404","404"]},"A user terminal  may comprise any computing device used by a user to access content, such as web pages, and\/or engage in communications with other user terminals (e.g., communication via email, text messaging, instant messaging, and\/or the like) over the network . The user terminal  may comprise, for example, a desktop computer, laptop computer, mobile terminal, mobile computer, mobile phone, mobile communication device, one or more servers, one or more network nodes, game device, digital camera\/camcorder, audio\/video player, television device, radio receiver, digital video recorder, positioning device, any combination thereof, or the like.","A targeted content provider  may comprise any computing device or plurality of computing devices configured to provide content targeted to the interests of a user of a user terminal to a user terminal  such that the user of the user terminal  is enabled to view and\/or interact with the targeted content. In this regard, the targeted content provider  may comprise, for example, a desktop computer, laptop computer, mobile terminal, mobile computer, mobile phone, mobile communication device, one or more servers, one or more network nodes, game device, digital camera\/camcorder, audio\/video player, television device, radio receiver, digital video recorder, positioning device, any combination thereof, or the like.","The targeted content provided by a target content provider  may include, for example, advertising content. It will be appreciated, however, that targeted content is not limited to advertisements, but may comprise any content or other data that is selected and targeted toward a user's interests. The user terminal  may accordingly be configured to receive targeted content provided by the targeted content provider  over the network  and present the received targeted content to a user of the user terminal .","In some embodiments, the user terminal  comprises an apparatus . In such embodiments, the user terminal  may be configured to log interactive user history data. The interactive user history data may describe a user's interactions with and use of the user terminal . In this regard, the interactive user data may comprise, for example, web pages visited by the user, emails sent by the user, emails received by the user, text messages sent by the user, text messages received by the user, documents viewed by the user, documents edited by the user, instant messages sent by the user, instant messages received by the user, user-device interactive data, user's dynamic context information, and\/or the like. The user terminal  may be configured to determine at least one user interest topic based on the logged interactive user history data using a topic model, such as, for example, LLDA-TF, as described further herein below. The user terminal  may provide determined user interest topics to the targeted content provider  such that the targeted content provider may select targeted content targeted to the user's interests as indicated by the determined user interest topics and provide the targeted content to the user terminal . Since the targeted content provider  may not have access to interactive user history data, such embodiments may protect confidentiality of user data.","In alternative embodiments, the targeted content provider  comprises the apparatus . In such embodiments, the targeted content provider  may be configured to receive and\/or otherwise determine usage data regarding a user's interactive use of the user terminal . The usage data may comprise, for example, web pages visited by the user, emails sent by the user, emails received by the user, text messages sent by the user, text messages received by the user, documents viewed by the user, documents edited by the user, instant messages sent by the user, instant messages received by the user, user-device interactive data, user's dynamic context information, and\/or the like. The targeted content provider  may be configured to log the usage data as interactive user history data. The targeted content provider  may be further configured to determine at least one user interest topic based on the logged interactive user history data using a topic model, such as, for example, LLDA-TF, as described further herein below. The targeted content provider may be further configured to select targeted content targeted to the user's interests as indicated by the determined user interest topics and provide the targeted content to the user terminal .","Referring again to , the interest modeling circuitry  is configured in some embodiments to access logged interactive user history data for a user. In this regard, the interest modeling circuitry  may, for example, be configured to access logged interactive user history data from the memory , from a user terminal , and\/or the like. The logged interactive user history data may comprise, for example, web pages visited by the user, emails sent by the user, emails received by the user, text messages sent by the user, text messages received by the user, documents viewed by the user, documents edited by the user, instant messages sent by the user, instant messages received by the user, user-device interactive data, user's dynamic context information, and\/or the like. The interest modeling circuitry  is further configured in some embodiments to determine at least one user interest topic for a user by inputting at least a portion of the logged interactive user data into a topic model configured to act upon the logged interactive user data. This topic model may, for example, comprise an embodiment of the LLDA-TF algorithm further described below. A determined user interest topic may comprise a predefined topic category label. The topic category label may comprise a human readable name of a user interest topic. In this regard, a topic category label may provide meaning on the topic which it labels. For example, a topic category label may comprise, for example, \u201cinformation technology.\u201d Such a topic category label contrasts with the mere list of keywords representative of a latent topic that may be output by LDA.","Referring now to ,  illustrates a graphical representation of a labeled latent Dirichlet allocation with topic feature model that may be implemented by the interest modeling circuitry  according to an example embodiment of the invention. The notation used in  is generally the same as used in the LDA model illustrated in . However, the LLDA-TF model additionally includes the additional component of topic features (TF), labeled in  as \u03c8, compared with LDA model. In this regard yr serves as an influence factor of the topic features and\/or seed documents comprising the topic features. In this regard, topic models, including LLDA-TF, provided by embodiments of the invention are configured to act upon topic features that may, for example, be included in one or more seed documents generated from a topic feature source. Use of topic features, as described further below, may improve normal LDA and\/or other conventional topic models in several ways. In this regard, topic features give each topic a label (e.g., a topic category label), which help to identify the name of each topic. Further, usage of topic features as further described below may be helpful in getting a better topic cluster.","LLDA-TF and other topic models provided by embodiments of the invention use topic features as prior knowledge of different topics. For example, topic models provided by embodiments of the invention may be configured to act upon topic feature keywords and\/or seed documents comprising topic feature keywords. These topic feature keywords and\/or seed documents comprising topic feature keywords may be utilized by topic models provided by embodiments of the invention as prior knowledge of a topic. In this regard, a seed document may comprise one or more topic features (e.g., topic feature keywords) associated with the user interest topic with which the seed document is associated. The interest modeling circuitry  may be configured to abstract topic features from a topic feature source. The topic feature source may comprise any source of content documents having titles and associated text or other data. In this regard, a topic feature source may comprise, for example, an online or electronic encyclopedia, dictionary, and\/or the like. In an example embodiment, the topic feature source comprises Wikipedia. Embodiments of the invention will be further described with reference to Wikipedia as an example topic feature source. However, it will be appreciated that this description is by way of example and not by way of limitation. Accordingly, where use of Wikipedia is referenced it will be appreciated that other topic feature sources may be used in addition to or in lieu of Wikipedia.","Example pseudo-code for abstracting topic features from Wikipedia is as follows:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0061","num":"0064"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00001","num":"00001"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"175pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"1: for each topic t"]},{"entry":[{},"2: \u2003\u2003\u2002Keyword w[ ]"]},{"entry":[{},"3: \u2003\u2003\u2002wikipages wp=\u201d\u201d"]},{"entry":[{},"4: \u2003\u2003\u2002w[0] = get_tag(t)"]},{"entry":[{},"5: \u2003\u2003\u2002while not get enough keywords"]},{"entry":[{},"6: \u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2002for each wiki in wikipedia"]},{"entry":[{},"7: \u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2002title = get_title(wiki)"]},{"entry":[{},"8: \u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2002for each word in title"]},{"entry":[{},"9: \u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2002if w.contains(word)"]},{"entry":[{},"10: \u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003wp += wiki"]},{"entry":[{},"11: \u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003endif"]},{"entry":[{},"12: \u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003end loop"]},{"entry":[{},"13: \u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003end loop"]},{"entry":[{},"14: \u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003w = extract_keywords(wp)"]},{"entry":[{},"15: \u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003wp = \u201c\u201d"]},{"entry":[{},"16: \u2003\u2003end loop"]},{"entry":[{},"17: \u2003\u2003save_keywords(t, w)"]},{"entry":[{},"18: end loop"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}}}}},"The abstraction process may begin with a list of user interest topics with which an entity operating a service provider, content provider, the apparatus , and\/or the like is concerned. For each user interest topic, the interest modeling circuitry  may iteratively extract the keywords from Wikipedia. For each iteration, the interest modeling circuitry  may use the keywords that are obtained from the previous iteration to generate new keywords. Given the vast amount of content in Wikipedia, the interest modeling circuitry  may only consider titles of articles within Wikipedia when identifying articles of relevance to a user interest topic of concern. However, in some embodiments, the interest modeling circuitry  may consider the titles and contents of articles. The abstraction process may additionally have a condition to end the process so as to avoid infinite extraction of topic features from the topic feature source.","The abstraction process may generate a series of topic feature words for each user interest topic to be used in a topic model, such as, for example, LLDA-TF. In this regard, the interest modeling circuitry  may be configured, in performing an abstraction process, to generate a seed document for each user interest topic of concern. A seed document may have a user interest topic name at least partially defined by a title of a content document (e.g., article) accessed from the topic feature source (e.g., Wikipedia). A seed document may further comprise topic feature keywords corresponding to keywords extracted from the accessed content document. The generated seed documents may be used by the interest modeling circuitry  as input to the LLDA-TF algorithm.","Topic features (e.g., seed documents and\/or topic feature keywords contained within seed documents) may be used by the interest modeling circuitry  in statistical Gibbs sampling. It will be appreciated, however, that Gibbs sampling is provided as one example of a statistical sampling method that may be used and other appropriate sampling methods or algorithms are contemplated within the scope of the invention and may be substituted for Gibbs sampling. Alternative sampling methods that may be used in lieu of Gibbs sampling include, for example, other Markov chain Monte Carlo methods including, but not limited to, various random walk Monte Carlo methods (e.g., Metropolis-Hastings algorithm, Slice sampling, Multiple-try Metropolis algorithm, and\/or the like). Further, in some embodiments, various Bayesian inference techniques, such as, for example, variational Bayes approximation methods, expectation propagation, and\/or the like may be used in addition to or in lieu of Gibbs sampling. Accordingly, where Gibbs sampling is referred to herein, it is provided by way of example and not by way of limitation. This usage of topic features in an embodiment of the invention using an LLDA-TF topic model is illustrated in , which illustrates a graphical representation of inputs and outputs of a labeled latent Dirichlet allocation with topic feature model according to an example embodiment of the invention.","As illustrated in , training data  (e.g., interactive user history data) and labeled feature data  (e.g., seed documents) are mixed together and input into the LLDA-TF algorithm  in order to obtain the classified data  having a label for each determined user interest topic. The interest modeling circuitry  may fix each piece of feature data (e.g., seed) to a topic with a probabilistic during the procedure of sampling. Accordingly, LLDA-TF may use the posterior of p(z|w, \u03b1, \u03b2) rather than the one used in LDA.","This posterior may be represented as follows:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0067","num":"0070"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00003","num":"00003"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mi":"p","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["z","di"]},"mo":"|","mi":"w"},"mo":[",",","],"mi":["\u03b1","\u03b2"]}}},{"mo":"{","mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mi":"F","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"msub":{"mi":["z","d"]}}}},{"mrow":{"mi":["if","d","is","a","seed"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":[{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}}]}}]},{"mtd":[{"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":{"mrow":{"mfrac":{"mrow":[{"msub":[{"mi":"n","mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":["z","di"]},{"mi":["w","di"]}],"mo":","}},{"mi":"\u03b2","msub":{"mi":["w","di"]}}],"mo":["+","-"],"mn":"1"},{"mrow":{"munderover":{"mo":"\u2211","mrow":{"mi":"v","mo":"=","mn":"1"},"mi":"V"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":"n","mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["z","di"]},"mo":",","mi":"v"}},{"mi":["\u03b2","v"]}],"mo":"+"}}},"mo":"-","mn":"1"}]},"mo":"\u00d7"}}},{"mtd":{"mfrac":{"mrow":[{"msub":[{"mi":"m","mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":["d","di"]},{"mi":["z","di"]}],"mo":","}},{"mi":"\u03b1","msub":{"mi":["z","di"]}}],"mo":["+","-"],"mn":"1"},{"mrow":{"munderover":{"mo":"\u2211","mrow":{"mi":"z","mo":"=","mn":"1"},"mi":"T"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":"n","mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["d","di"]},"mo":",","mi":"z"}},{"mi":["\u03b1","z"]}],"mo":"+"}}},"mo":"-","mn":"1"}]}}}]}},{"mi":"otherwise"}]}]}}],"mo":"="}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"4"}}]}}}}},"The posterior in formula (4) includes two parts. The first part is the same as LDA for the training data (e.g., interactive user history data). The second part uses a predefined probability for the seed pages in accordance with embodiments of LLDA-TF algorithm as defined herein.","The interest modeling circuitry  may be configured, for each user interest topic, to use its topic feature keywords as an independent input seed document in the Gibbs sampling procedure. The interest modeling circuitry  may predefine a same distribution for the topic feature keywords in this seed document prior to performing the Gibbs sampling procedure. The interest modeling circuitry  may assign topic feature keywords belonging to different topics with different distributions. Through the whole iteration process, the distributions of these words are not changed. The topic features may thus influence the sampling procedure.","When sampling the topic of each word the interest modeling circuitry  may determine which function from formula (4) to use. The interest modeling circuitry  may make the determination of which function from formula (4) to use based on whether the document in which the word from is a seed or not. After completing the Gibbs sampling procedure, the interest modeling circuitry  may update \u03b8 and \u03c6 using formulas (2) and (3).","In one embodiment, the interest modeling circuitry  is configured to perform the Gibbs sampling procedure as follows:\n\n","Example pseudo code for Gibbs sampling of LLDA-TF in accordance with an example embodiment of the invention is as follows:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0073","num":"0082"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00002","num":"00002"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"left"}},"thead":{"row":{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":"\u2003\u20031: \u2002Page [ ] p_seed"},{"entry":"\u2003\u20032: \u2002int N_seed = Init_seeds(p_s);"},{"entry":"\u2003\u20033: \u2002Page [ ] p_doc"},{"entry":"\u2003\u20034: \u2002int N_doc = Load_Documents(p_doc);"},{"entry":"\u2003\u20035: \u2002Page [ ] p_all = p_s + p_train"},{"entry":"\u2003\u20036: \u2002for iter = 1 to N do"},{"entry":"\u2003\u20037: \u2003\u2003\u2002for d = 1 to N_seed+N_doc do"},{"entry":"\u2003\u20038: \u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2002for w = 1 to words do"},{"entry":"\u2003\u20039: \u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2002if d > N_seed"},{"entry":"\u2003\u200310: \u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003tdw = sample(p(zdw |w, \u03b1, \u03b2))"},{"entry":"\u2003\u200311: \u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\/\/tdw is the topic of word w in document d"},{"entry":"\u2003\u200312: \u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003else"},{"entry":"\u2003\u200313: \u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003tdw = sample(p(d))"},{"entry":"\u2003\u200314: \u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\/\/ p(d) is the predefined distribution of"},{"entry":"document d"},{"entry":"\u2003\u200315: \u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003endif"},{"entry":"\u2003\u200316: \u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003end loop"},{"entry":"\u2003\u200317: \u2003\u2003end loop"},{"entry":"\u2003\u200318: \u2003\u2003update p(zdw |w, \u03b1, \u03b2)"},{"entry":"\u2003\u200319: end loop"},{"entry":"\u2003\u200320: compute the posterior estimates of \u03b8 and \u03c6"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}},"In one embodiment, the determined user interest topics comprise those user interest topics determined as being associated with greater than a predefined threshold number or percentage of user history documents (e.g., visited web pages, text messages, emails, user context entries, other documents, and\/or the like). For example, given user interest topics A, B, and C and 100, out of 100 history documents, 90 history documents may be associated with topic A, 75 history documents may be associated with topic B, and 5 history documents may be associated with topic C. The predefined threshold number may, for example, comprise 50 user history documents. Accordingly, in such a scenario, the interest modeling circuitry  may determine topics A and B, while discarding topic C. In another example, a threshold percentage of history documents may be set at 25%. Again, the interest modeling circuitry  may determine topics A and B, which are associated with more than 25% of the history documents, while discarding topic C, which is associated with less than 25% of the history documents.","In some embodiments the interest modeling circuitry  is configured to extract relevant data from the logged interactive user history data and to input the extracted relevant data into the LLDA-TF algorithm and\/or other topic model rather than all of the raw interactive user history data. The interest modeling circuitry  may be configured to extract relevant data by extracting text from a region of a user history document having a text density satisfying a predefined threshold density requirement. In this regard, the interest modeling circuitry  may calculate a text density of a region of a user history document contained in the logged interactive user history data. If the text density of the region is greater than or equal to a predefined threshold density requirement, the interest modeling circuitry  may extract the text of the region as relevant data for inputting into the LLDA-TF algorithm. Otherwise, the interest modeling circuitry  may ignore or remove the text of the region.","For example, a user history document contained in the logged interactive user history data may comprise a web page. The raw web page may be represented in html format. In addition to html tags defined in the web page, the web page may also include some content that is not related to the topic of the web page, such as, for example, advertisements, links, and\/or other unrelated information. According to an example embodiment, extraction of only relevant data may be performed by the interest modeling circuitry  as follows:\n\n","Example pseudo code for extracting relevant data from a web page based on text density in accordance with an example embodiment of the invention is as follows:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0078","num":"0089"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00003","num":"00003"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"189pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"1: For each URL"]},{"entry":[{},"2: \u2003\u2003\u2002WebPage p = crawl(URL)"]},{"entry":[{},"3: \u2003\u2003\u2002texts = \u201c\u201d"]},{"entry":[{},"4: \u2003\u2003\u2002useful_texts = \u201c\u201d"]},{"entry":[{},"5: \u2003\u2003\u2003title = parse_title(p)"]},{"entry":[{},"6: \u2003\u2003\u2002for each line ln in p"]},{"entry":[{},"7: \u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2002text_ln = remove_html_script(ln)"]},{"entry":[{},"8: \u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2002density = strlen(text)\/strlen(ln)"]},{"entry":[{},"9: \u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2002texts += text_ln"]},{"entry":[{},"10: \u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003if(density>threshold)"]},{"entry":[{},"11: \u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003useful_texts += text_ln"]},{"entry":[{},"12: \u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003endif"]},{"entry":[{},"13: \u2003\u2003end loop"]},{"entry":[{},"14: \u2003\u2003page_density = strlen(useful_texts)\/strlen(p)"]},{"entry":[{},"15: \u2003\u2003if(page_density > page_threshold)"]},{"entry":[{},"16: \u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003save_page(URL, title*5+useful_texts)"]},{"entry":[{},"17: \u2003\u2003endif"]},{"entry":[{},"18: end loop"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}}}}},"As a further example, the interest modeling circuitry  may be configured to ignore or remove advertising content in web pages visited by the user while extracting non-advertising content. The interest modeling circuitry  may additionally or alternatively be configured to ignore or remove navigational content contained in a web page that is not related to the content of the web page itself.","In order to test the performance of an embodiment of the LLDA-TF algorithm, an evaluation was conducted wherein user web browsing history was collected from 11 users, each of whom was assigned 3 user interest topics potentially reflected in the browsing histories. As some of the users may have the same interests than others, 27 user interest topics were used in total. These 27 user interest topics were given in URL format and the web pages were processed first. The example of the interest information is shown in Table I.","In order to enhance the merit of the experimental results, the web pages were reorganized. Further, a virtual person was assumed to have 10 user interest topics, as listed in Table II.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0082","num":"0093"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00004","num":"00004"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"center"}},"thead":{"row":{"entry":"TABLE I"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":"27 CATEGORIES OF USER'S INTERESTS"}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"161pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Categories","Interests"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["IT","Cpp. Java, JavaScript, Web Run Time, Linux, agile"]},{"entry":[{},"processes, signal processing"]},{"entry":["Sports","marathon, basketball, football, jogging, floor ball,"]},{"entry":[{},"cricket"]},{"entry":["Music","Beatles, Indian music"]},{"entry":["Travelling","Vancouver, Helsinki, Australia"]},{"entry":["Entertainment","Poker, computer games, flight simulator, chess,"]},{"entry":[{},"remote control plane"]},{"entry":["Others","Handgun, advertising, airplane, leadership"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0083","num":"0094"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00005","num":"00005"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"center"}},"thead":{"row":{"entry":"TABLE II"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":"10 INTERESTS OF THE VIRTUAL PERSON"}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"21pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"77pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"119pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"Categories","Interests"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]},{"entry":[{},"IT","Java, agile processes"]},{"entry":[{},"Sports","floor ball"]},{"entry":[{},"Music","Beatles"]},{"entry":[{},"Travelling","Vancouver, Helsinki"]},{"entry":[{},"Entertainment","computer games"]},{"entry":[{},"Others","Advertising, handguns, airplane"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}}]}}},"In order to compare the performance of LDA to LLDA-TF, two measures were used for quantitative comparisons. Symbols used for these quantitative comparisons are defined as follows:\n\n","A first measure of quantitative comparison is Degree of Concentration (DC), which is defined by Equation (5) as:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0086","num":"0101"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00004","num":"00004"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["G","\u03c0"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"D"}},"mo":"=","mfrac":{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mo":"\u2211","msub":{"mi":["C","i"]}},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"\u03bb","msub":{"mi":["C","i"]}},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mi":"g","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"msub":{"mi":["C","i"]}}}}},{"msub":[{"mo":"\u2211","msub":{"mi":["C","i"]}},{"mi":"\u03bb","msub":{"mi":["C","i"]}}],"mo":"\u2062"}]}},"mo":","}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"5"}}]}}}}},"where, \u03c0 is the strategy that is adopted,",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0088","num":"0103"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00005","num":"00005"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"\u03bb","msub":{"mi":["C","i"]}},"mo":"=","mfrac":{"msub":{"mi":"N","msub":{"mi":["C","i"]}},"mrow":{"msub":[{"mo":"\u2211","msub":{"mi":["C","i"]}},{"mi":"N","msub":{"mi":["C","i"]}}],"mo":"\u2062"}}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"6"}}]},{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mi":"g","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"msub":{"mi":["C","i"]}}},{"mo":"-","mrow":{"msub":{"mo":"\u2211","msub":{"mi":["t","j"]}},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mfrac":[{"msub":[{"mi":"N","mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":["C","i"]},{"mi":["t","j"]}],"mo":"\u2062"}},{"mi":"N","msub":{"mi":["C","i"]}}]},{"msub":[{"mi":"N","mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":["C","i"]},{"mi":["t","j"]}],"mo":"\u2062"}},{"mi":"N","msub":{"mi":["C","i"]}}]}],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":[{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}}],"mi":"log"}}}}],"mo":"="}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"7"}}]}]}}}},"DC provides an indication of how well the documents belonging to a same topic are assigned with a same user interest topic label by the model. For a topic, the smaller the DC is, the better the performance is.","The second measure of quantitative comparison is Degree of Divergence (DD), which provides an indication of how well the documents from different classes are assigned with a specific user interest topic label by the model. For a topic, the smaller the DD is, the better the performance is. The formula of DD is:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0091","num":"0106"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00006","num":"00006"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["H","\u03c0"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"D"}},"mo":"=","mfrac":{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mo":"\u2211","msub":{"mi":["t","j"]}},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"\u03bb","msub":{"mi":["t","j"]}},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mi":"h","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"msub":{"mi":["t","j"]}}}}},{"msub":[{"mo":"\u2211","msub":{"mi":["t","j"]}},{"mi":"\u03bb","msub":{"mi":["t","j"]}}],"mo":"\u2062"}]}},"mo":","}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"8"}}]},{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mi":"where","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},"msub":{"mi":"\u03bb","msub":{"mi":["t","j"]}}},"mo":"=","mfrac":{"msub":{"mi":"N","msub":{"mi":["t","j"]}},"mrow":{"msub":[{"mo":"\u2211","msub":{"mi":["t","j"]}},{"mi":"N","msub":{"mi":["t","j"]}}],"mo":"\u2062"}}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"9"}}]},{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mi":"and","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},"mrow":{"mi":"h","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"msub":{"mi":["t","j"]}}}},{"mo":"-","mrow":{"msub":{"mo":"\u2211","msub":{"mi":["C","i"]}},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mfrac":[{"msub":[{"mi":"N","mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":["t","j"]},{"mi":["C","i"]}],"mo":"\u2062"}},{"mi":"N","msub":{"mi":["t","j"]}}]},{"msub":[{"mi":"N","mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":["t","j"]},{"mi":["C","i"]}],"mo":"\u2062"}},{"mi":"N","msub":{"mi":["t","j"]}}]}],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":[{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}}],"mi":"log"}}}}],"mo":"="}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"10"}}]}]}}}},"In order to determine the user interest topics of the virtual person discussed above, 27 seed pages were extracted from Wikipedia web pages whose titles are the user interest topics defined in Table I. The topic keywords were extracted from these 27 seed pages. Each list of keywords was used as a seed data in LLDA-TF learning phase. The results of LLDA-TF with 10 topics are shown in , which illustrates a bar graph showing assignment of input documents to user interest topics by an example embodiment of the invention. In the bar graph of , the X-axis represents the number of topics that were defined, and the Y-axis denotes the number of documents assigned to each of interest topic. Each unique bar shading stands for a class of tagged web pages.","The experimental results comparing the performance of LDA and LLDA-TF for the 10 topics discussed above as well as for 15 topics and 27 topics, respectively are illustrated in Table III below. As indicated in table III, LLDA-TF outperformed LDA in terms of both DC and DD metrics for the 10 topic, 15 topic, and 27 topic cases.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0094","num":"0109"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00006","num":"00006"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"center"}},"thead":{"row":{"entry":"TABLE III"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":"SUMMARY OF THE RESULTS USING"},{"entry":"DC AND DD AS MEASURES"}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"5"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"49pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"77pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"7pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"77pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"7pt","align":"center"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"DC",{},"DD",{}]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"5"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"49pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"LDA","LLDA-TF","LDA","LLDA-TF"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"5"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"49pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["10 topics","0.808773","0.819367","0.904353","0.880066"]},{"entry":["15 topics","0.907747","0.857627","0.702044","0.615373"]},{"entry":["27 topics","1.348299","1.212436","0.522422","0.405789"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"5","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}},"In some embodiments, the interest modeling circuitry  is further configured to utilize determined user interest topics to select targeted content targeted to a user's interests based at least in part upon one or more determined user interest topics. The targeted content may, for example, comprise advertising content. However, it will be appreciated that the targeted content may additionally or alternatively comprise non-advertising content that is targeted toward user interests. In one example, the targeted content may comprise informative content, news content, and\/or the like that is targeted toward determined user interest topics. As another example, the targeted content may comprise recommended interest groups, social networking groups, and\/or the like for a user that is targeted toward the determined user interest groups. In this regard, users having similar interests may form an interest group or belong to a social network. Accordingly, targeted content may comprise a recommendation of an interest group, social network, or the like to a user. Thus content and\/or service providers may utilize determined user interest topics to facilitate building social networks comprising members having similar interests, behavior, and\/or the like. The interest modeling circuitry  may additionally be configured to provide the targeted content to a user, such as, for example, by providing the targeted content to a user terminal  and\/or a user thereof.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0096","num":"0111"},"figref":["FIG. 8","FIG. 8"],"b":["218","800","810","820","830"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0097","num":"0112"},"figref":"FIG. 8","b":"202"},"Accordingly, blocks of the flowchart support combinations of means for performing the specified functions. It will also be understood that one or more blocks of the flowchart, and combinations of blocks in the flowchart, may be implemented by special purpose hardware-based computer systems which perform the specified functions, or combinations of special purpose hardware and computer program product(s).","The above described functions may be carried out in many ways. For example, any suitable means for carrying out each of the functions described above may be employed to carry out embodiments of the invention. In one embodiment, a suitably configured processor may provide all or a portion of the elements of the invention. In another embodiment, all or a portion of the elements of the invention may be configured by and operate under control of a computer program product. The computer program product for performing the methods of embodiments of the invention includes a computer-readable storage medium, such as the non-volatile storage medium, and computer-readable program code portions, such as a series of computer instructions, embodied in the computer-readable storage medium.","As such, then, some embodiments of the invention provide several advantages to service providers, content providers, computing devices and computing device users. Embodiments of the invention provide for the determination of user interest topics defining a user's interests. Embodiments of the invention facilitate leveraging determined user interest topics for providing targeted content, such as, for example, targeted advertising to users. In this regard, embodiments of the invention mine logged interactive user history data to determine user interest topics for a user. In accordance with some embodiments of the invention, the logged interactive user history data comprises data produced, received, and\/or accessed by a user in the course of everyday use of a computing device.","As patterns of usage of a device by the user may reflect a user's interests, embodiments of the invention provide for statistical modeling of logged interactive user history data by way of a novel topic model configured to act upon one or more seed documents generated from a topic feature source. One such topic model provided by an embodiment of the invention is labeled latent Dirichlet allocation with topic feature (LLDA-TF) algorithm. In accordance with embodiments of the invention, predefined topic category labels comprising human readable and understandable names are determined through statistical modeling from logged interactive user history data. These predefined topic category labels provide more meaningful information about user interest topics than previous models, which merely provide a list of keywords representing a latent topic.","Many modifications and other embodiments of the inventions set forth herein will come to mind to one skilled in the art to which these inventions pertain having the benefit of the teachings presented in the foregoing descriptions and the associated drawings. Therefore, it is to be understood that the embodiments of the invention are not to be limited to the specific embodiments disclosed and that modifications and other embodiments are intended to be included within the scope of the invention. Moreover, although the foregoing descriptions and the associated drawings describe example embodiments in the context of certain example combinations of elements and\/or functions, it should be appreciated that different combinations of elements and\/or functions may be provided by alternative embodiments without departing from the scope of the invention. In this regard, for example, different combinations of elements and\/or functions than those explicitly described above are also contemplated within the scope of the invention. Although specific terms are employed herein, they are used in a generic and descriptive sense only and not for purposes of limitation."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWING(S)","p":["Having thus described embodiments of the invention in general terms, reference will now be made to the accompanying drawings, which are not necessarily drawn to scale, and wherein:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 8"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
