---
title: Linking transactions
abstract: A first unique identifier is received from a first monitoring agent. The first unique identifier may be based on first natural data associated with a transaction. A second unique identifier is received from a second monitoring agent. The second unique identifier may be based on second natural data associated with the transaction. The first unique identifier may be correlated with the second unique identifier to monitor the transaction through a plurality of application environments.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08584123&OS=08584123&RS=08584123
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 08584123
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20091008
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS","FIELD OF DISCLOSURE","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["The present application is related to the following commonly assigned patent applications: U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12\/576,172, entitled \u201cSTITCHING TRANSACTIONS\u201d by Ashley Clementi et al.; U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12\/576,174, entitled \u201cCOMBINING MONITORING TECHNIQUES\u201d by Ashley Clementi et al.; and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12\/576,177, entitled \u201cPROCESSING TRANSACTION TIMESTAMPS\u201d by Ashley Clementi et al., all of which were filed on Oct. 8, 2009, and are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety for all purposes.","The present disclosure relates to monitoring transactions.","Transactions may flow through more than one application environment.","According to some embodiments, a first unique identifier is received from a first monitoring agent. The first unique identifier may be based on first natural data associated with a transaction. A second unique identifier is received from a second monitoring agent. The second unique identifier may be based on second natural data associated with the transaction. The first unique identifier may be correlated with the second unique identifier to monitor the transaction through a plurality of application environments.","The foregoing is a summary and thus contains, by necessity, simplifications, generalizations, and omissions of detail; consequently, those skilled in the art will appreciate that the summary is illustrative only and is not intended to be in any way limiting. Other features will become apparent in the non-limiting detailed description set forth below.","Certain specific details are set forth in the following description and figures to provide a thorough understanding of various embodiments of the disclosure. Certain well-known details often associated with computing and software technology are not set forth in the following disclosure, however, to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the various embodiments of the disclosure. Further, those of ordinary skill in the relevant art will understand that they can practice other embodiments of the disclosure without one or more of the details described below. Finally, while various methods are described with reference to steps and sequences in the following disclosure, the description as such is for providing a clear implementation of embodiments of the disclosure, and the steps and sequences of steps should not be taken as required to practice this disclosure. Instead, the following is intended to provide a detailed description of an example of the disclosure and should not be taken to be limiting of the disclosure itself. Rather, any number of variations may fall within the scope of the disclosure, which is defined by the claims that follow the description.","As will be appreciated by one skilled in the art, aspects of the present disclosure may be embodied as a system, method or computer program product. Accordingly, aspects of the present disclosure may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment, an entirely software embodiment (including firmware, resident software, micro-code, etc.) or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects that may all generally be referred to herein as a \u201ccircuit,\u201d \u201cmodule\u201d or \u201csystem.\u201d Furthermore, aspects of the present disclosure may take the form of a computer program product embodied in one or more computer readable medium(s) having computer readable program code embodied thereon.","Any combination of one or more computer readable medium(s) may be utilized. The computer readable medium may be a computer readable signal medium or a computer readable storage medium. A computer readable storage medium may be, for example, but not limited to, an electronic, magnetic, optical, electromagnetic, infrared, or semiconductor system, apparatus, or device, or any suitable combination of the foregoing. More specific examples (a non-exhaustive list) of the computer readable storage medium would include the following: an electrical connection having one or more wires, a portable computer diskette, a hard disk, a random access memory (RAM), a read-only memory (ROM), an erasable programmable read-only memory (EPROM or Flash memory), an optical fiber, a portable compact disc read-only memory (CD-ROM), an optical storage device, a magnetic storage device, or any suitable combination of the foregoing. In the context of this document, a computer readable storage medium may be any tangible medium that can contain, or store a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system, apparatus, or device.","A computer readable signal medium may include a propagated data signal with computer readable program code embodied therein, for example, in baseband or as part of a carrier wave. Such a propagated signal may take any of a variety of forms, including, but not limited to, electro-magnetic, optical, or any suitable combination thereof. A computer readable signal medium may be any computer readable medium that is not a computer readable storage medium and that can communicate, propagate, or transport a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system, apparatus, or device.","Program code embodied on a computer readable medium may be transmitted using any appropriate medium, including but not limited to wireless, wireline, optical fiber cable, RF, etc., or any suitable combination of the foregoing.","Computer program code for carrying out operations for aspects of the present disclosure may be written in any combination of one or more programming languages, including an object oriented programming language such as Java, Smalltalk, C++ or the like and conventional procedural programming languages, such as the \u201cC\u201d programming language or similar programming languages. The program code may execute entirely on the user's computer, partly on the user's computer, as a stand-alone software package, partly on the user's computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer or server. In the latter scenario, the remote computer may be connected to the user's computer through any type of network, including a local area network (LAN) or a wide area network (WAN), or the connection may be made to an external computer (for example, through the Internet using an Internet Service Provider).","Aspects of the present disclosure are described below with reference to flowchart illustrations and\/or block diagrams of methods, apparatus (systems) and computer program products according to embodiments of the disclosure. It will be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations and\/or block diagrams, and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and\/or block diagrams, can be implemented by computer program instructions. These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer, special purpose computer, or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine, such that the instructions, which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus, create means for implementing the functions\/acts specified in the flowchart and\/or block diagram block or blocks. These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable medium that can direct a computer, other programmable data processing apparatus, or other devices to function in a particular manner, such that the instructions stored in the computer readable medium produce an article of manufacture including instructions which implement the function\/act specified in the flowchart and\/or block diagram block or blocks.","The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer, other programmable data processing apparatus, or other devices to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer, other programmable apparatus or other devices to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide processes for implementing the functions\/acts specified in the flowchart and\/or block diagram block or blocks.","The following detailed description will generally follow the summary of the disclosure, as set forth above, further explaining and expanding the definitions of the various aspects and embodiments of the disclosure as necessary. To this end, this detailed description first sets forth a computing environment in  that is suitable to implement the software and\/or hardware techniques associated with the disclosure. A networked environment is illustrated in  as an extension of the basic computing environment, to emphasize that modern computing techniques can be performed across multiple discrete devices.","With the advent of the Internet and Web computing, enterprises have expanded their information technology (IT) to more distributed environments, while keeping portions of their business logic in a traditional mainframe environment using legacy systems. A legacy software system may be a non-J2EE software system. Examples of legacy software systems include IBM\u00ae (Registered trademark of International Business Machines Corporation) Customer Information Control System (CICS\u00ae (Registered trademark of International Business Machines Corporation)), IBM Information Management System (IMS\u2122 (Trademark of International Business Machines Corporation)), and DB2\u00ae (Registered trademark of International Business Machines Corporation). Along with distributed environments, software systems such as Web servers and application servers, for example, Java\u00ae 2 Platform Enterprise Edition (J2EE\u00ae (Java and all Java-based trademarks are trademarks of Sun Microsystems, Inc. in the United States, other countries, or both)) servers, have come along to provide on-line access through the World Wide Web. However, transactions may still be processed through the legacy software systems. For example, they may use synchronous gateways or asynchronous messaging systems such as IBM WebSphere\u00ae (Registered trademark of International Business Machines Corporation) MQSeries\u00ae (Registered trademark of International Business Machines Corporation). As a result, the processing of a transaction may not be confined to one application server or system.","A transaction may include composite transactions and business transactions, and may be executed in one or more application environment(s). A transaction may be initiated at a client or desktop, such as for example, Personal Computer , may traverse a network, such as, for example, Computer Network , may traverse one or more application environment(s), and may return to the client or desktop. A transaction may be a synchronous transaction and\/or an asynchronous transaction. For example, the processing of the transaction may flow from a Web server to an application server all the way to a legacy software system and back. The transaction may include multiple local, or sub-, transactions.","A local transaction is a part of a transaction which executes in a single application environment, i.e., it is \u201clocal\u201d to that particular application environment. The local transaction may execute in a specific region of an application environment. A local transaction that combines with other local transactions to form a transaction may be referred to as a subtransaction.","An application environment includes a set of protocols and services which host the execution of a transaction, and may span one or more server platforms. An application environment may include one or more of the following: a web server, a mainframe, a distributed application, an application server, a webserver farm, WebSphere Application Servers (WAS), Customer Information Control (CICS), Information Management System (IMS), WebSphere MQ, Database 2(DB2), SAP, DataPower, a domain, and\/or any other application environments as known in the art.","A region may be a part of an application environment where execution resources are directly addressable by programs using common programming languages. A region may also be referred to as an address space or a process.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0048","num":"0047"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["100","100","110","112","112","110","115","115","120","110","125","115","118","115","125","125","130"]},"Northbridge  and Southbridge  connect to each other using bus . In one embodiment, the bus is a Direct Media Interface (DMI) bus that transfers data at high speeds in each direction between Northbridge  and Southbridge . In another embodiment, a Peripheral Component Interconnect (PCI) bus connects the Northbridge and the Southbridge. Southbridge , also known as the I\/O Controller Hub (ICH) is a chip that generally implements capabilities that operate at slower speeds than the capabilities provided by the Northbridge. Southbridge  typically provides various busses used to connect various components. These busses include, for example, PCI and PCI Express busses, an ISA bus, a System Management Bus (SMBus or SMB), and\/or a Low Pin Count (LPC) bus. The LPC bus often connects low-bandwidth devices, such as boot ROM  and \u201clegacy\u201d I\/O devices (using a \u201csuper I\/O\u201d chip). The \u201clegacy\u201d I\/O devices () can include, for example, serial and parallel ports, keyboard, mouse, and\/or a floppy disk controller. The LPC bus also connects Southbridge  to Trusted Platform Module (TPM) . Other components often included in Southbridge  include a Direct Memory Access (DMA) controller, a Programmable Interrupt Controller (PIC), and a storage device controller, which connects Southbridge  to nonvolatile storage device , such as a hard disk drive, using bus .","ExpressCard  is a slot that connects hot-pluggable devices to the information handling system. ExpressCard  supports both PCI Express and USB connectivity as it connects to Southbridge  using both the Universal Serial Bus (USB) the PCI Express bus. Southbridge  includes USB Controller  that provides USB connectivity to devices that connect to the USB. These devices include webcam (camera) , infrared (IR) receiver , keyboard and trackpad , and Bluetooth device , which provides for wireless personal area networks (PANs). USB Controller  also provides USB connectivity to other miscellaneous USB connected devices , such as a mouse, removable nonvolatile storage device , modems, network cards, ISDN connectors, fax, printers, USB hubs, and many other types of USB connected devices. While removable nonvolatile storage device  is shown as a USB-connected device, removable nonvolatile storage device  could be connected using a different interface, such as a Firewire interface, etcetera.","Wireless Local Area Network (LAN) device  connects to Southbridge  via the PCI or PCI Express bus . LAN device  typically implements one of the IEEE 802.11 standards of over-the-air modulation techniques that all use the same protocol to wirelessly communicate between information handling system  and another computer system or device. Optical storage device  connects to Southbridge  using Serial ATA (SATA) bus . Serial ATA adapters and devices communicate over a high-speed serial link. The Serial ATA bus also connects Southbridge  to other forms of storage devices, such as hard disk drives. Audio circuitry , such as a sound card, connects to Southbridge  via bus . Audio circuitry  also provides functionality such as audio line-in and optical digital audio in port , optical digital output and headphone jack , internal speakers , and internal microphone . Ethernet controller  connects to Southbridge  using a bus, such as the PCI or PCI Express bus. Ethernet controller  connects information handling system  to a computer network, such as a Local Area Network (LAN), the Internet, and other public and private computer networks.","While  shows one information handling system, an information handling system may take many forms. For example, an information handling system may take the form of a desktop, server, portable, laptop, notebook, or other form factor computer or data processing system. In addition, an information handling system may take other form factors such as a personal digital assistant (PDA), a gaming device, ATM machine, a portable telephone device, a communication device or other devices that include a processor and memory.","The Trusted Platform Module (TPM ) shown in  and described herein to provide security functions is but one example of a hardware security module (HSM). Therefore, the TPM described and claimed herein includes any type of HSM including, but not limited to, hardware security devices that conform to the Trusted Computing Groups (TCG) standard, and entitled \u201cTrusted Platform Module (TPM) Specification Version 1.2.\u201d The TPM is a hardware security subsystem that may be incorporated into any number of information handling systems, such as those outlined in .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0054","num":"0053"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1","FIG. 2","FIG. 2"],"b":["210","270","210","220","230","240","250","260","280","200","260","265","270","275","280","285","145","145"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0055","num":"0054"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 3"],"b":["310","310","320","325","330","335","340","345","350","355","360","363","320","330","340","350","360","320","330","340","350","360"],"i":["a","a","a","a","a"]},"As illustrated in the example of , application A  is horizontally integrated  with application B ; and user instrumented distributed application  is horizontally integrated  with user instrumented mainframe application . Also, application C  is vertically integrated  with product A . Application C  is also vertically integrated  with user instrumented distributed application . Product B  is vertically integrated  with user instrumented mainframe application .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0057","num":"0056"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":["410","420","430","440","450","460"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0058","num":"0057"},"figref":"FIG. 5","b":["320","330"]},"C , user instrumented distributed application , and user instrumented mainframe application , of the transaction across the plurality of application environments L , M , N , O , P , and Q in the absence of any additional integration.","In this example, application A  includes one or more monitoring agents capable of monitoring application environment L , application environment M , and application environment N . In other words, application A  has visibility in environment L , application environment M , and application environment N , and can therefore monitor the transaction through those environments. Application B has visibility in application environment P  and application environment Q . Application C has visibility in application environment M  and application environment N . User instrumented distributed application  has visibility in application environment M , application environment N , and application environment O . User instrumented mainframe application  has visibility in application environment P  and application environment Q . However, none of the applications in the example have an end-to-end visibility of the transaction. Additionally, the applications may not be able to use monitoring information from the other applications, without invoking the APIs utilizing the data normalization layer .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0061","num":"0060"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 5"],"b":["310","610","440","350","450","360","610"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0062","num":"0061"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 6"],"b":["310","710","420","320","340","350","720","430","320","340","350","730","450","330","360","740","460","330","360","710","720","730","740"]},"As a result of the horizontal integration  coupling consecutive application environments and the vertical integrations , , , and  removing redundancies, a complete end-to-end view of the transaction may be provided. This end-to-end view may show the application environments illustrated in  that the transaction may flow through.","Embodiments of the invention may provide APIs that may be invoked at certain measurement points in a life of a local transaction. Embodiments may use measurement point data received through APIs to correlate local transactions, monitor a transaction, and\/or provide an end-to-end view of a transaction. In an example, APIs may take the form Point (timestamp, vertical link-id, vertical stitch list, horizontal link-id, horizontal stitch list, context), where Point is a type of measurement point, and timestamp, vertical link-id, vertical stitch list, horizontal link-id, horizontal stitch list, and context are parameters.","In an example, the type of measurement point may be: STARTED, FINISHED, OUTBOUND, INBOUND, or HERE. A STARTED measurement point may be a point taken when the local transaction starts. A FINISHED measurement point may be a point taken when the local transaction ends. An OUTBOUND measurement point may be a point taken when the transaction leaves the local transaction for another local transaction in a different region. Processing may either block (synchronous model) or continue (asynchronous model) in the local transaction. An INBOUND measurement point may be a point taken when the transaction enters the local transaction from another local transaction in a different region. A HERE measurement point may be a point taken anywhere in the local transaction between, and including, the STARTED and FINISHED points.","Timestamp may be a standardized timestamp for a measurement point. Context may be general information about the local transaction that may not be used to couple or merge local transaction instances, but instead may be for display or reporting purposes.","Vertical link-id may be a string that uniquely identifies the local transaction and therefore may be the same for all measurement points between and including STARTED and FINISHED. The vertical link-id may be used to link together two points within the local transaction.","Vertical stitch list may be a list of NAME\/VALUE pairs which may used to vertically stitch local transaction instances that are identical (for example, when there are several applications monitoring the same local transaction). A NAME may be a description of a value, and the VALUE may be the value itself.","Horizontal link-id may be a string which uniquely identifies a one-directional trip defined when the transaction leaves a local transaction (OUTBOUND) and enters another local transaction (INBOUND). Therefore a horizontal link-id of an OUTBOUND point in the source local transaction may be the same as a horizontal link-id of an INBOUND point in a destination local transaction. The horizontal link-id may be used to couple two distinct local transactions at specific points. The horizontal link-id may be used to link together two different measurement points located in two separate local transactions.","Horizontal stitch list may be a list of NAME\/VALUE pairs which may be used to horizontally stitch (couple) two distinct local transaction instances at arbitrary points (not necessarily OUTBOUND and INBOUND). The horizontal stitch list may be used when there is no horizontal link-id, when it is not possible to determine when the transaction left the local transaction or entered another local transaction, or any other time.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0071","num":"0070"},"figref":"FIG. 8","b":["810","820","830"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0072","num":"0071"},"figref":["FIG. 9","FIG. 8"],"b":["320","330","320","810","330","820","830"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0073","num":"0072"},"figref":["FIG. 10","FIG. 9","FIG. 6","FIG. 8"],"b":["1010","810","320","820","330","1010"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0074","num":"0073"},"figref":["FIG. 11","FIG. 8"],"b":["340","330","340","810","820","330","820","830"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0075","num":"0074"},"figref":["FIG. 12","FIG. 11","FIG. 7","FIG. 8"],"b":["1210","820","340","330","1210"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0076","num":"0075"},"figref":["FIG. 13","FIG. 12","FIG. 12"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0077","num":"0076"},"figref":"FIG. 14","b":["1410","1420","1430","1440","1450"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0078","num":"0077"},"figref":["FIG. 15","FIG. 14"],"b":["320","330","360","320","1410","1420","330","1430","360","1440","1450"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0079","num":"0078"},"figref":["FIG. 16","FIG. 15","FIG. 6","FIG. 14"],"b":["1610","1420","320","1430","330","1620","1430","330","1440","360","1610","1620"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0080","num":"0079"},"figref":["FIG. 17","FIG. 14"],"b":["320","340","320","1410","1420","340","1420","1430","1440","360","1440","1450"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0081","num":"0080"},"figref":["FIG. 18","FIG. 17","FIG. 7","FIG. 14"],"b":["1810","1420","320","340","1820","1440","340","360","1810","1820"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0082","num":"0081"},"figref":["FIG. 19","FIG. 18","FIG. 18"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0083","num":"0082"},"figref":["FIG. 20","FIG. 3"],"b":["2010","320","320"]},"A transaction attribute is considered to be natural if it is not artificially created and inserted by a monitoring agent. The transaction attribute may be natural because it is an inherent part of the transaction. A transaction attribute may be natural if it is created by a middleware layer, a network layer, or any other layer.","A transaction attribute is considered to be artificial if it is created by a monitoring agent. For example, a token may be generated using information that is not inherent to the transaction. The token may be injected into, or flown through, along with the transaction. The token may include information that would not have been included as part of the transaction if the transaction was not being monitored, and the token may be used to monitor the transaction.","The first transaction attribute may include a plurality of identifiers and may be associated with a transaction. The identifiers that make up the first transaction attribute may not be unique in and of themselves, but the combination of the plurality of unique identifiers may be reasonably unique. The identifiers may include at least one or more of the following: a string, a vector, a name\/value pair, and\/or any other identifying information.","At step , a timestamp may be received from the first monitoring agent.","The timestamp may be a standardized timestamp for a measurement point of the transaction. At step , a second transaction attribute may be received from a second monitoring agent. By way of example, the second monitoring agent may be the application B monitoring agent a included in application B , described above with reference to . In some embodiments, the second monitoring agent may be the same monitoring agent as the first monitoring agent. The second transaction attribute may be associated with the transaction. At step , a third transaction attribute may be received from a third monitoring agent. By way of example, the third monitoring agent may be user implemented mainframe application monitoring agent a included in the user implemented mainframe application , described above with reference to . The third transaction attribute may be associated with the transaction.","The first transaction attribute may be a subset of information associated with a first measurement point and may include a plurality of identifiers associated with the transaction. The second transaction attribute may be a subset of information associated with a second measurement point and may include a plurality of identifiers associated with the transaction. A subset of the first transaction attribute may be identical to a subset of the second transaction attribute. A local transaction may be executed in one of the application environments, and the first transaction attribute and the second transaction attribute may be associated with the local transaction. A first local transaction may be executed in a first application environment, and a second local transaction may be executed in a second application environment that is distinct from the first application environment. By way of example, the first application environment may be application environment R , and the second application environment may be application environment S , both described above with reference to . The third transaction attribute may be a subset of information associated with a third measurement point and may include a plurality of identifiers associated with the transaction.","A measurement point may be a boundary point. A boundary point is a point of exit or entry from or to a local transaction. Examples of boundary points include the INBOUND and OUTBOUND points previously described. A measurement point may be a nonboundary point. A nonboundary point is a point that is not a point of exit or entry from or to a local transaction. An example of a nonboundary point includes the HERE point described earlier.","At step , the first measurement point in a first application environment may be associated with a second measurement point in a second application environment. The associating may include stitching. The associating may include using an API and\/or a file to correlate the first transaction attribute with the second transaction attribute. An example of an API includes the data normalization layer , described above with reference to . An example of the type of file that may be used is an XML file. The file may be editable by a user to associate the first transaction attribute with the second transaction attribute. The file may be an external file.","At step , the transaction may be monitored through a plurality of application environments by associating at least a portion of the first transaction attribute with at least a portion of the second transaction attribute. The portion of the first transaction may be a subset of the plurality of identifiers. Also, the first transaction attribute and the third transaction attribute may be used to monitor the transaction through a plurality of application environments.","If a first local transaction is executed in a first application environment, and a second local transaction is executed in a second application environment that is distinct from the first application environment, then the monitoring may include monitoring the first local transaction and the second local transaction across application environments.","At step , a composite of data received from the first monitoring agent and the second monitoring agent may be displayed. As used in this application, displaying may be performed on a local system and\/or on any system accessible through a network, such as, for example, Personal Computer  in .","As may be appreciated by one having reasonable skill in the art, stitching may include a 1:1 coupling, a 1:n coupling, an n:1 coupling, or and\/or an n:n coupling. Stitching may include a horizontal integration, and\/or it may include a vertical integration.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0096","num":"0095"},"figref":["FIG. 21","FIG. 3","FIG. 20"],"b":["2110","320","320"],"i":"a "},"The first monitoring agent may monitor the transaction within one application environment of a plurality of application environments. The first monitoring agent may monitor the transaction within more than one of a plurality of application environments.","At step , a timestamp may be received from the first monitoring agent. The timestamp may be a standardized timestamp associated with a measurement point of the transaction.","At step , a second unique identifier may be received. The second unique identifier may be received from the first monitoring agent. The second unique identifier may be received from a second monitoring agent. By way of example, the second monitoring agent may be the application B monitoring agent included in application B , described above with reference to . In some embodiments, the second monitoring agent may be the same monitoring agent as the first monitoring agent. Second natural data may be associated with the transaction, and the second unique identifier may be based on the second natural data.","At step , the first unique identifier is correlated with the second unique identifier to monitor the transaction through a plurality of application environments. By way of example, the plurality of application environments could include application environment R , application environment S , and application environment T , as described above with reference to .","The first unique identifier may be correlated to the second unique identifier as a result of being a direct match. The correlating may be dynamic or hard-coded. Dynamic means that it is not hard coded. An example of dynamically correlating includes using an API. Dynamic correlating may be performed using an API to correlate the first unique identifier with the second unique identifier.","A first local transaction may be a subtransaction of the transaction, and a second local transaction may be another subtransaction of the transaction, and the first local transaction may be associated with the second local transaction.","A first local transaction may be executed in a first application environment, and a second local transaction may be executed in a second application environment, and the first local transaction and the second local transaction may be correlated across application environments. By way of example, the first application environment may include application environment R , and the second application environment may include application environment S , described above with reference to . A first local transaction and a second local transaction may occur in the same application environment, for example, application environment T , described above with reference to .","At step , a composite of data received from the first monitoring agent and the second monitoring agent may be displayed.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0105","num":"0104"},"figref":["FIG. 22","FIG. 3","FIG. 15","FIG. 3"],"b":["2210","320","320","330","360","2220","330"]},"At step , a third subset of information about the transaction may be received from a third application. By way of example, the third application may be user instrumented mainframe application , described above with reference to . The first, second, and\/or third subset of information may be received via an API. The first, second, and\/or third subset of information may include overlapping data. The first, second, and\/or third applications may not have knowledge of one or more of the other applications. The first, second, and\/or third applications may not directly interact with one or more of the other applications. The first, second, and\/or third applications may not individually have an end-to-end view of the transaction.","At step , the first subset of information may be combined with the second subset of information to produce composite information about the transaction; and the third subset of information may be combined with the composite information resulting in further composite information. The combining may include integration by stitching and\/or linking. The stitching and\/or linking may be vertical and\/or horizontal. The composite information and\/or the further composite information may include an end-to-end view of the transaction. By way of example, an embodiment of composite information including an end-to-end view may be seen in ; and an embodiment of further composite information including an end-to-end view may be seen in .","At step , the composite information and\/or the further composite information may be displayed.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0109","num":"0108"},"figref":"FIG. 23","b":"2310"},"At step , the first timestamp may be stored. The first timestamp may be stored in a persistent storage medium, such as, for example, a hard disk.","At step , a second measurement point may be received from a second monitoring agent. In some embodiments, the second monitoring agent may be the same monitoring agent as the first monitoring agent. The second measurement point may include a second timestamp and a second transaction attribute.","The first measurement point and the second measurement point may be any types of measurement points.","The first measurement point may be a first HERE point of a first local transaction. The second measurement point may be a second HERE point of a second local transaction. The first and second local transactions may be subtransactions of the transaction. The first and second HERE points may be used to associate the first and second local transactions.","The first measurement point may be an OUTBOUND point of a first local transaction indicating that the transaction has left the first local transaction for a second local transaction in a different application environment. The second measurement point may be an INBOUND point of the second local transaction indicating that the transaction has entered the second local transaction. The first and second local transactions may be subtransactions of the transaction.","At step , the second timestamp may be stored. The second timestamp may be stored in a persistent storage medium.","At step , a length of time the transaction took to flow from the first measurement point to the second measurement point may be determined using the first timestamp and the second timestamp. The first timestamp and the second timestamp may be retained in a persistent storage medium subsequent to determining the length of time the transaction took to flow from the first measurement point to the second measurement point.","The first measurement point may be a START point of a local transaction and the second measurement point may be an END point of the local transaction. The local transaction may be a subtransaction of the transaction. A response time of the local transaction may be determined for example, by using the first timestamp and the second timestamp. The response time may be displayed. The first timestamp and the second timestamp may be retained in a persistent storage medium subsequent to determining the response time.","At step , the length of time the transaction took to flow from the first measurement point to the second measurement point may be displayed.","At step , it may be determined that the transaction is currently processing in an application environment identified by the second measuring point.","At step , the first measurement point and the second measurement point may be used to determine where the transaction has flown.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0121","num":"0120"},"figref":"FIG. 24","b":["410","420","430","1","2410","2","2415","3","2420","4","2425","410"]},"Application environment M  includes measurement point E , measurement point E , measurement point E , and measurement point E . Each of these measurement points specifies the same vertical link-id E. Application M  also includes measurement point F , measurement point F , and measurement point F . Each of these measurement points specifies the same vertical link-id F. In other words, E and F are two local transactions within the same application environment.","Application environment N  includes measurement point G , measurement point G , and measurement point G . Each of these measurement points specifies the same vertical link-id G.","In this example, the transaction may execute in one region in application environment L . The transaction may execute as a local transaction identified by the vertical link-id D. The transaction may then leave application environment L  to enter application environment M .","In application environment M , the transaction may first execute as a local transaction identified by the vertical link-id E. The transaction may then execute as a local transaction identified by the vertical link-id F. The transaction may then leave application environment M  to enter application environment N .","In application environment N  the transaction may execute as a local transaction identified by the vertical link-id G. Then the transaction may return to application environment L  local transaction A in reverse order.","In the current example in local transaction D, measurement point D  is a STARTED and INBOUND point, i.e., a measurement point where both the STARTED and INBOUND APIs are invoked in that order. Measurement point D  is an OUTBOUND point. Measurement point D  is an INBOUND point and point D  is a FINISHED point.","In local transaction E, measurement point E  is a STARTED and INBOUND point. Measurement point E  is an OUTBOUND point. Measurement point E  is an INBOUND point and point E is a FINISHED point.","In local transaction F, measurement point F  is a STARTED and INBOUND point. Measurement point F  is an OUTBOUND point. Measurement point F  is a FINISHED point.","In local transaction G, measurement point G is a STARTED point. Measurement point G is a HERE point. Measurement point G is a FINISHED point.","A horizontal link-id specified at measurement point D (OUTBOUND) is the same as the horizontal link-id at measurement point E (INBOUND), coupling local transaction D and local transaction E at these points. A horizontal link-id may be used to couple OUTBOUND and INBOUND points of two separate local transactions. Horizontal link-ids may be used to couple any points of two separate local transactions using common unique identifiers that may be matched. It is the same for measurement point E (OUTBOUND) and measurement point D (INBOUND) on the response side with a different horizontal link-id.","Measurement point E  and measurement point F  are coupled by matched horizontal link-ids. Measurement point F  and measurement point E  are coupled by matched horizontal link-ids.","Local transactions F and G follow a different pattern, i.e., measurement point F (OUTBOUND) is coupled to measurement point G  (HERE). This happens because although it is known that the two local transactions are somehow coupled, there may not be a way to determine an exact point where the transaction enters local transaction G. Therefore a matching INBOUND to the measurement point F  OUTBOUND cannot be defined. In this case a horizontal stitching may be used as a coupling technique.","For horizontal stitching, the pairing of measurement point F  and an arbitrary intermediate point in G, G  is made by matching one or more NAME\/VALUE pairs on both sides. NAME\/VALUE pairs may specify common contextual data that are enough to fully couple local transactions F and G; yet the exact position of measurement point G  is not known.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0135","num":"0134"},"figref":["FIG. 25","FIG. 24"],"b":["320","330","1","2510","2","2515","3","2520"]},"Application A  may specify for measurement point F  and measurement point F  a set of vertical stitch NAME\/VALUE pairs (or any other transaction attribute) which may uniquely identify the local transaction identified by F. Application B  may also specify for measurement point H , measurement point H , and measurement point H  the same set (or a common subset) of the NAME\/VALUE pairs which may uniquely identify the local transaction as identified by H. Because the set (or subset) of NAME\/VALUE pairs is identical, then local transaction F can be vertically stitched with local transaction H. Thus, two local transactions may be recognized as identical and therefore vertically stitched.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0137","num":"0136"},"figref":["FIG. 26","FIG. 25","FIG. 26","FIG. 24"]},"Thus, applications with different monitoring techniques may operate independently and yet communicate with each other at intersection points. Unified end-to-end transaction monitoring across heterogeneous environments may be possible. The monitoring of transactions may combine dynamic correlation and token-based tracking into a single offering to provide end-to-end coverage. The dynamic correlation, on it's own or along with token-based tracking, may support existing ARM instrumentation, GPS, synchronous transactions, asynchronous transactions, monitoring transactions across a variety of platforms and through a variety of domains. Additionally, response time and transaction monitoring may be integrated. Also, natural information may be used to correlate the flow of transactions between applications without the need to flow a token.","Embodiments described herein may be used to accommodate and extend","Application Response Measurement (ARM). For example, the API may be an ARM API. However, the API may also not be an ARM API. Similarly, embodiments may be used to extend and accommodate Global Publishing Server (GPS).","The Figures may illustrate the architecture, functionality, and operation of possible implementations of systems, methods and computer program products according to various embodiments of the present disclosure. In this regard, each block in the flowchart or block diagrams may represent a module, segment, or portion of code, which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified logical function(s). It should also be noted that the Figures are for illustrative purposes only, and in some implementations, the features or functions noted may occur differently than noted in the Figures, for example, by being in a different order, including additional or modified features or functions, or by missing certain features or functions altogether. For example, two blocks shown in succession may, in fact, be executed substantially concurrently, or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order, depending upon the functionality involved. It will also be noted that each block of the block diagrams and\/or flowchart illustration, and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and\/or flowchart illustration, can be implemented by special purpose hardware-based systems that perform the specified functions or acts, or combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.","While particular embodiments of the present disclosure have been shown and described, it will be obvious to those skilled in the art that, based upon the teachings herein, that changes and modifications may be made without departing from this disclosure and its broader aspects. Therefore, the appended claims are to encompass within their scope all such changes and modifications as are within the true spirit and scope of this disclosure. Furthermore, it is to be understood that the disclosure is solely defined by the appended claims. It will be understood by those with skill in the art that if a specific number of an introduced claim element is intended, such intent will be explicitly recited in the claim, and in the absence of such recitation no such limitation is present. For non-limiting example, as an aid to understanding, the following appended claims contain usage of the introductory phrases \u201cat least one\u201d and \u201cone or more\u201d to introduce claim elements. However, the use of such phrases should not be construed to imply that the introduction of a claim element by the indefinite articles \u201ca\u201d or \u201can\u201d limits any particular claim containing such introduced claim element to disclosures containing only one such element, even when the same claim includes the introductory phrases \u201cone or more\u201d or \u201cat least one\u201d and indefinite articles such as \u201ca\u201d or \u201can\u201d; the same holds true for the use in the claims of definite articles. Also, the use of first, second, third, etc may be used to refer to distinct elements, but also may be used in some embodiments to refer to the same element."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The teachings of the present disclosure may be better made apparent to those skilled in the art by referencing the accompanying drawings, wherein:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0008","num":"0007"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 4"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 5"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 6"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":["FIG. 9","FIG. 8"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":["FIG. 10","FIG. 9"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":["FIG. 11","FIG. 8"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":["FIG. 12","FIG. 11"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":["FIG. 13","FIG. 12"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 14"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":["FIG. 15","FIG. 14"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":["FIG. 16","FIG. 5"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":["FIG. 17","FIG. 14"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":["FIG. 18","FIG. 17"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":["FIG. 19","FIG. 18"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":"FIG. 20"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIG. 21"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":"FIG. 22"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":"FIG. 23"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":"FIG. 24"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":["FIG. 25","FIG. 24"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":["FIG. 26","FIG. 25"]}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
