---
title: Removal of minerals from cellulosic biomass
abstract: Disclosed is a method for removing minerals from a cellulosic biomass. For example, the biomass may be prewashed with an acid solution and rinsed with water to remove minerals prior to acid saccharification. The removal of minerals may reduce overall acid requirements, and decrease pretreatment costs.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08101024&OS=08101024&RS=08101024
owner: The Trustees of Dartmouth College
number: 08101024
owner_city: Hanover
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20090205
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATION","GOVERNMENT INTERESTS","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION","Example 1","Mathematical Model","Example 2","Analysis of Neutralization, Bisulfate Formation and Temperature on Hemicellulose Hydrolysis","Example 3","Mineral Wash of a Biomass"],"p":["This is a divisional application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11\/293,639, filed Dec. 2, 2005 now U.S. Pat. No. 7,503,981 which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60\/632,483, filed Dec. 2, 2004, the disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference.","The United States Government may have certain rights in the present invention as research relevant to its development was funded by the United States Department of Agriculture Initiative for Future Agricultural and Food Systems Program contract number 00-52104-9663.","1. Field of the Invention","The present invention pertains to the field of processing biomass to produce fuels, chemicals and other useful products and, more specifically, to hydrolyzing cellulosic biomass to produce sugars for conversion to ethanol and other products. Use of a prewash to remove minerals before acidifying the biomass results in significantly improved acid pretreatment efficiency.","2. Description of the Related Art","Cellulosic biomass represents an inexpensive and readily available source of sugars. These sugars may be used alone, fermented to produce alcohols and industrial chemicals, or chemically converted to other compounds. For example, cellulosic biomass is useful for generating ethanol, which has a number of industrial and fuel uses. Of particular interest is the use of ethanol as a gasoline additive that boosts octane, reduces pollution, and partially replaces gasoline in fuel mixtures.","Generally speaking, biomass, e.g., wood, grass, forest or crop residue, contains cellulose wrapped in a recalcitrant lignin and hemicellulose sheath. The sheath must be chemically and\/or physically disrupted in a pretreatment step that produces some sugars and provides access to cellulose. Typical pretreatment protocols involve mechanical size reduction, acid hydrolysis, ammonia or alkali treatment, and\/or steam explosion. High capital and operating costs are associated with all of these pretreatment methods. For example, most of the pretreatments are carried out at high temperatures and a considerable amount of energy is used to heat the biomass. These high temperatures create the evolution of steam and other gaseous products which create high pressures, with concomitantly high containment costs. Further, the elevated pressures make it difficult to introduce solid materials into the reactor.","In acid pretreatments, nitric or hydrochloric acid may be used, but sulfuric acid is often favored because of its lower cost. However, pretreatment expenditures may still be large when sulfuric acid is used because substantial quantities of acid are required, and neutralization and disposal costs remain. It has been found by A. Esteghlalian, A. G. Hashimoto, J. J. Fenske, and M. H. Penner, 59, 1997, 129-136 and J. N. BeMiller, 22, 1967, 25-108, that cellulosic biomass can have a significant mineral content, and that these minerals neutralize some of the acid during dilute-acid pretreatment, which increases acid demand. For example, mineral oxides combine with sulfuric acid to form sulfate salts and water:\n\nN2OHSO\u2003N2(SO)HO\u2003\u2003(1)\n\nwhere N is potassium, sodium, calcium, iron and other cations, and m is an integer equal to the charge of the cation. This neutralization reaction consumes hydrogen ions in the formation of water.\n","Specific to sulfuric acid is an equilibrium shift to formation of bisulfate that can further reduce hydrogen ion concentrations and compound the effect of neutralization, as reported by J. M Readnour and J. W. Cobble, 8(10), 1969, 2174-2182. Equation (2) shows the sulfate salt formed in Equation (1) combining with hydrogen ions to form a bisulfate salt:\n\nN2(SO)H\u2003N(HSO)+N\u2003\u2003(2)\n","This equilibrium shift has a more pronounced effect at lower acid concentrations, where the quantity of hydrogen ion consumed in Equation (2) represents a large percentage of the total hydrogen ion concentration. Further, bisulfate salt formation is favored when dilute solutions are subjected to the high temperatures used for pretreatment reactions because the equilibrium constant, K=([H][SO])\/[HSO], decreases as temperature increases. Due to both bisulfate salt formation and a shift in the sulfuric acid dissociation equilibrium, an increase in pH is observed and additional acid is required to achieve a particular reaction rate.","The present invention advances the art and overcomes the problems outlined above by providing an improved and more efficient method for the use of acid in biomass conversion processes.","In one embodiment, a method for enhancing cellulosic saccharification includes removing minerals from a cellulosic biomass by use of an acid prewash that is substantially separated from the cellulosic biomass before acid pretreatment, to reduce the mineral content of the biomass, wherein the acid prewash contains acid in an effective amount to remove a beneficial quantity of minerals in the biomass without substantially hydrolyzing hemicellulose or cellulose in the biomass, and thereafter pretreating the biomass by the use of acid.","In one embodiment, a method for enhancing cellulosic saccharification includes removing minerals from a cellulosic biomass by use of an acid prewash that is substantially separated from the cellulosic biomass before acid pretreatment, to reduce the mineral content of the biomass, wherein the acid prewash contains acid in an effective amount to remove a beneficial quantity of minerals in the biomass without substantially hydrolyzing hemicellulose or cellulose in the biomass, and thereafter pretreating the biomass by the use of acid.","The removal of minerals from a cellulosic biomass may be followed by one or more saccharification steps. For example, acid hydrolysis may be used alone or followed by enzymatic hydrolysis.","In one embodiment, a method of evaluating the effect of mineral content in a cellulosic biomass includes determining the amount of sulfuric acid consumed by mineral neutralization and bisulfate salt formation per mass of cellulosic biomass. The method may further include determining a pH of a slurry of the cellulosic biomass and optionally comparing the pH of the slurry of the cellulosic biomass with the pH of a slurry of an ideal cellulosic biomass.","There will now be shown and described a method for increasing process efficiency in making useful products out of cellulosic biomass. For cellulosic substrates, efficiency is improved by treating the biomass with an acid wash followed by a water wash to remove minerals.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["100","102","104","106","104","102"]},"It will be appreciated that the cellulosic material may be any feedstock that contains cellulose. In various embodiments, the cellulosic biomass comprises wood, corn stover, sawdust, bark, leaves, agricultural and forestry residues, grasses such as switchgrass, ruminant digestion products, municipal wastes, paper mill effluent, newspaper, cardboard, or combinations thereof. Reactor system  may accept various feedstocks and any agricultural, industrial, or municipal process that uses or discharges such wastes may be modified to incorporate reactor system .","A screw extruder  transfers the chopped cellulosic material from chopper mill . An acid prewash  may be added to screw extruder . For example, the acid may be selected from the group consisting of hydrochloric, nitric, and sulfuric acid present at about 0.01 to 10% by weight acid, or from 0.05 to 5% by weight acid, or from 0.1 to 2% by weight acid, or from 0.1 to 1% by weight acid based on the weight of dry cellulosic material . The prewash step may be performed at a temperature of about 25-85\u00b0 C. Preferably, the acid prewash as characterized by these concentrations removes minerals in the biomass without hydrolyzing hemicellulose or cellulose. The cellulosic material  may be rinsed with water  in spray washer  to remove acid prewash , thus creating a substantially mineral-free or reduced mineral biomass.","A \u201csubstantially mineral-free\u201d biomass is a biomass that has been treated to remove at least a portion of the minerals present in the biomass prior to treatment. For example, at least about 1%, 2%, 3%, 4%, 5%, 10%, 20%, 25%, 30%, 40%, 50%, 60%, 70%, 75%, 80%, 85%, 90%, 95%, 97%, 98%, or 99% of the minerals present in the untreated biomass are removed. The biomass is treated, for example with an acid that will react with and solubilize the minerals. The solubilized minerals may be separated from the biomass to produce a substantially mineral-free biomass. An \u201cideal\u201d cellulosic biomass is a theoretical biomass having 0% mineral content.","Spray washer  discharges into a screw conveyor , which at a first three way mixing station  mixes the substantially mineral-free biomass with an acidification solution  that contains, for example, from 1% to 5% by weight of a dilute sulfuric acid solution. The acidified slurry may be transferred to a residence tank .","The slurry exits residence tank  into a second screw conveyor , which at a second three way mixing station  mixes the slurry with a lime solution , e.g., one with sufficient lime to impart a predetermined pH of 10 to 11. The slurry is discharged into a solids holding tank  where it resides for an appropriate time permitting the lime to remove deleterious byproducts of acid hydrolysis. Additional acid , such as sulfuric acid, may be added into the solids holding tank  to adjust pH into a range from 5 to 7. The solids holding tank  discharges into a third three way mixing station .","In turn, the third three way mixing station  introduces an enzymatic solution  that contains a hydrolyzing enzyme, for example, cellulase or a mixture of cellulase and other enzymes including beta-glucosidase. Alternatively, the enzymatic solution  contains an inoculum and growth medium including a microorganism capable of saccharifying the slurry by the in vivo production of enzymes. The slurry travels to a heated hydrolysis reactor vessel , which may be one of a series of such reactor vessels, for an appropriate residence time permitting hydrolysis of the slurry. For example, this residence time may be from one to three days. A series (not shown) of hydrolysis reactor vessels  may permit continuous batch processing. The hydrolysis reactor  may, for example, be a flow-through reactor in which solids  are retained for an interval of time with recycle of fluids , a fluidized bed reactor with fluid recycle, or a stir-tank.","By way of example, use of a continuous stirred tank enzymatic hydrolysis reactor, or a series of such reactors, has been shown to produce substantially equivalent saccharification results to the use of a batch reactor that is essentially a residence tank. The downstream reactors may be other stirred reactors, batch reactors or plug flow reactors (not shown in ).","Slurry discharge from hydrolysis reactor  may be subjected to additional mixing at a fourth mixing station , which adds a second solution , such as a microorganism-containing solution for conversion of sugars into ethanol. The second solution  reacts in a converter reactor , for example, to convert sugars into alcohol or other organic compounds. Discharge from converter reactor  may be submitted to a distillation column , which concentrates useful products, e.g., ethanol, for further downstream processing , such as by a molecular filter to remove water. Non-volatile solvents and solids from distillation column  are charged into a vortex separator , which discharges solids to waste disposal  where the solids may, for example, be used as a boiler fuel. Liquids from vortex separator  are submitted to recycle processing , for example, to filter fine particulates.","It will be appreciated that the equipment shown generally in  may be used or adapted to implement a variety of known processes. The prior processes do not include use of a prewash composition, such as acid prewash , and may be adapted for such use according to the instrumentalities described herein. The aforementioned use of the prewashing composition , results in significant cost reductions in the overall process of producing sugars or fermented organic compounds from cellulose by reducing the amount of acid necessary for pretreatment.","Generally, any cellulosic acid saccharification process may be improved by removing minerals from the biomass prior to saccharification. The process may, for example, entail making pulp, making paper, treating effluent from a pulp manufacturing process, treating effluent from a process of making paper, a bioconversion process, a biopolymer process, a waste treatment process, and combinations thereof.","Among the processes for producing ethanol from cellulosic substrates are those known as the Direct Microbial Conversion (DMC) process and the Simultaneous Saccharification and Fermentation (SSF) process. These processes can use a variety of microorganisms to convert organic material to ethanol. In the DMC method, a single microbial system both produces cellulase enzyme and produces ethanol as a fermentation product. The SSF method utilizes two biological elements, one that is based on cellulase enzyme and the other using one or more microorganisms to ferment sugars to ethanol or other products.","As an alternative to adding cellulase in enzymatic solution , cellulase may be produced using a biomass fermentation process, for example, in a DMC process as described in Brooks et. al., 2(1978), or an SSF process as described in Ghose et. al., 26 (4): 377-381 (1984). These processes may be used, as modified by the use of acid prewashing, according to the principles described herein. One example of an organism that is useful in converting organic matter to ethanol by way of the DMC process is . Other examples of suitable microorganisms that may be used with the DMC process option include and . In addition, such organisms can be used in co-culture with or similar pentose-utilizing organisms such as and . An example of another microorganism that may be used in practice according to the SSF process is (which produces ethanol).","A variety of suitable growth media for microbial digestion processes are well known in the art. Generally, a suitable growth medium is able to provide the chemical components necessary to maintain metabolic activity and to allow cell growth.","As shown in , pH is altered by the lime solution , which may also occur downstream of positions shown in . Any of the known cellulases, cellulase complexes, or other cellulose hydrolyzing enzymes, may be used in the enzymatic solution . Further, a lignin-blocking polypeptide may optionally be added before, during or after addition of cellulase. A lignin-blocking polypeptide will generally reduce the amount of cellulase required to achieve a desired conversion efficiency. Exemplary lignin-blocking polypeptides include bovine serum albumin, soybean protein, amylase, whey protein, and combinations thereof. Cellulase digestion may be performed, for example, for one to three days at a temperature that is optimal for the cellulase to produce a sugar-containing solution. The sugar-containing solution is then separated from the residues, for example, by filtration, sedimentation, or centrifugation. The sugar-containing solution may be processed to recover sugar or further reacted or fermented to produce a desired organic chemical, such as an alcohol.","In some embodiments, the reactor vessels  and  generally may have a solids content of about 5% to 50%, preferably 8% to 50%, when the solids are present with the liquid at the end of the hydrolysis. The higher solids content is generally more desirable but the concentration may be limited by reactor design and the need for fluid to heat the solids.","Cellulose digestion primarily produces glucose in hydrolysis reactor . A variety of microorganisms may be used to produce an even wider assortment of organic compounds in the converter reactor . The residue digest may be fermented in any manner known per se to utilize glucose.","As an alternative to separate cellulase digestion and fermentation, both reactions may occur concomitantly in simultaneous saccharification and fermentation processes, for example, within hydrolysis reactor . Any fermentation that is operable in conditions suitable for cellulase is acceptable. The conditions and concentrations in simultaneous saccharification and fermentation (pH, temperature, etc.) may be measured and adjusted to be optimized for either saccharification or fermentation or for overall optimization. The conditions may be changed as the process progresses.","Mathematical concepts that, generally, provide a theoretical basis showing that acid pretreatment is beneficially impacted by prewashing the biomass to remove minerals are described below.","Hemicellulose hydrolysis is assumed to be a first-order homogenous reaction in hemicellulose, where acid catalyzes the conversion of polymeric hemicellulose, HE, into 5-carbon xylose units, X,",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0044","num":"0043"},"chemistry":{"@attributes":{"id":"CHEM-US-00001","num":"00001"},"img":{"@attributes":{"id":"EMI-C00001","he":"8.21mm","wi":"69.85mm","file":"US08101024-20120124-C00001.TIF","alt":"embedded image","img-content":"chem","img-format":"tif"}}},"br":[{},{},{},{},{},{},{}],"in-line-formulae":[{},{},{},{},{},{}],"i":["k","=Ae","A=A","C","k","=A","C","e"],"sub":["h","0","n","0"],"sup":["\u2212E\/RT","m","m","\u2212E\/RT"]},"Both Equations 5 and 6 show that hydrogen ion concentration should affect the rate of hemicellulose hydrolysis, but the neutralization capacity of biomass is not taken into consideration. Neutralization is caused by basic minerals containing potassium, sodium, calcium, iron and other cations present in biomass reacting with sulfuric acid and reducing available hydrogen ions stoichiometrically (BeMiller, 1967):\n\nN2OHSO=N2(SO)HO\u2003\u2003(1)\n\nin which N is the cation and m is its valence. Mineral content varies from species to species and neutralization capacity may be determined experimentally, or correlated with mineral analyses. In a dry method described in Tappi, Ash in wood, pulp, paper and paperboard: combustion at 525\u00b0 C., in document number TAPPI T-211, Technical Association of the Pulp and Paper Industry, Norcross, Ga., 2002, a biomass sample is ashed, and the ash is neutralized with an excess of sulfuric acid, which is back-titrated with sodium hydroxide to determine mineral content.\n","The dissociation of sulfuric acid is described by the following coupled equations:\n\nHSO+HSO\u2003\u2003(7)\n\nHSO+SO\u2003\u2003(8)\n","The equilibrium concentrations of each species can be predicted from the dissociation constants Kand Kas follows:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0048","num":"0047"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00001","num":"00001"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"K","mn":"1"},"mo":"=","mfrac":{"mrow":[{"mrow":[{"mo":["[","]"],"msup":{"mi":"H","mo":"+"}},{"mo":["[","]"],"msubsup":{"mi":"HSO","mn":"4","mo":"-"}}],"mo":"\u2061"},{"mo":["[","]"],"msubsup":{"mi":"SO","mn":"4","mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":"-"}}}]}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"9"}}]},{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"K","mn":"2"},"mo":"=","mfrac":{"mrow":[{"mrow":[{"mo":["[","]"],"msup":{"mi":"H","mo":"+"}},{"mo":["[","]"],"msubsup":{"mi":"SO","mn":"4","mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":"-"}}}],"mo":"\u2061"},{"mo":["[","]"],"msubsup":{"mi":"HSO","mn":"4","mo":"-"}}]}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"10"}}]}]}}},"br":{},"sub":"1 "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0049","num":"0048"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00002","num":"00002"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mo":["[","]"],"msubsup":{"mi":"SO","mn":"4","mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":"-"}}},{"msub":{"mi":"K","mn":"2"},"mo":"\u2062","mfrac":{"mrow":[{"mo":["[","]"],"msubsup":{"mi":"HSO","mn":"4","mo":"-"}},{"mo":["[","]"],"msup":{"mi":"H","mo":"+"}}]}}],"mo":"="}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"11"}}]}}}}},"When partial neutralization of added sulfuric acid occurs because of minerals in the biomass, some hydrogen ions are converted to water and some sulfate anion is associated with mineral cations (Eq. 1). The sulfate balance can be expressed as the concentration of sulfate anions from the dissociation of sulfuric acid plus the concentration of bisulfate anions from the dissociation of sulfuric acid, minus the concentration of sulfuric acid remaining after neutralization, M, minus the sulfate concentration resulting from neutralization, N:\n\n[HSO]+[SO0\u2003\u2003(12)\n\nSubstituting the expression for [SO] from Equation 11 into Equation 12 produces:\n",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0051","num":"0050"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00003","num":"00003"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mo":["[","]"],"msubsup":{"mi":"HSO","mn":"4","mo":"-"}},{"msub":{"mi":"K","mn":"2"},"mo":"\u2062","mfrac":{"mrow":[{"mo":["[","]"],"msubsup":{"mi":"HSO","mn":"4","mo":"-"}},{"mo":["[","]"],"msup":{"mi":"H","mo":"+"}}]}}],"mo":["+","-","-"],"mi":["M","N"]},"mo":"=","mn":"0"}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"13"}}]}}}}},"The charge balance can be expressed as:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0053","num":"0052"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00004","num":"00004"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mo":["[","]"],"msup":{"mi":"H","mo":"+"}},{"mn":"2","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mi":"N"},{"mo":["[","]"],"msubsup":{"mi":"HSO","mn":"4","mo":"-"}},{"mn":"2","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"msubsup":{"mi":"SO","mn":"4","mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":"-"}}}}],"mo":["+","-","-"]},"mo":"=","mn":"0"},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mtext":{}},"mi":"or"}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"14"}}]},{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mo":["[","]"],"msup":{"mi":"H","mo":"+"}},{"mn":"2","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mi":"N"},{"mo":["[","]"],"msubsup":{"mi":"HSO","mn":"4","mo":"-"}},{"mn":"2","mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"msub":{"mi":"K","mn":"2"},"mfrac":{"mrow":[{"mo":["[","]"],"msubsup":{"mi":"HSO","mn":"4","mo":"-"}},{"mo":["[","]"],"msup":{"mi":"H","mo":"+"}}]}}],"mo":["+","-","-"]},"mo":"=","mn":"0"}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"15"}}]}]}}},"br":{}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0054","num":"0053"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00005","num":"00005"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"msubsup":{"mi":"HSO","mn":"4","mo":"-"}},"mo":"=","mfrac":{"mrow":[{"mrow":[{"mo":["[","]"],"msup":{"mi":"H","mo":"+"}},{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":["M","N"],"mo":"+"}}],"mo":"\u2062"},{"mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"msup":{"mi":"H","mo":"+"}},"mo":"+","msub":{"mi":"K","mn":"2"}}]}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"16"}}]}}}},"br":[{},{},{}],"sub":["4","2","2"],"sup":["\u2212","+","2","+","+"],"in-line-formulae":[{},{}],"i":["H","K","+M\u2212N","H","K","M="]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0055","num":"0054"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00006","num":"00006"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"msup":{"mi":"H","mo":"+"}},"mo":"=","mfrac":{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mo":"-","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"K","mn":"2"},"mo":["+","-"],"mi":["M","N"]}}},"mo":"+","msqrt":{"mrow":{"msup":{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"K","mn":"2"},"mo":["+","-"],"mi":["M","N"]}},"mn":"2"},"mo":"+","mrow":{"mn":"8","mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"msub":{"mi":"K","mn":"2"},"mi":"M"}}}},"mn":"2"}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"18"}}]}}}}},"A second effect on hydrogen ion activity is the formation of bisulfate that occurs with neutralization. Neutralization products are water and mineral sulfates (Eq. 1). These mineral sulfates, if not removed from the system, will form bisulfates through reaction with hydrogen ions (Eq. 2),\n\nN2(SO)HN(HSO)+N\u2003\u2003(2)\n\nBisulfate formation further reduces the hydrogen ion concentration, and increases the solution pH.\n","Equation 18 may be used to predict the hydrogen ion activity for dilute sulfuric acid solutions containing neutralization salts with a concentration of N mol\/L at a standard temperature such as 25\u00b0 C. for which dissociation constants have been tabulated. However, modifications are required to predict the hydrogen ion activity at elevated temperatures of about 100\u00b0 C. to >200\u00b0 C., typical for hemicellulose hydrolysis. Increasing temperature generally accelerates rates due to an increased frequency of molecular collisions, but temperature also affects the activity of hydrogen ions. The activity, or effective ion concentration, takes into account solution nonidealities, such as the effective hydrated radii of the charged species and solution expansion. Although a pH meter measures hydrogen ion activity, it is difficult if not impossible to measure pH reliably above about 100\u00b0 C., and hydrogen ion activity generally must be estimated for higher temperatures. In this case, the solution dissociation constant Kin Equation 18 is related to the thermodynamic dissociation constant K, the solution dissociation constant extrapolated to infinite dilution, by:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0058","num":"0057"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00007","num":"00007"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"msubsup":{"mi":"K","mn":["2","0"]},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mfrac":{"mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":"a","msup":{"mi":"H","mo":"+"}},{"mi":"a","msubsup":{"mi":"SO","mn":"4","mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":"-"}}}],"mo":"\u2062"},"msub":{"mi":"a","msubsup":{"mi":"HSO","mn":"4","mo":"-"}}},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mrow":[{"mfrac":[{"mrow":[{"mrow":[{"mo":["[","]"],"msup":{"mi":"H","mo":"+"}},{"mo":["[","]"],"msubsup":{"mi":"SO","mn":"4","mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":"-"}}}],"mo":"\u2061"},{"mo":["[","]"],"msubsup":{"mi":"HSO","mn":"4","mo":"-"}}]},{"mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":"\u03b3","msup":{"mi":"H","mo":"+"}},{"mi":"\u03b3","msubsup":{"mi":"SO","mn":"4","mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":"-"}}}],"mo":"\u2062"},"msub":{"mi":"\u03b3","msubsup":{"mi":"HSO","mn":"4","mo":"-"}}}],"mo":"\u2062"},{"msub":{"mi":"K","mn":"2"},"mo":"\u2062","mfrac":{"mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":"\u03b3","msup":{"mi":"H","mo":"+"}},{"mi":"\u03b3","msubsup":{"mi":"SO","mn":"4","mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":"-"}}}],"mo":"\u2062"},"msub":{"mi":"\u03b3","msubsup":{"mi":"HSO","mn":"4","mo":"-"}}}}],"mo":"="}}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"19"}}]},{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"K","mn":"2"},"mo":"=","mrow":{"msubsup":{"mi":"K","mn":["2","0"]},"mo":"\u2062","mfrac":{"mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":"\u03b3","msup":{"mi":"H","mo":"+"}},{"mi":"\u03b3","msubsup":{"mi":"SO","mn":"4","mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":"-"}}}],"mo":"\u2062"},"msub":{"mi":"\u03b3","msubsup":{"mi":"HSO","mn":"4","mo":"-"}}}}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"20"}}]}]}}},"br":{},"sub":["i ","i ","2","2"],"figref":"FIG. 2","sup":"0"},"The relation developed by W. L. Marshall and E. V. Jones, J. Phys. Chem., 70\/12, 1966, 4028-4040, from experiments determining the solubility of calcium sulfate in sulfuric acid solutions at elevated temperatures can be used to estimate the values of the thermodynamic dissociation constant, K, as a function of temperature:\n\nLog =56.889\u221219.8858 Log 2307.9\/0.006473\u2003\u2003(21)\n\nin which T is the temperature in Kelvin. For the activity coefficients, \u03b3i, an empirical correlation by C. W. Davies, \u201cThe Conductivity of Solutions and the Modern Dissociation Theory\u201d, J. Wiley & Sons: New York, N.Y., 1930, which is a modification of the Debye-H\u00fcckel limiting law may be used:\n",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0060","num":"0059"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00008","num":"00008"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mrow":{"mo":"-","mi":"Log"},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"msub":{"mi":["\u03b3","i"]}},{"msup":{"mi":"Az","mn":"2"},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mfrac":{"msqrt":{"mi":"I"},"mrow":{"mn":"1","mo":"+","msqrt":{"mi":"I"}}},"mo":"-","mrow":{"mn":"0.2","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mi":"I"}}}}],"mo":"="}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"22"}}]}}}},"br":{}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0061","num":"0060"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00009","num":"00009"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mrow":{"mfrac":{"mn":["1","2"]},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mo":["\u2211","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["n","i"]},"mo":"\u2062","msubsup":{"mi":["z","i"],"mn":"2"}}}},"mo":";"}}},"br":{},"sub":"i ","sup":["6","\u22121.5"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0062","num":"0061"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00010","num":"00010"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"K","mn":"2"},"mo":"=","mfrac":{"msubsup":{"mi":"K","mn":["2","0"]},"msub":{"mi":"\u03b3","msubsup":{"mi":"SO","mn":"4","mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":"-"}}}}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"23"}}]}}}},"br":{},"sub":["H+","H+ ","H+ "],"sup":"+"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0063","num":"0062"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00011","num":"00011"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"a","msup":{"mi":"H","mo":"+"}},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mrow":{"mo":["{","}"],"mrow":{"mrow":{"mo":"-","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mfrac":{"msubsup":{"mi":"K","mn":["2","0"]},"msub":{"mi":"\u03b3","msubsup":{"mi":"SO","mn":"4","mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":"-"}}}},"mo":["+","-"],"mi":["M","N"]}}},"mo":"+","msup":{"mrow":[{"mo":["[","]"],"mrow":{"msup":{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mfrac":{"msubsup":{"mi":"K","mn":["2","0"]},"msub":{"mi":"\u03b3","msubsup":{"mi":"SO","mn":"4","mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":"-"}}}},"mo":["+","-"],"mi":["M","N"]}},"mn":"2"},"mo":"+","mrow":{"mn":"8","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mfrac":{"msubsup":{"mi":"K","mn":["2","0"]},"msub":{"mi":"\u03b3","msubsup":{"mi":"SO","mn":"4","mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":"-"}}}},"mi":"M"}}},{"mn":["1","2"],"mo":"\/"}]}}},"mo":"\u2062","mfrac":{"msub":{"mi":"\u03b3","msup":{"mi":"H","mo":"+"}},"mn":"2"}}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"24"}}]}}}},"br":[{},{},{}],"in-line-formulae":[{},{}],"i":["k","=A","e"],"sub":["h","0","H",{"sup2":"+"},"H+ "],"sup":"\u2212E\/RT"},"Several different concentrations of biomass solids are added to a 1.5% HSOsolution and treated over a temperature range of 25-160\u00b0 C. It is known that 20 mg of sulfuric acid is neutralized per g of dry biomass, and pH, defined as pH=\u2212Logis taken as the measure of hydrogen ion concentration.  illustrates how pH varies with temperature based on Equation 25 at 10, 25 and 35% solids concentration, and hence three different neutralization product (sulfate salt) concentrations. A sharp rise in pH with increasing temperature in the presence of neutralization products occurs owing to formation of bisulfate ion via Equation 2 and the impact of temperature on hydrogen ion activity via Equation 25. The pH rises about 0.15 units for a solids loading of 10% and about 1.2 units for a solids loading of 35%, corresponding to about a 29 and a 94% reduction in hydrogen ion activity, respectively. By contrast, if there had been no neutralization, the pH would rise just 0.11 units, from 0.89 to 1.00, over the same temperature range, regardless of solids loading, corresponding to a 22% reduction in hydrogen ion activity.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0065","num":"0064"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 2","FIG. 4","FIG. 4"]},"Neutralization of sulfuric acid by minerals in biomass reduces the hydrogen ion activity and must be taken into account to accurately predict the performance of dilute-acid hemicellulose hydrolysis. Furthermore, in the case of sulfuric acid, the neutralization products lead to a bisulfate ion shift, further reducing active hydrogen ion. Neutralization and formation of bisulfate can have particularly significant effects for low acid concentration or high solid loadings. Removal of minerals prior to hydrolysis may reduce acid consumption for hemicellulose hydrolysis while maintaining high sugar yields.","Mineral washing may, for example, be performed using a dilute acid solution that solubilizes the minerals. In one particular embodiment, a dilute sulfuric acid wash solubilizes minerals in the biomass. Removal of the wash solution eliminates bisulfate, which would, if otherwise left present in the biomass, have a buffering effect and require the addition of significantly more acid for satisfactory acidification results. As shown by way of example in , system modifications may be made to perform this prewashing step prior to any acidification. These instrumentalities permit the use of dilute acid or other mineral-removing washes with special advantage. It will be appreciated that a wide-ranging variety of biomass conversion processes utilize acidification, and all such processes may benefit from the prewashing step to remove minerals as described herein.","Milled cellulosic biomass is contacted by a dilute acid solution by any number of methods at temperatures which neutralize minerals in the biomass but solubilize no carbohydrates. Soluble mineral salts are removed by any number of washing methods before the biomass is advanced to a high temperature acid catalyzed treatment step.","In one embodiment, the advantage of removing mineral salts prior to a sulfuric acid treatment step is that acid scavenging bisulfate formation is minimized potentially requiring less acid for high overall sugar yields in saccharification, as compared to not removing mineral salts.  are process schematics respectively showing the acid that is required without removal of minerals () and with removal of minerals (). A comparison of these results shows that a \u2153 reduction in acid use is obtainable by removing minerals inherent to the biomass prior to fall acidification.","Neutralization may be achieved over a wide range of biomass moisture contents. At high solids and low moisture it may be possible to add small amounts of concentrated acid directly to biomass in a high solids mixer such as a screw mixer or screw conveyor which provides the requisite contact with the biomass for neutralization. In another example, the biomass may be diluted with acidified water to a solids content that allows tank mixing of a biomass slurry. Either method is feasible and the choice of method may be affected by how much additional water an overall process can economically tolerate.","After neutralization, soluble mineral salts are removed by washing. In a case where the biomass contains a relatively high amount of solids for neutralization, it may be feasible to apply a spray wash using a continuous belt filter. This arrangement may be effective with the addition of a minimal amount of wash water. For the low solids case, a biomass slurry may be applied to a continuous belt filter for dewatering followed by a spray wash to remove residual salts. Any particular mechanical arrangement is suitable if designed for the function of applying the prewash to neutralize or solubilize minerals, which are removed at least in part by removal of the prewash solution precedent to full acidification. The prewash solution may contain, for example, dilute acid such as sulfuric, hydrochloric, nitric and\/or organic acid. Surfactants and mineral scavenging materials that react with or adsorb particular minerals may also be useful in the removal of minerals, e.g., ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid (EDTA).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0072","num":"0071"},"figref":"FIG. 5","sub":["2","4 ","2","4 "],"b":["400","402","404","406","406"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0073","num":"0072"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 5","FIG. 6","FIG. 5","FIG. 6","FIG. 5","FIG. 5","FIG. 6","FIG. 5","FIG. 6"],"b":["500","500","500","502","502","504","504","400","502","406"],"sub":["2","4 ","2","4 ","2","4 ","2","4 "]},"The specific weights shown in  are used to show relative amounts of materials that pertain to one type of a corn stover biomass feed. Actual amounts may vary as needed to optimize process results depending upon the biomass source and the mineral content that is inherent to the biomass source. The comparison between  merely represents by way of example the general principle of reducing acid consumption by implementing an acid neutralization step through which minerals are removed from the biomass prior to full acidification treatment for saccharification of hemicellulose.","The description of the specific embodiments reveals general concepts that others can modify and\/or adapt for various applications or uses that do not depart from the general concepts. Therefore, such adaptations and modifications should and are intended to be comprehended within the meaning and range of equivalents of the disclosed embodiments. It is to be understood that the phraseology or terminology employed herein is for the purpose of description and not limitation.","All references mentioned in this application are incorporated by reference to the same extent as though fully replicated herein."],"GOVINT":[{},{}],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 6"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
