---
title: Rowing shoe
abstract: A rowing shoe includes a shoe sole and a shoe upper portion. The shoe sole has a cleat mounting portion configured so that a cleat structure is mountable thereto for releasably attaching to a binding structure of a rowing boat. The shoe upper portion includes at least one fixing strap configured to secure the shoe upper portion to a wearer's foot. The fixing strap has a proximal end fixed to the shoe upper portion and a free end having at least one aperture configured so that a pull rope can extend therethrough.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08141274&OS=08141274&RS=08141274
owner: Shimano Inc.
number: 08141274
owner_city: Osaka
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20090526
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS","Second Embodiment","Third Embodiment","Fourth Embodiment","General Interpretation of Terms"],"p":["1. Field of the Invention","This invention generally relates to rowing shoe. More specifically, the present invention relates to rowing shoes having a fixing strap with a pull rope.","2. Background Information","Rowing is becoming an increasingly more popular form of recreation. Moreover, rowing has become a very popular competitive sport for both amateurs and professionals. Whether rowing is for recreation or competition, the rowing industry is constantly improving the various components of rowing boats and equipment used by rowing enthusiasts. One component that has been extensively redesigned is the rowing shoe.","Rowing shoes preferably include a cleat structure that attaches to a mating binding structure installed within a rowing boat, such as footrest assembly. Thus, the cleat structure of the rowing shoes can include a cleat that releasably attaches to a cleat engaging portion of the binding structure or footrest assembly. Rowing shoes can also include one or more fixing straps with loop and hook fasteners that are used to secure the rowing shoes to the rower's feet.","There are circumstances when a rower desires to remove the rowing shoes quickly while the cleat structure of the rowing shoes is engaged with the binding structure installed within the rowing boat. Under such circumstances, with the rowing shoes having two or more fixing straps, it is time consuming and cumbersome to release each of the fixing straps one-by-one and then remove the rowing shoe from the rowers feet.","In view of the above, it will be apparent to those skilled in the art from this disclosure that there exists a need for an improved rowing shoe with that can be removed from the rower's feet smoothly. This invention addresses this need in the art as well as other needs, which will become apparent to those skilled in the art from this disclosure.","One object of the present invention is to provide rowing shoes with a smooth release arrangement that provide a means for smoothly releasing straps holding the rowing shoes on the rower's feet.","In accordance with one embodiment of the present invention, a rowing shoe includes a shoe sole and a shoe upper portion. The shoe sole has a cleat mounting portion configured so that a cleat structure is mountable thereto for releasably attaching to a binding structure of a rowing boat. The shoe upper portion includes at least one fixing strap configured to secure the shoe upper portion to a wearer's foot. The fixing strap also has a proximal end fixed to the shoe upper portion and a free end having at least one aperture configured so that a pull rope can extend therethrough.","The foregoing objects can basically be attained by providing a rowing shoe with a shoe sole and a shoe upper portion. The shoe sole has a cleat mounting portion configured so that a cleat structure mountable thereto for releasably attaching to a binding structure of a rowing boat. The shoe upper portion includes at least one fixing strap configured to secure the shoe upper portion to a wearer's foot. The fixing strap has a proximal end fixed to the shoe upper portion and a free end having at least one aperture configured so that a pull rope can extend therethrough.","These and other objects, features, aspects and advantages of the present invention will become apparent to those skilled in the art from the following detailed description, which, taken in conjunction with the annexed drawings, discloses a preferred embodiment of the present invention.","Selected embodiments of the present invention will now be explained with reference to the drawings. It will be apparent to those skilled in the art from this disclosure that the following descriptions of the embodiments of the present invention are provided for illustration only and not for the purpose of limiting the invention as defined by the appended claims and their equivalents.","Referring initially to , a rowing boat  having a shoe binding structure  that releasably secures rowing shoes  to the rowing boat  is illustrated in accordance with a first embodiment of the present invention.","As is described in greater detail below, the rowing shoes  include a pull rope  that serves as a smooth release device for rapidly releasing a rower's feet from the rowing shoes .","The rowing boat  is a conventional rowing boat, such as rowing boats used for leisure activities and\/or in competitive sports. For example, the rowing boat  can be a sweep-oar boat, a canoe-like water craft, or any boat where one or more of the occupants row and need their feet to be secured within the boat to enhance rowing actions.","The rowing boat  basically includes, for example, a hull  and a seat structure  that supports a rolling seat  that movable supports a rower R. The rowing boat  also includes the shoe binding structure  that is fixedly attached to either the hull  of the rowing boat  or the seat structure . The shoe binding structure  works as a mechanism to releasably attach to the rowing shoes  such that the rower R can apply both pulling and pushing pressure on the shoe binding structure  when rowing. The shoe binding structure  can have any of a variety of configurations, such as those disclosed in, for example: co-pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12\/031,919, filed Feb. 15, 2008, entitled ROWING BOAT FOOTREST ASSEMBLY; co-pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12\/179,613, filed Jul. 25, 2008, entitled ROWING BOAT FOOT SUPPORT ASSEMBLY; or co-pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12\/361,594, filed Jan. 29, 2009 entitled ROWING BOAT FOOTREST ASSEMBLY, all assigned to Shimano Inc.","Since the rowing boat  and the shoe binding structure  are not essential elements for the present invention, further description thereof is omitted for the sake of brevity.","With specific reference to , a detailed description of the rowing shoes  is now provided. There are two rowing shoes . However, the rowing shoes  are identical to one another except that they are mirror images of one another, one for the left foot and one for the right foot. Accordingly, description of one of the shoes  applies equally to the other of the shoes . Therefore, description will be provide for only one of the rowing shoes , but applies equally to both rowing shoes .","As shown in , the rowing shoe  includes an inboard side , an outboard side , a sole , a shoe upper portion , a first strap  and a second strap . It should be understood from the drawings and the description herein that the term inboard side refers to the right side of a shoe for the left foot, and the left side of a shoe for the right foot. In other words the inboard side is the side of the shoe facing the shoe on the other foot of the wearer. Similarly, the term outboard side refers to the left side of the shoe for the left foot and the right side of the shoe for the right foot. The outboard side is the side of the shoe facing away from the shoe on the other foot. As well, the terms inner side and inboard side are used interchangeably with respect to the present invention. Similarly, the terms outer side and outboard side are also used interchangeably with respect to the description of the present invention.","As shown in , the sole  includes a cleat mounting portion  that is configured so that a cleat structure  is mountable thereto. As best shown in  in cross-section, the sole  is made of a resilient but relatively rigid polymer or plastic material (with some small degree of resilient flexibility). Also shown in , the cleat mounting portion  includes a recess  and a reinforcement part . The recess  is dimensioned to receive the cleat structure  and with plenty of surrounding space to allow for conventional releasable attachment of the cleat structure  to the shoe binding structure  with no interference from the remainder of the sole . The reinforcement part  is preferably embedded within the sole  and includes a pair of threaded hole  (only one shown in ) dimensioned to receive a pair of fasteners F that secure the cleat structure  to the sole , as shown in . The cleat structure  also includes two apertures  (only one aperture  is shown in ) that receive the fasteners F.","As best shown in  and -, the shoe upper portion  includes a toe end , a heel end , a foot opening , a securing section , an under-lapping section  and an overlapping section . It should also be understood from the drawings and the description herein that the shoe upper portion  at least partially defines the inboard side  and the outboard side  of the rowing shoe . Hence, the terms inboard side  and the outboard side  refer to both the rowing shoe  and the shoe upper portion . Preferably, the foot opening  is sized widely in comparison with conventional sports shoes used in other sports, especially in an anteroposterior direction of the rowing shoe , to avoid disturbing the movement of a rower's R ankle during rowing action.","The shoe upper portion  is preferably made from any of a plurality of materials or combination of materials, such as leather, leather-like materials, polymer materials, plastic materials and textile materials. For instance, in some embodiments, the shoe upper portion  can include sections made of waterproof materials and other sections made of air permeable materials that allow for the interior of the rowing shoe  to breath or ventilate. The various sections of the shoe upper portion  are stitched or otherwise fixed to one another. Since the present invention is applicable to a variety of differing shoe styles, designs and configuration, the depicted embodiment shows a basic shoe design that is made of several textile based materials that are sewn or stitched together to form the depicted shape. However, the present invention is not limited to the depicted shape, as will be understood from the description of the present invention below. The shoe upper portion  is fixed to the sole  in a conventional manner, such as with stitching, adhesives, and\/or embedding portions thereof within the sole .","As is best indicated in , the under-lapping section  is basically an elongated portion of the outboard side  of the shoe upper portion  that extends upward from the sole . The under-lapping section  can be dimensioned to extend to and over the top of the rower's R foot, when the rower R is wearing the rowing shoe . The actual size and length of the under-lapping section  can vary depending upon the overall shoe design and is not limited to the depicted relative dimensions and shape.","As best shown in , the under-lapping section  includes a loop section  that loops around a second strap ring . The loop section  is preferably located adjacent to but spaced apart from the sole  on the outboard side  of the shoe upper portion . The loop section  is securely fixed to the outboard side of the shoe upper portion  via a sewn seam or stitching. Alternatively, the loop section  and the under-lapping section  can be formed from a single element or section, with a portion of the loop section  partially cut out from the under-lapping section  and then sewn or stitched to itself forming a loop. The loop section  encircles one portion of the second strap ring , as shown in . The second strap ring  is a rigid ring-like member, such as metallic member, that has an overall rectangular shape with a central aperture that receives the loop section  and a portion of the second strap , as described in greater detail below.","In the depicted embodiment, the overlapping section  of the shoe upper portion  is basically an elongated portion of the inboard side  of the shoe upper portion . More specifically, the material that forms the inboard side  of the shoe upper portion  is sufficiently long to enable the overlapping section  to extend over the top of the rowing shoe  and overlie at least a portion the under-lapping section  with the first and second straps  and  properly tightened around the rower's foot.","As best shown in , , ,  and , the overlapping section  includes a loop section  that loops around a first strap ring . The loop section  is preferably spaced apart from the sole  adjacent to the inboard side  of the shoe upper portion . More specifically, the loop section  is located on an upper surface of the shoe upper portion  closer to the toe end  than to the foot opening .","The loop section  is securely fixed to the shoe upper portion  via a sewn seam or stitching. Alternatively, the loop section  and the overlapping section  can be formed from a single element or section, with a portion of the loop section  partially cut out from the overlapping section  and then sewn or stitched to itself forming a loop. The loop section  encircles one portion of the first strap ring . The first strap ring  is a rigid ring-like member, such as a metallic member, that has an overall rectangular shape with a central aperture that receives the loop section  and a portion of the first strap , as described in greater detail below.","The first strap  and the second strap  of the shoe upper portion  are configured to secure the shoe upper portion  to the foot of the rower R.","As best shown in , the first strap  includes a proximal end , a first fastener section , a looping section , a second fastener section  and a free end . The first strap  is a first fixing strap, fixing the rowing shoe  on the rower's foot. The proximal end  is located at the outboard side  of the shoe upper portion  on the under-lapping section , as best shown in . The proximal end  is preferably positioned closer to the toe end  of the shoe upper portion  than the foot opening . The proximal end  is fixed to the shoe upper portion  by sewing or stitching S, as indicated in  in dashed lines. The proximal end  and the first fastener section  overlie the top of the rowing shoe  near the toe end .","The first fastener section  and the proximal end  include a first material  of loop and hook fastening materials. The first strap  is fed through and extends through the first strap ring  such that the looping section  of the first strap  usually contacts the first strap ring . The looping section , the second fastener section  and the free end  include a second material  of the loop and hook fastening materials. Consequently, when the free end  of the first strap  is pulled from the inboard side  of the rowing shoe  toward the outboard side  of the rowing shoe  after extending through the first strap ring , the looping section  interacts with the first strap ring  to draw the outboard side  and the inboard side  of the shoe upper portion  toward one another. When the second fastener section  is brought into contact with the first fastener section , the first and second materials  and  of the loop and hook fastener materials secure the first strap  in a tightened orientation, as shown in  and .","The free end  of the first strap  includes a pair of apertures  that are configured so that the pull rope  can extend therethrough, as described in greater detail below.","As best shown in , the second strap  includes a proximal end , a first fastener section , a looping section , a second fastener section  and a free end . The second strap  is a second fixing strap, fixing the rowing shoe  on the rower's foot. The proximal end  is located at the inboard side  of the shoe upper portion  on the overlapping section , as best shown in . The proximal end  is preferably positioned closer to the foot opening  of the shoe upper portion  than the toe end . The proximal end  is fixed to the shoe upper portion  by sewing or stitching. The proximal end  and the first fastener section  overlie the top of the rowing shoe  and a portion of the overlapping section  near the foot opening .","The first fastener section  and the proximal end  include more of the first material  of loop and hook fastening materials. The second strap  is fed through and extends through the second strap ring  such that the looping section  of the second strap  usually contacts the second strap ring . The looping section , the second fastener section  and the free end  include more of the second material  of the loop and hook fastening materials. Consequently, when the free end  of the second strap  is pulled from the outboard side  of the rowing shoe  toward the inboard side  of the rowing shoe  after extending through the second strap ring , the looping section  interacts with the second strap ring  to draw the outboard side  and the inboard side  of the shoe upper portion  toward one another. Further, the overlapping section  is pulled over a large portion of the under-lapping section . When the second fastener section  is brought into contact with the first fastener section , the first and second materials  and  of the loop and hook fastener materials secure the second strap  in a tightened orientation.","The free end  of the second strap  also includes a pair of apertures  that are configured so that the pull rope  can extend therethrough, as described in greater detail below.","A description of the pull rope  is now provided with specific reference to , ,  and . The pull rope  is basically a smooth release device that includes a rope portion  and a grip portion . The rope portion  can be made of any material, such as synthetic fibers, hemp, textile or other material suitable for making rope or lace constructions. Preferably, the rope portion  is looped at one end through the apertures  at the free end  of the first strap  and looped at another end through the apertures  of the free end  of the second strap  as shown in the first embodiment. The looped ends of the rope portion  can be fixed by a clamp  shown in . Alternatively, the looped ends of the rope portion  can be secured with a knot. The clamp  can be a metallic ring, deformed to hold the looped section of the rope portion  together. Alternatively, the clamp  can be a molded plastic member or other suitable clamping material to hold the looped section of the rope portion  together.","The grip portion  is preferably a hollow metallic tubular member with the rope portion  extending therethrough. The grip portion  preferably has greater rigidity than the rope portion  such that the grip portion  retains an overall C-shape or handle-like shape for easy grasping. However the grip portion  can be manufacture to have some resiliency and a bit of flexibility. Therefore, the grip portion  can alternatively be made of a plastic or polymer material.","Accordingly, the pull rope  extends between the free ends  and  of respective ones of the first and second fixing straps  and .","The first strap  is fixedly attached to the shoe upper portion  and is releasably attachable to the first fastener section  (a first attachment section) on the shoe upper portion  so as to tighten the shoe upper portion  to the wearer's foot when the free end  of the first strap  is pulled from the inboard side  of the rowing shoe  toward the outboard side  of the rowing shoe  after extending through the first strap ring .","The first strap  is released from the first fastener section  (the first attachment section) when the free end  of the first strap  is pulled from the outboard side  of the rowing shoe  toward the inboard side  of the rowing shoe .","The second strap  is fixedly attached to the shoe upper portion  and is releasably attachable to the second fastener section  (a second attachment section) on the shoe upper portion  so as to tighten the shoe upper portion  to the wearer's foot when the free end  of the second strap  is pulled from the outboard side  of the rowing shoe  toward the inboard side  of the rowing shoe  after extending through the second strap ring .","The second strap  is released from the second fastener section  (the second attachment section) when the free end  of the second strap  is pulled from the inboard side  of the rowing shoe  toward the outboard side  of the rowing shoe . Because the space outboard from the rowing shoe  is typically less than the space between the right and left rowing shoes  especially in a competitive rowing boat, it is easier for a rower to release the second strap  in the above-mentioned manner in connection with the first embodiment.","It should be noted that the first strap  has a first length measured from the proximate end  (an attachment point) where the first strap  attaches to the shoe upper portion  to the free end  thereof. Further the second strap  has a second length measured from the proximate end  (an attachment point) where the second strap  attaches to the shoe upper portion  to the free end  thereof, the second length is greater than the first length. In other words, the second strap  is longer than the first strap .","Referring now to , a rowing shoe  in accordance with a second embodiment will now be explained. In view of the similarity between the first and second embodiments, the parts of the second embodiment that are identical to the parts of the first embodiment will be given the same reference numerals as the parts of the first embodiment. Moreover, the descriptions of the parts of the second embodiment that are identical to the parts of the first embodiment may be omitted for the sake of brevity.","In the second embodiment, the rowing shoe  has many of the features of the rowing show  of the first embodiment. For example, the rowing shoe  includes the pull rope , the inboard side , the outboard side , the sole , the first strap  and the first strap ring . However, in the second embodiment, the rowing shoe  includes a shoe upper portion  that is a modification of the shoe upper portion  of the first embodiment. Further, in the second embodiment, the rowing shoe  also includes a second strap  that is a modification of the second strap  of the first embodiment. The second strap  extends through a second strap ring , in a manner similar to the second strap  and the second strap ring  of the first embodiment.","In the second embodiment, the first strap  is fixedly attached to the shoe upper portion  in a manner that is the same in the first embodiment. Specifically, the first strap  is releasably attachable to the shoe upper portion  so as to tighten the shoe upper portion  to the wearer's foot when the free end  of the first strap  is pulled from the inboard side  of the rowing shoe  toward the outboard side  of the rowing shoe  after extending through the first strap ring , as indicated in .","However, in the second embodiment, the second strap  is attached to the shoe upper portion  in a manner that is opposite the second strap  of the first embodiment. Specifically, the second strap  is fixedly attached to the shoe upper portion  and an overlapping section . The overlapping section  extends from the outboard side  of the shoe , opposite the overlapping section  of the first embodiment. The second strap  is releasably attachable to the shoe upper portion  so as to tighten the shoe upper portion  to the wearer's foot when the free end  of the second strap  is pulled from the inboard side  of the rowing shoe  toward the outboard side  of the rowing shoe  after extending through the second strap ring .","In other words, in the second embodiment, both the first strap  and the second strap  are releasably attachable to the shoe upper portion  so as to tighten the shoe upper portion  to the wearer's foot when the free ends  and  of the first and second straps  and  are pulled from the inboard side  of the rowing shoe  toward the outboard side  of the rowing shoe .","The pull rope  is attached to both the first strap  and the second strap  and releases both of the first and second straps  and  by pulling the pull rope  upward from the outboard side  also pulling toward the inboard side , as indicated in .","Referring now to , a rowing shoe  in accordance with a third embodiment will now be explained. In view of the similarity between the first, second and third embodiments, the parts of the third embodiment that are identical to the parts of the first and\/or second embodiments will be given the same reference numerals as the parts of the first embodiment. Moreover, the descriptions of the parts of the third embodiment that are identical to the parts of the first and\/or second embodiment may be omitted for the sake of brevity.","In the third embodiment, the rowing shoe  has many of the features of the rowing show  of the first embodiment. For example, the rowing shoe  includes the inboard side , the outboard side , the sole  (not shown), the shoe upper portion , the first strap  and the second strap . However, in the third embodiment, the rowing shoe  includes two separate pull ropes \u2032 that replace the single pull rope . The pull ropes \u2032 can have overall lengths that are greater than the relative lengths depicted in  or can be shorter. The ropes \u2032 can be conveniently placed within easy reach of the rower R in order to smoothly release the straps  and  and smoothly free the rower R from the restraining force of the rowing shoes .","Referring now to , a rowing shoe  in accordance with a fourth embodiment will now be explained. In view of the similarity between the first, second and fourth embodiments, the parts of the fourth embodiment that are identical to the parts of the first and\/or second embodiments will be given the same reference numerals as the parts of the first and\/or second embodiment. Moreover, the descriptions of the parts of the fourth embodiment that are identical to the parts of the first and\/or second embodiment may be omitted for the sake of brevity.","In the fourth embodiment, the rowing shoe  has many of the features of the rowing show  of the first embodiment. For example, the rowing shoe  includes the inboard side , the outboard side , the sole  (not shown) and the second strap . However, in the fourth embodiment, the rowing shoe  has a first strap  that operates from the same sides of the rowing shoe  as the second strap . Further, there are two separate pull ropes \u2033 that replace the single pull rope . The pull ropes \u2033 can have overall lengths that are greater than the relative lengths depicted in  or can be shorter. The ropes \u2033 can be conveniently placed within easy reach of the rower R in order to smoothly release the straps  and  and smoothly free the rower R from the restraining force of the rowing shoes .","In understanding the scope of the present invention, the term \u201ccomprising\u201d and its derivatives, as used herein, are intended to be open ended terms that specify the presence of the stated features, elements, components, groups, integers, and\/or steps, but do not exclude the presence of other unstated features, elements, components, groups, integers and\/or steps. The foregoing also applies to words having similar meanings such as the terms, \u201cincluding\u201d, \u201chaving\u201d and their derivatives. Also, the terms \u201cpart,\u201d \u201csection,\u201d \u201cportion,\u201d \u201cmember\u201d or \u201celement\u201d when used in the singular can have the dual meaning of a single part or a plurality of parts. As used herein to describe the present invention, the following directional terms \u201cforward, rearward, above, downward, vertical, horizontal, below and transverse\u201d as well as any other similar directional terms refer to those directions of a bicycle equipped with the present invention. Accordingly, these terms, as utilized to describe the present invention should be interpreted relative to a bicycle equipped with the present invention as used in the normal riding position. Finally, terms of degree such as \u201csubstantially\u201d, \u201cabout\u201d and \u201capproximately\u201d as used herein mean a reasonable amount of deviation of the modified term such that the end result is not significantly changed.","While only selected embodiments have been chosen to illustrate the present invention, it will be apparent to those skilled in the art from this disclosure that various changes and modifications can be made herein without departing from the scope of the invention as defined in the appended claims. Furthermore, the foregoing descriptions of the embodiments according to the present invention are provided for illustration only, and not for the purpose of limiting the invention as defined by the appended claims and their equivalents."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["Referring now to the attached drawings which form a part of this original disclosure:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 2"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIGS. 2 and 3"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIGS. 2"],"b":["3","4"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIGS. 2-5"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIGS. 2-6"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":["FIG. 8","FIGS. 2-6"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":["FIG. 11","FIG. 10"],"b":["11","11"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 12"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":["FIG. 13","FIG. 12"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":["FIG. 14","FIGS. 12 and 13"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":["FIG. 15","FIGS. 12-14"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":"FIG. 16"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":"FIG. 17"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
