---
title: Interactive user interface to communication-enabled business process platforms method and apparatus
abstract: An interactive chat-bot user interface to a communication-enabled business process (CEBP) application is provided. The user interface receives instant message commands from a user. The received instant message commands are parsed and transformed into commands formatted according to the application programming interface of the CEBP application. Feedback or other output from the CEBP application can be provided to the user by the interactive interface in an instant message. In addition, the interface can participate in a dialog with the user, all in the natural language of the user and using instant messages, in order to obtain the instructions and parameter information required by the CEBP application in order to perform a requested operation.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09043407&OS=09043407&RS=09043407
owner: Avaya Inc.
number: 09043407
owner_city: Basking Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20090612
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["FIELD OF THE INVENTION","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["Methods and apparatuses providing an interactive user interface to communication-enabled business process platforms are provided. In particular, a chat-bot is provided that acts as an interface to a communication enabled business process platform.","A number of enterprise Internet protocol telephony applications have been developed to facilitate communications using the Internet and other communication networks. For example, unified communications solutions provide a single launch point or portal for individual users to gain access to multiple communication applications. The solutions can include tools such as click to call, instant messaging, click to conference, and many others. Unified communications solutions focus primarily on maximizing the productivity of individuals in a work environment. Typically, unified communications solutions are delivered to market via packaged software offerings.","Other enterprise Internet protocol telephony software systems include communication-enabled business process (CEBP) platforms. A CEBP is different from unified communications in that it has not been feasible to deliver packaged CEBP offerings. In general, CEBP solutions proactively inject and coordinate communications events in the context of new or existing multi-person, multi-step business processes. Unlike unified communications solutions that enable individual users to execute non-correlated communications functions on an adhoc basis, CEBP processes specify an orchestrated series of communications events executed in a logical order. If the CEBP solution is well designed and well implemented, it can offer the potential to significantly reduce the human and system delay that slows an organization in successfully and productively completing an entire, mission critical business process. As work flow speed increases the responsiveness of an organization to business events can improve and the corporation's ability to survive and compete is enhanced.","By definition, a CEBP is a custom solution. In changing the focus from individual productivity enhancement to the efficiency of an entire business process, a CEBP must naturally be designed with unique requirements of each business in mind. Often, each enterprise will have a unique entry point for CEBP adoption based upon which business processes are core to their market and their process improvement and funding priorities. If implemented correctly, the issue of business efficiency can also be addressed by a CEBP.","Although CEBPs promise greater business flexibility and competitiveness, there has been great cost and complexity involved in designing, implementing and operating each custom CEBP solution. In particular, making powerful CEBP solutions accessible and useable by the corporate employees who will use the tools provided by such solutions has been a challenge. Accordingly, it would be desirable to make CEBP solutions more accessible to facilitate access to the value of CEBPs.","In accordance with embodiments of the present invention, methods and apparatuses for providing a user interface to communication-enabled business process (CEBP) platforms are described. In particular, an interactive instant messaging (IM) \u201cchat-bot\u201d user interface is provided. The chat-bot user interface allows a user to interact with and control a CEBP platform using typed commands, without requiring the design and implementation of a fully formed and complete CEBP solution before implementing the CEBP infrastructure. Accordingly, the CEBP infrastructure can be made available to users in a basic and non-specific form.","In accordance with embodiments of the present invention, the chat-bot can provide text and\/or media (e.g., audio, video) user interfaces so that scripts can be launched using a text based user interface (TUI), a graphical user interface (GUI), or both. In use, a chat session is initiated between the user and the chat-bot. The user and the chat-bot can then engage in an exchange of commands using a structured language sent as instant messages. Based on instructions provided by the user through the exchange, the operation of the CEBP platform can be controlled. Accordingly, the chat-bot provides a user interface for accessing, controlling, coordinating and building a CEBP platform.","In accordance with further embodiments of the present invention, the chat-bot may comprise an intelligent notification chat-bot that provides an evolving set of instant messaging accessible notification functions, with specific grammars for each language supported, to expose the features, functions, and processes of the CEBP platform. In addition, messages can be recorded and saved for later use.","Additional features and advantages of embodiments of the present invention will become more readily apparent from the following description, particularly when taken together with the accompanying drawings.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["100","100","104","108","112","100","120","104","108","112","116","104","100","100","124","120"]},"In general, the server  may comprise a communication server capable of running program instructions, including the CEBP platform . An example of a CEBP platform  that can be included in a system  in accordance with embodiments of the present invention is the communications process manager software solution available from Avaya Inc. In addition, the server  may implement or have access to a database for storing information regarding users and\/or user contact addresses associated with an enterprise. In general, a CEBP platform  is capable of executing and orchestrating the communication activities required when an event in a business process requires contact with one or many individuals. These activities can include identifying the individuals who should receive a particular communication, and provides that communication to the identified individuals in realtime through any and all means available and\/or appropriate (e.g., email, short message service (SMS), office phone, mobile phone, instant messaging, etc). Accordingly, the server  may comprise any device capable of running the CEBP application  and communicating with client devices  via the communication network .","The communication network or networks  could be any type of network, such as a wired network, a wireless network, a fiberoptic network, and the like. In addition, the communication network  may comprise a plurality of networks and\/or a plurality of networks of different types.","The client devices  could be any device that can communicate over a communication network , such as a telephone, personal computer, cellular telephone, a personal digital assistant, and the like. Moreover, the plurality of client devices  may be the same as or different from one another. For example, client device A could be a personal computer running a variety of programs, such as a telephony or video telephony communication application, an email application, an instant messaging application, and\/or various other applications. As a further example, client device B may comprise a telephone operated in combination with a personal computer at the direction of a common user. Client device C could comprise a personal digital assistant implementing a wireless telephone and various applications, such as an email and\/or SMS communication application. As still another example, client device N may comprise a telephone or a text paging device. The foregoing examples of client devices  should not be considered limiting, and are instead provided for illustration purposes. In addition, although four client devices -are illustrated in , it should be appreciated that a system implementing or comprising a chat-bot interface in accordance with embodiments of the present invention is not limited to use in association with any particular number or type of client devices . Moreover, it should be appreciated that other topographies, including those in which the chat-bot interface  is executed by or incorporated into another device, such as the server  and\/or one or more client devices , can be implemented.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":["104","108","120","204","204","204","204","104","108","120","116","124"]},"A server , client device  and\/or agent  may additionally include memory  for use in connection with the execution of programming by the processor , and for the temporary or long term storage of program instructions and\/or data. Alternatively or in addition, data storage  may be provided. In accordance with embodiments of the present invention, the data storage  may contain various applications that can be executed by the processor . In addition, the data storage  can contain data that is used and\/or generated in connection with the execution of applications. Like the memory , the data storage  may comprise a solid state memory device. Alternatively or in addition, the data storage  may comprise a hard disk drive or other random access memory. In accordance with still other embodiments, the memory  may provide random access storage, while some or all of the data storage  may comprise read only storage.","Examples of application programming or instructions that can be stored in data storage  include the CEBP platform or application . Alternatively or in addition, other applications can be maintained in data storage . As can be appreciated by one of skill in the art, the particular application or set of applications maintained in data storage  will typically vary based on the identity of the device ,  or  or the function being performed by the device ,  or  in which the data storage  is incorporated. Other examples of applications that can be stored in data storage  include a calendar application , a telephony application , a video telephony application , an instant messaging application , an email application , a unified messaging application , a browser application , an SMS application , a presence application , and a chat-bot interface application .","A server , client device  or an agent  may also include one or more user input devices and one or more user output devices . However, it should be appreciated that a user input  and\/or a user input  is not required to be supplied as part of or integral to a server  or agent . For example, a server  or agent  may be configured for access from another device, such as a client device  or an administrative device in communication with the server  or agent  over the communication network . In accordance with other embodiments, a server  and\/or an agent  may be associated with a user input  and user output  for use by an administrator or a user interacting directly with the device  or .","A server , client device  and agent  also generally include one or more communication interfaces . For example, a packet data network interface, such as a wired or wireless Ethernet interface or cellular packet data interface may be provided, for instance to support Internet protocol communications over a communication network . Additional examples of communication network interfaces  include a telephony network interface or other wireless or wireline interfaces.","The CEBP application , as illustrated in , may be provided as part of a communication server . Alternatively, the CEBP application  may be executed by one or more client devices  alone or in combination with a communication server . According to still other embodiments, the CEBP application  may be executed by some or all of the server , client  and agent  devices. In general, the CEBP facilitates communications events in the context of new or existing multi-person, multi-step business processes.","More particularly, CEBP processes proactively inject and coordinate communications events in the context of new or existing multi-person, multi-step business processes. CEBP processes specify an orchestrated series of communications events executed in a logical order. Accordingly, a CEBP solution can significantly reduce the human and system delay that slows an organization in successfully and productively completing an entire, mission critical business process. The chat-bot interface provided by embodiments of the present invention makes CEBP solutions more accessible and useable.","The chat-bot interface, for example implemented through execution of a chat-bot interface application  running of an agent device  or other device (e.g., server  or client device ), provides an interactive and user friendly interface to a CEBP application . More specifically, the chat-bot interface engages in a dialogue with the user and in turn the CEBP application . That is, the chat-bot interface acts as an intermediary. In addition, the chat-bot interface can provide a text and\/or media user interface. In use, the user can provide a simple command, for instance by typing a command in accordance with a structured language or grammar using an instant messaging application . Accordingly, instant messaging can provide a channel for interacting with a CEBP application  that is provided by the chat-bot interface. The IM channel can then be used for all commands by the user, removing the need to enter commands in the language of the CEBP application . For example, a CEBP application such as the communications process manager software solution, may require that commands be provided in XML. The chat-bot interface parses dialogue provided via the instant messaging application  by the user and converts that dialogue to XML, before sending it to the CEBP application . Accordingly, the chat-bot interface provides a single control panel for the CEBP application . Moreover, the IM application , in cooperation with the chat-bot interface application , provides a single instant messaging channel that can be used to control multiple communication channels via the CEBP application . For instance, a single IM channel can be used to direct a CEBP application  to perform a notification operation involving numerous communication channels.","A particular example of a notification scenario can include entering or generating a list of individuals to be notified (i.e., provided with a particular message). Parameters of the notification can include the preferred channel by which recipients are notified and, the preferred time at which recipients are notified. For example, a preferred notification means could be email or instant messaging. As can be appreciated by one of skill in the art, the CEBP application  may operate in cooperation with a presence application  to determine the availability of an intended notification recipient. As a result, an alternate channel for notification can be selected if the preferred channel is not available, the recipient is not immediately available on the preferred channel, and\/or the priority or importance of the notification. Moreover, the language preference may be determined and\/or altered depending on the identity of particular notification recipients. The language of the notification can be determined according to user profile information for individual recipients stored, for example in the server  or on another device accessible to the server , for use in association with the CEBP application . The selections made by the user through the instant messaging dialogue with the chat-bot interface results in the creation of simple object access protocol (SOAP) XML commands that are provided to the CEBP application  by the chat-bot interface  in order to effect the notification commanded by the user.","Another example of a use of a CEBP application  in association with a chat-bot interface in accordance with embodiments of the present invention is a notify and response scenario. In particular, a notification sent to a recipient can prompt the recipient to respond. As an example, for a text based notification, such as an email, a button may be provided that allows the recipient to conveniently enter a response. As another example, where notification is via a voice channel, the recipient may be asked to press a number corresponding to a particular response. The CEBP application  can then listen for a dual-tone multiple frequency (DTMF) tone encoding the recipient's response. Responses collected from recipients can then be shipped back to the user or an administrator. In accordance with embodiments of the present invention, the response options presented to recipients can be set in response to text commands provided by the user to the chat-bot interface  as part of an instant messaging dialogue.","In accordance with further embodiments, the notify and conference scenario can be initiated through use of the chat-bot interface. In such a scenario, the notification may request that a recipient join a conference call. Where the recipient is notified over a voice channel, that recipient may be automatically joined to the call if a DTMF tone encoding acceptance by the recipient of the invitation is received. Where notification is provided through another channel, such as an email or instant message, that notification can include instructions to the recipient regarding how to join the conference.","With respect to these and other notification scenarios, or other operations that can be performed by a CEBP application , the chat-bot interface  can save a record of the SOAP XML instructions provided to the CEBP application  for later use as the basis of a subsequent notification or other operation.","The chat-bot interface application  comprises or is associated with a syntax that controls the commands available to a user and the responses to commands or inquiries received from the user. The chat-bot interface application  generally functions to provide a front end that interfaces with the user using natural (i.e., a human) language commands and responses. The chat-bot interface application  additionally provides a back end that uses SOAP XML commands to interact with the CEBP application . The effect is to allow the user to interact with and control the CEBP application  using simple, natural language commands. Moreover, the chat-bot interface application  allows notification events to be constructed as needed. Accordingly, a user is not required to have knowledge of the SOAP XML commands needed to control the CEBP application  in order to make use of that application . In addition, the need for an administrator or programmer to customize the CEBP application  for a particular enterprise or user can be avoided.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":["116","124","120","104","108","108","120","124","304","108","120","120"]},"Initiation of an instant messaging session generally includes establishing a communication channel between the user's client device  and the chat-bot interface , via the communication network .","At step , a determination may be made as to whether a command has been received from the client device . In response to receiving a command from a client device , the chat-bot interface  parses the command (step ). The command will be entered by the user through a user input  associated with the user's client device . Moreover, that command is entered using text in compliance with a structured language that complies or corresponds to the commands used to control the CEBP application . After parsing the command, the chat-bot interface  may then transform the command into the application programming interface (API) of the CEBP application  (step ). In accordance with embodiments of the present invention, this can include transforming a parsed, natural language command, to a SOAP XML message and sending it to the CEBP application . Accordingly, the user is not required to provide commands in the API of the CEBP application . Instead, the user may interact with the CEBP application , via the chat-bot interface , using simple, commands and instructions in accordance with a structured language that the user communicates to the CEBP application  via instant messaging. Therefore, a user can command the CEBP application  to perform operations, without requiring prior customization of the CEBP application and\/or interface, and without requiring the user to be conversant in the API of the CEBP application .","After determining that a command has not been received from the client device at step , or after transforming a command communicated via an instant message to the API of the CEBP application  at step , feedback may be provided to the client device  (step ). Providing feedback to the client device  can comprise providing a natural language report to a user of the client device  of the status of that user's interaction with the chat-bot interface  and\/or the CEBP application  via an instant or text message. For example, where a command has not been received from the client device , the chat-bot interface  may issue a message that is presented to the user through the client device , requesting input from the user. Alternatively or in addition, a message from the chat-bot interface  to the user can comprise a request that the user specify a type of operation that the user wishes to have the CEBP application  perform. This can include posing an open ended question that invites a natural language response from the user. As a further example, where it is determined that a command received from a client device  is not the basis of an instruction to the CEBP application , the chat-bot interface  may provide a message to a client device  for delivery to the user that is a follow-up to the earlier command. For example, in response to a command comprising a request by the user that the CEBP application  perform a particular operation, the chat-bot interface  may issue a request to the user for information comprising parameters that must be supplied to the CEBP application  in order to perform the requested operation. As yet another example, where the chat-bot interface  has transformed a command received from a user as an instant message to the API of the CEBP application , a reply instant message indicating that the instruction or command has been passed to the CEBP application  may be provided.","At step , a determination may be made as to whether the operation sequence is complete. In general, an operation sequence is complete if an instruction or command has been received from the user and, as transformed into the API of the CEBP application  by the chat-bot interface , can be acted on by the CEBP application . If the operation sequence is not complete, for example additional input is required from the user, the process may return to step .","If the operation sequence is complete, the CEBP application  can perform the requested operation or a subset of that operation (step ). An example of a CEBP operation is sending a notification message to indicated recipients. An example of a CEBP operation subset is sending a notification to indicated recipients, to which a response from those recipients is pending. After the CEBP application  performs an operation or operation subset, a status notification may be provided to the client device  (step ). The status notification can include a message that is output by the client device  to the user, to indicate the status of the CEBP application  operation or operation subset. For example, the identities of individuals who have received a notification message and\/or responded to a notification message requesting a reply can be provided.","At step , a determination may be made as to whether the command sequence that resulted in the operation or operation subset performed by the CEBP process application  should be stored for later use. For example, a command or set of commands that resulted in the performance of a CEBP operation can be stored to a favorites list or published to a public directory, and later retrieved for use as part of a recurring notification event. As another example, a stored command or sequence of commands can be retrieved and edited to be suitable for a different notification or other event, operation, or sub-process. If it is determined that the command sequence might be useful in connection with a future event, that command sequence is stored (step ). The command sequence may be stored as part of or in association with the chat-bot interface , or in data storage included in or available to the chat-bot interface , a client device  and\/or the server . Moreover, a stored command sequence can be used as the basis for a template for performing a sub-process or a complete operation. The user may instruct the chat-bot interface  to store a command sequence using natural language commands provided as part of the instant messaging session with the chat-bot interface .","After it has been determined that the command sequence should not be stored for later use, or after storing the command sequence, a determination may be made as to whether the instant messaging session should be discontinued. For example, if the desired CEBP operation has been completed, the user may choose to discontinue the IM session with the chat-bot interface . As another example, where a CEBP operation has been initiated but has not been completed (e.g., a large number of recipients are being provided with a notification and\/or a response from recipients has been requested) the user may wish to allow the operation to continue without that user's active involvement. As still another example, where a CEBP operation is complete and\/or additional input from the user is not required, the chat-bot interface  may discontinue the IM session. After discontinuing the IM session, the process may end. If the IM session is not discontinued, the process may return to step .","An example interaction in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention is provided below. The dialogue included in this example shows how the chat-bot interface  can operate in a CEBP environment, and how a user can access CEBP operations without being conversant in a specialized CEBP application  API.\n\n","In accordance with further embodiments of the present invention, a different parser may be provided for each natural language associated with a grammar or structured language that will be supported by the chat-bot interface . In addition, although various examples have been described as involving the use of written messages, other forms of messaging can be used. For example, interactive voice response messages can be used.","The foregoing discussion of the invention has been presented for purposes of illustration and description. Further, the description is not intended to limit the invention to the form disclosed herein. Consequently, variations and modifications commensurate with the above teachings, within the skill or knowledge of the relevant art, are within the scope of the present invention. The embodiments described hereinabove are further intended to explain the best mode presently known of practicing the invention and to enable others skilled in the art to utilize the invention in such or in other embodiments and with various modifications required by the particular application or use of the invention. It is intended that the appended claims be construed to include alternative embodiments to the extent permitted by the prior art."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 3"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
