---
title: 3-point wheelchair passenger securement system
abstract: The embodiments described and claimed herein are improved wheelchair passenger securement systems and stations. In particular, one embodiment described and claimed herein is a drop-in system comprising a barrier module and a wall-side module, which incorporate three separate restraint devices which are configured to secure a wheelchair at three separate attachment points. The system can optionally include a moveable excursion barrier or a pull-mechanism to pre-tension at least one of the restraint devices the wheelchair securements. In a simpler embodiment, three restraint devices, such as retractors, are provided for attachment to the vehicle surfaces or structures in, for example, a generally right-triangular configuration.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08414234&OS=08414234&RS=08414234
owner: Q'Straint
number: 08414234
owner_city: Ft. Lauderdale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20091005
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS","STATEMENT REGARDING FEDERALLY SPONSORED RESEARCH OR DEVELOPMENT","THE NAMES OF PARTIES TO A JOINT RESEARCH AGREEMENT","INCORPORATION-BY-REFERENCE OF MATERIAL SUBMITTED ON A COMPACT DISC","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONS","BRIEF SUMMARY OF THE INVENTIONS","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTIONS"],"p":["This application is a continuation-in-part of co-pending U.S. application Ser. No. 11\/847,435, entitled BARRIER WITH INTEGRATED WHEELCHAIR RESTRAINTS, filed Aug. 30, 2007, which is a continuation-in-part of International Application No. PCT\/US2006\/030085, entitled RESTRAINT SYSTEM, which was and filed on Aug. 2, 2006, and which claims priority to Provisional U.S. Application Ser. No. 60\/705,452, entitled RESTRAINT SYSTEM and filed on Aug. 5, 2005. U.S. application Ser. No. 11\/847,435 is also a continuation-in-part of U.S. application Ser. No. 11\/252,326, entitled RESTRAINT SYSTEM and filed on Oct. 17, 2005 now U.S. Pat. No. 7,452,170, which claims priority to Provisional U.S. Application Ser. No. 60\/618,572, entitled AUTOMATIC BELT RETRACTOR RELEASE SYSTEM and filed on Oct. 15, 2004.","This application also claims priority to provisional patent application Ser. No. 61\/102,853, entitled 3-POINT WHEELCHAIR PASSENGER SECUREMENT SYSTEM, filed Oct. 5, 2008.","U.S. application Ser. No. 11\/847,435, International Application No. PCT\/US2006\/030085, U.S. application Ser. No. 11\/252,326 and Provisional U.S. Application Ser. Nos. 61\/102,853, 60\/618,572 and 60\/705,452 are hereby incorporated by reference.","Not Applicable.","Not Applicable.","Not Applicable.","1. Technical Field","The embodiments described and claimed herein relate generally to wheelchair passenger securement methods, systems, and devices for vehicles. More specifically, at least some of the embodiments described herein relate to a method, system, or device for securing a wheelchair passenger in a vehicle (train, bus, van, plane, etc.) using 3 points of attachment for securing the wheelchair.","2. Background Art","The Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) mandates that all public transit service providers must accommodate persons with disabilities, including those who must use a wheelchair as their seat in the transport vehicle. ADA also mandates that, for the safety of the wheelchair user and near-by passengers, the wheelchair must be secured so that it will not move more than 2\u2033 in any direction during normal vehicle operation. In addition, restraints must be attached to the wheelchair\u2014historically two in front and two in the rear\u2014that are sufficiently strong to keep it secured in the event of a crash event.","Current systems on the market generally use a four-point system where two restraints are used to secure the front of the wheelchair and two are used to secure the rear of the wheelchair (one on each \u201ccorner\u201d of the wheelchair). In that respect, the current systems utilize four attachment points on the vehicle, four attachment points on the wheelchair, and four restraints extending between each respective vehicle attachment point and wheelchair attachment point. The prior art four-point systems are considered by many to be relatively cumbersome and time-consuming to secure, especially if the system is used on a public transit vehicle where dwell times are critical.","The prior art four-point systems suffer from numerous problems or short-comings. For example, the four-point systems utilize two restraint devices for securing the front of the wheelchair, one on the wall-side of the wheelchair and one on the aisle-side of the wheelchair. The use of the additional aisle-side restraint increases the cost of installation (more components and labor), poses a significant obstacle and tripping hazard for wheelchairs and other passengers, and requires more time to secure the chair (increasing vehicle dwell time and the potential for driver injuries while attempting to secure the device). Some have attempted to solve this problem by mounting the aisle-side restraint device to a retractable arm, such as the one disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 5,888,038, but such a system adds unnecessary expense and still poses a potential tripping hazard.","Others have attempted to vary from the traditional four-point systems with limited success. See, for example, the systems described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 4,060,271; 4,257,644; 4,427,210; 4,492,403; 4,688,843; 4,265,478; 5,026,225; and 6,113,325. One of the attempted solutions utilizes three attachment points on the vehicle. For example, the system disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 6,113,325 (\u201cthe '325 patent\u201d) utilizes three vehicle attachment points or restraint devices (two in the front, one in the rear). However, this system still suffers from the same problems as the traditional four-point system since it also requires the use of a coupling, or some other device, such as a \u201cY\u201d belt (see reference number 48 in U.S. Pat. No. 6,113,325). Although the coupling is only secured at one end to the single rear restraint device, the coupling is configured to secure the rear of the wheelchair at two wheelchair attachment points. In such systems, there are still effectively four attachment points to the wheelchair. Therefore, such systems are still relatively cumbersome and time-consuming to use. Plus, these systems are inherently weaker than the traditional four-point systems (four vehicle attachment points\/four wheelchair attachment points) since they utilize only one restraint device to secure the rear of the wheelchair, where more strength is required to sufficiently restrain the wheelchair during emergency braking events. Also, if the coupling or \u201cY\u201d belt is not permanently attached, there is the potential to lose the component, rendering the system useless. Further, the vehicle operator must still attach four restraints to the wheelchair as in conventional systems, as well as connect the additional coupling to the rear restraint device. In fact, it is believed that such a configuration may actually increase dwell time and potential for driver injury as compared to traditional four-point systems. Even further, the configuration of these prior art systems are quite complex, which increases the opportunity to use it improperly. It should not be forgotten that driver error is one of the most predominant causes of wheelchair tip-overs in the industry.","U.S. Pat. No. 4,257,644 (\u201cthe '644 patent\u201d) also discloses a system utilizing three vehicle attachment points. However, this prior art system utilizes manually operable restraints and coffers, or covered floor pockets, that are bulky, difficult to use, can pose a significant tripping hazard, and require an extra installation as compared to the embodiments described herein. Like the prior art system of the '325 patent, the system disclosed in the '644 patent also only uses a single vehicle attachment point to secure the rear of the wheelchair and is therefore inherently weak. As discussed above, in typical wheelchair securement systems, where the wheelchair passenger is forward facing in the vehicle, more strength is required to secure the rear of the wheelchair, as opposed to the front, to withstand emergency braking events.","The embodiments described and claimed herein solve at least some of the problems of the prior art wheelchair restraint systems. In simple terms, the embodiments described and claimed herein utilize three vehicle attachment points and three wheelchair attachment points to effectively secure a wheelchair. Instead of using a fourth wheelchair attachment point like the prior art, the present system may also use a fourth contact or touch point between the wheelchair and a side barrier. The side barrier may be a part of the vehicle itself (such as a side-wall) or could be a separate structure that is rigidly or movably fixed to the vehicle.","In one particular embodiment described and claimed herein, two of the vehicle attachment points and two of the wheelchair attachment points are provided at the rear of the wheelchair, where the most strength is needed for forward facing applications. It has been found that front restraints in most instances mainly come into play on rebound and primarily find use to prevent the front of the wheelchair from swinging out into the aisle. Therefore, only having one vehicle attachment point and one wheelchair attachment point at the front of the wheelchair is sufficient.","The configurations described and claimed herein are simpler to use than the prior art systems since they utilize fewer points of attachment to the vehicle and wheelchair. For the present systems, the opportunity for the driver to improperly secure the wheelchair and to suffer injury is reduced, since there is one and sometimes two less devices to bend down and attach and\/or activate. Further, the potential tripping hazard for other passengers and potential liability for vehicle operators is reduced. Even further, utilization of the presently described configurations reduces the amount of installation time required and the maintenance needed for the vehicle's owner.","In one embodiment, a drop-in system comprising a barrier module and a side-wall module is provided. The system is configured for forward-facing securement of a wheelchair (relative to the direction of travel of the vehicle), where the back of the wheelchair is adjacent the barrier module and the side-wall module is adjacent the wall of the vehicle. The barrier module is provided with two tie-down (or securement or restraint) devices for securing the wheelchair from two points, such as the two rear corners of the wheelchair. The side-wall module is provided with a single tie-down device, which is spaced a distance forward from the barrier module, for securing the wheelchair at a single point, such as the front wall-side corner of the wheelchair.","In another embodiment, a similar drop-in system is provided, except that the embodiment includes a movable side barrier, which has a retracted position towards a wall of the vehicle, and an extended position in which the side barrier contacts and exerts a force onto the wheelchair (in a direction away from the wall) to induce pretension in the previously-attached tie-down devices.","In yet another embodiment, a similar drop-in system is provided, except that the side barrier of the third embodiment is fixed, rather than movable.","In yet another embodiment, a similar drop-in system is provided, except that the embodiment includes a pull-mechanism that exerts a force on the single tie-down device (for example, in a direction towards the wall), whereby urging the wheelchair towards the wall (or side barrier) and inducing pre-tension into the tie-down device. The pull-mechanism may be a part of the side barrier or could be a separate structure that is rigidly or movably fixed to the vehicle","In yet another embodiment, a more simple system is provided which includes three tie-down devices arranged in a generally right-triangular configuration, two at the rear of the wheelchair and one at the front of the wheelchair. The tie-down devices can be mounted to any structure of the vehicle, such as the floor or wall.","In yet another embodiment, a single front tie down is provided in combination with a retractable anchor, onto which two rear tie-down devices are attached. In one instance, the retractable anchor includes a housing, which is attached to some portion of the vehicle, such as the floor. The retractable anchor also includes an extendable member, or arm, which is configured to telescope into the housing. The arm is configured to retract into the housing to eliminate a potential tripping hazard for non-wheelchair passengers and to eliminate an obstacle for wheelchair passengers. One of the two tie-down devices would be connected to the housing, and the other to the arm.","Other embodiments, which include some combination of the features discussed above and below and other features which are known in the art, are contemplated as falling within the claims even if such embodiments are not specifically identified and discussed herein.","It should be understood that the drawings are not necessarily to scale and that the embodiments are sometimes illustrated by graphic symbols, phantom lines, diagrammatic representations and fragmentary views. In certain instances, details which are not necessary for an understanding of the embodiments described and claimed herein or which render other details difficult to perceive may have been omitted. It should be understood, of course, that the inventions described herein are not necessarily limited to the particular embodiments illustrated. Indeed, it is expected that persons of ordinary skill in the art may devise a number of alternative configurations that are similar and equivalent to the embodiments shown and described herein without departing from the spirit and scope of the claims.","Like reference numerals will be used to refer to like or similar parts from Figure to Figure in the following detailed description of the drawings.","Referring first to , a first embodiment of a three-point wheelchair securement system (or station)  is shown for securing a wheelchair and its occupant in a vehicle, such as a bus, van, train, aircraft, boat, or the like. The first embodiment of the wheelchair securement system  includes a barrier module  and a side-wall module . With certain exceptions discussed herein, the barrier and side wall modules ,  of the first embodiment are substantially similar to those described in co-pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11\/847,435, which is incorporated herein in its entirety.","In the first embodiment, the wheelchair securement system  is best characterized as a drop-in system for a vehicle which is fully-equipped to secure a wheelchair and its passenger in a forward facing orientation (i.e., with respect to the direction of travel of the vehicle). In this orientation, the barrier module  is forward-facing (i.e., positioned rearward of the side-wall module  in the vehicle) and secures the wheelchair at two attachment points at the rear of the wheelchair. Although shown in a configuration suitable for installation adjacent a right side wall of a vehicle, the system  could be configured as a mirror image of the shown configuration for installation adjacent a left side wall of the vehicle. The side-wall module  is positioned adjacent to a wall of the vehicle and secures the wheelchair at a single attachment point at the front of the wheelchair. The barrier module  and side-wall module , through the use of three points of attachment to the wheelchair, work in conjunction to adequately secure the wheelchair in compliance with the ADA and to prevent significant movement, twisting, or tipping of the wheelchair.","To facilitate simple installation, the shown system  is intended to be substantially assembled for a vehicle manufacturer (or retrofitter) and needs only to be mounted or bolted into place without any further significant installation. To achieve this end in a cost-effective manner, the barrier module  and side-wall module  are provided or shipped as separate units, which are connected together by the installer. However, it is contemplated that alternative embodiments could comprise pre-integrated barrier and side-wall modules or barrier and side-wall modules which are not configured for interconnection.","The first embodiment of the wheelchair securement system  includes a side-wall arrangement with seats to make most efficient use of vehicle space. In that respect, the area designated for the wheelchair passenger system  can be used for other passengers, sitting and\/or standing, when it is not needed for a wheelchair passenger. The side-wall module  of the first embodiment incorporates a fold-up seat , so that the seat  can be positioned out of the way when a wheelchair passenger boards the vehicle. It is, however, contemplated that other seating arrangements could be used, such as forward facing seating. For example, the barrier module  could be provided with a similar stowable seat, which can be moved out of the way when the wheelchair securement system  is needed.","The wheelchair securement system  includes three securement (or tie-down) assemblies , , which work in conjunction to adequately secure a wheelchair in compliance with the ADA. In the first embodiment, each of the three securement assemblies , , comprises a retractor , , . Each retractor , , includes several feet of webbing (or strap) , , , at a terminal end of which is provided a wheelchair engaging member , , which could be any type of fastener. The shown wheelchair engaging member or fastener is an anchor (or S-hook or J-hook) which can be easily attached to and easily removed from any portion of a wheelchair, such as a structural member. Retractors suitable for use in this application include Q'Straint's QRT Series retractors (see www.qstraint.com). As an alternative to the retractors shown herein, manually-adjustable straps can be used, such as Q'Straint's Q-5000 and M-series belt systems.","The retractors , , as shown, are mounted internal to the barrier module . The only portion of the securement assemblies , that protrude from the barrier modules  are the restraint straps , , and the wheelchair engagement members , . The retractor , as shown, is mounted to the leg of the side-wall module , underneath the fold-up seat . This configuration substantially reduces the potential tripping hazard for passengers, as compared to prior art systems which include exposed retractors.","While the depictions of the first embodiment show the retractors , mounted internal to the barrier module , it is contemplated that other embodiments could include retractors mounted external to the barrier module . Moreover, while the retractor is shown mounted to the leg of side-wall module , it is contemplated that the retractor could be mounted to any other portion of the module  or to any other component of the vehicle, such as the wall or floor. Indeed, as shown in the figures and described in more detail below, the more simple embodiments of the claimed securement systems may not include a barrier or side-wall module ,  at all. Such simple embodiments could consist of three securement assemblies which are mounted in a generally triangular pattern in the vehicle. The securement assemblies can be fastened to any surface or structure of the vehicle, including the floor and walls.","While the retractors , , could theoretically be mounted directly to a floor surface of the vehicle, with the claims covering such a configuration, it has been found that better performance can be obtained by spacing the retractors , , a distance from the floor, a configuration espoused by the first embodiment of the wheelchair securement system . However, the retractors , , should be spaced a slight distance below the wheelchair structure to which the wheelchair engaging members , , will be attached. In other words, it is preferable that the restraint strap , , be slightly angled upwards towards the wheelchair so that the securement assembly , , can exert a downward force on the wheelchair.","The barrier module  of the first embodiment also includes a remote control device with a release latch (or paddle handle)  for releasing one or more of the securement assemblies , , . For example, the embodiments could include any of the systems described in U.S. provisional patent application Ser. Nos. 60\/705,452, U.S. provisional patent application No. 60\/618,572, U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11\/252,326, and\/or PCT patent application no. PCT\/US06\/30085, which are all incorporated in their entirety herein by reference.","The first embodiment of the wheelchair securement system  also includes a side barrier or pad . The side barrier  can be constructed of any material and can be rigid, soft and\/or resilient. For example, the side barrier  could comprise high density polyurethane foam similar to car head rests, and could be covered with fabric. Alternatively, a metal, plastic, or rubberized structure could be used.","The side barrier  can serve one or more of many different functions. For example, as shown, the barrier serves at least two purposes. First, the barrier  provides spacing between the wheelchair and the vehicle wall (and\/or the side-wall module ). The spacing between the wheelchair and the wall\/side-wall module  that is provided by the side barrier  serves to prevent injury to the wheelchair passenger in an accident, should an appendage find its way therebetween. Second, the barrier  resists lateral and\/or rotative movement of the wheelchair towards the vehicle wall. Ideally, although not necessarily, the wheelchair will be in close proximity or will actually touch the side barrier  when properly secured.","In the shown embodiment, it is contemplated that the side barrier  would have resilient properties, wherein it would have some give, but still provide firm support for the wheelchair. In an alternative embodiment, the side barrier  could be biased outward using, for example, a spring that pushes the side barrier  outward. When the front restraint was hooked up and would pull the chair in, the springs would provide an opposing force to stabilize the chair. As discussed below at least in the context of the second embodiment, the side barrier  could also be mechanized or inflatable, wherein it is movable to positively contact the wheelchair and induce pre-tension into the securement assemblies , , ","With reference now to , a second embodiment of a wheelchair securement system  is shown. Like the first embodiment, the second embodiment includes a barrier module  and a side-wall module  that are substantially similar to those described in co-pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11\/847,435. In addition, the second embodiment of the wheelchair securement system  is intended to be a drop-in system and, through the use of three points of attachment to the wheelchair, work in conjunction to adequately secure the wheelchair in compliance with the ADA and to prevent significant movement, twisting, or tipping of the wheelchair.","More specifically, the wheelchair securement system  includes three securement (or tie-down) assemblies , , which work in conjunction to adequately secure a wheelchair in compliance with the ADA. Each of the three securement assemblies , , comprises a retractor , although two of the retractors are mounted internal to the barrier modules in a similar manner as in the first embodiment, and are therefore not shown. Each retractor includes several feet of webbing (or strap) , , , at a terminal end of which is provided a wheelchair engaging member , , which could be any type of fastener.","The second embodiment of the wheelchair securement system  also includes at least one side barrier or pad . The side barrier  can be constructed of any material, although as shown the side barrier comprises a rubber material. The second embodiment includes a front restraint mechanism , disposed within housing , that is adapted to pull the wheelchair into contact with the side barrier through use of the strap guide . The retractor , as shown, is mounted to the housing  for the front restraint mechanism , positioned slightly forward of the strap guide . In this configuration, the strap extends from the retractor , through the strap guide , and to the wheelchair, where the wheelchair engaging member is attached to the wheelchair. Manipulation of a handle  for the mechanism  causes the strap guide  to retract into the housing , thereby drawing up any slack in the strap and pulling the wheelchair flush up against the side barrier . In this configuration, the wheelchair is most secure since tension is introduced into the restraints , , and the contact between the barrier  and the wheelchair will limit lateral movement towards the wall, both during normal and emergency driving events.","As with the first embodiment, the second embodiment of the barrier module  includes a remote control device with a release latch (or paddle handle)  for releasing one or more of the securement assemblies , , , such as any one of the systems described in U.S. provisional patent application Ser. Nos. 60\/705,452, U.S. provisional patent application No. 60\/618,572, U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11\/252,326, and\/or PCT patent application no. PCT\/US06\/30085.","Referring now primarily to , the second embodiment of the wheelchair securement station  is shown with a wheelchair properly secured therein, although the wheelchair has been made transparent for purposes of clarity. As previously described, the wheelchair is forward facing in the vehicle. With this orientation in mind, one can envision the wheelchair as having four quadrants , , , , which are defined by the longitudinal axis  and lateral axis  of the wheelchair. The securement assemblies , , attach to the wheelchair at three points, one point within three of the four quadrants , , , of the wheelchair. The first two attachment points are at the rear of the wheelchair, i.e., the engaging member of the securement assembly engages with the wheelchair in the rear right-side quadrant (which in this particular case is also the rear wall-side quadrant ) and the engaging member of the securement assembly engages with the wheelchair in the rear left-side quadrant (which in this particular case is also the rear aisle-side quadrant ). The third attachment point is at the front of the wheelchair. As shown, the engaging member of the securement assembly engages with the wheelchair in the front right-side quadrant (which in this particular case is also the front wall-side quadrant ), although it is contemplated that the front left-side quadrant (which in this particular case is also the front aisle-side quadrant ), or the dividing line therebetween, could be engaged in the alternative. However, it is believed that greater tip resistance can be achieved by locating the third attachment point as near as possible to the front-right corner of the wheelchair when the wall is adjacent to the right side of the wheelchair. Likewise, when the wall (and the associated side barrier ) is adjacent to the left side of the wheelchair, it is believed that greater tip resistance can be achieved by locating the third attachment point as near as possible to the front-left corner of the wheelchair.","With reference now to , a first embodiment of the front restraint mechanism  is shown with several components omitted for purposes of clarity, including the housing  and strap guide , which are clearly shown in . The mechanism  is a pivot mechanism consisting essentially of a link  that pivots about pin . At a first, or upper end  of the link , a handle  for operating the mechanism  is attached. At a second, or lower end  of the link, the strap guide  is attached (although not shown). A person of ordinary skill in the art would understand that pulling handle  in the direction A causes the second end  of the link , and thus the strap guide , to rotate clockwise about the pin . When the handle  is pulled in direction A, the strap guide  extends into the housing  for the mechanism  which, as discussed earlier, induces pre-tension into the securement assembly . Rigidly fixed to the underside of the link  is a ratchet  that is configured to engage with a pawl . The ratchet  and pawl  are configured to allow clockwise movements of the link  and to prevent counter-clockwise movements of the link . The mechanism  further includes a cable , attached at one end  to the lower end  of the handle , and at its opposite end  to the pawl . A person of ordinary skill in the art would understand that pulling on the handle  in direction B would cause the pawl  to release from the ratchet , thereby allowing the link  to be rotated counter-clockwise to release the pre-tension from the securement assembly ","Turning now to , a third embodiment of a wheelchair securement station  is depicted. The third embodiment  is quite similar to the first and second embodiments, in that it includes a barrier module , a side-wall module  with a fold-up seat , and three securement (or tie down) assemblies , , , two assemblies , (hidden from view) for tying down the rear of the wheelchair and one for tying down the front of the wheelchair. However, unlike the first embodiment, the securement assemblies , are not mounted internal to the barrier module , but are instead mounted external to the barrier module  on its leg supports.","Also, the securement station  includes a side barrier  which is disposed on the wall side of the vehicle below the flip-seat  and which is movable between a retracted and extended position. In , the side barrier  is shown in the extended position where it positively contacts the wheelchair and induces tension into the securement assemblies , , . In a retracted position, the barrier would be positioned generally parallel with the wall of the vehicle. Any means known in the mechanical arts could be used to provide motive force for the side barrier , including springs and various types of actuators, including pneumatic cylinders and linear actuators. As an alternative, the movable barrier  could comprise an inflatable bellows.","Turning now to , a fourth embodiment of a wheelchair securement station  is depicted. The station  presents a much more simple configuration than presented by the previously described embodiments and includes three securement assemblies  or , ,  or  aligned in roughly a right-triangle configuration. Like the earlier embodiments, the securement assemblies  or , ,  or  can be retractors. While the earlier embodiments show the retractors attached to various barrier and side-wall modules, the retractors  or , ,  or  of the fourth embodiment can be mounted to any structure in the vehicle; for example, the retractors could be floor or wall mounted. In such configuration, the retractors  or , ,  or  can be directly attached to the wall or floor, or could be attached to the wall or floor using track structures or pocket anchorages. For example, in one installation, Q'Straint's \u201cL\u201d track structure or Slide N' Click pocket anchorages could be used. A bracket of some type could be used to ensure the angle and position of the retractor is optimal.","Although possible, it is not intended that the fourth embodiment  will be used in isolation. Indeed, it is contemplated that the retractors  or , ,  or  could be placed below various seating and\/or barrier modules. For example, the simple configuration of the fourth embodiment has practical application for retrofitting vehicles having existing seating structures.","With reference now to , a fifth embodiment of the wheelchair securement station  is shown. The station  is similar to the third embodiment, in that it includes three securement assemblies, which as shown are retractors , ,  or . The forward-most securement assembly  or  could be attached to any structure in the vehicle, including the floor or wall. Also like the third embodiment, the fifth embodiment  has practical application for retrofitting vehicles having existing seating structures.","The fifth embodiment  differs from the previous embodiments in that it includes a retractable anchor  for securing the rear-side of the wheelchair, such as the one described in co-pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11\/776,223, which is incorporated in its entirety herein by reference. In the alternative, other retractable anchors could be used, such as the ones shown and described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 5,888,038; 6,113,325; 6,149,359; 6,428,254; 6,575,677; and 6,966,733. As shown, the retractable anchor  has two main structural components: the housing  and the arm . The arm  is generally adapted to retract inside of the housing  when the anchor  is not being used to restrain a wheelchair, in order to increase the available floor space for non-wheelchair passengers. Onto each of the housing  and arm  is mounted a securement assembly , . When the retractable anchor  is fully extended, as shown, the securement assembly  is properly positioned for attachment to a wheelchair.","Turning now to , a sixth embodiment of the wheelchair securement station  is shown. Like the second embodiment, the sixth embodiment includes a barrier module  and a side-wall module  that are substantially similar to those described in co-pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11\/847,435, and is intended to be a drop-in system. Also like the second embodiment, the sixth embodiment of the wheelchair securement system  uses three points of attachment to the wheelchair, which work in conjunction with a side barrier  and a front restraint mechanism, or tensioner assembly,  to adequately secure the wheelchair in compliance with the ADA and to prevent significant movement, twisting, or tipping of the wheelchair.","More specifically, the wheelchair securement system  includes three securement (or tie-down) assemblies , , which work in conjunction to adequately secure a wheelchair in compliance with the ADA. As best shown in , each of the three securement assemblies , , comprises a retractor , , . Retractors , are mounted internal to the barrier module , and retractor is mounted to the side-wall barrier  inside of a housing assembly . Each retractor , , includes several feet of webbing (or strap) , , , at a terminal end of which is provided a wheelchair engaging member , , which could be any type of fastener. At least the front retractor includes a locking mechanism and a lever, or actuator, . The locking mechanism prevents the webbing from being pulled out of the retractor , and depressing the lever overrides the locking mechanism and allows the webbing to be extended.","Like the second embodiment, the sixth embodiment of the wheelchair securement system  also includes at least one side barrier or pad . The side barrier  can be constructed of any material, although as shown the side barrier comprises a rubber (or neoprene) material. As shown, the side barrier  includes a recessed area  adjacent the barrier module , and a projected area  near the front securement assembly , to accommodate or conform to the shape of a wheelchair which is wider at the rear and more narrow at the front. However, it is anticipated the side barrier  could be flat without the recessed area. The contact\/side barrier  is preferably positioned adjacent or near a floor of the vehicle, underneath a side seating arrangement, but can be adjusted up or down to accommodate different seating options.","With particular reference now to , the sixth embodiment includes a second embodiment of a front restraint mechanism , disposed within housings  and , that is adapted to pull the wheelchair towards or into contact with the side barrier  through use of the strap guide . The retractor , as shown, is mounted to the frame structure  for the side-wall module , positioned slightly forward of the strap guide  and a loop member , which is affixed to the frame structure . In this configuration, the strap extends from the retractor , through the loop member , then through the strap guide , and finally to the wheelchair, where the wheelchair engaging member is attached to the wheelchair. The strap guide  is interconnected with a handle actuator  by means of shaft . Shaft  is rigidly fixed to both the strap guide  and the handle actuator , and extends through an aperture  through the frame structure . With this configuration, it is readily obvious that rotation of the handle actuator  about the axis of the shaft  causes the strap guide  to rotate in a similar direction. More specifically, pulling the handle actuator  away from the vehicle wall (i.e., clockwise about axis of shaft , in direction C) causes the strap guide  to rotate in a direction generally towards the vehicle wall, thereby drawing up any slack in the strap and pulling the wheelchair adjacent to or flush up against the side barrier . In this configuration, the wheelchair is most secure since tension is introduced into the restraints , , and the close positional relationship or contact between the barrier  and the wheelchair will limit lateral movement towards the wall, both during normal and emergency driving events.","The mechanism  includes components which are configured to engage with the lever on the front retractor . Specifically, when the securement system  is not being used (i.e., when the handle actuator  is positioned generally vertical in engagement with spring lock ), the mechanism  is configured to depress lever , thereby allowing the strap to be withdrawn from the retractor . Lever is depressed using link  which is pivotably attached to the frame assembly. Spring  is interconnected between the frame structure  and the first, or lower portion,  of the link  to bias the lower portion  of the link  away from the lever . Therefore, in its default state, lever  is not depressed. However, the mechanism includes cam member  which is rigidly fixed to shaft . When the handle actuator  is positioned generally vertical (i.e., the unlocked\/unrestrained position), the cam member  engages with the underside of the second, or upper portion,  of the link to force the lower portion  of the link towards and into engagement with lever . See, in particular, the cross section in , which shows cam member  forcing link  into engagement with lever . In that respect, when the station is not being use, and the handle actuator  is in the unlocked\/unrestrained position, the strap can be readily withdrawn from the retractor so that the fastener can be engaged with a wheelchair. One of ordinary skill in the art would recognize that when handle actuator  is pulled in direction C (to the locked\/restrained position), cam member  rotates in the same direction, thereby allowing spring  to pull the first portion  of link  away from engagement with lever . When this occurs, the locking mechanism of the retractor is engaged, which prevents further strap from being withdrawn.","With reference now, in particular, to , , and , the mechanism  includes a ratchet  and pawl , which work in conjunction to allow the handle to be pulled clockwise, in direction C, but prevent the handle from moving counterclockwise. More specifically, the ratchet  is rigidly affixed to the frame structure , and includes a stop  to prevent over-rotation of the handle actuator  (or can be adjusted to limit the travel of the handle ), while the pawl  is pivotably affixed to a lower end of the handle actuator . A spring  is provided, which is interconnected between the pawl  and the handle actuator  and biases a first end  of the pawl  into engagement with the ratchet .","The handle actuator  includes a ratchet release mechanism, , comprising a handle  which is connected to a cam follower , via a torsion member . The torsion member extends from the handle  to the cam follower  through the tubular body  of the handle actuator . The handle is configured to rotate in at least one direction D about the axis of the tubular body  to facilitate engagement of pawl  with ratchet . More specifically, torsion member  transmits the torque exerted upon the handle  to cam follower  whereby rotation of handle  causes cam follower  to rotate about the axis of the tubular body . Cam follower  engages with cam surface  which is present on a second end  of the pawl . When handle  is rotated counterclockwise, cam follower  rides along cam surface  and forces the second end  of the pawl  downward, whereby the first end  of the pawl  moves upward and out of engagement with the ratchet .","As with some of the previous embodiments, the sixth embodiment of the barrier module  includes a remote control device with a release latch (or paddle handle)  for releasing one or more of the securement assemblies , , , such as any one of the systems described in U.S. provisional patent application Ser. Nos. 60\/705,452, U.S. provisional patent application No. 60\/618,572, U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11\/252,326, and\/or PCT patent application no. PCT\/US06\/30085. In the shown embodiment, paddle handle  releases the locking mechanisms of retractors , for a predetermined amount of time, which is sufficient for the vehicle operator to engage\/release the fasteners , with\/from the wheelchair.","Proper restraint of a wheelchair in the sixth embodiment of the system  can be achieved using the following steps. First, the side seat should be placed and locked in the folded, upward position. Second, the wheelchair is moved into position with the back of the passenger placed adjacent the barrier module , and the wheelchair positioned in the center of the area, as close as possible to the side barrier  (ideally in contact with the side barrier ). Third, the paddle handle  is pulled, which releases the locking mechanisms of retractors , for a predetermined period of time. Fourth, webbing , is withdrawn and fasteners , are attached to structural members of the wheelchair. Preferably, and as described in more detail above for the second embodiment, fastener engages with the wheelchair in the rear right-side quadrant , and the fastener engages with the wheelchair in the rear left-side quadrant . Fifth, the vehicle operator should verify that the handle actuator  is in its unlocked\/unrestrained position, so that the locking mechanism of retractor is disengaged and webbing can be withdrawn. As shown, the handle actuator  is in its unlocked\/unrestrained position when it is generally vertical and held in place by spring lock . Then webbing is withdrawn and fastener engages with the wheelchair in the front right-side quadrant (i.e., the quadrant adjacent the wall of the vehicle). Sixth, preferably after the predetermined period of time has elapsed, the handle actuator  is pulled in direction C. This action simultaneously causes the locking mechanism of retractor to engage (and thereby prevent further withdrawal of webbing ) and the strap guide  to pull webbing towards the wall of the vehicle (and thereby remove slack from at least webbing ). Engagement of the ratchet  and pawl  hold the handle actuator  in the locked\/restrained position. Finally, once everything is secured and in position, the wheelchair wheel locks are then engaged or power supply is turned off. In its final, restrained position, the wheelchair is positioned very close to or ideally in contact with the side barrier .","When the wheelchair passenger decides to disembark the vehicle, the above steps are essentially performed, but in reverse order. First, the handle  of the handle actuator  is rotated to disengage the pawl  from the ratchet . This allows the handle actuator  to be moved back to its original unlocked\/unrestrained position. Once this step is performed, the locking mechanism of retractor is once again released, which allows the fastener to be removed from the wheelchair and the webbing to be drawn back into the retractor . Second, the paddle handle  is once again pulled, which allows fasteners , to be removed from engagement with the wheelchair and webbing , to be drawn back into the retractors , . Finally, the vehicle operator removes the wheelchair wheel locks or turns power supply on for electric wheelchairs and the wheelchair passenger is now free to disembark the vehicle.","Although the inventions described and claimed herein have been described in considerable detail with reference to certain embodiments, one skilled in the art will appreciate that the inventions described and claimed herein can be practiced by other than those embodiments, which have been presented for purposes of illustration and not of limitation. Therefore, the spirit and scope of the appended claims should not be limited to the description of the embodiments contained herein."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE SEVERAL VIEW OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["These and other features, aspects, objects, and advantages of the embodiments described and claimed herein will become better understood upon consideration of the following detailed description, appended claims, and accompanying drawings where:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0034"},"figref":"FIG. 9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"figref":"FIG. 10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0037","num":"0036"},"figref":"FIG. 11"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0037"},"figref":"FIG. 12"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0039","num":"0038"},"figref":"FIG. 13"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0040","num":"0039"},"figref":"FIG. 14"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0041","num":"0040"},"figref":"FIG. 15"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
