---
title: Oilfield application framework
abstract: A method for performing an oilfield operation of an oilfield having a subterranean formation. The method includes collecting oilfield data and deploying a first plug-in including a first oilfield technology functionality into an oilfield hosting application. The method further includes performing an oilfield analysis on the collected oilfield data in the oilfield hosting application using the first oilfield technology functionality of the first plug-in to generate an oilfield output and adjusting an oilfield operation based on the oilfield output.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08499829&OS=08499829&RS=08499829
owner: Schlumberger Technology Corporation
number: 08499829
owner_city: Sugar Land
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20090804
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATION","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["This application claims priority, pursuant to 35 U.S.C. \u00a7119(e), to the filing date of U.S. Patent Application Ser. No. 61\/091,207, entitled \u201cSystem and Method for Performing Oilfield Operations,\u201d filed on Aug. 22, 2008, which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.","Operations, such as surveying, drilling, wireline testing, completions, production, planning and field analysis, are typically performed to locate and gather valuable downhole fluids. Surveys are often performed using acquisition methodologies, such as seismic scanners or surveyors to generate maps of underground formations. These formations are often analyzed to determine the presence of subterranean assets, such as valuable fluids or minerals, or to determine whether the formations include characteristics suitable for storing fluids.","During drilling and production operations, data is typically collected for analysis and\/or monitoring of the operations. Such data may include, for instance, information regarding subterranean formations, equipment, and historical and\/or other data.","Typically, simulators are designed to model specific behavior of discrete portions of the wellbore operation. Due to the complexity of the oilfield operation, most simulators are capable of only evaluating a specific segment of the overall production system such as simulation of the reservoir. Simulations of portions of the wellsite operation, such as reservoir simulation, flow through the wellbore or surface processing, are usually considered and used individually.","A change in any segment of the production system, however, often has cascading effects on the upstream and downstream segments of the production system. For example, restrictions in the surface network can reduce productivity of the reservoir. Separate simulations typically fail to consider the data or outputs of other simulators, and fail to consider these cascading effects.","A method for performing an oilfield operation of an oilfield having a subterranean formation. The method includes collecting oilfield data and deploying a first plug-in including a first oilfield technology functionality into an oilfield hosting application. The method further includes performing an oilfield analysis on the collected oilfield data in the oilfield hosting application using the first oilfield technology functionality of the first plug-in to generate an oilfield output and adjusting an oilfield operation based on the oilfield output.","Other aspects and advantages of oilfield application frameworks will be apparent from the following description and the appended claims.","Specific embodiments will now be described in detail with reference to the accompanying figures. Like elements in the various figures are denoted by like reference numerals for consistency.","In the following detailed description, numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a more thorough understanding. In other instances, well-known features have not been described in detail to avoid obscuring embodiments of oilfield application frameworks.","FIGS. .-. depict simplified, representative, schematic views of a field  having a subterranean formation  containing a reservoir  therein and depicting various field operations being performed on the field .  depicts a survey operation being performed by a survey tool, such as seismic truck ., to measure properties of the subterranean formation. The survey operation is a seismic survey operation for producing sound vibrations. In , one such sound vibration, a sound vibration  generated by a source , reflects off horizons  in the earth formation . A set of sound vibrations, such as the sound vibration  is received by sensors, such as geophone-receivers , situated on the earth's surface. The data received  is provided as input data to a computer . of a seismic truck ., and responsive to the input data, computer . generates seismic data output . This seismic data output may be stored, transmitted or further processed as desired, for example, by data reduction.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 1.2","b":["106","2","128","102","136","130","132","136","102","104","133"]},"A surface unit  is used to communicate with the drilling tools and\/or offsite operations, as well as with other surface or downhole sensors. The surface unit  is capable of communicating with the drilling tools to send commands to the drilling tools, and to receive data therefrom. The surface unit  collects data generated during the drilling operation and produces data output  which may be stored or transmitted. Computer facilities may be positioned at various locations about the field  (e.g., the surface unit ) and\/or at remote locations.","Sensors (S), such as gauges, may be positioned about the field  to collect data relating to various field operations as described previously. As shown, sensor (S) is positioned in one or more locations in the drilling tools and\/or at the rig  to measure drilling parameters, such as weight on bit, torque on bit, pressures, temperatures, flow rates, compositions, rotary speed, and\/or other parameters of the field operation. Sensors (S) may also be positioned in one or more locations in the circulating system.","The drilling tools . may include a bottom hole assembly (BHA) (not shown), generally referenced, near the drill bit (e.g., within several drill collar lengths from the drill bit). The bottom hole assembly includes capabilities for measuring, processing, and storing information, as well as communicating with the surface unit . The bottom hole assembly further includes drill collars for performing various other measurement functions.","The bottom hole assembly is provided with a communication subassembly that communicates with the surface unit . The communication subassembly is adapted to send signals to and receive signals from the surface using a communications channel such as mud pulse telemetry electromagnetic telemetry, or wired drill pipe communications. The communication subassembly may include, for example, a transmitter that generates a signal, such as an acoustic or electromagnetic signal, which is representative of the measured drilling parameters. It will be appreciated by one of skill in the art that a variety of telemetry systems may be employed, such as wired drill pipe, electromagnetic or other known telemetry systems.","Typically, the wellbore is drilled according to a drilling plan that is established prior to drilling. The drilling plan typically sets forth equipment, pressures, trajectories and\/or other parameters that define the drilling process for the wellsite. The drilling operation may then be performed according to the drilling plan. However, as information is gathered, the drilling operation may need to deviate from the drilling plan. Additionally, as drilling or other operations are performed, the subsurface conditions may change. The earth model may also need adjustment as new information is collected","The data gathered by sensors (S) may be collected by the surface unit  and\/or other data collection sources for analysis or other processing. The data collected by sensors (S) may be used alone or in combination with other data. The data may be collected in one or more databases and\/or transmitted on or offsite. The data may be historical data, real time data, or combinations thereof. The real time data may be used in real time, or stored for later use. The data may also be combined with historical data or other inputs for further analysis. The data may be stored in separate databases, or combined into a single database.","The surface unit  may be provided with a transceiver  to allow communications between the surface unit  and various portions of the field  or other locations. The surface unit  may also be provided with or functionally connected to one or more controllers (not shown) for actuating mechanisms at the field . The surface unit  may then send command signals to the field  in response to data received. The surface unit  may receive commands via the transceiver  or may itself execute commands to the controller. A processor may be provided to analyze the data (locally or remotely), make the decisions and\/or actuate the controller. In this manner, the field  may be selectively adjusted based on the data collected. This technique may be used to optimize portions of the field operation, such as controlling drilling, weight on bit, pump rates, or other parameters. These adjustments may be made automatically based on computer protocol, and\/or manually by an operator. In some cases, well plans may be adjusted to select optimum operating conditions, or to avoid problems.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":["FIG. 1.3","FIG. 1.2","FIG. 1.3"],"b":["106","3","128","136","106","3","136","106","3","106","3","144","102"]},"The wireline tool . may be operatively connected to, for example, geophones  and a computer . of a seismic truck . of . The wireline tool . may also provide data to the surface unit . The surface unit  collects data generated during the wireline operation and produces data output  that may be stored or transmitted. The wireline tool . may be positioned at various depths in the wellbore  to provide a survey or other information relating to the subterranean formation .","Sensors (S) such as gauges may be positioned about the field  to collect data relating to various field operations as described previously. As shown, the sensor S is positioned in wireline tool . to measure downhole parameters which relate to, for example porosity, permeability, fluid composition and\/or other parameters of the field operation.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":"FIG. 1.4","b":["106","4","129","136","142","104","106","4","136","142","146"]},"Sensors (S), such as gauges, may be positioned about the field  to collect data relating to various field operations as described previously. As shown, the sensor (S) may be positioned in the production tool . or associated equipment, such as Christmas tree , gathering network , surface facility , and\/or the production facility, to measure fluid parameters, such as fluid composition, flow rates, pressures, temperatures, and\/or other parameters of the production operation.","Production may also include injection wells (not shown) for added recovery. One or more gathering facilities may be operatively connected to one or more of the wellsites for selectively collecting downhole fluids from the wellsite(s).","While FIGS. .-. depict tools used to measure properties of a field, it will be appreciated that the tools may be used in connection with non-oilfield operations, such as gas fields, mines, aquifers storage, or other subterranean facilities. Also, while certain data acquisition tools are depicted, it will be appreciated that various measurement tools capable of sensing parameters, such as seismic two-way travel time, density, resistivity, production rate, etc. of the subterranean formation and\/or its geological formations may be used. Various sensors (S) may be located at various positions along the wellbore and\/or the monitoring tools to collect and\/or monitor the desired data. Other sources of data may also be provided from offsite locations.","The field configurations of FIGS. .-. are intended to provide a brief description of an example of a field usable with oilfield application frameworks. Part, or all, of the field  may be on land, water, and\/or sea. Also, while a single field measured at a single location is depicted, oilfield application frameworks may be utilized with any combination of one or more fields, one or more processing facilities and one or more wellsites.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0037","num":"0036"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":["200","202","1","202","2","202","3","202","4","200","204","202","1","202","4","106","1","106","4","1","1","1","4","202","1","202","4","208","1","208","4","200"]},"Data plots .-. are examples of static data plots that may be generated by data acquisition tools .-., respectively, however, it should be understood that data plots .-. may also be data plots that are updated in real time. These measurements may be analyzed to better define the properties of the formation(s) and\/or determine the accuracy of the measurements and\/or for checking for errors. The plots of each of the respective measurements may be aligned and scaled for comparison and verification of the properties.","Static data plot . is a seismic two-way response over a period of time. Static plot . is core sample data measured from a core sample of the formation . The core sample may be used to provide data, such as a graph of the density, porosity, permeability, or some other physical property of the core sample over the length of the core. Tests for density and viscosity may be performed on the fluids in the core at varying pressures and temperatures. Static data plot . is a logging trace that typically provides a resistivity or other measurement of the formation at various depths.","A production decline curve or graph . is a dynamic data plot of the fluid flow rate over time. The production decline curve typically provides the production rate as a function of time. As the fluid flows through the wellbore, measurements are taken of fluid properties, such as flow rates, pressures, composition, etc.","Other data may also be collected, such as historical data, user inputs, economic information, and\/or other measurement data and other parameters of interest. As described below, the static and dynamic measurements may be analyzed and used to generate models of the subterranean formation to determine characteristics thereof. Similar measurements may also be used to measure changes in formation aspects over time.","The subterranean structure  has a plurality of geological formations .-.. As shown, this structure has several formations or layers, including a shale layer ., a carbonate layer ., a shale layer . and a sand layer .. A fault  extends through the shale layer . and the carbonate layer .. The static data acquisition tools are adapted to take measurements and detect characteristics of the formations.","While a specific subterranean formation with specific geological structures is depicted, it will be appreciated that the field  may contain a variety of geological structures and\/or formations, sometimes having extreme complexity. In some locations, typically below the water line, fluid may occupy pore spaces of the formations. Each of the measurement devices may be used to measure properties of the formations and\/or its geological features. While each acquisition tool is shown as being in specific locations in the field , it will be appreciated that one or more types of measurement may be taken at one or more locations across one or more fields or other locations for comparison and\/or analysis.","The data collected from various sources, such as the data acquisition tools of , may then be processed and\/or evaluated. Typically, seismic data displayed in the static data plot . from the data acquisition tool . is used by a geophysicist to determine characteristics of the subterranean formations and features. The core data shown in the static plot . and\/or log data from the well log . are typically used by a geologist to determine various characteristics of the subterranean formation. The production data from graph . is typically used by the reservoir engineer to determine fluid flow reservoir characteristics. The data analyzed by the geologist, geophysicist and the reservoir engineer may be analyzed using modeling techniques.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0045","num":"0044"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 3"],"b":["300","302","354"]},"Each wellsite  has equipment that forms a wellbore  into the earth. The wellbores extend through subterranean formations  including reservoirs . These reservoirs  contain fluids, such as hydrocarbons. The wellsites draw fluid from the reservoirs and pass them to the processing facilities via surface networks . The surface networks  have tubing and control mechanisms for controlling the flow of fluids from the wellsite to the processing facility .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0047","num":"0046"},"figref":"FIG. 4.1","b":["400","1","1","1","4","2","3","400","400","401","402","404","406","1","406","2","406","3","408"]},"The application shell  is the basic structure for building an interface for forming an oilfield application . It may utilize a platform for creating an application. This platform provides basic building blocks for assembling the oilfield application . Additional functionality is typically provided to provision the platform for use in providing capabilities to the application shell  for performing oilfield operations. For example, the platform may be a system software capable of providing functionality for creating complex applications made of loosely coupled components, such that simple components may be combined to provide complex capabilities. The platform may allow these components to be independently developed, tested, and deployed. Exemplary platforms exist which are capable of creating complex user interfaces in a composite pattern. See, e.g., M. Szpuszta, , Microsoft Corporation, December 2006. In another example, the platform may have functionality for providing a consistent programming model for building applications while providing a separation between application functions, such as the user interface and the business logic. The platform may unify a host of application services for user interface (UI) and display function including but not limited to any of the following: UI button, UI menu, UI form, form filling paradigm, advanced selector, think ahead help, hierarchical data display, transparent layers, adaptive zooming paradigm, wireframe, storyboard, interactions to facilitate display on large or small devices, colorized composition, multiple data types for display, support for display component library, 2D and 3D drawing, fixed and adaptive documents, advanced typography, vector graphics, raster graphics, animation, data binding, audio, video, or any combinations thereof. Additional details of these application services are provided below.","The application shell  may be provided in a pre-defined format. The application shell , or at least a portion, may also be generated from a provided toolkit. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that a toolkit may correspond to a set of software tools configured to develop software applications. Furthermore, the application shell provider, the application module provider, and the oilfield application provider may be the same entity or different entities.","The application shell  may also be provided with constraints, requirements or other features, such as data, that assist in defining the oilfield application  for performing the oilfield operation. For example, the application shell  may provide user interface interaction and display services to the application modules ., ., and . to facilitate display on a variety of devices. The application shell  is adapted to receive the loaded and integrated application modules ., ., and . to form the oilfield application .","The application modules ., ., and . contain various oilfield sub-applications or tasks to be performed by the oilfield application . These application modules ., ., and . may be tools for performing tasks, such as generating reports, generating well plans, performing simulations, performing production operations, performing seismic operations, performing completions operations, performing drilling operations, etc. Some of these modules may be general modules with standard data formats and provide general functions reusable by different applications. These application modules ., ., and . may also be pre-existing sub-applications or applications created specifically for the oilfield applications .","The application modules ., ., and . are to be loaded and integrated into the application shell . The application shell  hosts the application modules ., ., and . by, for example, loading, starting and\/or providing services that the modules require to operate. For example, the application shell  hosts application modules ., ., and . that may be configured to provide user interfaces, such as buttons, menus or other features, that permit the user to activate functionality of the oilfield application  or the application modules ., ., and .. In this manner, the application shell  may selectively perform one or more of the tasks by selectively activating the various application modules ., ., and .. The application modules ., ., and . may be activated simultaneously, sequentially and combinations thereof to provide the desired functions in the desired time frame(s) or sequence(s).","In addition to the user interface buttons and menus, the application shell  may also provide other features for use by the application modules ., . and . to perform tasks for the oilfield operation. The features may include but are not limited to, any of the following or any combinations thereof.","1. Form filling paradigm, i.e., the functions to reduce typing required for filing out data entry forms, e.g., an auto-completion function.","2. Advanced selector, which may be an element of the form filling paradigm, whereby the system uses the type of data to represent an alternative to typing in an answer. For example, the next logical depths for a trajectory in a well design on a graph\/chart.","3. Think ahead help, which provides a help screen based on a context of the application.","4. Hierarchical data display for presenting parent and child relational elements, e.g., a data tree, table tree, etc.","5. Transparent layers, which are user interface elements displayed in an overlapping format with transparent upper layers allowing the deeper layers to be visible. In this case, the opacity or transparency of upper layers may be adjusted for improved data presentation.","6. Adaptive zooming paradigm for determining the size and shape of the display elements to accommodate the data context being represented. For example, in a small display device, one element may be zoomed in and others may be zoomed out while maintaining a scale that is still legible for the context.","To provide access to the application modules ., ., and . through the oilfield application , the modules are selectively loaded and\/or integrated together either in a pre-determined format, dynamically as determined by the application modules or as directed, explicitly or implicitly, by the user as defined by the application shell . In some cases, the application modules ., . and . may not be compatible with the application shell . Each such application module  may therefore, need to be adapted for integration within the application shell . For example, some such application modules may require an adapter for compatibility with the application shell . As shown in , application modules . and . are encapsulated within an adapter . and ., respectively, that presents an interface compatible with the application shell  and enables the application shell  to operate the application modules . and .. The adapters . and . may be the same, or defined differently depending on the needs of the respective application modules . and . they encapsulate.","An application module (e.g., ., ., .) is capable of performing functions in a predefined manner. In order to perform these functions via the application shell , the application module (e.g., ., ., .) may be provided with the adapter such that the application module conforms to the requirements and\/or expectations of the application shell . The application module (e.g., ., ., .) is provided with functionality that may enable the application module (e.g., ., ., .) to adapt to the application shell . In other words, the expectations of the application shell  are translated into those provided by the application module (e.g., ., ., .). An adapter is provided to encapsulate the application module (e.g., ., ., .). This adapter has an interface compatible with the application shell  and the application module (e.g., ., ., .) to enable interoperability therebetween.","The adapter may be any interface capable of operatively linking the application modules ., ., and . with the application shell . For example, the adapter is provided with capabilities for selectively controlling the interaction between the application module (e.g., ., ., .) and the application shell .","While the application modules ., ., and . are depicted as being separate application modules ., ., and . operatively linked to the application shell  via the integration services  and loading services , it will be appreciated that the application modules ., ., and . may be operatively linked prior to being linked with the application shell . This may be done, for example, by interfacing the application modules ., ., and . prior to attachment to the application shell . Some application modules ., ., and . may be separately designed for interaction and\/or provided with the necessary interaction using the integration services  and loading services  as depicted.","The loading services  may be used to load the application module(s) ., ., and . into the application shell . Specifically, the loading services  may initialize, or activate, the application module (e.g., ., ., .) in preparation for integration with one another and\/or with the application shell . For example, in some cases, an un-initialized application module (e.g., ., ., .) may not function in the application shell . In this example, the application modules ., ., and . may need to be activated prior to integration in order to function properly. Further, depending on the functionality of the tasks, some application modules (e.g., ., ., .) may require initialization. The loading services  may also be used to establish any necessary connections with a data repository  (e.g., a database) needed to perform the task identified by the application module (e.g., ., ., .).","The application module(s) ., ., and . may then be integrated with the application shell  so that the application module(s) ., ., and . may be controlled by the application user. Integration as used herein refers to the application modules ., ., and . discovery of the existence of other application modules ., . and . and\/or the provisioning of the integrated shell with interface elements for operation of the application modules ., ., and .. The discovery of the existence of the application modules (e.g., ., ., .) involves querying for the existence of application modules (e.g., ., ., .). For example, a query may search for the application modules (e.g., ., ., .) by name or function\/type. Further, for any given function\/type of application module (e.g., ., ., .), multiple implementations may exist. Specific implementations may be bound to the application shell . The combined capabilities of the integrated application modules ., ., and . are greater than the sum of the capabilities of the application modules ., ., and . taken individually. A feature of integration services  is the ability for one application module (e.g., ., ., .) to discover another application module by name. Once the application modules (e.g., ., ., .) know about each other, the individual application modules (e.g., ., ., .) may leverage off of the functionality of other application modules (e.g., ., ., .). The interaction between the application modules ., ., and . enables the application modules ., ., and . to share data, perform simultaneous or consecutive function and generate synergistic results. The combined functionality of the application modules ., ., and . may be used to provide optimized oilfield operations.","The provisioning of the integrated shell with interface elements for operation of the application modules ., ., and . involves adding interface elements, such as menus, buttons or other user interface items, for controlling the operation of the application modules ., ., and .. The application modules ., ., and . may then be selectively activated using these controls. These elements may also provide display features to textual and\/or graphical displays of measurements, predictions, plans, operating parameters or other features of the oilfield. Examples of user interface and display features provided from the application shell  for use by the application modules ., ., and . may include form filling paradigm, advanced selector, think ahead help, hierarchical data display, transparent layers, adaptive zooming paradigm, wireframe, storyboard, interactions to facilitate display on large or small devices, colorized composition, multiple data types for display, support for display component library, 2D and 3D drawing, fixed and adaptive documents, advanced typography, vector graphics, raster graphics, animation, data binding, audio, video, or any combinations thereof.","After integrating the application modules ., ., and . together, the application modules ., ., and . can integrate themselves with the application shell . In this case, the application modules ., ., and . may create user interface elements that allow a user of the application to operate the application modules ., ., and .. The user interface elements may include, for example, buttons, menu items and other displays.","The integration services  make the initialized application modules ., ., and . available to the application shell . The system may be automatic or manual. In cases, where user input is involved, an application module (e.g., ., ., .) may provide user interface elements to activate capabilities of the application modules. The application modules ., ., and . may be formatted to operate within the application shell . Thus, once implemented within the application shell , the application modules ., ., and . are capable of performing their respective functions.","The application modules ., ., and . may be statically or dynamically loaded (and sometimes unloaded). In some cases, a first set of application modules ., ., and . may be loaded initially, and additional application modules may then be loaded at a later time to increase functionality. Once the application modules ., ., and . are incorporated into the application shell  according to the requirements, an oilfield application  is formed. The oilfield application  is configured to perform the tasks or functions defined by the oilfield application modules ., ., and .. These tasks may be performed automatically or manually to complete the required oilfield operations. One or more application shells may be used to form the oilfield application . One or more application modules ., ., and . may be used to complete tasks for performing one or more oilfield operation(s). Examples of the tasks performed by the application modules ., ., and . may include business logic function such as generating reports, generating well plans, performing simulations, performing production operations, performing seismic operations, performing completions operations, and performing drilling operations.","It will be appreciated that there may be an interface between the application shell  and the integration services  or the loading services  that may be integrated in the integration services  or the loading services  or as a separate interface block (not shown). This interface and its implementation allow the integration services  and\/or the loading services  to work with different application shells , such as a predefined application shell, an application shell generated from a toolkit, or an application shell provided by a different entity than the provider of the application modules (e.g., any of the application modules ., ., or .).","Data may also be used during the oilfield application process. In some cases, the application shell  is provided with access to a data repository  (e.g., a database). In other cases, data is drawn in via the application modules ., ., and .. A connection to the data source (e.g., a database connection) may be needed to selectively draw data into the oilfield application . The data may then be drawn into the oilfield application  via the application modules ., ., and ., services and\/or application shell  as desired. The data repository  or the data source may be integrated or have more than one storage component, local or remote, connected directly or through a network, or configured in other appropriate configurations.","Based on the displayed information, it may be desired to change various aspects of the oilfield operation and\/or the oilfield application . For example, the results provided may indicate that a change at the oilfield is necessary or advantageous. The oilfield application  may also be adjusted, for example, by selecting different application modules ., ., and . and\/or by changing the selective operation of the existing application modules ., ., and ..",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0073","num":"0072"},"figref":"FIG. 4.2","b":["450","451","452","454","452","450","450"]},"The requirements  relate to the operating format for the oilfield application . The oilfield application  may be defined to incorporate and\/or process the various drilling application modules ., ., ., ., . in a specific manner. These drilling application modules ., ., ., ., . are loaded using the loading services , and integrated using the integration services .","For example, the well planning module . may be formatted to perform first, and provide outputs to the drilling controls module .. In another example, the drilling monitoring module . may be formatted to send data to the drilling simulation module . to update well plans generated thereby. Reports may be generated by . throughout the process. The sequence of events performed by the oilfield application  is defined by the requirements . The requirements  may further provide for selective activation, data sharing, and interaction of the various application modules.","The various drilling modules are depicted as, but not limited to, drilling simulation ., well planning ., drilling monitoring ., drilling controls ., and drilling reports .. These application modules may be in the form of pre-existing applications capable of performing various oilfield tasks. One or more of these drilling modules may be used to perform one or more oilfield operations during drilling. If desired, one or more of these application modules may be combined with other application modules to perform additional oilfield operations in a single application. For example, it may be desirable to perform economics simulation during the drilling operation to determine costs associated therewith. An economics simulation module may, therefore, also be included in the defined oilfield application.","The loading services  may be the same as the loading services  of . As shown, the loading services  are provided with various loading sub-services, such initialization services . These initialization services are used to initialize the sub-module in preparation for operation with the drilling application shell . Other loading sub-services may also be provided.","The integration services  may be the same as the integration services  of . As shown the integration services  are provided with discovery subservices  and encapsulation subservices . Discovery subservice  is a service used to permit application modules to discover each other and cooperate. In some cases, the interface of the individual application modules must be adapted to comply with the drilling application shell . The encapsulating subservice provides an interface to allow the application modules to operate the drilling application shell . As shown, application modules ., ., . are encapsulated with adapters ., ., ., respectively.","The drilling application generated from the drilling application shell  integrated application modules are used to perform the requested drilling oilfield operations. Once assembled, the drilling application may be used to selectively perform a group of individual drilling tasks, such as simulating drilling operations, developing a well plan, monitoring drilling operations, adjusting drilling operations, and generating drilling reports.","If desired data services module  can be provided. Data services may be provided by an application module capable of interacting with a data repository , such as a database or other persistent store. For an application module to use data services, the data service module may be discovered during the integration process.","A method  of performing an oilfield operation is depicted in . This method operation may be performed using an oilfield application, such as the ones depicted in  and\/or .. This method may be tailored to the specific type of oilfield application, such as the drilling application of .","The oilfield application shell is created  to meet the needs of the oilfield operation(s). The application shell may be created as previously described with respect to the application shell  of . Thus, the application shell may be provided with requirements, constraints, data and additional functionality as desired.","A plurality of oilfield application modules is obtained . These application modules may be created or pre-existing oilfield application modules as previously described with respect to the application modules ., ., and . of . Each of the oilfield application modules is adapted to perform at least one oilfield task of the oilfield application.","The oilfield application modules are selectively integrated into the oilfield application shell . The oilfield application modules are formatted in a manner that permits them to operate properly via the oilfield application. Once loaded and integrated, the oilfield application is formed. The oilfield application may then be used to selectively perform the oilfield tasks  of the oilfield operation(s). Additional tasks, such as obtaining data may also be performed.","Examples of oilfield application frameworks have been focused, at least in part, on the generation of an oilfield application to selectively perform one or more oilfield tasks of an oilfield operation. In addition, an oilfield application may be considered as delivering, either directly or indirectly, oilfield technology functionality to an oilfield operation. The oilfield technology functionality delivered by an oilfield application may include, for example, advanced oilfield visualization techniques to view and analyze collected oilfield data, advanced oilfield access techniques to retrieve and\/or store collected oilfield data from one or more oilfield repositories, advanced oilfield algorithms for calculations involving oilfield data, and advanced connectivity techniques to interoperate with other oilfield applications (i.e., external oilfield applications).","Further, examples of oilfield application frameworks have been focused primarily on an oilfield application being a standalone application. In some cases, an oilfield application, and the oilfield technology functionality delivered by the oilfield application, may be deployed as a plug-in to an oilfield hosting application performing an oilfield operation (discussed below).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0087","num":"0086"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 6","FIG. 4"],"b":["600","600","1","1","1","4","2","3","600","605","601","630","640","601","400"]},"Still referring to , the oilfield hosting application  may be an oilfield application as discussed in U.S. Pat. No. 7,248,259 and\/or U.S. Publication No. 2006\/0197759. The oilfield hosting application  is configured to obtain data from the oilfield . For example, the oilfield hosting application  may obtain production and injection flow rates, production and injection pressures, well hardware, and\/or completion information from the oilfield . The oilfield hosting application  may be an earth model simulation application, a drilling application, an oilfield economics application, a geophysics application, a production engineering application, an optimization application, a well analysis application, and\/or a geoscience application.","The oilfield hosting application  is further configured to perform an oilfield analysis of oilfield data and generate an oilfield output . For example, the oilfield output  may be a production forecast for one or more wells in the oilfield based on the information received from the oilfield . In another example, the oilfield output  may be a model of one or more aspects of the oilfield .","In some cases, the oilfield hosting application  includes one or more oilfield applications (e.g., oilfield application  discussed above in reference to ) deployed as one or more plug-ins (, , ). The plug-ins (, , ) add functionality to the oilfield hosting application . The oilfield hosting application  may include multiple application programming interfaces (APIs) providing the plug-ins (, , ) with comprehensive access to the application shell, menu, toolbars, business objects, data sources, and canvases of the oilfield hosting application .","As oilfield applications, the plug-ins (, , ) may include an application shell , integration services , loading services , and one or more application modules (e.g., data module , visualization module , and computation module ) similar to the application shell , integration services , loading services , and application modules (., ., .), respectively, as discussed above in reference to .","The application modules (, , and ) contain various oilfield sub-applications or tasks to be performed by the plug-in . The number and type of application modules associated with the plug-in  depend on the oilfield technology functionality delivered by the plug-in  to the oilfield hosting application  for generating the oilfield output . For example, the plug-in  may include a data services module (not shown) to provide the oilfield hosting application  with techniques for advanced oilfield to the oilfield repository . Similarly, a plug-in (e.g., plug-in ) may include a visualization module (not shown) to provide the hosting application  with techniques for advanced visualization analysis of oilfield data. As an additional example, the plug-in (e.g., plug-in ) may include a computation module (not shown) to provide the hosting application  with advanced algorithms for calculations involving oilfield data. Regardless of the oilfield technology functionality delivered by the plug-ins (e.g., , , ) to the hosting application , the oilfield technology functionality may be used by the hosting application  to perform an oilfield analysis of oilfield data and generate the oilfield output .","The plug-ins (e.g., , , ) operate seamlessly with other plug-ins (, , ) and may participate in the workflows of the oilfield hosting application . In addition, the plug-ins (e.g., , , ) may operate seamlessly with and enhance existing functions (e.g., native oilfield function ) of the oilfield hosting application .","Still referring to , in some cases, the plug-in  provides connectivity to interoperate the oilfield hosting application with the external oilfield application . Specifically, the plug-in  provides the oilfield hosting application  with access to the oilfield technology functionality and features of the external oilfield application . Accordingly, the oilfield hosting application  is able to use the oilfield technology functionality of the external application  to perform an oilfield analysis of the oilfield data and generate the oilfield output . The hosting application  may effectively be able to control the external application  using the plug-in .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0095","num":"0094"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 7"]},"Initially, oilfield data is collected (block ). The oilfield data may arrive from an oilfield or may be retrieved from an oilfield repository. The oilfield data may be collected\/retrieved by a oilfield hosting application. The oilfield data may include production and injection flow rates, production and injection pressures, well hardware, and\/or completion information.","Optionally, in block , a plug-in is generated from a toolkit. Specifically, generating the plug-in may include generating an application shell, or at least a portion from a provided toolkit as discussed above with respect to . At this stage, application modules may be discovered and integrated into the application shell (block ). In this case, the application shell is included in the plug-in for use by oilfield hosting applications, where the application modules integrated into the application shell are configured to perform one or more oilfield functions. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that any number of application modules may be integrated into an application shell, where each application module provides a distinct oilfield function.","In block , a plug-in is deployed into the oilfield hosting application. The plug-in may be an oilfield application for use in performing one or more oilfield functions on a particular machine designed for such. Said oilfield application may include the application shell, integration services, loading services, and one or more application modules for use in performing the one or more oilfield operations. When deployed as a plug-in to the oilfield hosting application, the oilfield application delivers oilfield technology functionality to the oilfield hosting application.","In one or more embodiments of the invention, blocks - may be repeated to deploy multiple plug-ins into the oilfield hosting application. For example, the oilfield hosting application may be configured to discovery and integrate any number of plug-ins, where each plug-in provides distinct oilfield technology functionality. In another example, a first plug-in may be configured to discover and integrate additional plug-ins into the oilfield hosting application and\/or the first plug-in, where the additional plug-ins include additional oilfield technology functionality.","In block , the oilfield hosting application performs an oilfield analysis of the collected oilfield data using the plug-in(s). The oilfield analysis generates an oilfield output. Specifically the oilfield hosting application performs an oilfield analysis and generates the oilfield output using the oilfield technology functionality provided by the plug-in(s). The oilfield technology functionality may include advanced techniques to for visualizing and analyzing collected oilfield data, advanced techniques for accessing collected oilfield data from one or more oilfield repositories, advanced oilfield algorithms for calculations involving oilfield data, and\/or advanced techniques for connecting with other oilfield applications (i.e., oilfield applications external to the oilfield hosting application).","Still referring to block , the oilfield output may be a production forecast for one or more wells in the oilfield based on the information received from the oilfield. The oilfield output may also be a model of one or more features of the oilfield.","In block , an oilfield operation is adjusted based on the oilfield output. The oilfield operation may be a surveying operation, a drilling operation, a wireline testing operation, a production operation, a planning operation, etc.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0103","num":"0102"},"figref":["FIG. 8","FIG. 8"]},"Initially, oilfield data is collected (block ). The oilfield data may arrive from an oilfield or may be retrieved from an oilfield repository. The oilfield data may be collected\/retrieved by a oilfield hosting application. The oilfield data may include production and injection flow rates, production and injection pressures, well hardware, and\/or completion information.","In block , the plug-in is deployed into the oilfield hosting application executing on a particular machine adapted to perform, analyze, or interpret one or more oilfield functions. The plug-in may be used to connect the oilfield hosting application with an external application. In other words, the plug-in effectively provides the oilfield hosting application access to the oilfield technology functionality of the external oilfield application. The oilfield technology functionality provided by the external oilfield application may include advanced techniques for visualizing and analyzing collected oilfield data, advanced techniques for accessing collected oilfield data from one or more oilfield repositories, and\/or advanced oilfield algorithms for calculations involving oilfield data. The external oilfield application may include an application shell, integration services, loading services, and one or more application modules for use in performing one or more oilfield functions.","In block , the oilfield hosting application performs an oilfield analysis of the collected oilfield data. The oilfield analysis generates an oilfield output and is performed using the oilfield technology functionality of the external oilfield application. For example, the oilfield output may be a production forecast for one or more wells in the oilfield based on the information received from the oilfield. In another example, the oilfield output may also be a model of one or more features of the oilfield.","In block , an oilfield operation is adjusted based on the oilfield output. The oilfield operation may be a surveying operation, a drilling operation, a wireline testing operation, a production operation, a planning operation, etc.","Embodiments of oilfield application frameworks (or portions thereof), may be implemented on virtually any type of computer regardless of the platform being used. For example, as shown in , a computer system  includes one or more processor(s) , associated memory  (e.g., random access memory (RAM), cache memory, flash memory, etc.), a storage device  (e.g., a hard disk, an optical drive such as a compact disk drive or digital video disk (DVD) drive, a flash memory stick, etc.), and numerous other elements and functionalities typical of modern computers (not shown). The computer system  may also include input means, such as a keyboard , a mouse , or a microphone (not shown). Further, the computer system  may include output means, such as a monitor  (e.g., a liquid crystal display (LCD), a plasma display, or cathode ray tube (CRT) monitor). The computer system  may be connected to a network () (e.g., a local area network (LAN), a wide area network (WAN) such as the Internet, or any other similar type of network) with wired and\/or wireless segments via a network interface connection (not shown). Those skilled in the art will appreciate that many different types of computer systems exist, and the aforementioned input and output means may take other forms. Generally speaking, the computer system  includes at least the minimal processing, input, and\/or output means necessary to practice one or more embodiments.","Further, those skilled in the art will appreciate that one or more elements of the aforementioned computer system  may be located at a remote location and connected to the other elements over a network. Further, one or more embodiments may be implemented on a distributed system having a plurality of nodes, where each portion may be located on a different node within the distributed system. In one or more embodiments, the node corresponds to a computer system. Alternatively, the node may correspond to a processor with associated physical memory. The node may alternatively correspond to a processor with shared memory and\/or resources. Further, software instructions for performing one or more embodiments of oilfield application frameworks may be stored on a computer readable medium such as a compact disc (CD), a diskette, a tape, or any other computer readable storage device.","The systems and methods provided relate to the acquisition of hydrocarbons from an oilfield. It will be appreciated that the same systems and methods may also be used for performing subsurface operations, such as mining, water retrieval and acquisition of other underground materials.","While specific configurations of systems for performing oilfield operations are depicted, it will be appreciated that various combinations of the described systems may be provided. For example, various combinations of selected modules may be connected using the connections previously described. One or more modeling systems may be combined across one or more oilfields to provide tailored configurations for modeling a given oilfield or portions thereof. Such combinations of modeling may be connected for interaction therebetween. Throughout the process, it may be desirable to consider other factors, such as economic viability, uncertainty, risk analysis and other factors. It is, therefore, possible to impose constraints on the process. Modules may be selected and\/or models generated according to such factors. The process may be connected to other model, simulation and\/or database operations to provide alternative inputs.","It will be understood from the foregoing description that various modifications and changes may be made in the embodiments of oilfield application frameworks without departing from its true spirit. For example, during a real-time drilling of a well it may be desirable to update the oilfield model dynamically to reflect new data, such as measured surface penetration depths and lithological information from the real-time well logging measurements. The oilfield model may be updated in real-time to predict the location in front of the drilling bit. Observed differences between predictions provided by the original oilfield model concerning well penetration points for the formation layers may be incorporated into the predictive model to reduce the chance of model predictability inaccuracies in the next portion of the drilling process. In some cases, it may be desirable to provide faster model iteration updates to provide faster updates to the model and reduce the chance of encountering and expensive oilfield hazard.","This description is intended for purposes of illustration only and should not be construed in a limiting sense. The scope of oilfield application frameworks should be determined only by the language of the claims that follow. The term \u201ccomprising\u201d within the claims is intended to mean \u201cincluding at least\u201d such that the recited listing of elements in a claim are an open group. \u201cA,\u201d \u201can\u201d and other singular terms are intended to include the plural forms thereof unless specifically excluded."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF DRAWINGS","p":["So that the above described features of oilfield application frameworks can be understood in detail, a more particular description of oilfield application frameworks, briefly summarized above, may be had by reference to the embodiments thereof that are illustrated in the appended drawings. It is to be noted, however, that the appended drawings illustrate only typical embodiments and are therefore not to be considered limiting of its scope for oilfield application frameworks may admit to other equally effective embodiments.","FIGS. .-. depict a simplified, schematic view of an oilfield having subterranean formations containing reservoirs therein, the various oilfield operations being performed on the oilfield.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIGS. 4.1","b":["4","2"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIGS. 7 and 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 9"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
