---
title: System, device, and method for monitoring communication in a wind farm network
abstract: A method for monitoring communication in a wind farm network. A server is attached to one or more network nodes in a wind farm network. The server determines whether it is capable of communicating with each of the network nodes and reports the results as a network state. A graphical representation of the network state may be displayed to a user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08782187&OS=08782187&RS=08782187
owner: General Electric Company
number: 08782187
owner_city: Schenectady
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20090826
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION"],"p":["The field of the invention relates generally to monitoring wind farm networks and, more particularly, to remotely monitoring which nodes in such a network are reachable by a server at a given time.","A wind farm includes one or more wind turbines, which utilize wind energy to generate or produce electrical power. A wind turbine typically includes one or more components (e.g., a controller and\/or sensors) attached to a wind farm network. Other devices on the network, such as a server, may receive data from the networked components in a wind turbine for purposes such as wind farm management and production reporting. Proper operation of a wind farm, therefore, requires continued communication with each networked component. Further, in some configurations, loss of communication with one or more networked components may render additional networked components unreachable, as well. Ensuring such communication failures can be detected quickly and conveniently is essential to effective wind farm operation.","In one aspect, a system is provided for monitoring a status of communication in a wind farm network from a remote device. The system includes a first wind turbine, which includes a first network node communicatively coupled to the wind farm network. The system also includes a server. The server includes a first communication interface that is communicatively coupled to the wind farm network and configured to determine a first connection status for the first network node. The first connection status indicates whether the server is capable of communicating with the first network node. The server also includes a second communication interface that is communicatively coupled to the remote device and configured to transmit a network state including the first connection status to the remote device. The server also includes a first processor that is operatively coupled to the first communication interface and the second communication interface.","In another aspect, a device is provided for displaying a network state of a wind farm network. The wind farm network includes a server that is communicatively attached to a plurality of wind farm network nodes. The wind farm network state includes a plurality of wind farm network node states. Each wind farm network node state corresponds to a wind farm network node and includes a link state. The device includes a communication interface that is communicatively attachable to the server and configured to receive the network state from the server. The device also includes a display device that is configured to display a graphical representation of the received network state. The displayed graphical representation depicts the plurality of wind farm network node states and the link states associated with the plurality of wind farm network node states.","In another aspect, a method is provided for presenting a communication status in a wind farm network. The wind farm network includes a server and a plurality of network nodes. The method includes requesting the communication status from the server, receiving the communication status from the server, and displaying on a display device a graphical representation of the communication status. The communication status includes a plurality of connection indicators, each of which indicates whether the server is capable of communicating with a corresponding network node in the wind farm network.","The embodiments described herein provide information regarding communication in a wind farm network. A server on a wind farm network determines and reports the status of communication between the server and one or more wind farm network nodes. The communication status may be reported to a remote device, which displays a graphical representation of the communication status. Visual cues, such as color coding of network connections according to status, may be employed to allow a user to quickly evaluate the status of the wind farm network as a whole.","An exemplary technical effect of the methods, system, and apparatus described herein includes at least one of (a) requesting, from a server, a communication status that includes a plurality of connection indicators, each of which indicates whether the server is capable of communicating with a corresponding network node in a wind farm network; (b) receiving the communication status from the server; and (c) displaying on a display device a graphical representation of the communication status.","As used herein, the term wind turbine is intended to be representative of any device that generates rotational energy from wind energy and, more specifically, converts kinetic energy of wind into mechanical energy.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":["FIG. 1","FIG. 1","FIG. 1","FIG. 1"],"b":["100","100","102","102","104","104","104","100","100","106","108","110","100","108","100","100","106"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":["200","200","205","210","205","210","215","220","210","225","225","215","220","225","230","235"]},"Remote device  is any device capable of accessing server  and interacting with user . By way of example only, and not limitation, remote device  may include a laptop computer, a desktop computer, a set-top box, an electronic book reader, a digital music player, a cellular phone, and\/or a smart phone. Remote device  includes a processor  for executing software instructions. User input device  may include, for example, a keyboard, a keypad, a pointing device, a touch sensitive screen, and\/or an audio input device. Display device  may include, for example, a graphical display device or a printer.","Remote device  receives information from server  via communication interface , which may be communicatively coupled to a communication interface  of server . Server  transmits data (e.g., representing communication status in a wind farm network) using communication interface . Remote device  receives the data using communication interface . In certain embodiments, server  initiates communication. Alternatively, remote device  initiates communication by issuing a request to server  using communication interface , and server  responds by transmitting the data. Requests and responses may take various forms. For example, remote device  may issue a Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) request to server , and server  may generate and transmit an HTTP response including Hypertext Markup Language (HTML), Extensible Hypertext Markup Language (XHTML), and\/or Extensible Markup Language (XML). Remote device  and server  may communicate using a protocol such as Simple Object Access Protocol (SOAP) or Representational State Transfer (REST). Server  may also or instead transmit serialized application object data and\/or a graphical image representing the wind farm network communication status.","Server  also includes a processor  and may include a memory  for storing data (e.g., representing nodes in a wind farm network). Processor  is operatively coupled to memory  (if present), communication interface  and one or more additional communication interface , which is communicatively coupled to wind turbines . Each wind turbine  includes at least one network node . A network node  may include a controller, a sensor, a network switch, a network router, or any other device useful for operation of a wind turbine  and communicatively attachable to communication interface  of server .","In some embodiments, wind turbine  includes a controller as a network node . A controller may be attached to one or more sensors (e.g., an ambient air temperature sensor, a wind direction and\/or speed sensor, a blade pitch sensor, a turbine speed sensor, a temperature sensor, a voltage sensor, and\/or a current sensor; not shown) of wind turbine . In one embodiment, sensors may be communicatively coupled directly to server . Alternatively, sensors may be attached to the controller via a low-level serial data connection, such as Recommended Standard (RS) 232 or RS-485, a high-level serial data connection, such as Universal Serial Bus (USB) or Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) 1394 (a\/k\/a FIREWIRE), a parallel data connection, such as IEEE 1284 or IEEE 488, a short-range wireless communication channel such as BLUETOOTH, or a private (i.e., not accessible by server ) network connection, whether wired or wireless.","Communication between remote device  and server  and communication between server  and network nodes  may occur in a variety of forms. For example, devices may communicate using a wired network connection (e.g., Ethernet or an optical fiber), radio frequency (RF), BLUETOOTH, an IEEE 802.11 standard (e.g., 802.11(g) or 802.11(n)), Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access (WIMAX), a cellular phone technology (e.g., the Global Standard for Mobile communication (GSM)), or any other suitable communication means. Communication interfaces , , and  therefore correspond to the form of communication used. Remote device , server , and network nodes  may include multiple communication interfaces to support additional forms of communication, or multiple forms of communication may be supported by a single communication interface. Devices such as remote device , server , and network nodes  may be communicatively coupled directly or indirectly. For example, remote device  may communicate with server  through a network such as a local area network (LAN), a wide area network (WAN), the Internet, or any other network suitable for communicating with server .","The communicative coupling of network nodes  to server  and\/or to each other may, by itself, create a wind farm network. For example, communication interface  and\/or network nodes  may be arranged in a wireless mesh network, such that each member of the network transmits data, receives data, and relays data intended for another member of the network. Alternatively, the wind farm network may include network hardware such as wired and\/or wireless routers, switches, wireless access points, and\/or cable for data transmission. If using a wireless form of communication, server  or a network node  may transmit and receive data through a directional or omni-directional antenna.","In one embodiment, a system such as system  is provided for monitoring a status of communication in a wind farm network from a remote device . System  includes a first wind turbine , which includes a first network node  communicatively coupled to the wind farm network. System  also includes a server . Server  includes a first communication interface  that is communicatively coupled to the wind farm network and configured to determine a first connection status for first network node . The first connection status indicates whether server  is capable of communicating with first network node . Server  also includes a second communication interface  that is communicatively coupled to remote device  and configured to transmit a network state including the first connection status to remote device . Server  also includes a first processor  that is operatively coupled to first communication interface  and second communication interface .","In addition to indicating whether server  is capable of communicating with network node , a connection status may include information such as a network address of network node , a hardware identifier of network node , a quantity of data transmitted by network node , a quantity of data received by network node , an elapsed time since server  became capable of communicating with network node , and a date and a time at which server  became capable of communicating with network node .","Remote device  may include a third communication interface  that communicatively couples second communication interface  to remote device . Third communication interface  is configured to receive the network state from server . Remote device  may also include a display device  configured to display a graphical representation of the network state. Remote device  may further include a second processor , which is operatively coupled to third communication interface  and display device . The graphical representation of the network state may include a graphical representation of server , a graphical representation of first network node , and a graphical representation of the first connection status.","In one embodiment, the first wind turbine  further includes a second network node  that, like first network node , is communicatively coupled to the wind farm network. First communication interface  of server  is further programmed to determine a second connection status for second network node , the second connection status indicating whether server  is capable of communicating with second network node . The network state further includes the second connection status.","System  may include a second wind turbine . The second wind turbine includes at least second network node  that is communicatively coupled to the wind farm network. First communication interface  is further programmed to determine a second connection status for second network node , the second connection status indicating whether server  is capable of communicating with second network node . The network state further includes the second connection status. As shown in , system  may include multiple wind turbines , each including multiple network nodes .","If system  includes multiple network nodes , first communication interface  of server  may be further configured to detect network nodes  in the wind farm network. Server  may include a memory  configured to store a collection of detected network nodes. First communication interface  may determine a connection status for each network node in the collection to determine multiple communication statuses. Storing a collection of detected network nodes allows server  to identify network node  with which it is incapable of communicating even if, because of a malfunctioning connection, server  cannot detect network node  when reporting the network state. Alternatively, server  may include a static collection of expected network nodes. To determine network state, server  may attempt to determine a connection status for each expected network node. Server  may, for example, attempt to elicit a response from each expected network node. An expected network node that does not respond to server  may be treated as one with which server  is incapable of communicating.","In another embodiment, a device such as remote device  is provided for displaying a network state of a wind farm network. The wind farm network includes server  that is communicatively attached to a plurality of wind farm network nodes . The wind farm network state includes a plurality of wind farm network node states. Each wind farm network node state corresponds to a wind farm network node  and includes a link state. Remote device  includes a communication interface  that is communicatively attachable to server  and configured to receive the network state from server . Remote device  also includes a display device  for displaying a graphical representation of the network state. A first portion of display device  is configured to display a graphical representation of the plurality of wind farm network node states. A second portion of display device  is configured to display a graphical representation of the link states associated with the plurality of wind farm network node states.","A portion of display device  such as the first portion or the second portion may include a contiguous section (e.g., a two-dimensional or three-dimensional area) of display device  or a graphical layer that can be combined (e.g., overlaid) with other layers. In some embodiments, portions of display device  are selectively displayed. For example, display device  may be configured to display the first portion and conceal the second portion. In this configuration, display device  would display a graphical representation of the wind farm network node states with no graphical representation of the link states. Other methods of apportioning display device  are also contemplated.","The link state associated with a wind farm network node state may include a connection indicator having a value of connected if server  is capable of communicating with the wind farm network node  corresponding to the link state, and having a value of disconnected if server  is not capable of communicating with the wind farm network node  corresponding to the link state. The second portion of display device  may be further configured to graphically distinguish a link state having a connection indicator of connected from a link state having a connection indicator of disconnected.","The link state associated with a wind farm network node state may further include one or more of the following connection details for corresponding wind farm network node : a network address of wind farm network node , a hardware identifier of wind farm network node , a quantity of data transmitted by wind farm network node , a quantity of data received by wind farm network node , an elapsed time since server  became capable of communicating with wind farm network node , and a date and a time at which server  became capable of communicating with wind farm network node . A third portion of display device  may be configured to display a graphical representation of one or more connection details for a link state. For example, the third portion may display a bar-type meter indicating a quantity of data transmitted and\/or received for the link state (i.e., \u201cbandwidth usage\u201d). Bandwidth usage may additionally, or alternatively, be indicated by color coding or animating the link state (e.g., with a rate of animation directly proportional to the bandwidth usage). Remote device  may also include user input device  configured to allow a user  to select one of the displayed link states. For example, user  may manipulate a pointing device to click on or \u201cmouse over\u201d a link state. The third portion of display device  may be further configured to display at least one connection detail corresponding to the selected link state.","In some embodiments, each network node  is associated with a position. Each wind farm network node state further includes the position of wind farm network node  corresponding to the wind farm network node state. The first portion of display device  is configured to depict each wind farm network node state based on the position of wind farm network node . The position of a wind farm network node may include a physical or geographical location (e.g., longitudinal and latitudinal coordinates) of node  or a position of node  relative to other devices within the wind farm network. For example, a position of node  within the network may be expressed in terms of the other devices in the network to which node  is communicatively attached (i.e., neighboring devices). In a ring topology, therefore, the position of node  may include an indication of the two devices (e.g., two nodes  or server  and node ) that neighbor node . In a wireless mesh topology, the position of node  may include a collection of all network devices neighboring node .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":["300","235","260","305","235","310","235","315","215","235","260","260"]},"Receiving  the communication status from the server may include receiving (e.g., with a connection indicator) an identifier and\/or one or more connection details for each corresponding network node . Connection details may include, for example, a network address of network node , a hardware identifier of network node , a quantity of data transmitted by network node , a quantity of data received by network node , an elapsed time since server  became capable of communicating with network node , and a date and a time at which server  became capable of communicating with network node . The method may further include enabling  user  to select one of the connection indicators and displaying  at least one connection detail for the selected connection indicator.","The graphical representation of the communication status may be displayed  by displaying on display device  a graphical representation of server  and a graphical representation of each connection indicator. In some embodiments, each network node  is communicatively coupled to the wind farm network via a type of network connection (e.g., through a switch, a router, or an access point, in a ring configuration, in a star configuration, and\/or in a wireless mesh), and the communication status further includes a network topology. The network topology includes a plurality of expected network nodes , each of which corresponds to a network node  in the wind farm network. The network topology also includes the type of network connection for each of the expected network nodes . In such embodiment, displaying  the graphical representation of the communication status may include displaying on display device  a graphical representation of the network topology.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0039","num":"0038"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":["400","400","405","235","410","430","435","410","430","435","260","100","260","420","405","410","430","435","415","425","410","430","435","420","415","425","400","235"]},"In the example of , properly functioning connections are represented by hatched wired connection icons . Malfunctioning connections are represented by unfilled wired connection icons . Properly functioning connections are thereby graphically distinguished from malfunctioning connections. Graphical distinction may be achieved through fill pattern (e.g., the hatching in ), color, line weight, or animation (e.g., blinking), though other forms of graphical distinction are also contemplated. Based on the status of the connections associated with it, a switch may be represented by a fully connected switch icon , a fully disconnected switch icon , or a partially connected switch icon . A technique similar to that described for connection icons  and  may be used to graphically distinguish between fully connected switches, fully disconnected switches, and partially connected switches. A similar technique may also be used to distinguish between network nodes with which a switch is capable of communicating and those with which a switch is incapable of communicating.","A fully connected switch icon  indicates a switch that is capable of communicating with all nodes attached to it. A fully disconnected switch icon  indicates a switch that is incapable of communicating with any network nodes attached to it and\/or incapable of communicating with any other switch. A partially connected switch icon  indicates a switch that is capable of communicating with at least one network node attached to it and incapable of communicating with at least one other network node attached to it. In the example of , graphical distinction is applied only to differentiate properly functioning connections from malfunctioning connections . Graphical distinction may additionally, or alternatively, be applied to switches and other network nodes  based on whether server  or a switch is capable of communicating with the switch or other network node .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0042","num":"0041"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 4"],"b":["500","260","500","235","260"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0043","num":"0042"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 4","FIGS. 4 and 5","FIG. 6"],"b":["600","100","260","605","610","600","605","610"]},"Although , , and  each illustrate a single network topology, a graphical representation of communication status may include any combination of wired and wireless connections and any combination of network topologies required to represent the corresponding wind farm network. For example, a first group of switches may be coupled to the wind farm network via wired connections, and a second group of switches may be coupled to the wind farm network via wireless connections. As another example, a first group of switches may be coupled to the wind farm network in a ring topology, and a second group of switches may be coupled to the wind farm network in a star or a wireless mesh topology.","A graphical representation of communication status may simply distinguish between the two classes of properly functioning and malfunctioning network connections. Alternatively, a quality of a connection may be indicated, with the quality ranging from fully malfunctioning to perfectly or fully functioning. A quality of a connection may be determined based on factors such as bandwidth, traffic latency, signal strength, a number of packets retransmitted (in absolute terms or relative to the total number of packets transmitted), a number of packets dropped (again, in absolute or relative terms), and\/or any other metric suitable for indicating a quality, a speed, and\/or a reliability of a network connection. The metric(s) used for determining quality may be sampled over time. For example, if signal strength is used to determine quality, the signal strength may be sampled periodically, and quality may be determined by computing a mathematical average of recent signal strength readings. A quality of connection may be indicated for a wired or wireless network connection icon by fill pattern (e.g., the hatching in ), color, line weight, or animation (e.g., blinking), though other forms of representing quality are also contemplated. For example, quality may be expressed as a percentage, with 100% indicating a perfectly or fully functioning connection. Connections having a quality of 5%, 50%, and 95% may be represented by red, yellow, and green connection icons, respectively.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0046","num":"0045"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 7","FIG. 4","FIG. 4"],"b":["705","705","710","715","715","435","710","720","725","405","730","735"]},"Connection details area  may be displayed for any network node or connection in a wind farm network. In some embodiments, connection details area  is displayed in response to a user selecting a connection icon such as wired connection icon  or a network node icon such as network node icon . Connection details displayed in connection details area  may be static or may be updated periodically. For example, in normal operation, the quantity of data transmitted  may continuously increase. The quantity of data transmitted  may therefore be updated or \u201crefreshed\u201d once every five seconds or once each minute, for example, though other timings are also contemplated.","A device displaying a graphical representation of wind farm communication status may be configured or programmed to present an alarm in the event of a communication failure. For example, the device may display a visual alarm by displaying a popup message, modifying the appearance of an overall network status indicator, or modifying a screen border or background. The device may also include an audible alarm device, in which case the device may emit an audible alarm using the audible alarm device.","In some embodiments, a remote device initiates communication by issuing a request to a server. The server determines whether the server is capable of communicating with each of the network nodes in the wind farm network and transmits a communication status for the wind farm network to the remote device. The remote device may be configured or programmed to periodically issue such a request (i.e., \u201cpoll\u201d the server), receive a response from the server, and redisplay the graphical representation of the communication status.","In some embodiments, the server is programmed to store in a memory a cached version of the communication status with a date and a time at which the server determined the cached version of the communication status. The remote device is configured to provide with a request for communication status a date and a time of the most recent request the remote device issued for the communication status. When the server receives the request, the server determines the current communication status and compares the determined communication status to the cached communication status. If the determined and the cached communication statuses match, and if the date and time provided by the remote device are more recent than the date and time associated with the cached communication status, the server responds by indicating to the remote device that the current communication status matches the communication status the remote device most recently received. The server thereby transmits less data to the remote device.","In some embodiments, the server initiates communication. For example, the server may periodically determine and transmit the communication status to the remote device. The server may also broadcast the communication status or publish the communication status to a message queue, in which case the remote device monitors a communication channel or message queue for messages containing the communication status from the server. The server may maintain a cache, as described above, and broadcast or publish the communication status only when the server detects that the determined communication status does not match the cached communication status.","The embodiments described herein provide a graphical representation of the status of communication within a wind farm network. A user viewing such a graphical representation can quickly evaluate the state of the network and identify malfunctioning communication links. The status of a wind farm network may be viewed remotely, eliminating the expense and delay associated with physically visiting a wind farm. Further, because a user may view the communication status of numerous wind farm networks remotely, network support staff for geographically distributed wind farms may be centralized.","Exemplary embodiments of a wind farm network monitoring system are described above in detail. The monitoring system, wind turbine, and included assemblies are not limited to the specific embodiments described herein, but rather each component may be utilized independently and separately from other components described herein.","This written description uses examples to disclose the invention, including the best mode, and also to enable any person skilled in the art to practice the invention, including making and using any devices or systems and performing any incorporated methods. The patentable scope of the invention is defined by the claims, and may include other examples that occur to those skilled in the art. Such other examples are intended to be within the scope of the claims if they have structural elements that do not differ from the literal language of the claims, or if they include equivalent structural elements with insubstantial differences from the literal language of the claims."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0007","num":"0006"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0008","num":"0007"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 7"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
