---
title: System and method for implementing a secure web application entitlement service
abstract: System and method for implementing a secure web application entitlement service are described. One embodiment of the system comprises a plurality of entitlement point records each comprising a unique identifier associated therewith such that each of the enforcement point records can be associated with an enforcement point within an application; an identity service (“IS”) configured to provide a first token for enabling a user to access the application; an access gateway configured to provide a second token, the second token including a list of at least a portion of the unique identifiers; an entitlement server (“ES”) configured to receive an entitlement request from the application, the entitlement request including the second token, the ES further configured to associate the entitlement request with a user-authenticated session in the IS; and a policy decision point (“PDP”) configured to receive the list of at least a portion of the unique identifiers and to render a decision on the entitlement request based at least in part on policy information associated with ones of the enforcement point records identified by the unique identifiers of the list and attribute information from the IS; wherein subsequent to the rendering of a decision by the PDP, the decision is communicated to the application.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09614855&OS=09614855&RS=09614855
owner: Micro Focus Software Inc.
number: 09614855
owner_city: Wilmington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20091105
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS","Background","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["Cloud computing is a type of computing in which dynamically scalable and typically virtualized resources are provided as services via the Internet. As a result, users need not, and typically do not, possess knowledge of, expertise in, or control over the technology and\/or infrastructure implemented in the cloud. Cloud computing generally incorporates infrastructure as a service (\u201cIaaS\u201d), platform as a service (\u201cPaaS\u201d), and\/or software as a service (\u201cSaaS\u201d). In a typical embodiment, cloud computing services provide common applications online, which applications are accessed using a web browser and the software and data for which are stored on servers comprising the cloud.","Cloud computing customers typically do not own or possess the physical infrastructure that hosts their software platform; rather, the infrastructure is leased in some manner from a third-party provider. Cloud computing customers can avoid capital expenditures by paying a provider only for what they use on a utility, or resources consumed, basis or a subscription, or time-based, basis, for example. Sharing computing power and\/or storage capacity among multiple lessees has many advantages, including improved utilization rates and an increase in overall computer usage.","Cloud computing and cloud storage are rapidly becoming the preferred way for enterprises to extend their data center processing and storage capacity efficiently and inexpensively. One problem faced by modern enterprises is users accessing cloud assets in relationship to the data center. In particular, a difficulty exists in providing entitlement processing via enterprise-specified policy over cloud assets, especially web applications.","One embodiment of a system for providing a secure web application entitlement service comprises a plurality of entitlement point records each comprising a unique identifier associated therewith such that each of the enforcement point records can be associated with an enforcement point within an application; an identity service (\u201cIS\u201d) configured to provide a first token for enabling a user to access the application; an access gateway configured to provide a second token, the second token including a list of at least a portion of the unique identifiers; an entitlement server (\u201cES\u201d) configured to receive an entitlement request from the application, the entitlement request including the second token, the ES further configured to associate the entitlement request with a user-authenticated session in the IS; and a policy decision point (\u201cPDP\u201d) configured to receive the list of at least a portion of the unique identifiers and to render a decision on the entitlement request based at least in part on policy information associated with ones of the enforcement point records identified by the unique identifiers of the list and attribute information from the IS; wherein subsequent to the rendering of a decision by the PDP, the decision is communicated to the application.","To better illustrate the advantages and features of the embodiments, a particular description of several embodiments will be provided with reference to the attached drawings. These drawings, and other embodiments described herein, only illustrate selected aspects of the embodiments and are not intended to limit the scope thereof. Further, despite reference to specific features illustrated in the example embodiments, it will nevertheless be understood that these features are not essential to all embodiments and no limitation of the scope thereof is thereby intended. Any alterations and further modifications in the described embodiments, and any further applications of the principles of the embodiments as described herein are contemplated as would normally occur to one skilled in the art. Furthermore, some items are shown in a simplified form, and inherently include components that are well known in the art. Further still, some items are illustrated as being in direct connection for the sake of simplicity and clarity. Despite the apparent direct connection, it is understood that such illustration does not preclude the existence of intermediate components not otherwise illustrated.","The embodiments described herein provide a mechanism whereby cloud assets can be controlled by an entitlement policy. The embodiments described herein further provide a mechanism to allow an entitlement policy to be defined and communicated with cloud assets such that cloud assets can function as a policy enforcement point (\u201cPEP\u201d).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":["FIG. 1","FIG. 1"],"b":["100","102","104","106","108","100","110","108","100","108","102","104","106","110"]},"Enterprises using the cloud are represented by virtualization processes and storage shown as workloads . These processes are typically started by an enterprise via a cloud portal or API utilized by administrative personnel or processes running at the enterprise. A typical cloud provider may be using standard ITIL processes and may utilize a configuration management database (\u201cCMDB\u201d) , which affects the entire cloud infrastructure and which describes the practice and policies used for instantiating virtualized workloads and storage.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 2","FIG. 2","FIG. 2"],"b":["200","202","204","204","206","206","204","204"],"i":["a","c","a","c","a","c "]},"Referring again to , a user  accesses a web application  either via a communications channel  or a communications channel  through an access gateway (\u201cAG\u201d) . The web application  comprises computer-executable instructions stored on at least one computer-readable medium and executed by a computer. The AG  comprises appropriate hardware for implementing, for example, an AG available from Novell Corporation as a part of the Access Manager product. Access via communications channel  or  initiates a known protocol ceremony wherein reference is made to an identity service (\u201cIS\u201d) , which interacts with the user  to obtain authentication credentials. The IS  then generates a first token comprising an identity token . It will be recognized that the generation and provision of tokens in this manner will be well-known to those of ordinary skill in the art. For example, in one embodiment, the IS  is implemented as described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 7,299,493, 7,316,027, and 7,552,468.","The token  is made available to the AG  either via a communications channel  or to the web application  via a communications channel . A token returned via the communications channel  or  is well known in the art. For example, an identity token can take the form of SAML 1.x, SAML 2.x, WS-Federation, and others. It will be recognized that one purpose of an identity token is to represent a user's identity without requiring the user to be present or provide a userID and\/or password. While an identity token for a user may be created from an authentication using the user's userID\/password, this need not be the case.","In one embodiment, when enabling user access to the web application , the AG  provides a second token  via a communications channel . The second token  contains a list of the URIs that are tagged to provide the web application  with a way of associating a URI with an entitlement enforcement point record, such as one of the records -. In other words, the token  provides a list of \u201cprotected resources\u201d that are managed by a PEP. In the illustrated embodiment, such protected resources are identified by URI, but any sort of identifier, global or otherwise, may be substituted therefore. The token  also includes a protected indicator of the identity session created in the IS  when the user authenticated, as described above. In particular, in order to prevent protected resources from being inappropriately presented to the PEP with bogus policies, the second token  can include a protected indicator of the identity of the person or service requesting the protection. This usually is in the form of a digital signature, although it will be recognized that alternative and\/or additional mechanisms may be employed. In one embodiment, the URI list in the token  could be provided by the IS  to the web application  via the communications channel .","In one embodiment, the URI list is not provided to the web application  via the AG  or the IS , in which case the web application must access the URI list via a communications channel . It will be recognized that access to obtain the URI list or other token information is preferably performed via a protected communications channel, such as SSL.","Once the web application  has access to the URI lists that are tagged such that the web application knows which URI is used to protect specific entitlement points, the web application can make a call to an entitlement server  via a communications channel . The application  provides the token  to the ES , thereby enabling the ES to associate a web application request with a user authenticated session in the IS . In addition to the token , the web application  transmits to the ES  the URI list, which is subsequently sent to a policy decision point (\u201cPDP\u201d)  for resolution, as represented by a path . The PDP  accesses any necessary policy information from the respective policy -via a communications channel  and accesses any necessary attribute information via a communications channel . The results, or decision, of the PDP  are communicated back to the ES  together with any attribute information that policy dictated should be sent back and the ES provides the web application  with the entitlement request disposition and other information as necessary to fulfill the policy. At this point, the web application  interrogates the results of the PDP  and, if allowed, entitlement is provided; otherwise, the entitlement is withheld.","It should be noted that the PDP , the ES , and the web application  all provide compliance events to a compliance enforcer , which correlates the compliance events and compares them with a best practices policy so that if an issue arises with the manner in which the PDP , the ES , and the web application  are interoperating, mitigating actions can be taken. For example, consider a situation in which a policy statement is not enforced properly, such as a case in which access to financial information is not allowed from connections are outside of the firewall within a blackout period and in which an access is attempted and succeeds. A mitigating action that might be taken in such a situation would be to abort the connection or vector the connection to a honeypot, for example.","The embodiments described herein enable a web application to enforce an entitlement policy that does not reside at the web application and is under the control of the enterprise administrations. Moreover, the granting or withholding of entitlement can be audited for compliance.","U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12\/612,834, entitled: \u201cSystem and Method for Reduced Cloud IP Address Utilization,\u201d filed on Nov. 5, 2009, and now issued as U.S. Pat. No. 8,364,842, which is incorporated by its entirety herein, describes a distributor function, which may be implemented herein as a distributor . In one embodiment, the distributor  provides keys via a communications channel  and a communications channel  so that the web application  and the ES  share a key that provides for secure communications outside of the realm of SSL. In this embodiment, the distributor  is also a source of compliance events, wherein the compliance enforcer  can correlate the events with the other events as previously discussed so that mitigation actions can be taken. It will be recognized that the particular manner in which mitigation actions are enforced is not of particular concern with respect to the embodiments described herein.","In an alternative embodiment, illustrated in , multiple ISes, represented by ISes , , , having some set of trust relationships are provided. For example, in one embodiment, the IS  has a trust relationship with ISes  and . The IS  has a trust relationship with ISes  and . The IS  has a trust relationship with IS  and . It will be noted that the trust relationships can be configured such that if the server  trusts the server  and the server  trusts the server , then the server  trusts the server ; however, this must be explicitly configured in a manner that is well known in the art and will therefore not be further described. Accordingly, there is some set of ISes in which trust can be permuted across the set of ISes to accomplish the needs of the trust relationships.","Additionally, in the embodiment illustrated in , the ES  and the PDP  are combined because of the close process relationship they bear with respect to one another. In other words, the PDP  and ES  have a close relationship for dereferencing policy and thus being separate may be counter-productive in some instances. As a result, in the embodiment illustrated in , the PDP\/ES \/ and the compliance enforcer  have a trust relationship with the IS  and the AG  and web application  have a trust relationship with the IS . Alternatively, the AG  has a trust relationship with the IS  and the web application  has a trust relationship with the IS .","In the general case, the AG , application , PDP\/ES \/, and compliance enforcer  can be permuted over the set of ISes , , , and . As previously noted, in the embodiment illustrated in , the ES  and PDP  are combined into a single entity, but they could be split, as shown in , and placed in separate trust domains.","It will be recognized that various ones of the elements and\/or modules described herein may be implemented using one or more general purpose computers or portions thereof executing software applications designed to perform the functions described or using one or more special purpose computers or portions thereof configured to perform the functions described. The software applications may comprise computer-executable instructions stored on computer-readable media. Additionally, repositories described herein may be implemented using databases or other appropriate storage media.","While the preceding description shows and describes one or more embodiments, it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes in form and detail may be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the present disclosure. For example, various steps of the described methods may be executed in a different order or executed sequentially, combined, further divided, replaced with alternate steps, or removed entirely. In addition, various functions illustrated in the methods or described elsewhere in the disclosure may be combined to provide additional and\/or alternate functions. Therefore, the claims should be interpreted in a broad manner, consistent with the present disclosure."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0006","num":"0005"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0007","num":"0006"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0008","num":"0007"},"figref":"FIG. 3"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
