---
title: Firearm steady-rest
abstract: A firearm steady-rest which is incorporated as part of a rifle sling. The steady-rest may be a single support arm or a folded support arm system deployed by folding it outward to provide either a V-shaped support configuration or a U-shaped support configuration whereby the upwardly extending distal ends of the support engage and support the firearm therebetween. The steady-rest may be grasped by the operator's forward extending hand to provide maximum steadying of the firearm for sighting and shooting. A gravity deploying bi-pod leg set is also provided which automatically locks into position when fully deployed by a gravity slide lock.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08322067&OS=08322067&RS=08322067
owner: 
number: 08322067
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20090223
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS"],"p":["This application is a continuation-in-part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12\/319,975, filed Jan. 14, 2009 now U.S. Pat. No. 8,176,670, which in turn is a continuation-in-part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11\/903,872, filed Sep. 25, 2007 now U.S. Pat. No. 8,024,883, and entitled FIREARM SUPPORT, and is further based upon U.S. Provisional Application No. 61\/062,138, filed Jan. 24, 2008, and entitled FIREARM SIGHTING STEADY-REST.","The present invention relates to firearm supports, and more particularly, to firearm supports commonly referred to as firearm steady-rest sighting supports used to steady a firearm for accurate shooting.","Rifle or firearms supports have been in existence since the advent of firearms for improving firing accuracy. Such supports, sometimes referred to as shooting sticks, are in the form of a mono-pod, a bi-pod or tripod leg configuration, and other supports are in the form of firearm cradle supports which support the rifle from a table top for sighting in a rifle.","Some supports are attached directly to the rifle, as disclosed for example in U.S. Pat. No. 5,345,706, or they can be independent support devices in which the rifle is rested. US Patent Application Publication No. 2007\/0094911, discloses a rifle support which is attached to the rifle sling as opposed to being attached to the rifle.","US Patent Application Publication No. 2007\/0261287 illustrates a similar firearm support system which also secures to the rifle sling. The advantage of these latter configurations is that the collapsible legs in a stored position may be oriented along the sling. However, the collapsible leg or legs have an elastic member extending through the tubular legs so that the elastic members resiliently bias the legs to automatically deploy to a fully extended position when released from its or their containment to the rifle sling. However, a problem encountered with this particular arrangement is that the deployment of the leg or legs is extremely noisy and can thereby easily scare off game within hearing distance. In addition, the bi-pod legs when deployed must be manually positioned and held.","It is an objective of the present invention to provide an improved firearm steady-rest support system which is easily carried and deployed, and which can be readily and quickly secured to any firearm or rifle without special adaptation.","The firearm steady-rest of the present invention in its most basic form includes a rigid main support arm incorporated into a flexible firearm sling intermediate the ends of the sling. The second most basic form includes a main support arm and a first auxiliary support arm connected to one end of the main support arm at an obtuse angle to thereby form a V-shaped support for supporting a firearm between upwardly extending distal ends thereof. Means is provided for securing the main support arm to a flexible firearm sling. The first auxiliary support arm is preferably pivotally connected to the main support arm whereby this first auxiliary support arm may be folded from its deployed position over onto or together with the main support arm in general parallel alignment with the sling. If desired, an additional mechanism may be included to permit this obtuse angle to be adjustable.","A releasable lock mechanism may be provided for releasably locking the main support arm and the first auxiliary support arm in position relative to each other when the auxiliary support arm is fully deployed. Also, cradles may be provided on the upwardly extending distal ends of the V-shaped support for engaging a firearm resting thereon. In particular, the upwardly extending distal end of the main support arm would cradle the barrel forearm of the rifle or firearm and the upward extending end of the auxiliary support arm would cradle the rifle or firearm stock in the area of the hand grip.","To provide an even shorter support when in the stored folded position, the main support arm may also fold at a fixed pivot point on to itself such that the auxiliary arm and a distal portion of the main support arm both pivot in onto the main support arm to be in general alignment with the rifle sling.","An alternative to the V-shaped support of the present invention is a U-shaped configuration wherein a second auxiliary support arm is connected to the other end of the main support arm from the end to which the first auxiliary support is connected. Both auxiliary arms at opposite ends of the main support arm are connected at an obtuse angle for thereby forming a U-shaped support for supporting a firearm between upwardly extending distal ends of the two auxiliary support arms. As is the case with the first auxiliary support arm, the second auxiliary support arm may also be folded from its fully deployed position together with the main support arm in general parallel alignment with the sling for storage.","A releasable lock mechanism is provided for releasably locking the main support arm and the first and\/or second auxiliary support arms in position relative to the main support arm when the auxiliary support arms are fully deployed.","When the firearm steady-rest of the present invention is fully deployed, it may be secured temporarily to the rifle or firearm itself by the use of hook and loop fasteners or elastic fasteners to secure the steady-rest cradles to the firearm resting thereon.","Additionally, at least one support leg may be pivotally secured at an upper end thereof to an underside portion of the main support arm for pivotal deployment from a closed position in general parallel alignment with the main support arm to a deployed position at an angle relative to the main support arm to provide a leg support. The support leg may be in the form of a single support leg pivotally secured at its upper end to an underside portion of the main support arm, or it may be in the form of a multiple leg set, such as a bi-pod set of legs which are pivotally attached to the underside of the main support arm. In the bi-pod form, the two legs are in parallel with each other when in the closed storage position when engaged against the main support arm, and they are in a splayed position when fully deployed. A gravity slide lock is secured to the main support arm and engages upper portions of the single or bi-pod leg structure whereby the slide lock slides downwardly relative to the main support arm when the leg or legs are fully deployed to thereby block pivotal movement of the leg or legs back toward the storage position.","The simplest form of the steady-rest  of the present invention is illustrated in , ,  and . Accordingly, reference will first be made to these figures.","The firearm steady-rest  is here provided in the form of a rigid main support arm . This is a single section of rigid material, such as metal, plastic etc., which is incorporated into the flexible firearm sling  intermediate its ends  and .","In the representation illustrated in , the main support arm  is actually incorporated inside sling  and is actually sewn into the wider portion  of the sling. In addition, a cradle  is also secured to the sling  at the forward end of the main support arm  in order to assist in cradling the rifle  as indicated in .","The embodiment shown in  is further shown with the use of an optional handle  which may also be secured to the wide part  of sling . This handle  can assist the shooter by providing an excellent steady grip of the support arm .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0052","num":"0051"},"figref":["FIGS. 31 and 32","FIG. 29"],"b":"10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0053","num":"0052"},"figref":["FIG. 30","FIG. 29"],"b":["10","11","81","17","11"]},"The cradle  is provided at the most forward end of the support arm  for engaging the firearm  resting thereon.","Other variations may be made to the main support arm . For example, as will be described hereinafter with respect to other embodiments, the main support arm  may be provided with extendable leg segments, such as illustrated at  in , or with such leg elements which are further extendable telescopically or otherwise as indicated by the reference numeral  in .","With reference next to the embodiments illustrated in  and  through , the firearm steady-rest  of the present invention, in its most basic form, consists of a main support arm  and a first auxiliary support arm  connected to one end  of main support arm  at an obtuse angle \u03b8, thereby forming a V-shaped support as best illustrated in , , , , ,  and  for supporting the firearm  between upwardly extending distal ends  and . The main support arm  is secured to a flexible firearm sling  having a forward sling piece  connected between the barrel of firearm  and the forward distal end  of main support arm , and a rear sling portion  connected between the butt of firearm  and the rearward upwardly extending distal end  of auxiliary support arm .","The first auxiliary support arm  is pivotally connected at  to main support arm  whereby first auxiliary support arm  may be folded from its fully deployed position as shown in  and  over onto and together with main support arm , as illustrated in , ,  and , together with main support arm  in general parallel alignment with the sling . First auxiliary support arm  when fully deployed as shown in , is locked in position by a releasable lock  for locking the first auxiliary arm  in its fully deployed position at angle \u03b8 relative to main support arm . When first auxiliary support arm  is fully deployed at angle \u03b8 relative to main support arm , the lower backside portion  is pivoted at pivot point  and is received within a slot  of end  which acts as a stop to hold the angle \u03b8. At this point, the locking link  is provided with a notched end  which drops down into slot  to lock arm  into position. To unlock this locking arrangement, the operator simply pulls upwardly on link  so that end  disengages from slot  and then the first auxiliary arm  may be folded to the right as seen in the figures to lie down flat together on and with main support arm .","The angle \u03b8 may be made adjustable. For example, see the embodiment shown in . Here the end  of main support arm  is provided with first auxiliary support arm  pivoted thereto in the same manner as the previous embodiments, except the locking link  is eliminated and spring loaded protrusions  are provided in the sides of first auxiliary support arm  and expand outwardly to engage corresponding detents  provided in the semicircular ears , which ears are secured at their bases to opposite edges of main support member . Accordingly, first auxiliary support arm  may be adjusted selectively to a number of different pivotal positions to provide a desired obtuse angle \u03b8.","The sling  is secured to end  of main support arm  by conventional securement through slot  and the rear sling portion  of sling  is secured in conventional fashion to the opposite end  of main support arm  through end slots .","One primary difference the embodiment of  and that of  is that the embodiment shown in  is a shorter version of the invention when folded for storage which takes up less sling space. This is because in the embodiment shown in ,  and , main support arm  is made up of two parts, namely forward pivotal part  and rearward portion . The forward portion  folds at fixed pivot point  back on to the rearward portion  for storage as illustrated in  wherein they are in general parallel alignment with sling .","Another variation between the embodiments of  and that of  is that the latter embodiment includes a single leg support  which is secured at its upper end  thereof to an underside portion of main support arm  at pivot  for pivotal deployment from a closed position in general parallel alignment with main support arm  as illustrated in  to a deployed support position at an angle \u03b1 relative to main support arm . In , angle \u03b1 is selected so that the support leg  is extended rearwardly and is locked in that position whereby a shooter when in a standing or kneeling position leg  may engage the bottom end  thereof into ones body at the waist region to help steady the firearm . Leg  when fully deployed engages the bottom end of auxiliary support arm  as seen in  to lock it in position.","In the embodiment shown in , ,  and , the leg is permitted to pivot downwardly or to a vertical position. It should be noted that in , leg  is much longer than illustrated in the other figures. This is because the leg  in  is made up of extendable parts which are either telescopic in nature or bifold in nature. See bifold leg extension \u2032 in .","The upwardly extending distal ends  and  of the steady-rest  are provided with cradles  and  respectively for engaging firearm  resting thereon. These cradles  and  may be held in position in tight engagement with firearm  by using conventional hook and loop securing straps (not shown).","Turning next to the embodiment illustrated in , the firearm steady-rest  of the present invention is in all respects similar in size, operation and purpose of the previous embodiments just explained. The primary difference is that when the firearm steady-rest  of the embodiment shown in ,  and  is fully deployed, as best illustrated in , it forms a U-shaped support configuration for supporting firearm  between the upwardly extending distal ends \u2032 and 16. In this embodiment a second support auxiliary arm  is connected to the other end  of main support arm  at an obtuse angle and unfolds in an identical manner to that of first auxiliary support arm  to form the U-shaped configuration. Parts which serve the same purpose or function are numbered with the same or similar numeral designations.","Turning next to the embodiment illustrated in , the firearm steady-rest  of the present invention illustrated is identical to that shown in ,  and , with the exception that a forward set of bi-pod legs is added to the structure and may be deployed as desired. In this embodiment a bi-pod set of legs  is pivotally secured at pivot point  to support rest , which in turn is a clamp mechanism which clamps to the forward end  of main support arm . Instead, clamp mechanism  could be utilized to clamp the tripod set  to any conventional sling. Support rest  also provides a firearm cradle .","It will be seen that when the bi-pod leg set  is in a closed storage position as illustrated in  the legs  and  are in parallel with each other and rest against the underside of main support arm . The legs  may be held in this storage position by means of conventional hook and loop strap elements .","When the bi-pod leg set  deployed from the closed parallel and horizontal position to the fully deployed position shown in , they are splayed due to the fact that they pivot along the sides of guide block .","A gravity slide lock  is secured to support rest  or support arm , and the T-shaped gravity slide lock  engages upper portions  of the legs  and  whereby the slide lock  slides downwardly relative to the support rest  or support member  when the legs  and  fully deployed to the vertical support position shown in  to thereby block pivotal movement of the legs  and  back towards their original storage position illustrated in . Knob  may be screwed inwardly to clamp slide lock  in the deployed position.","Referring next to the embodiment illustrated in , the firearm steady-rest  of the present invention is identical to the embodiment illustrated in ,  and , with the addition of two tripod leg sets  secured to opposite ends  and  of main support arm . The bi-pod sets  are connected in the same manner as the bi-pod set in the previous embodiment and they are identical in all respects. In a similar manner, the bi-pod leg sets  here also fold toward each other for storage in the closed position against main support arm  as illustrated in . When the leg sets  are in their fully deployed position as shown in ,  and , the steady-rest  of the present invention can be easily utilized as a rifle sighting gun rest as illustrated in .","The firearm steady-rest  may be constructed of any desirable or suitable material, such as steel, aluminum or plastic, and it may be maintained in its closed position by a loop and hook strap arrangement as previously indicated or by any suitable magnetic mechanism. The steady-rest  may be covered with a rubber or plastic coating or a fabric cover to protect the firearm.","In addition, the height of all legs  or bi-pod sets  may be extendable either by conventional telescopic means or foldout means. The bi-pod sets  may also pivot in the horizontal plane where they connect to support rest .","The sighting height of the barrel of firearm  may be adjusted by changing the position of firearm  forward or rearward in cradles  and . Also, aiming may be adjusted by adjusting any of the legs  or ."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["Other objects and advantages appear hereinafter in the following description and claims. The accompanying drawings show, for the purpose of exemplification, without limiting the scope of the invention or the appended claims, certain practical embodiments of the present invention wherein:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 3"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIGS. 1"],"b":["2","3"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 4","FIG. 3"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 6"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":["FIG. 8","FIG. 3"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":["FIG. 9","FIG. 8"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":["FIG. 10","FIG. 9"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":["FIG. 11","FIG. 10"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":["FIG. 12","FIGS. 8 through 10"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":["FIG. 13","FIGS. 8 through 10"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":["FIG. 14","FIGS. 8 through 10"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":["FIG. 15","FIGS. 8 through 10"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":"FIG. 16"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":["FIG. 17","FIG. 16"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":["FIG. 18","FIGS. 16 and 17"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"figref":["FIG. 19","FIGS. 16 through 18"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0034"},"figref":["FIG. 20","FIGS. 8"],"b":["9","10"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"figref":["FIG. 21","FIG. 20"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0037","num":"0036"},"figref":["FIG. 22","FIGS. 20"],"b":["21","22"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0037"},"figref":["FIG. 23","FIGS. 20 and 21"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0039","num":"0038"},"figref":["FIG. 24","FIGS. 16 through 18"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0040","num":"0039"},"figref":["FIG. 25","FIG. 24"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0041","num":"0040"},"figref":["FIG. 26","FIG. 24"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0042","num":"0041"},"figref":["FIG. 27","FIG. 26"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0043","num":"0042"},"figref":["FIG. 28","FIGS. 24 through 27"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0044","num":"0043"},"figref":"FIG. 29"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0045","num":"0044"},"figref":["FIG. 30","FIG. 29"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0046","num":"0045"},"figref":["FIG. 31","FIG. 29"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0047","num":"0046"},"figref":["FIG. 32","FIG. 29"]}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
