---
title: Predetermined presentation of patient data at bedside
abstract: Techniques for presenting patient data at the patient's bedside include receiving predetermined presentation style data that indicates a subset of fewer than all parameters available from an electronic medical records (EMR) system and a first arrangement on a display device of related parameters in the subset. Without human intervention, the most recent values from the EMR system are received. The most recent values are associated in the EMR system with the particular patient for corresponding parameters of the subset. A first most recent value is presented according to the first arrangement at the particular bedside display device without human intervention. In some embodiments, the most recent values are also received or presented in response to a single stroke from a human user at an input for the particular display device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08832558&OS=08832558&RS=08832558
owner: University of Maryland, Baltimore
number: 08832558
owner_city: Baltimore
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20091009
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"GOVINT":[{},{}],"heading":["STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENTAL INTEREST","CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION","1. NETWORK OVERVIEW","2. BEDSIDE NETWORK NODES","3. METHOD FOR PRESENTING VITAL DATA AT PATIENT'S BEDSIDE","4. EXAMPLE EMBODIMENTS","5. HARDWARE OVERVIEW","6. EXTENSIONS AND ALTERNATIVES"],"p":["This invention was made with government support under Grant Number 053646 awarded by the National Science Foundation. The government has certain rights in the invention.","This application claims benefit of Provisional Appln. 61\/104,758, filed Oct. 12, 2009, the entire contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference as if fully set forth herein, under 35 U.S.C. \u00a7119(e).","1. Field of the Invention","The present invention relates to patient bedside monitors.","2. Description of the Related Art","Real-time access to vital data concerning a patient, at the patient's bedside, is limited to directly measured parameters, such as an electro cardiogram (ECG) readout, oxygen saturation (O2), and blood pressures (BP). These directly measured parameters are usually called vital signs and are displayed in real-time or near real-time at the bedside on a corresponding number of viewing devices (also called monitors).","However, access to additional data vital to the immediate care of the patient (such as, but not limited to, electrolytes, gases, hemoglobin and cultures) is not immediately available at the bedside. As used herein vital data refers to all data critical to the immediate care of the patient, such as vital signs, electrolytes, gases, hemoglobin, cultures and other data, in any combination.","Electronic medical records (EMR) have been gaining acceptance in healthcare facilities. EMR systems are designed to archive all information about a patient in one or more stand alone or networked computer systems, including patient identification data, patient demographics data, patient medical history, image study reports, patient vital signs, caregiver instructions, laboratory information for laboratory orders and results, medications ordered and administered, and additional data, usually in chronologic order. EMR systems are frequently not integrated, some of which serve single purposes, such as providing laboratory information only.","To view data from the EMR systems at the bedside requires a caregiver to know or guess or spend time ascertaining what vital data are most recently available and then to request those data. Further efforts are required to arrange the data in a useful way on a presentation device, such as screen or printer.","Using conventional EMR systems is not real-time or near real-time (i.e., it is slow). It is tedious (requires the entry of many keystrokes at a computer terminal which are repetitious of keystrokes typed previously for the same patient or other patients). It is error-prone (human input is subject to typographical errors and loss of concentration due to tediousness, stress and subjective physical or mental state of the user). It is non-uniform (each request may arrange the same information in different order and screen location or arrange different information). It is not suited for more than a single viewer at one time. It requires training to identify and request data; and often requires registration and login. It moves the user from the bedside, where the patient can be viewed, to a computer terminal input device, albeit sometimes nearby.","Because of such problems, clinicians often resort to relying on dedicated personnel to provide the data needed for the daily decision making cycle. The data is often provided on paper (either printouts or manually transcribed data items read from a computer presentation device) and read aloud to a group of caregivers at the bedside. This introduces other opportunities for errors, such as errors during transcription, errors during reading (e.g., due to dyslexia or mispronunciation) and errors of aural processing by the listeners (due to distraction, hearing impairments and room noise). Furthermore, this approach consumes the time of trained personnel, a scarce resource also needed to perform other important or critical duties, such as administering medications and tending to patient comfort.","Techniques are provided for presenting patient data at the patient's bedside that do not suffer all the disadvantages of prior art approaches.","In a first set of embodiments, a method includes receiving predetermined presentation style data at a particular display device located bedside for a particular patient. The presentation style data indicates a subset of fewer than all parameters available from an electronic medical records (EMR) system. The presentation style data also indicates a first arrangement on a display device of related parameters in the subset. Without human intervention, most recent values from the EMR system are received at the particular display device. The most recent values are associated in the EMR system with the particular patient for corresponding parameters of the subset. At least a first most recent value is presented at the particular display device according to the first arrangement without human intervention.","In some embodiments of the first set, the subset of fewer than all parameters available from the EMR system excludes such parameters that are not immediately critical for determining status of or treatment for the patient.","In some embodiments of the first set, the first arrangement includes a font size on the display device for a parameter of the subset, such that a value of the parameter is visible on the display device to multiple viewers more than five feet from the display device. At least the first most recent value is presented according to the font size.","In some embodiments of the first set, the first arrangement includes multiple colors to distinguish a normal and stable value from a value trending toward an abnormal range or in a dangerous range. At least the first most recent value is presented in one color to indicate whether the first most recent value is a normal and stable value or a value trending toward an abnormal range or in a dangerous range.","In some embodiments of the first set, the most recent values also are received or presented, or both, in response to a single stroke from a human user at an input for the particular display device.","In a second set of embodiments, a method includes sending most recent values from an electronic medical records (EMR) system without human intervention to a particular display device located bedside for a particular patient. The most recent values are associated in the EMR system with the particular patient for corresponding parameters of a subset of fewer than all parameters available from the EMR system. The particular display device presents at least a first most recent value of related parameters in the subset according to a first arrangement without human intervention.","In various other embodiments, an apparatus, a system or a computer-readable storage medium is configured to perform one or more steps of the above methods.","Techniques are described for presenting patient data at the patient's bedside. In the following description, for the purposes of explanation, numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention. It will be apparent, however, to one skilled in the art that the present invention may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances, well-known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the present invention.","Some embodiments of the invention are described below in the context of client server communications between general purpose processors on a network in a hospital for patients that stay in the hospital. However, the invention is not limited to this context. In other embodiments, one or more special purpose devices communicate according to the same or different models in one or more of the same or different health care facilities that maintain an electronic medical record system for patients that stay in the facility or reside outside the facility.","Networks of general purpose computer systems and special purpose devices connected by external communication links are well known. The networks often include one or more network devices that facilitate the passage of information between the computer systems. A network node is a network device, special purpose device or computer system connected by the communication links. Information is exchanged between network nodes according to one or more of many well known, new or still developing protocols. In this context, a protocol consists of a set of rules defining how the nodes interact with each other based on information sent over the communication links.","The client-server model of computer process interaction is also widely known and used in commerce. According to the client-server model, a client process sends a message including a request to a separate server process, and the server process responds by providing a service. The server process may also return a message with a response to the client process. Often the client process and server process execute on different computer devices, called hosts, and communicate via a network using one or more protocols for network communications. Network nodes are often hosts for client and server processes. The term \u201cserver\u201d is conventionally used to refer to the process that provides the service, or the host on which the process that provides the service operates. Similarly, the term \u201cclient\u201d is conventionally used to refer to the process that makes the request, or the host on which the process that makes the request operates. As used herein, the terms \u201cclient\u201d and \u201cserver\u201d refer to the processes, rather than the hosts, unless otherwise clear from the context. In addition, the server process can be broken up to run as multiple processes on multiple hosts (sometimes called tiers) for reasons that include reliability, scalability, and redundancy.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["100","190","110","190","100","110","190","112"]},"The system  includes the bed , a blood pressure (BP) subsystem , an oxygen gas (O2) subsystem , an electrocardiogram (ECG) subsystem , a network , an electronic medical records (EMR) input device , a computer , and a vital data subsystem .","The blood pressure (BP) subsystem  includes a BP sensor , a BP recorder  and a BP display  that presents data that indicates the blood pressure of patient , when present and connected to sensor . Data indicating the patient's blood pressure originates at the sensor  connected to the patient  and travels to the BP recorder , where symbols representing the data are presented on display . Patient data does not flow in the opposite direction, so the single direction of data flow is indicated by the arrowheads on the connection between sensor  and recorder . In the illustrated embodiment, the display  is integral to the recorder , but in some embodiments the display is a separate device.","The oxygen gas (O2) subsystem  includes an O2 sensor , an O2 recorder  and an O2 display  that presents data that indicates the oxygen gas saturation level of patient , when present and connected to sensor . Data indicating the patient's oxygen gas saturation level originates at the sensor  connected to the patient  and travels to the O2 recorder , and symbols representing the data are presented on display . Patient data does not flow in the opposite direction, so the single direction of data flow is indicated by the arrowheads on the connection between sensor , recorder , and display . In the illustrated embodiment, the display  is separate from the recorder , but in some embodiments, the display is an integral part of the recorder.","The electrocardiogram (ECG) subsystem  includes a set of ECG sensors called lead electrodes , an ECG recorder , and an ECG display  that presents data that indicates the electrical signature of a beating heart in patient , when present and connected to lead electrodes . Data indicating the patient's heart electrical signature originates at the lead electrodes  connected to the patient  and travels to the ECG recorder ; and trace lines and symbols representing the data are presented on display . Patient data does not flow in the opposite direction, so the single direction of data flow is indicated by the arrowheads on the connection between electrodes , recorder , and display . In the illustrated embodiment, the display  is separate from the recorder , but in some embodiments the display is an integral part of the recorder.","In a medical facility with an electronic medical record (EMR) system, an EMR process  executes on computer  connected to network . The network is any local area network (LAN), or wide area network (WAN) well known in the art, with wired communication links or wireless communication links or both. The network  and computer  reside outside the bedside vicinity . The EMR process  may operate on one or more computers or special purpose devices connected to network . The EMR process  includes data structures (not shown) that store all data for every patient in the facility and may include data for patients in a different facility as well. Some patient data, such as patient identification data and medications and laboratory orders and results, is manually input via an EMR input device  (e.g., a keyboard or optical scanner at a computer terminal) and passed directly (not shown) to computer  or indirectly through network  (as shown). The EMR input device is typically outside the bedside vicinity , as shown in .","Data flows from the vital signs recorders ,  and  through the network  to the EMR process  on computer , as indicated by the arrowheads on the connections from the recorders , ,  to network . The vital signs data is stored by the EMR process  in association with other data for the same patient. Any data in the EMR system can be retrieved by a human user, as described in the background section, by sitting at a terminal, such as EMR input device , and remotely operating the EMR process  to request the data for a patient of interest and a time of interest. Typically the requested data is returned in spreadsheet format depicted on a display screen (not shown) associated with the input device  and connected to network , or printed out on a network printer (not shown) also connected to network .","According to an illustrated embodiment, the system includes a vital data subsystem . The vital data subsystem  includes a vital data monitor  located within the bedside vicinity , and a process executing on a network computer, such as vital data server  executing on computer . The vital data monitor  is a display device. In the illustrated embodiment, the vital data monitor includes a vital data client  executing on a general purpose processor or special purpose circuit block inside the monitor . In some other embodiments, some or all of the vital data client executes on another special purpose or general purpose device (not shown) connected to the monitor  directly or connected indirectly via network .","As described in more detail below, the vital data monitor  automatically displays a subset of the information in the EMR system for the patient  in bed  in the same bedside vicinity  as the monitor . In the illustrated embodiment, the subset is that portion of the data in the EMR system that is critical to the immediate care of the patient in bed  by a caregiver, such as a physician making rounds alone or with one or more accompanying persons, such as interns or other physicians. Presentation styles may be specified in some embodiments by an algorithm that selects parameters to be displayed based on prioritization of interest, the number of data available, and the patterns of changes in the data.","Because the subset is automatically displayed, it is visible to the caregiver immediately upon entering the bedside vicinity, without one or more of the disadvantages of prior art retrievals from an EMR system. Thus other trained staff need not spend time retrieving the data and transferring it to paper and reading it aloud. The caregiver need not try to decipher a spoken word that passes in an instant amid distractions and audio noise.","In some embodiments, the presence of monitor  makes superfluous separate display devices dedicated to the vital signs recorders. Thus, in some embodiments, separate display devices for the vital signs recorders, such as O2 display  and ECG display  depicted in , are removed from the bedside vicinity .","In some embodiments, the vital data monitor  includes an input device such as a physical or virtual keyboard or a touch screen, so that a human user can influence or override the automatically displayed vital data. In some embodiments, the vital data monitor  is configured for high reliability, such as by preventing any process (e.g., software viruses or worms) other than vital data client  from executing, or by including special hardware (e.g., hardened electrical circuits, thermal and mechanical isolation, and backup power).","Although system  is depicted with a certain number of subsystems, networks, input devices and computers for purposes of illustration, in other embodiments the system includes more or fewer or the same number of one or more subsystems, networks, computers or input devices.","Any process may be used to present automatically a subset of data from the EMR system at the vital data monitor . In an illustrated embodiment, a vital data client  executes on a general purpose processor inside the monitor  and communicates via network  with a vital data server . In other embodiments, one or more or all steps performed by the client  and server  is performed by the other process or by a third process, executing on a host anywhere on network .","3.1. Method at Bedside Client",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0047","num":"0046"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 2","FIG. 3"],"b":["200","164"]},"In step , predetermined presentation style data is received. The presentation style data indicates what parameters from the EMR system are to be received and how the values for those parameters are to be presented on a display.","Any method may be used to receive this data. For example, in various embodiments, the data is included as a default value in software instructions, is received as manual input from a network administrator on the local or a remote node, is retrieved from a local file or database, or is sent from a different node on the network, either in response to a query or unsolicited, or the data is received using some combination of these methods.","In the illustrated embodiment, the predetermined presentation style data indicates a query message for retrieving data from the EMR system and a schedule for sending the query message. In some embodiments, the query message is formatted according to the EMR system and directed to the EMR process  already resident on a computer  connected to network . In some of these embodiments, vital data server  is omitted. In some embodiments, the query requests all data for a particular patient for a particular time interval. In some embodiments, the query requests only data for the subset of parameters for a particular patient for a particular time interval. The schedule for sending the query message indicates when or how often to send the query. For example, it is assumed for purposes of illustration that the schedule indicates the query should be sent every 30 minutes at a random delay after the start of an hour so that requests for all patients are not sent at the same time to the vital data server  or EMR process .","In some embodiments, the data is sent automatically from a vital data server  and the query message or the schedule or both are omitted from the predetermined presentation style data.","In the illustrated embodiment, the predetermined presentation style data indicates one or more arrangements of related parameters. Applicants have recognized that it is an advantage for the data from the EMR records to be grouped differently than the data is sent by the EMR system in response to a query. For example, all items of information retrieved from the EMR system are presented in time order, even if those items are not related to each other. Applicants prefer to arrange the data for a particular biological system on the same display at the same time. Thus, in some embodiments, the predetermined presentation data indicates multiple arrangements (called screen views hereinafter, although the display device need not be limited to a screen). For example, one screen view is used to present current values for parameters associated with the patient's cardio vascular system (CVS), and a second different screen view is used to present current values for parameters associated with the patient's respiratory system, and a still different third screen view is used to present current values for parameters associated with the medications currently being administered to the patient, and so on. For example, another view presents current medications (cancelled, ordered, dangerous, etc); and another view displays current cultures results (positive, negative, pending); and another view presents checklists of order sets or intended tasks and goals. A particular embodiment of multiple screen views is described in more detail in a later section with reference to ,  and .","In some embodiments in which multiple arrangements are indicated, the predetermined presentation style data also indicates a screen change schedule that indicates how long to display each screen view, or what order to cycle through one or more of the multiple screen views, or both.","In some embodiments, the arrangement indicated by the predetermined presentation style data includes a font size for one, more or all parameters to be displayed in a screen view. In a preferred embodiment, at least one font size is large enough so that one or more persons, such as caregivers, viewing the display can discern the values presented at a distance from about 5 feet (1.5 meters) to about 12 feet (4 meters) apart from the display device. Thus, in some embodiments, predetermined presentation style data indicates an arrangement that includes a font size for a parameter such that a value of the parameter is visible on the display device to multiple viewers more than five feet from the display device.","In some embodiments, the arrangement indicated by the predetermined presentation style data includes one or more alert colors to distinguish a normal and stable value from a value trending toward an abnormal range or in a dangerous range. In some embodiments, two different colors distinguish values that are trending larger or toward dangerous from values that are trending smaller or toward normal, either in the normal range, or in the dangerous range, or between the normal and dangerous ranges. In some of these embodiments, the indicated arrangement includes ranges to associate with normal, abnormal and dangerous. Thus a most recent value in a particular arrangement is presented in one color to indicate whether the most recent value is a normal and stable value or a value trending toward an abnormal range or in a dangerous range. A particular embodiment of multiple alert colors is described in more detail in a later section with reference to ,  and .","In step , initialization data is received that indicates a particular patient or bedside or both. In order to process queries, the recipient of the query must know what patient or bedside is the object of the query. In some embodiments, a network administrator uses an input device associated with the monitor to input a bed identifier (ID), such as a room number (combined with a bed number for multiple beds in the same room) to the vital data monitor during step . When a patient is admitted to the facility and given a patient identifier, the patient is assigned to a free bed and the patient and bed are associated in the EMR system. Thus it is sufficient for the client process  on the vital data monitor to identify the bed ID in a query and retrieve the most recent values for the patient associated in the EMR system with the particular bed having that bed ID.","In some embodiments, a network administrator obtains the media access control (MAC) number, which is unique among all network devices, for the vital data monitor  and inputs this number in association with the bed identifier into either the EMR system or into the vital data server  process on computer . The vital data server  sends the bed identifier or patient identifier in a message directed to the MAC address of the vital data monitor , and that message is received during step .","In some embodiments, the vital data monitor  is simply plugged into a network interface port, such as a data port, associated with the bed  in a room. The network data that associates the MAC address of the vital data monitor  with that network port is used by the vital data server  to associate the MAC address of the vital data monitor  to the bed  and the associated patient. The vital data server  sends the bed identifier or patient identifier in a message directed to the MAC address of the vital data monitor , and that message is received during step .","In some embodiments, the vital data server  determines the association between the MAC address of the vital data monitor  and the bed  or patient  based on the network interface port, as described above; but does not send a message to the vital data client , and thus step  is omitted. The client simply uses its own MAC address as an identifier for the particular bed\/patient for which data is requested from the EMR system and sends the query to the vital data server . The vital data server  translates the MAC address in the query to the patient\/bed identifier used in the EMR system.","In step  policy data is received. The policy data indicates an alteration to a value for a particular parameter in the subset before presentation. For example, the policy data indicates certain parameters that should not be displayed or parameters that should be combined in a different arrangement than the arrangement in the predetermined presentation style data. Thus, a most recent value corresponding to the particular parameter indicated in the policy data is altered before presenting the most recent value according to an arrangement. This feature is useful for filtering data for privacy and security (e.g., blocking out private patient information when the bedside vicinity  is viewed by visitors not authorized to know the patient). This feature is also useful for modifying the predetermined presentation style data dynamically (e.g., moving values for one or more parameters from one screen view to another, or changing font size or alert ranges), or tailoring the arrangement for individual patients (e.g, for heart transplant patients or kidney transplant patients or trauma victims or children or infants).","Control then passes to an automatic loop represented by steps  through .","In step , it is determined whether a bedside human user (called a viewer herein) has entered input to override or change the automatic presentation of the subset of EMR data (e.g., the automatic presentation of vital data). To avoid the deficiencies of prior art approaches, it is desirable that the user input be optional, simple and swift. Thus, in the illustrated embodiment, the viewer input is represented by a single stroke, such as a single touch of the touch screen or pressing a single key of a physical or virtual keyboard or producing a single click on a pointing device. If there is no input from a viewer, then control passes to step . Usually there is no viewer input and control passes to step .","In step , it is determined whether it is time for a scheduled query. If so, control passes to step . In step , a query message indicated by the predetermined presentation style data is sent to the EMR system, either directly to EMR process , or indirectly, though the vital data server . Control then passes to step .","In step , an EMR data message is received that includes data from the EMR system. In some embodiments, the data message is received directly from the EMR process ; in other embodiments, the data message is received indirectly through the vital data server process . Control passes from step  to step .","In the illustrated embodiment, step  includes displaying the screen view with the new data according to an arrangement indicated in the presentation style data altered according to the policy data, if any. As described above, the corresponding arrangement includes a large font for viewing one or more values being presented at a distance of five feet or more and an appropriate alert color depending on the value and the alert ranges. As used herein, the alert ranges include a normal range with a neutral color (e.g., white), a dangerous range with a color indicating danger (e.g., red) and an abnormal range with one or more colors (e.g., green and yellow) indicating a value between the normal range and the dangerous range, if any. For example, in some embodiments, green indicates a value in an abnormal range but trending toward the normal range; and yellow indicates a value in an abnormal range but trending toward the dangerous range.","In some embodiments, the screen view is not changed upon receipt of the new data but is displayed in turn according to the current screen change schedule. For example, in some embodiments with multiple screen views, the display is not updated upon receipt of a new data message, but is displayed in the course of the current screen schedule. In some embodiments with only one screen view, the screen is displayed in step  upon receipt of a new data message.","In some embodiments, a data message is received automatically from a vital data server , and the vital data client  does not send a query message on a schedule. In these embodiments, step  is omitted; and control passes from step  directly to step , described above.","Control passes from step  to step . In step , it is determined whether it is time for a scheduled screen change according to the current screen change schedule. If not, control passes back to step , described above. For example, in some embodiments with only one screen view, or with a default screen that is displayed unless and until the viewer makes a different selection, control passes to step .","If it is determined in step  that it is time for a scheduled screen change according to the current screen change schedule, then control passes to step . In step  the indicated screen view (e.g., the next in the predetermined order) is displayed automatically according to a corresponding arrangement indicated in the predetermined presentation style data, but altered according to the policy data, if any. As described above, the corresponding arrangement includes a large font for one or more values being presented and an appropriate alert color depending on the value and the alert ranges. Control then passes back to step .","If it is determined in step  that a viewer has entered input to override or change the automatic presentation of the subset of EMR data, then control passes to step . In step  it is determined whether the viewer input indicates that data is to be refreshed. If so, then control passes to step  to send a query for EMR data. As described above, in step , a query message indicated by the predetermined presentation style data is sent to the EMR system, either directly to EMR process , or indirectly, though the vital data server . Control then passes to step  and following steps as described above.","If it is determined in step  that the viewer input does not indicate that data is to be refreshed, then control passes to step . In step  it is determined whether the viewer input indicates that the current screen change schedule is to be updated. If so, then control passes to step . In step , the screen change schedule is updated to speed up or slow down the rate of changing from one screen view to another based on the user input. In some embodiments, the rate of changing from one screen view to another is changed according to a value indicated by the viewer input (e.g., a numeric value or value on a pull down menu or an icon indicated by the touch screen input). In some embodiments two icons on a touch screen are provided for indicating how to update the screen change schedule; one icon indicates speeding up the rate of change, and the other icon indicates slowing down the rate of change. The rate of changing from one screen view to another is updated by a fixed percentage (e.g., 20%) every time the viewer strikes one of the icons. Control then passes back to step .","In some embodiments, the update to the screen change schedule is retained until a viewer again updates it. In some embodiments, the screen change schedule reverts to the value indicated in the predetermined presentation style data after a certain amount of time (e.g., 30 minutes).","If it is determined in step  that the viewer input does not indicate that the current screen change schedule is to be updated, then control passes to step . In step  it is determined whether the viewer input indicates that a different screen is to be displayed. If not, control passes back to step . If so, then control passes to step , described above, to display the indicated screen according to a corresponding arrangement indicated in the predetermined presentation style data but altered according to the policy data, if any.","Any method may be used to determine that the user input indicates a particular screen. In some embodiments, the screen to display is indicated by the user input (e.g., a numeric value or value on a pull down menu or an icon indicated by the touch screen input). In some embodiments two icons on a touch screen are provided for indicating the next screen to display, one icon indicates the next screen in the predetermined order and the other icon indicates the previous screen in the predetermined order. In some embodiments, the indicated screen view is displayed until the viewer indicates a different screen view. In some embodiments, the monitor reverts to the current screen change schedule after a certain amount of time (e.g., 2 minutes).","3.2. Method at Remote Server",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0075","num":"0074"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":"300"},"In step , predetermined presentation style data is received. The presentation style data indicates what parameters from the EMR system are to be received at the bedside display device and how the values for those parameters are to be presented on a display there. In the illustrated embodiment, the predetermined presentation style data is sent to the vital data client  from the vital data server  and thus includes presentation style data used by both client  and server . In some embodiments, the vital data client  obtains its presentation style data from another source and the presentation style data received at the vital client server  is greatly reduced to just the data used by the server. For example, the data used just at the server includes the subset of parameters used by the vital data subsystem , a data message and data message schedule for sending the most recent values from the server  to the client , and a EMR query message for obtaining at the server  the most recent values for the subset from the EMR system. Any method may be used to receive the predetermined presentation style data, as described above.","In the illustrated embodiment, the vital data client  does not send a query message directly to the EMR process , but instead sends a request for the most recent values to the vital data server  or sends no queries at all. In these embodiments, the vital data server  sends a query message formatted according to the EMR system to the EMR process  to request all the most recent values for the parameters in the subset of vital data parameters.","The schedule for sending the query\/data message indicates when or how often to send the query\/data message. For example, it is assumed for purposes of illustration that the schedule indicates a data message should be sent from the server  to the client  every 30 minutes at a random delay after the start of an hour so that data messages for all patients are not sent at the same time from the vital data server .","In the illustrated embodiment, the predetermined presentation style data indicates one or more arrangements of related parameters, as described above.","In step  policy data is received. The policy data indicates an alteration to a value for a particular parameter in the subset before presentation, as described above. Different policy data for different patients is received at the server  in some embodiments.","In step , initialization data is received that indicates an association between a particular client  and a particular patient or bedside or both. In some embodiments, a network administrator obtains the MAC number of the vital data monitor , and inputs this number in association with the bed identifier. In some embodiments, the vital data server  sends the bed identifier or patient identifier in a message directed to the MAC address of the vital data monitor  during step . In some embodiments, the network data that associates the MAC address of the vital data monitor  with a network port is used by the vital data server  to associate the MAC address of the vital data monitor  to the bed  and the associated patient. The vital data server  sends the bed identifier or patient identifier in a message directed to the MAC address of the vital data monitor , during step . In some embodiments, the vital data server  determines the association between the MAC address of the vital data monitor  and the bed  or patient  based on the network interface port, as described above; but does not send a message to the vital data client . The vital data server  translates the MAC address in a query from the client  to the patient\/bed identifier used in the EMR system.","In step  the presentation style data and policy data, if any, are sent to the vital data client  on the vital data monitor . In some embodiments, the client receives the presentation style data and policy data independently of the server ; and step  is omitted.","Control then passes to an automatic loop represented by steps  through .","In step , it is determined whether a query for most recent values is received from a vital data client . If so, control passes to step . In step , a data message is sent to the vital data client in response to the query. In some embodiments, step  includes sending a EMR formatted query to the EMR process  for the most recent value or values for each of one or more or all parameters in the subset of parameters for the vital data subsystem for the particular patient. In some embodiments, this step includes translating a MAC address of the monitor  hosting client  into a bed number or patient identifier for use in the EMR query. During step  in such embodiments, a response is received from the EMR system with the values for the requested parameters. In some embodiments, all EMR data for the patient is received. In some embodiments, only values for the subset are received. The data message with the most recent value or values for each of the subset of parameters is generated based on the response from the EMR system.","If it is determined, in step , that a query for most recent values is not received from a vital data client , then control passes to step . In step , it is determined whether it is a scheduled time to send a data message. If not, control passes back to step .","If it is determined, in step , that it is a scheduled time to send a data message, then control passes to step . In step , a data message is sent to the vital data client, as described above for step .","In some embodiments, the vital data client  does not generate queries. In such embodiments, steps  and  are omitted and control passes from step  to step , and from step  to step .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0088","num":"0087"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":["401","401","401","401","410","420","422","430","440","450","460","470"]},"Touch icons  are used by a viewer to selected eight different detailed screen views, as described in more detail below. The eight different detailed screen views indicated by the touch icons  include, in order from top to bottom, a last 24 hours screen view, a FEN screen view, a RESP screen view, a cardiovascular system (CVS) screen view, an infectious disease (ID) screen view, a HEME screen view, a neurological system (NEURO) screen view, and a medications screen view. The default screen view  includes multiple panels that each displays the most recent values for a portion of the parameters on one or more of the eight detailed screen views.","First context panel  includes a logo for the facility (e.g., University Medical Center), values for patient demographic parameters (gender, age, identification number), a bed identifier (e.g., 10) in large font easily discerned by multiple viewers five feet or more from the display device, a time when the data was last updated (e.g., 8:23 AM) and a time when the next update is scheduled (e.g., 8:53 AM). The second context panel  includes additional information, such as the patient's name (redacted) and a date (partially redacted).","In the illustrated embodiment, the screen change rate panel  includes bed icons that are used by a viewer to select screens for a bed on which the most recent values are presented by touching the corresponding icon. For example, the touch icon  for particular bed  is highlighted, as is a label  for a particular patient associated with the bed. In another embodiment, the bed icons are replaced by icons that are touched to control the cycling rate among one or more screen views for a particular bed and associated patient, as described above. For example, one icon is touched to indicate that data is to be refreshed by querying the EMR system, a different icon is touched to indicate that the current screen change schedule is to be updated, or one of a set of icons is touched to indicate a particular value for the rate of changing from one screen view to another. In some embodiments two icons in screen change rate panel  are provided to indicate speeding up the rate of screen changes, or slowing down the rate of screen changes, respectively, as described above.","The FEN panel  includes a lab time and date, a diagram  of standard FEN parameter values familiar to clinicians, as well as labeled values for other parameters. The diagram  lists the values top row (left to right), bottom row (left to right), and right most, respectively: Sodium (mmol\/L), Chloride (milliMoles per liter, mmol\/L), BUN (milligrams per deciliter, mg\/dL), Potassium (mmol\/L), CO2 (mmol\/L), Creatinine (milligrams per deciliter, mg\/dL), Glucose (mg\/dL). Elsewhere in panel  are presented Calcium (mg\/dL), Ionized Calcium (mmol\/L), Magnesium (mg\/dL), Phrosphate (mg\/dL). In the rest of the panel: Alb=Albumin (grams per deciliter, g\/dL), T.Pro=Total protein (g\/dL), AST (units\/L), ALT (units\/L), Bili-T=Bilirubin Total (mg\/dL), AlkP=Alkaline Phosphatase (units\/L), Lactate (mmol\/L), LDH (units\/L). The font size of the values are large so as to be read at a distance, e.g., at five to twelve feet. The colors of some values are changed from white (for normal stable values) to another alert color for values in a range of abnormal or dangerous values.","The hemoglobin (HEME) panel  includes a lab time and date, a diagram  of standard HEME parameter values familiar to clinicians, as well as labeled values for other parameters. The diagram  lists the values (in order left\/top\/bottom\/right, respectively) of: white blood cell count (thousands\/L), hemoglobin (g\/dL), hematocrit (%), platelet (thousands\/mcL). Other displayed parameters and associated values include PT=protime (sec), PTT=Prothrobin Time (sec), INR=International Normalized Ratio (no unit), Segs=semented neutrophils (%), Bands (%), Lymphs=Lymphocytes (%), Monos=Monocytes (%), Eos=Eosinophils (%). The font size of the values are large so as to be read at a distance, e.g., at five to twelve feet. The colors of some values are changed from white (for normal stable values) to another alert color for values in a range of abnormal or dangerous values. For example, items enclosed by an oval indicate values presented in an alert color . In some embodiments the alert colors are: red=critical values (low or high), pink=above normal reference range but below critical high value, yellow=below normal reference range but above critical low value.","The vital signs panel  includes a label indicating the values presented are for the \u201cLast 12 hr Vitals,\u201d i.e., vital signs for the last 12 hours, as well as labeled values for vital signs parameters. In panel , HR=heart rate (beats\/minute), BP=blood pressure (mmHg_, RR=respiratory rate (rate\/minute), SpO2=oxygenation saturation by pulse oximetry (%), EtCO2=end-tidal carbon dioxide (%). The font size of the values are large so as to be read at a distance, e.g., at five to twelve feet. All of the example values are in a normal range so none are in an alert color.","The respiratory (RESP) panel  includes a lab time and date, and labeled values for certain parameters. These labels are self evident except BE=base excess (mmol\/L), pH (no unit), PCO2=partial pressure of Carbon-dioxide in blood (millimeters of Mercury, mm Hg), PO2=partial pressure of oxygen in blood (mm Hg), HCO3=bicarbonate (mmol\/L), SaO2(%). The font size of the values are large so as to be read at a distance, e.g., at five to twelve feet. The colors of some values are changed from white (for normal stable values) to another alert color for values in a range of abnormal or dangerous values. For example items enclosed by an oval indicate values presented in an alert color .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0096","num":"0095"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 4"],"b":["501","501","501","401","501","410","420","422","501","530","510"]},"The medications and lab orders panel  presents the start and stop date and time for the last 24 hours, a list the medications ordered in the last 24 hours and a list of the laboratory tests ordered in the last 24 hours. The EMR data are sorted before presentation herein to automatically display a time log of laboratory orders and medication orders as captured by EMR. For example, all medication orders are automatically displayed by categories and by time to provide an at-a-glance view of summaries of all medication orders. In the illustrated embodiment, none of the values in the panel  is in large font or a non-normal alert color. Even so, an advantage of the values presented in panel  is that a caregiver can see immediately what tests and treatments have been most recently applied to the particular patient in the same bedside vicinity as the vital data monitor . This assists the caregiver in determining what incremental changes might be called for, rather than coming up with a complete treatment protocol from a blank start. In other embodiments, current medication are separated into categories, e.g., cancelled, ordered, dangerous, etc. In some embodiments, current cultures results, e.g., positive, negative, pending, etc., are also presented with the lab orders column.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0098","num":"0097"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 4"],"b":["601","601","601","401","601","610","620","622","622","601","630","611"]},"The detailed CVS panel  presents the values for five parameters and the parameter symbols in large font so as to be read at a distance, e.g., at five to twelve feet. The colors of some values are changed from white (for normal stable values) to another alert color for values in a range of abnormal or dangerous values. For example values enclosed by a first oval indicate values presented in a first alert color  (e.g., pink for above normal) values enclosed by a second oval indicate values presented in a second alert color  (e.g., yellow for below normal); and, values enclosed by a third oval indicate values presented in a third alert color  (e.g., red for critical\/dangerous). The trends over the last 12 to 48 hours for the five parameters are also shown as graph , graph , graph , graph  and graph  respectively. Next to each graph is a value for a time (labeled \u201cLast\u201d) of the most recent measurement. Trend data are provided automatically when more than one value is available in a default time window (for example, 48 hours). Immediate availability of trend data provides a useful basis to interpret the current value, in relation to the historical references values.","Other parameters in other font sizes and alert colors are presented on others of the eight detailed screen views; but are not discussed further herein. The default and detailed screens already depicted are sufficient to describe how to make and use some embodiments of the invention.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0101","num":"0100"},"figref":"FIG. 7","b":["700","700","710","700","710","710","702","710","702","710","710","702"]},"Computer system  also includes a memory  coupled to bus . The memory , such as a random access memory (RAM) or other dynamic storage device, stores information including computer instructions. Dynamic memory allows information stored therein to be changed by the computer system . RAM allows a unit of information stored at a location called a memory address to be stored and retrieved independently of information at neighboring addresses. The memory  is also used by the processor  to store temporary values during execution of computer instructions. The computer system  also includes a read only memory (ROM)  or other static storage device coupled to the bus  for storing static information, including instructions, that is not changed by the computer system . Also coupled to bus  is a non-volatile (persistent) storage device , such as a magnetic disk or optical disk, for storing information, including instructions, that persists even when the computer system  is turned off or otherwise loses power.","Information, including instructions, is provided to the bus  for use by the processor from an external input device , such as a keyboard containing alphanumeric keys operated by a human user, or a sensor. A sensor detects conditions in its vicinity and transforms those detections into signals compatible with the signals used to represent information in computer system . Other external devices coupled to bus , used primarily for interacting with humans, include a display device , such as a cathode ray tube (CRT) or a liquid crystal display (LCD), for presenting images, and a pointing device , such as a mouse or a trackball or cursor direction keys, for controlling a position of a small cursor image presented on the display  and issuing commands associated with graphical elements presented on the display .","In the illustrated embodiment, special purpose hardware, such as an application specific integrated circuit (IC) , is coupled to bus . The special purpose hardware is configured to perform operations not performed by processor  quickly enough for special purposes. Examples of application specific ICs include graphics accelerator cards for generating images for display , cryptographic boards for encrypting and decrypting messages sent over a network, speech recognition, and interfaces to special external devices, such as robotic arms and medical scanning equipment that repeatedly perform some complex sequence of operations that are more efficiently implemented in hardware.","Computer system  also includes one or more instances of a communications interface  coupled to bus . Communication interface  provides a two-way communication coupling to a variety of external devices that operate with their own processors, such as printers, scanners and external disks. In general the coupling is with a network link  that is connected to a local network  to which a variety of external devices with their own processors are connected. For example, communication interface  may be a parallel port or a serial port or a universal serial bus (USB) port on a personal computer. In some embodiments, communications interface  is an integrated services digital network (ISDN) card or a digital subscriber line (DSL) card or a telephone modem that provides an information communication connection to a corresponding type of telephone line. In some embodiments, a communication interface  is a cable modem that converts signals on bus  into signals for a communication connection over a coaxial cable or into optical signals for a communication connection over a fiber optic cable. As another example, communications interface  may be a local area network (LAN) card to provide a data communication connection to a compatible LAN, such as Ethernet. Wireless links may also be implemented. Carrier waves, such as acoustic waves and electromagnetic waves, including radio, optical and infrared waves travel through space without wires or cables. Signals include man-made variations in amplitude, frequency, phase, polarization or other physical properties of carrier waves. For wireless links, the communications interface  sends and receives electrical, acoustic or electromagnetic signals, including infrared and optical signals, that carry information streams, such as digital data.","The term computer-readable medium is used herein to refer to any medium that participates in providing information to processor , including instructions for execution. Such a medium may take many forms, including, but not limited to, non-volatile media, volatile media and transmission media. Non-volatile media include, for example, optical or magnetic disks, such as storage device . Volatile media include, for example, dynamic memory . Transmission media include, for example, coaxial cables, copper wire, fiber optic cables, and waves that travel through space without wires or cables, such as acoustic waves and electromagnetic waves, including radio, optical and infrared waves. Computer readable storage media refers to computer-readable media excluding carrier waves.","Common forms of computer-readable media include, for example, a floppy disk, a flexible disk, a hard disk, a magnetic tape, or any other magnetic medium, a compact disk ROM (CD-ROM), a digital video disk (DVD) or any other optical medium, punch cards, paper tape, or any other physical medium with patterns of holes, a RAM, a programmable ROM (PROM), an erasable PROM (EPROM), a FLASH-EPROM, or any other memory chip or cartridge, a carrier wave, or any other medium from which a computer can read.","Network link  typically provides information communication through one or more networks to other devices that use or process the information. For example, network link  may provide a connection through local network  to a host computer  or to equipment  operated by an Internet Service Provider (ISP). ISP equipment  in turn provides data communication services through the public, world-wide packet-switching communication network of networks now commonly referred to as the Internet . A computer called a server  connected to the Internet provides a service in response to information received over the Internet. For example, server  provides information representing video data for presentation at display .","The invention is related to the use of computer system  for implementing the techniques described herein. According to one embodiment of the invention, those techniques are performed by computer system  in response to processor  executing one or more sequences of one or more instructions contained in memory . Such instructions, also called software and program code, may be read into memory  from another computer-readable medium such as storage device . Execution of the sequences of instructions contained in memory  causes processor  to perform the method steps described herein. In alternative embodiments, hardware, such as application specific integrated circuit , may be used in place of or in combination with software to implement the invention. Thus, embodiments of the invention are not limited to any specific combination of hardware and software, unless otherwise explicitly stated. The hardware or software or combination is referred to herein as logic encoded in tangible media.","The signals transmitted over network link  and other networks through communications interface , carry information to and from computer system . Computer system  can send and receive information, including program code, through the networks ,  among others, through network link  and communications interface . In an example using the Internet , a server  transmits program code for a particular application, requested by a message sent from computer , through Internet , ISP equipment , local network  and communications interface . The received code may be executed by processor  as it is received, or may be stored in storage device  or other non-volatile storage for later execution, or both. In this manner, computer system  may obtain application program code in the form of a signal on a carrier wave.","Various forms of computer readable media may be involved in carrying one or more sequence of instructions or data or both to processor  for execution. For example, instructions and data may initially be carried on a magnetic disk of a remote computer such as host . The remote computer loads the instructions and data into its dynamic memory and sends the instructions and data over a telephone line using a modem. A modem local to the computer system  receives the instructions and data on a telephone line and uses an infra-red transmitter to convert the instructions and data to a signal on an infra-red a carrier wave serving as the network link . An infrared detector serving as communications interface  receives the instructions and data carried in the infrared signal and places information representing the instructions and data onto bus . Bus  carries the information to memory  from which processor  retrieves and executes the instructions using some of the data sent with the instructions. The instructions and data received in memory  may optionally be stored on storage device , either before or after execution by the processor .","In the foregoing specification, the invention has been described with reference to specific embodiments thereof. It will, however, be evident that various modifications and changes may be made thereto without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention. The specification and drawings are, accordingly, to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The present invention is illustrated by way of example, and not by way of limitation, in the figures of the accompanying drawings and in which like reference numerals refer to similar elements and in which:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIG. 7"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
