---
title: Systems and methods for administering self-service mutual fund and IRA distributions to participants
abstract: A self-service distribution system and method to request a withdrawal of funds from tax-deferred accounts (i.e., a distribution), such as individual retirement accounts (IRAs). The system may retrieve information about a participant's age and type of account from which a distribution is requested. A series of checks defined by rules and regulations that apply to tax-deferred accounts may be run against participant and account information retrieved by the system. A sequence of user interfaces may present information and warnings, such as tax consequences of the distribution, to the guide the participant. The participant may request distributions having a certain frequency, amount, and timing through the presented user interfaces. After all of the information is entered to initiate the distribution, a verification page is presented such that the participant may confirm the enter information is correct. Upon submitting the request, a confirmation is presented.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08732057&OS=08732057&RS=08732057
owner: United Services Automobile Association (USAA)
number: 08732057
owner_city: San Antonio
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20090422
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["The rules for distributions from Individual Retirement Accounts (IRA) and other tax-deferred accounts are very complicated. Regulations require that distributions begin at age 70Y2. Distributions may be taxable as ordinary income and are subject to a 10% early withdrawal penalty if the participant is under age 59%, unless an exception applies. A participant can withdraw money (i.e., take a distribution) from an IRA at any time, unless there is a reason why the participant cannot withdraw money, such as if there is an order of a divorce court.","Typically, to initiate a distribution, the participant fills-out a paper document that is mailed into a central processing facility to request the distribution. Participants may also contact a call center to speak with an advisor to conduct the transaction. However, there is not a process by which the participant can initiate a distribution using a self-service mechanism, such a website, where the participant can review information and make decisions regarding the distribution at his\/her leisure, and have the distribution immediately queued for processing by a financial institution.","A self-service distribution system and method to request a withdrawal of funds from tax-deferred accounts (i.e., a distribution), such as individual retirement accounts (IRAs). The system may retrieve information about a participant's age and type of account from which a distribution is requested. A series of checks defined by rules and regulations that apply to tax-deferred accounts may be run against participant and account information retrieved by the system. A sequence of user interfaces may present information and warnings, such as tax consequences of the distribution, to the guide the participant. The participant may request distributions having a certain frequency, amount, and timing through the presented user interfaces. After all of the information is entered to initiate the distribution, a verification page is presented such that the participant may confirm the enter information is correct. Upon submitting the request, a confirmation is presented.","This summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the detailed description. This summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter, nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":["FIG. 1","FIG. 9"],"b":["85","85","5","10","10","30","85","90","40","85","90","90"]},"The distribution engine  may include a user interface module , an integration engine , a distribution analyzer and advice generator , an internal data source access engine , and an external data source access engine . The user interface module  may generate and format one or more pages of content  as a graphical presentation that may be provided to the participant computing device  as an output from the distribution engine . The page(s) of content  may be provided to the participant computing device  via a website  associated with the institution system .","The integration engine  provides the distribution engine  the ability to retrieve information from one or more internal data sources  and one or more external data sources  concurrently, in an implementation, via an internal data source access engine  and an external data source access engine , respectively. Data pertaining to the participant  may be retrieved from internal source(s)  as well as external data source(s) . The retrieved data may be stored centrally, perhaps in storage associated with the institution system , such as storage .","Internal data source(s)  may contain data that the institution system  maintains pertaining to the participant , such as personal data such as marital status and age, as well as financial data such as account balances, outstanding loans, credit card debt, etc. For instance, the participant  may have an IRA account, 401(k) account, or other tax-deferred account with the institution system , and this information may be retrieved and used by the distribution engine .","External data source(s)  may contain additional data pertaining to the user, such as additional personal data and\/or financial data. External data source(s)  may be associated with one or more entities that may be independent of each other. Each of the external data source(s)  may be a computer system that maintains financial information or financial accounts of the participant  that is not maintained by the institution system . It is contemplated that any number of external data sources may be in communication with the institution system  and may provide any type of data associated with users thereto.","In an implementation, external data source(s)  may include credit cards, financial institutions, financial software applications, and public databases. The external data source(s)  may be in communication with the institution system  via a network, such as the Internet. Additional example sources of data may include bank accounts, retirement accounts, financial software applications, brokerage accounts, mutual funds, annuities, certificates of deposits, and investment accounts, for example, along with publicly available information. For example, data from investment and retirement accounts might include mutual funds, bonds, etc. and may be acquired and used in subsequent calculations and analysis.","The integration engine  may receive user information from the internal and external data source access engines  and  and may provide that information to the distribution analyzer and advice generator . The distribution analyzer and advice generator  may use tools, calculators, applications, and aggregators, for example to generate distribution information . In an implementation, the distribution analyzer and advice generator  may include one or more of a portfolio planner, a financial assessment tool, a budget generating tool, an asset allocation tool, a life insurance determination calculator, a retirement advice generator, bank calculators, debt analyzers, retirement income planners, etc. The distribution analyzer and advice generator  may evaluate the user information (e.g., the personal information and the financial information pertaining to the user) and generate distribution information  that may comprise information regarding distributions from an IRA account, 401(k) account, or other tax-deferred account for the participant .","In an implementation, the distribution information , may be integrated into a single unified presentation, which may then be sent to the user interface module  for presentation to the participant . Examples are described below with reference to . Through this mechanism, the participant  may quickly see the distribution information . Thus, in an implementation, distribution information  may be provided online, e.g. via the website , to the participant .","The participant  may interface with the institution system  via the website  that may display one or more pages of content  to the participant  on the participant computing device . A distribution request  may be received at the institution system  through any suitable means, such as interaction with a web browser that is in communication with a financial advice server or other computing device within the institution system . The actual mechanism of connection is outside the scope of the present discussion.","The distribution request  may be processed by the distribution engine , which then provides the participant  with the distribution information . In an implementation, the participant  may be provided with advice, recommendations and\/or a plan directed to asset management, estate planning, insurance, investments, and retirement, for example. The distribution information  may comprise a set of recommendations, strategies, warnings, tax information, etc. for the participant  to use and evaluate when requesting a distribution.","The distribution engine  may implement processes to enable self-service tax-deferred account distributions that comply with the complex regulations that govern such accounts. For example, when processing a distribution request, the distribution engine  may perform initial checks to determine whether the distribution from the tax-deferred account should proceed. For example, the distribution engine  may limit on-line requests through the website  to only primary owners of an IRA accounts. The distribution engine  may disallow distributions from accounts having certain restriction codes (e.g., the account owner is deceased, a divorce is pending between the account owner and a spouse, the account owner is disabled, account is closed) or from accounts having freeze codes.","If the process proceeds, and a distribution is allowed, certain checks may be made by the distribution engine  regarding the distribution. The distribution engine  may determine a distribution type based on the customer's age at the time of submission of the distribution request . The distribution type may be considered premature if the participant  is less than to 59\u00bd years of age or normal if customer is 59\u00bd years of age or older. The distribution engine  may display tax-related disclaimers to participants under 59\u00bd (e.g., a 10% tax penalty may apply). A funds available for withdrawal rule may be applied, which prohibits the participant  from exceeding a predetermined amount on a one-time, future dated and recurring transactions. The distribution engine  may also calculate required minimum distributions (RMD) that may be updated annually and may account for any external accounts held by the participant .","The distribution engine  may disallow recurring distributions for participants  who are younger than 59\u00bd years of age. Where recurring distributions are allowed, the participant  may be required to enter a distribution frequency (e.g., weekly, 1st and 15th of each month, every two weeks, monthly, every two months). The distribution engine  may apply certain distributions restrictions for participants  who are younger than 59\u00bd years of age (e.g., a SIMPLE IRA that has been opened for less than 2 years).","In addition to checking age and characteristics of the distribution, the distribution engine  may perform checks against the amount requested to be transferred as part of the distribution. For example, the distribution engine  may require the distribution amount to be a multiple of $100, or may provide an option for a full liquidation.","The distribution engine  may determine if taxes are required to be withheld from the distribution to the participant . For example, certain states may require state taxes to be withheld. In some instances, the participant  may voluntarily select to have the federal and\/or state taxes withheld. In yet other circumstances, there may be a state requirement that if federal taxes are withheld, then state taxes must also be withheld. In addition, certain types of tax-deferred accounts do not require federal tax withholdings, such as a Roth IRA. As such, tax withholding processes may be skipped by the distribution engine .","In some implementations, the distribution engine  may validate parameters associated with the \u201cfrom account\u201d and the \u201cto account\u201d associated with the distribution request. For example, certain minimum (e.g., greater than or equal to $100) and maximum (e.g., available cash balance) amount limits may be applied based on the type of account from which the distribution will be made and the account to which the distribution will be deposited. Daily amount limits may apply to such transfers as well (e.g. only one transfer per day). The distribution engine  may determine if the \u201cto account\u201d is eligible to receive the distribution requested by the participant . Many variations of the checks performed by the distribution engine  are possible and considered to be within the scope and spirit of the present disclosure.","In some implementations, the distribution engine  may cause the user interface module  to prepare a page of content  to verify the information entered by the participant  as part of the distribution request . A verification page may be presented to the participant  by the website . The verification page may present the information entered by the participant  with regard to the distribution, and present a mechanism by which the participant  may edit any of the data items previously entered during the distribution request . A confirmation page may follow once the participant  has verified that the information entered in the distribution request  is correct. The distribution engine  may cause the user interface module  prepare a page of content  that informs the participant  of what happens next after the distribution request  is confirmed. For example, the participant  may notified about timing of the distribution, whether the distribution can be canceled (e.g., by midnight of the same day), etc.","The participant computing device  may provide user access to a system that is coupled to the distribution engine  and is configured to receive a plurality of user requests, at least one of which is a distribution request . A system may be configured to format and transmit a graphical user interface to participant , and through the graphical user interface provide the participant  the ability to interact with and manipulate the financial advice, recommendations, and\/or financial plan provided by the institution system  (e.g., draw down strategies).","A user access system may be communicatively coupled to the distribution engine  and may be configured to send machine-readable instructions to the distribution engine . Those instructions may cause the distribution engine  to access one or more internal and one or more external data sources  and , respectively.","As mentioned above, the distribution engine  may provide a graphical presentation output. The graphical presentation may be transmitted to the user access system. In an implementation, the graphical presentation is combined with other materials and transmitted to the participant . In an implementation, the graphical presentation is received by the user access system and transmitted directly to the participant  without the inclusion of any other materials.","The user access system may be implemented as a web server in an implementation. The user access system, through the use of any suitable interactive web technology, provides an interactive experience to the participant  through which access to and maintenance of their financial advice, recommendations, and\/or financial plan can be accomplished. Any technology that provides interactivity through a web browser is considered to be within the scope of the present discussion and may include, without limitation, Hyper-Text Mark-Up Language (HTML), Dynamic HTML (DHTML), JavaScript, and Ajax.","In an implementation, the institution may be a financial services institution having a financial services website. On the website, in a common space, the user may be presented with financial advice, recommendations, and\/or a financial plan.","The institution system  may comprise one or more computing devices . A participant computing device  may allow a participant  to interact with the computing device(s) . The computing device(s)  may have one or more processors , storage  (e.g., storage devices, memory, etc.), and software modules . The computing device(s) , including its processor(s) , storage , and software modules , may be used in the performance of the techniques and operations described herein. Information associated with the participant  may be stored in storage  or other storage such as one or more internal data sources , for example.","Examples of software modules  may include modules for identifying and authenticating a user, generating a questionnaire, generating web page content for display, and receiving instructions from a user, described further herein. While specific functionality is described herein as occurring with respect to specific modules, the functionality may likewise be performed by more, fewer, or other modules. The functionality may be distributed among more than one module. An example computing device and its components are described in more detail with respect to .","The institution system  may include a messaging component as one of the software modules  to communicate with participants  to remind them of events, provide guidance, provide status, and to make recommendations. For example, an e-mail may be sent to remind the participant  to take a RMD. Guidance may be provided regarding rules changes along with recommendations regarding such changes.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"figref":["FIGS. 2A-2C","FIGS. 3-8","FIG. 3"],"b":["200","202","300","18","90","302","300","25","5","302","300","300","85"]},"At , a selection to withdraw from an IRA is received. For example, in the user interface , an option  to \u201cwithdrawal from your IRA\u201d may be provided. The participant  may select the option  to begin the distribution process.","At , a withdrawal user interface is presented. The withdrawal user interface  () may be presented in response to the selection of option  in the user interface . The withdrawal user interface  may present information areas  and  containing information about the action to be taken (withdrawal from the IRA). Information area  within the user interface  may present information specific to the participant . For example, if the participant  is less than 59\u00bd years of age, the customer is notified that the withdrawal from the IRA may be subject to taxes and penalties. Participants may also be provided with advice to consider alternatives to withdrawing from the IRA. A link may be provided to the participant  to \u201clearn more\u201d about the other alternatives to withdrawing from the IRA. Information area  may provide status and other information regarding the distribution. For example, information area  may inform the participant about how long the self-service process will take. In addition, the user interface  may include a glossary of terms relevant to the user interface  to guide the participant  through the process. It is noted that any of the user interface described herein may provide a glossary of terms.","At  is determined if the participant has chosen to continue. If the participant  chooses to continue by selecting the \u201cget started\u201d button, a user interface  may be presented at . Otherwise, the user may cancel and the process ends.","At , the user interface  is presented, and the \u201cfrom\u201d account field is populated with options. At  a selection of the \u201cfrom\u201d account is received. As shown in the user interface , the participant  has selected the brokerage Roth IRA account as the \u201cfrom\u201d account. At , the \u201cto\u201d account field is populated. This field may be populated with known receiving accounts of funds to be distributed from the tax-deferred \u201cfrom\u201d accounts. In addition, an account may be added or opened, as shown in the user interface  (e.g., \u201cAdd and Account\u201d). At , a selection of the \u201cto\u201d account is received. Funds may be withdrawn from the \u201cfrom\u201d account and deposited to the \u201cto\u201d account using an ACH transfer, a mailed check, etc.","At , a withdrawal code is selected. The withdrawal code may be an identifier of a type of distribution being taken by the participant  from the tax-deferred account. Example withdrawal codes include normal, premature, premature exception, disability, death, etc. At , a type of withdrawal is received. The type of withdrawal may be a one-time on demand withdrawal, a recurring withdrawal, or a future one-time withdrawal.","At , a requested withdrawal date is received. As shown in the user interface , the participant  has selected Dec. 4, 2008 for a one-time withdrawal. In this instance, the date is a future one-time withdrawal date. In some implementations where the participant  has selected a one-time on demand withdrawal, the requested withdrawal date need not be provided as is assumed to be the present date. In some implementations, when a recurring withdrawal is selected, then the requested withdrawal date may be the first date in the recurrence pattern (e.g., the first of the month, the 15th of the month, the beginning of a week, etc.).","At , an amount is received. The amount may be a dollar amount specified within a maximum and minimum amount for the distribution. In some implementations, a radio button may be provided to withdrawal funds. The input amount will be withdrawn from the \u201cfrom\u201d account at the close of the trading day. In some implementations, a number of shares may be specified. Here, the amount to be withdrawn would be equal to the number of shares times the closing price of the fund or stock being sold.","At , a tax withholding option may be received. In some implementations, the user interface  () may be presented as an alternative, or in addition to, the user interface  in accordance with tax requirements. Such tax requirements may vary from state to state, as some states require taxes to be withheld, where others make it optional or not required. For example as shown in the user interface , a display area  may provide guidance to the participant  that federal income tax should be withheld, and certain guidance if the income taxes are not withheld from the distribution.","At , it is determined if the participant  has chosen to withhold taxes from the distribution (or if it is required). If so, then at , an amount of taxes to be withheld and the amount of the distribution are calculated. For example, a user interface  () may be presented to request if the participant  would like an amount withheld before or after taxes, and what percentage the participant  would like to be withheld. The tax liability and an amount that the customer will receive are also shown in the user interface .","At , a verification is presented. The verification may be presented as a user interface  where information previously entered is displayed so the participant  may review and edit information for accuracy, if necessary. At , a \u201csubmit\u201d action is received, and at , a confirmation is provided that the transaction has been completed.","Thus, as described above, a financial institution through its institution system  and distribution engine  may provide a website  to participants  interested in requesting a distribution through a self-service mechanism. The self-service mechanism may provide error checking, advice, information and warnings to the participant regarding the requested distribution. As a result, the participant may request a distribution without having to fill out a form or calling an adviser during regular business hours.","Table 1 below provides several exemplary scenarios by which a customer may interface with the institution system to request a self-service distribution from a tax-deferred account. The exemplary scenarios are provided really for illustrative purposes and should not be considered to limit the scope of the present disclosure.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0049","num":"0048"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00001","num":"00001"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","pgwide":"1"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"77pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"98pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"154pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["Scenario Name","Description","Flow"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Transfer funds from","Perform Transfer funds from","\u20021. Log in into Portal"]},{"entry":["Checking to Brokerage","Checking Account to Brokerage","\u20022. Search for the Customer and Press Continue"]},{"entry":["Asset Management","AMA from Customer","\u20023. Click on Products Tab."]},{"entry":["Account (AMA)","Relationship Management","\u20024. Select \u201cTransfer Funds\u201d option from "]},{"entry":["account via Portal.","(CRM) Portal. Check the Transfer ","\u201cTake Action Drop Down\u201d"]},{"entry":["Transaction type: On-","activity and Transfer details as ","\u20025. Enter Transfer Funds data as required."]},{"entry":["Demand (OD)","expected.","\u20026. Click on Submit Button."]},{"entry":[{},{},"\u20027. Verify Confirmation Details."]},{"entry":[{},{},"\u20028. Click on View Transfer Activity Link."]},{"entry":[{},{},"\u20029. Verify Activity details."]},{"entry":[{},{},"10. Click on details link for the transaction."]},{"entry":[{},{},"11. Verify the execution details on "]},{"entry":[{},{},"\u201cTransfer details\u201d page:"]},{"entry":["Transfer funds from","Perform Transfer funds from","\u20021. Log in to Portal"]},{"entry":["Brokerage Non IRA to","Brokerage non IRA Account to","\u20022. Search for Customer by number and press"]},{"entry":["Mutual Fund (MF) non","MF non IRA from CRMPortal.","Continue"]},{"entry":["IRA account via Portal. ","Check the Transfer activity and","\u20023. Click on the \u201cProducts\u201d tab"]},{"entry":["Transaction type:","Transfer details as expected.","\u20024. Select \u201cTransfer Funds\u201d option from"]},{"entry":["Recurring (AUTO)",{},"\u201cTake Action\u201d drop down list"]},{"entry":[{},{},"\u20025. Enter Transfer Funds data as required"]},{"entry":[{},{},"\u20026. Click on Continue"]},{"entry":[{},{},"\u20027. Verify transfer details"]},{"entry":[{},{},"\u20028. Click on Submit"]},{"entry":[{},{},"\u20029. View Confirmation page"]},{"entry":[{},{},"10. Click on \u201cTransfer Activity\u201d link"]},{"entry":[{},{},"11. Click on \u201cDetails\u201d link"]},{"entry":[{},{},"12. Verify transfer details"]},{"entry":["Transfer funds from","Perform Transfer funds from","\u20021. Log in to Portal"]},{"entry":["External to Brokerage","External Account to Brokerage","\u20022. Search for Customer by number and press"]},{"entry":["IRA account via Portal.","IRA from CRMPortal. Check the","Continue"]},{"entry":["Transaction type: OD","Transfer activity and Transfer","\u20023. Click on the \u201cProducts\u201d tab"]},{"entry":[{},"details as expected.","\u20024. Select \u201cTransfer Funds\u201d option from "]},{"entry":[{},{},"\u201cTake Action\u201d drop down list"]},{"entry":[{},{},"\u20025. Enter Transfer Funds data as required"]},{"entry":[{},{},"\u20026. Click on Continue"]},{"entry":[{},{},"\u20027. Verify transfer details"]},{"entry":[{},{},"\u20028. Click on Submit"]},{"entry":[{},{},"\u20029. View Confirmation page"]},{"entry":[{},{},"10. Click on \u201cTransfer Activity\u201d link"]},{"entry":[{},{},"11. Click on \u201cDetails\u201d link"]},{"entry":[{},{},"12. Verify transfer details"]},{"entry":["Transfer funds from","Perform Transfer funds from","\u20021. Log in to Portal"]},{"entry":["FSB to MF IRA account","FSB Account to MF IRA from","\u20022. Search for Customer by number and press"]},{"entry":["via Portal.Transaction","CRMPortal. Check the Transfer","Continue"]},{"entry":["type: Future Dated","activity and Transfer details as ","\u20023. Click on the \u201cProducts\u201d tab"]},{"entry":["(FD)","expected.","\u20024. Select \u201cTransfer Funds\u201d option from "]},{"entry":[{},{},"\u201cTake Action\u201d drop down list"]},{"entry":[{},{},"\u20025. Enter Transfer Funds data as required"]},{"entry":[{},{},"\u20026. Click on Continue"]},{"entry":[{},{},"\u20027. Verify transfer details"]},{"entry":[{},{},"\u20028. Click on Submit"]},{"entry":[{},{},"\u20029. View Confirmation page"]},{"entry":[{},{},"10. Click on \u201cTransfer Activity\u201d link"]},{"entry":[{},{},"11. Click on \u201cDetails\u201d link"]},{"entry":[{},{},"12. Verify transfer details"]},{"entry":["Transfer funds from","Perform Transfer funds from","\u20021. Log into Mobile website"]},{"entry":["MF Non IRA to","Mutual Fund Non IRA account to","\u20022. Select \u201cTransfer Funds\u201d option in the main menu"]},{"entry":["External account via","External account from Mobile","\u20023. Enter PIN number"]},{"entry":["Mobile. Transaction","website.","\u20024. Select the \u201cFrom\u201d account from the "]},{"entry":["type: OD","Check the Transfer Activity and","drop down list"]},{"entry":[{},"Transfer details as expected","\u20025. Select the \u201cTo\u201d account from the drop down list"]},{"entry":[{},{},"\u20026. Enter the \u201cAmount\u201d to transfer"]},{"entry":[{},{},"\u20027. Select the date on which the transfer should"]},{"entry":[{},{},"occur"]},{"entry":[{},{},"\u20028. Click the \u201cNext\u201d button"]},{"entry":[{},{},"\u20029. Verify the transfer details"]},{"entry":[{},{},"10. Click the \u201cSubmit\u201d button"]},{"entry":[{},{},"11. Verify the transfer details on the confirmation"]},{"entry":[{},{},"page"]},{"entry":["Transfer funds from","Perform Transfer funds from","\u20021. Log into Mobile website"]},{"entry":["FSB to Brokerage non-","FSB account to Brokerage","\u20022. Select \u201cTransfer Funds\u201d option in the main menu"]},{"entry":["IRA account via","account from Mobile website.","\u20023. Enter PIN number"]},{"entry":["Mobile. Transaction","Check the Transfer Activity and","\u20024. Select the \u201cFrom\u201d account from the drop down"]},{"entry":["type: FD","Transfer details as expected","list"]},{"entry":[{},{},"\u20025. Select the \u201cTo\u201d account from the drop down list"]},{"entry":[{},{},"\u20026. Enter the \u201cAmount\u201d to transfer"]},{"entry":[{},{},"\u20027. Select the date on which the transfer should"]},{"entry":[{},{},"occur"]},{"entry":[{},{},"\u20028. Click the \u201cNext\u201d button"]},{"entry":[{},{},"\u20029. Verify the transfer details"]},{"entry":[{},{},"10. Click the \u201cSubmit\u201d button"]},{"entry":[{},{},"11. Verify the transfer details on the confirmation"]},{"entry":[{},{},"page"]},{"entry":["Transfer funds from","Perform Transfer funds from","\u20021. Log into Mobile website"]},{"entry":["FSB to MF IRA account","FSB account to MF IRA account","\u20022. Select \u201cTransfer Funds\u201d option in the main menu"]},{"entry":["via Mobile.","from Mobile website.","\u20023. Enter PIN number"]},{"entry":["Transaction type: OD","Check the Transfer Activity and ","\u20024. Select the \u201cFrom\u201d account from the drop down"]},{"entry":[{},"Transfer details as expected","list"]},{"entry":[{},{},"\u20025. Select the \u201cTo\u201d account from the drop down list"]},{"entry":[{},{},"\u20026. Enter the \u201cAmount\u201d to transfer"]},{"entry":[{},{},"\u20027. Select the date on which the transfer should"]},{"entry":[{},{},"occur"]},{"entry":[{},{},"\u20028. Click the \u201cNext\u201d button"]},{"entry":[{},{},"\u20029. Verify the transfer details"]},{"entry":[{},{},"10. Click the \u201cSubmit\u201d button"]},{"entry":[{},{},"11. Verify the transfer details on the confirmation"]},{"entry":[{},{},"page"]},{"entry":["Transfer funds from","Perform Transfer funds from","\u20021. Log into Mobile website"]},{"entry":["External to Brokerage","External account to Brokerage","\u20022. Select \u201cTransfer Funds\u201d option in the main menu"]},{"entry":["IRA account via","IRA account from Mobile","\u20023. Enter PIN number"]},{"entry":["Mobile. Transaction","website.","\u20024. Select the \u201cFrom\u201d account from the drop down"]},{"entry":["type: AUTO","Check the Transfer Activity and","list"]},{"entry":[{},"Transfer details as ","\u20025. Select the \u201cTo\u201d account from the drop down list"]},{"entry":[{},"expected","\u20026. Enter the \u201cAmount\u201d to transfer"]},{"entry":[{},{},"\u20027. Select the date on which the transfer should"]},{"entry":[{},{},"occur"]},{"entry":[{},{},"\u20028. Click the \u201cNext\u201d button"]},{"entry":[{},{},"\u20029. Verify the transfer details"]},{"entry":[{},{},"10. Click the \u201cSubmit\u201d button"]},{"entry":[{},{},"11. Verify the transfer details on the confirmation"]},{"entry":[{},{},"page"]},{"entry":["Transfer funds from","Perform Transfer funds from","\u20021. Log into Dotcom site"]},{"entry":["Brokerage AMA to FSB","Brokerage AMA account to FSB","\u20022. Select \u201cTransfer Funds\u201d from any entry point"]},{"entry":["account via Dotcom.","IRA account from financial","\u20023. Select the \u201cFrom\u201d account from the drop down"]},{"entry":["Transaction type:","provider website.","list"]},{"entry":["AUTO","Check the Transfer Activity and ","\u20024. Select the \u201cTo\u201d account from the drop down list"]},{"entry":[{},"Transfer details as expected","\u20025. Enter the Amount to transfer"]},{"entry":[{},{},"\u20026. For Transfer type select \u201cOne-Time Transfer\u201d "]},{"entry":[{},{},"or \u201cAutomatic Transfer\u201d"]},{"entry":[{},{},"\u20027. For automatic transfers select the \u201cFrequency\u201d"]},{"entry":[{},{},"from the drop down list and select the start and "]},{"entry":[{},{},"end date"]},{"entry":[{},{},"\u20028. For one-time transfer select the \u201cRequested"]},{"entry":[{},{},"Transfer Date\u201d"]},{"entry":[{},{},"\u20029. Enter the Amount to be transferred"]},{"entry":[{},{},"10. Click on \u201cNext\u201d"]},{"entry":[{},{},"11. Verify the transfer details"]},{"entry":[{},{},"12. Select the \u201cTransfer Funds\u201d button"]},{"entry":[{},{},"13. View the Transfer details page"]},{"entry":["Transfer funds from","Perform Transfer funds from","\u20021. Log into Dotcom site"]},{"entry":["USB to MF non IRA","USB account to MF non IRA","\u20022. Select \u201cTransfer Funds\u201d from any entry point"]},{"entry":["account via Dotcom.","account from financial provider ","\u20023. Select the \u201cFrom\u201d account from the drop down"]},{"entry":["Transaction type: OD","website.","list"]},{"entry":[{},"Check the Transfer Activity and ","\u20024. Select the \u201cTo\u201d account from the drop down list"]},{"entry":[{},"Transfer details as expected","\u20025. Enter the Amount to transfer"]},{"entry":[{},{},"\u20026. For Transfer type select \u201cOne-Time Transfer\u201d "]},{"entry":[{},{},"or \u201cAutomatic Transfer\u201d"]},{"entry":[{},{},"\u20027. For automatic transfers select the \u201cFrequency\u201d"]},{"entry":[{},{},"from the drop down list and select the start and "]},{"entry":[{},{},"end date"]},{"entry":[{},{},"\u20028. For one-time transfer select the \u201cRequested"]},{"entry":[{},{},"Transfer Date\u201d"]},{"entry":[{},{},"\u20029. Enter the Amount to be transferred"]},{"entry":[{},{},"10. Click on \u201cNext\u201d"]},{"entry":[{},{},"11. Verify the transfer details"]},{"entry":[{},{},"12. Select the \u201cTransfer Funds\u201d button"]},{"entry":[{},{},"13. View the Transfer details page"]},{"entry":["Transfer funds from","Perform Transfer funds from","\u20021. Log into Dotcom site"]},{"entry":["External to MF IRA","External account to MF IRA","\u20022. Select \u201cTransfer Funds\u201d from any entry point"]},{"entry":["account via Dotcom.","account from financial provider ","\u20023. Select the \u201cFrom\u201d account from the drop down"]},{"entry":["Transaction type: FD","website.","list"]},{"entry":[{},"Check the Transfer Activity and","\u20024. Select the \u201cTo\u201d account from the drop down list"]},{"entry":[{},"Transfer details as expected","\u20025. Enter the Amount to transfer"]},{"entry":[{},{},"\u20026. For Transfer type select \u201cOne-Time Transfer\u201d "]},{"entry":[{},{},"or \u201cAutomatic Transfer\u201d"]},{"entry":[{},{},"\u20027. For automatic transfers select the \u201cFrequency\u201d"]},{"entry":[{},{},"from the drop down list and select the start and "]},{"entry":[{},{},"end date"]},{"entry":[{},{},"\u20028. For one-time transfer select the \u201cRequested"]},{"entry":[{},{},"Transfer Date\u201d"]},{"entry":[{},{},"\u20029. Enter the Amount to be transferred"]},{"entry":[{},{},"10. Click on \u201cNext\u201d"]},{"entry":[{},{},"11. Verify the transfer details"]},{"entry":[{},{},"12. Select the \u201cTransfer Funds\u201d button"]},{"entry":[{},{},"13. View the Transfer details page"]},{"entry":["Transfer funds from","Perform Transfer funds from MF ","\u20021. Log into Dotcom site"]},{"entry":["MF non IRA to","non IRA account to Brokerage","\u20022. Select \u201cTransfer Funds\u201d from any entry point"]},{"entry":["Brokerage IRA account ","IRA account from financial","\u20023. Select the \u201cFrom\u201d account from the drop down"]},{"entry":["via Dotcom.","provider website.","list"]},{"entry":["Transaction type: OD","Check the Transfer Activity and","\u20024. Select the \u201cTo\u201d account from the drop down list"]},{"entry":[{},"Transfer details as expected","\u20025. Enter the Amount to transfer"]},{"entry":[{},{},"\u20026. For Transfer type select \u201cOne-Time Transfer\u201d "]},{"entry":[{},{},"or \u201cAutomatic Transfer\u201d"]},{"entry":[{},{},"\u20027. For automatic transfers select the \u201cFrequency\u201d"]},{"entry":[{},{},"from the drop down list and select the start and "]},{"entry":[{},{},"end date"]},{"entry":[{},{},"\u20028. For one-time transfer select the \u201cRequested"]},{"entry":[{},{},"Transfer Date\u201d"]},{"entry":[{},{},"\u20029. Enter the Amount to be transferred"]},{"entry":[{},{},"10. Click on \u201cNext\u201d"]},{"entry":[{},{},"11. Verify the transfer details"]},{"entry":[{},{},"12. Select the \u201cTransfer Funds\u201d button"]},{"entry":[{},{},"13. View the Transfer details page"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0050","num":"0049"},"figref":"FIG. 9"},"Numerous other general purpose or special purpose computing system environments or configurations may be used. Examples of well known computing systems, environments, and\/or configurations that may be suitable for use include, but are not limited to, personal computers (PCs), server computers, handheld or laptop devices, multiprocessor systems, microprocessor-based systems, network PCs, minicomputers, mainframe computers, embedded systems, distributed computing environments that include any of the above systems or devices, and the like.","Computer-executable instructions, such as program modules, being executed by a computer may be used. Generally, program modules include routines, programs, objects, components, data structures, etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Distributed computing environments may be used where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network or other data transmission medium. In a distributed computing environment, program modules and other data may be located in both local and remote computer storage media including memory storage devices.","With reference to , an exemplary system for implementing aspects described herein includes a computing device, such as computing device . In its most basic configuration, computing device  typically includes at least one processing unit  and system memory . Depending on the exact configuration and type of computing device, system memory  may be volatile (such as random access memory (RAM)), non-volatile (such as read-only memory (ROM), flash memory, etc.), or some combination of the two. This most basic configuration is illustrated in  by dashed line .","Computing device  may have additional features and\/or functionality. For example, computing device  may include additional storage (removable and\/or non-removable) including, but not limited to, magnetic or optical disks or tape. Such additional storage is illustrated in  by removable storage  and non-removable storage .","Computing device  typically includes a variety of computer-readable media. Computer-readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by computing device  and includes both volatile and non-volatile media, and removable and non-removable media. By way of example, and not limitation, computer-readable media may comprise computer storage media and communication media.","Computer storage media include volatile and non-volatile, and removable and non-removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer-readable instructions, data structures, program modules or other data. System memory , removable storage , and non-removable storage  are all examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media include, but are not limited to, RAM, ROM, Electrically Erasable Programmable Read-Only Memory (EEPROM), flash memory or other memory technology, CD-ROM, digital versatile disks (DVD) or other optical storage, magnetic cassettes, magnetic tape, magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices, or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by computing device . Any such computer storage media may be part of computing device .","Computing device  may also contain communication connection(s)  that allow the computing device  to communicate with other devices. Communication connection(s)  is an example of communication media. Communication media typically embody computer-readable instructions, data structures, program modules, or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism, and include any information delivery media. The term \u201cmodulated data signal\u201d means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example, and not limitation, communication media include wired media such as a wired network or direct-wired connection, and wireless media such as acoustic, radio frequency (RF), infrared, and other wireless media. The term computer-readable media as used herein includes both storage media and communication media.","Computing device  may also have input device(s)  such as a keyboard, mouse, pen, voice input device, touch input device, etc. Output device(s)  such as a display, speakers, printer, etc. may also be included. All these devices are well known in the art and need not be discussed at length here.","Computing device  may be one of a plurality of computing devices  inter-connected by a network. As may be appreciated, the network may be any appropriate network, each computing device  may be connected thereto by way of communication connection(s)  in any appropriate manner, and each computing device  may communicate with one or more of the other computing devices  in the network in any appropriate manner. For example, the network may be a wired or wireless network within an organization or home or the like, and may include a direct or indirect coupling to an external network such as the Internet or the like.","It should be understood that the various techniques described herein may be implemented in connection with hardware or software or, where appropriate, with a combination of both. Thus, the methods and apparatus of the presently disclosed subject matter, or certain aspects or portions thereof, may take the form of program code (i.e., instructions) embodied in tangible media, such as floppy diskettes, CD-ROMs, hard drives, or any other machine-readable storage medium wherein, when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine, such as a computer, the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the presently disclosed subject matter. In the case of program code execution on programmable computers, the computing device generally includes a processor, a storage medium readable by the processor (including volatile and non-volatile memory and\/or storage elements), at least one input device, and at least one output device. One or more programs may implement or utilize the processes described in connection with the presently disclosed subject matter, e.g., through the use of an application programming interface (API), reusable controls, or the like. Such programs may be implemented in a high level procedural or object-oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However, the program(s) can be implemented in assembly or machine language, if desired. In any case, the language may be a compiled or interpreted language and it may be combined with hardware implementations.","Although exemplary embodiments may refer to utilizing aspects of the presently disclosed subject matter in the context of one or more stand-alone computer systems, the subject matter is not so limited, but rather may be implemented in connection with any computing environment, such as a network or distributed computing environment. Still further, aspects of the presently disclosed subject matter may be implemented in or across a plurality of processing chips or devices, and storage may similarly be effected across a plurality of devices. Such devices might include personal computers, network servers, and handheld devices, for example.","Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and\/or methodological acts, it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather, the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The foregoing summary, as well as the following detailed description of illustrative embodiments, is better understood when read in conjunction with the appended drawings. For the purpose of illustrating the embodiments, there are shown in the drawings example constructions of the embodiments; however, the embodiments are not limited to the specific methods and instrumentalities disclosed. In the drawings:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0007","num":"0006"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0008","num":"0007"},"figref":"FIGS. 2A-2C"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":"FIGS. 3-8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 9"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
