---
title: Shortened HF and VHF antennas made with concentric ceramic cylinders
abstract: Electrically small shortened HF and VHF microstrip cylindrical antenna with a reduced antenna length are provided. The electrically small shortened HF and VHF microstrip cylindrical antennas are constructed with concentric, ceramic cylinders having copper coating that operate at low frequencies. The concentric, ceramic cylinders alternate with concentric copper layers in a corrugated alternating structure where certain copper layers function as the ground plane and others function as part of the radiating patch providing both a shortened antenna length and the ability to operate efficiently at low frequencies. It is now possible to provide a ten-fold size reduction with these antennas.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07990322&OS=07990322&RS=07990322
owner: The United States of America as respresented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 07990322
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20090618
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"GOVINT":[{},{}],"heading":["GOVERNMENT INTEREST","FIELD OF THE INVENTION","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS"],"p":["The invention described herein may be manufactured, used, imported, sold, and licensed by or for the Government of the United States of America without the payment to me of any royalty thereon.","The present invention relates generally to the field of microstrip antennas, and more particularly to shortened omni-directional HF and VHF cylindrical microstrip antennas.","Microstrip antennas are light weight, low profile, and low cost conformal structures; they could be planar, cylindrical or other shapes, replacing bulky antennas in many applications. Monopole antennas are also a low cost type of antenna, but as the monopole antenna's frequency goes down to VHF and lower frequencies, its length becomes too large and cumbersome, making it inapplicable for a number of applications. Monopole and cylindrical microstrip antennas are used to provide azimuthal omni-directional coverage. As the length of monopole antenna is reduced to less than one quarter wavelength, its efficiency quickly deteriorates. Since antennas increase in size as the frequency gets lower and lower, prior art antennas tend to become more and more cumbersome and inefficient.","Current conventional cylindrical microstrip antennas also suffer from the disadvantage of requiring several large and complex microstrip patches that need to be connected to transmission lines. Current conventional cylindrical microstrip antennas typically have microstrip patches that are about one half wavelength within the dielectric medium, while the length of an efficient monopole antenna is one quarter wavelength. One example of this type of prior art cylindrical antenna is this inventor's U.S. Pat. No. 6,362,785 entitled \u201cCompact Cylindrical Microstrip Antenna\u201d and , depict side, front, and top views of that prior art arrangement.  depict a radiating patch  etched on a tubular, dielectric microstrip substrate  and a copper patch  etched on one side surrounding a concentric, copper cylindrical ground plane . The substrate  fits closely around the cylindrical ground plane .  illustrates the prior art's radiating patch  being divided into a wide section  and a narrow section  that is soldered to the ground plane  and coupled to a coaxial feed .  also illustrates representative dimensions for this type of prior art antenna with a width, 2r, of 124.0 mm and length, d, of 12.6 mm for the wide section , width, 2t, of 3.2 mm and length, c, of 10.0 mm for the narrow section , with the wide section  having a greater width than the narrow section . The combined length of the wide section  and narrow section  is 22.6 mm. A patch length of 230 mm would be needed from a conventional cylindrical antenna at the same frequency. Referring back to , a radiating sleeve  with those representative dimensions, along with a 31 mil thick microstrip material, such as Duroid, with a relative dielectric constant of 2.2, and outer diameter of 38.8 mm could provide an efficient microstrip antenna for the UHF frequencies with a resonant frequency of 422 MHz.","Such prior art antennas were configured to radiate at a frequency much lower than the expected frequency of a regular rectangular microstrip antenna. Although such prior art cylindrical antennas provided much-needed reductions in antenna length, they were still not suitable for low frequency applications.","Up until now, it has not been possible to employ cylindrical microstrip antennas at low frequencies without the disadvantages, limitations, and shortcomings associated with excessive antenna length, antenna size, and the need for large and complex transmission lines. Thus, there has been along-felt need for low frequency cylindrical microstrip antennas with a reduced length for even shorter cylindrical microstrip antennas.","In order to satisfy the long-felt need for low frequency cylindrical microstrip antennas with both reduced length and high efficiency that do not require the weight and excessive cost of complex and cumbersome transmission lines, the present invention provides a compact, or shortened, electrically small HF and VHF microstrip cylindrical antenna advantageously constructed with dielectric microstrip substrates of concentric ceramic cylinders with copper coating, with the copper coating either being the ground plane or etched to be used as the radiating patch, making it possible to have electrically small cylindrical microstrip antennas at low frequencies with a monopole-type radiation pattern and a significantly reduced antenna length. With this invention, an omni-directional shortened microstrip antenna is now provided for both VHF and even lower frequencies.","An electrically small cylindrical microstrip antenna at low frequencies offers a number of advantages over prior art antennas. The shortened cylindrical microstrip antenna of the present invention provides the same high efficiency as a quarter wavelength monopole and conventional microstrip antennas, with the key advantage over prior art antenna structures being a substantially shorter antenna length. In addition to the advantages of high efficiency and small size, the present invention provides omnidirectional azimuthal patterns useful in many military and commercial communication systems, without suffering from the size limitations of prior art antenna structures.","It is an object of the present invention to provide a shortened HF and VHF microstrip cylindrical antenna structure constructed with concentric cylinders of alternating dielectric and copper layers.","Another object of the present invention is to provide an electrically small shortened HF and VHF microstrip cylindrical antenna with a reduced antenna length that is constructed with concentric, ceramic cylinders having copper coating that operate at low frequencies.","It is still another object of the present invention to provide an electrically small, shortened HF and VHF microstrip cylindrical antenna constructed with concentric, ceramic cylinders that alternate with concentric copper layers where certain copper layers function as the ground plane and others function as part of the radiating patch providing both a shortened antenna length and the ability to operate efficiently at low frequencies.","Yet another object of the present invention is a method for providing an electrically small, shortened HF and VHF microstrip cylindrical antenna constructed with concentric, ceramic cylinders with copper coating and the ground plane arranged in a corrugated alternating layered structure.","These and other objects are advantageously accomplished with the present invention by providing a shortened cylindrical microstrip antenna comprising concentric, ceramic cylinders with copper coating advantageously arranged in a corrugated alternating layered structure. In one embodiment of the present invention, a reduced antenna length of at least 10% of the length of a conventional microstrip antenna has been achieved, resulting in smaller microstrip antennas at lower frequencies. Other embodiments of this invention provide a corrugated alternating structure with as many as seven alternating layers of the radiating patch, dielectric substrate, and concentric, ceramic cylindrical ground plane. The term \u201cconcentric\u201d describes the relationship between the dielectric microstrip substrate made of ceramic or other microstrip material. The term \u201ccorrugated alternating structure\u201d is defined as at least one layer of a dielectric material and at least one layer of any conductive material where the layers are bent or folded together, which could be a copper coating on the dielectric material that may be etched. In accordance with this invention's shortened HF and VHF antennas it is now possible to provide a ten-fold size reduction by increasing the ratio of wide strip width 2r to the narrow strip width 2t.","According to the present invention, it is now possible to provide a shortened cylindrical microstrip antenna comprising concentric, ceramic cylinders with copper coating advantageously arranged in a corrugated alternating layered structure. The essential feature of this invention is to achieve shortened antenna length by increasing the surface area of the radiating patch with an innovative corrugated alternating structure with as many as seven alternating layers of the dielectric material and at least one layer of any conductive material that are bent or folded together. In accordance with this invention's shortened HF and VHF antennas, it is now possible to greatly improve upon prior art size reduction efforts by bending the narrow strip portion 90 degrees lengthwise and making the length of the wide portions in multiple layers as illustrated in ,  and  with the results depicted on the  chart. The corrugated layers provide additional radiating surface along with the same geometrical size multilayer construction to provide an increased electrical length to the antenna and be able to reach VHF frequencies because the thickness of microstrip material is insignificant to the size.","In accordance with this invention, it is now possible to provide an electrically small, shortened HF and VHF microstrip cylindrical antenna constructed with concentric, ceramic cylinders with copper coating, and alternating layers of copper coating for the ground plane and the radiating patch although only the first and last layer of the circular radiating edge are exposed to radiate. This configuration restricts the number of ceramic layers to an odd number and also provides a shortened antenna length that operates at low frequencies. As the number of concentric ceramic cylinders with copper coating increases, the electrical path between the two radiating patches increases, so the length of the cylinder shrinks as the number of concentric layers are increased.","It should be noted that this invention provides a drastic reduction in antenna length as compared to prior art microstrip antennas and shrinks antenna length, relative to wavelength, considerably more. This advantageous decreased antenna length is achieved by employing concentric cylindrical dielectric with copper coating, which can be etched and used either as the ground plane or radiating patch, in the innovative corrugated alternating arrangement. This invention also provides excellent impedance matching by adjusting the location of the coaxial feed means relative to the location of the electrical short on the narrow end of the radiating patch. The 360\u00b0 azimuth radiation pattern variation was within 0.5 dB. It is noted that the variation in radiation magnitude can be further reduced by making the width of the narrow section of the radiating patch even smaller, which should also result in substantially more antenna size reduction.","Prior art microstrip antennas with patches typically provide two edges that contribute to the radiation of the antenna: the edge furthest from the short in the narrow strip that is 360\u00b0 around the cylinder which is 2\u03a0r wide and the edge at the junction which is 2\u03a0r\u22122t wide. In those cases, the inner conductor of the prior art cylindrical microstrip would be the ground plane. At a fixed frequency and material with a given dielectric constant, the cylindrical compact antenna needs a specific length in order to resonate. In accordance with the present invention, the total cylindrical antenna length could be shortened considerably if the length of the dielectric substrate under the radiating patch is folded several times, so long as the radiating edges remain on the same side by facing the outside of the cylinder and the number of such layers is an odd-number. Additionally, it is also possible to fold the narrow section of the radiating patch at a 90\u00b0 angle one or more times to further shorten the total antenna length.","The shortened cylindrical microstrip antenna of the present invention provides more antenna efficiency than currently available antennas. This invention's antennas can achieve more than an 80% antenna efficiency, which compares favorably with smaller monopole and dipole antennas of comparable size achieving an antenna efficiency of less than about 10%. The impedance transition length is orthogonal to the second patch width, W. Also, it is possible for the coaxial feed means to be an SMA connector.","Referring now to , there is depicted a side view of the corrugated alternating three-layered embodiment of the shortened cylindrical microstrip antenna , comprising a radiating patch  stacked on a tubular microstrip substrate  that is composed of a ceramic material. The radiating patch  is wrapped partially around the tubular microstrip substrate , which, in turn, fits closely around the cylindrical ground plane , which is either a copper coating or laminate on the microstrip material, but could also be a separate thin copper film or other good conducting film. The radiating patch , which could also be copper coating on microstrip material, further comprises a patch section  that wraps partially around the dielectric microstrip substrate  and a narrow section  that is connected to a coaxial feed means  and extends perpendicularly across the microstrip substrate .  also depicts an edge  along the patch section .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 4"],"b":["39","31","35","34","35","39","35","39","34","39","34","35"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 5","FIG. 5","FIG. 5"],"b":["30","31","32","33","35","31","36","32","33","30","32","34","33","32","30","32","31","34","33","32","37","38","30","34","35"]},"A prototype cylindrical antenna of the multilayer cylindrical structure was made of a thin microstrip material, since this material was readily available with a thin copper coat on it. The relative dielectric constant of this material was 10.2 with a thickness of 0.036 mm. For simplicity of fabrication, an antenna with three concentric layers was fabricated and the narrow strip was folded once. Laboratory testing revealed a resonant frequency of 63 MHz, which is depicted in the  chart. Those skilled in the art will readily appreciate that achieving this frequency from a cylindrical antenna of 40 mm in diameter and electrical length of only 37 mm is quite significant. If this antenna was a single layer cylindrical antenna, the length of the patch section  would have been approximately 67.5 mm and the length of the narrow strip  would have been 60 mm for the total length of 127.5 mm. Therefore providing this invention's three-layered antenna with the innovative corrugated alternating structure shrinks antenna size so that it is considerably shorter than prior art antennas.","Those skilled in the art may readily appreciate that the interleaving of radiating patches , dielectric substrate layers , and ground plane layers  results in a substantially shortened antenna length. The ground plane layers  can be a continuous piece of conductive material or separate segments of conductive material fastened together by solder or a suitable epoxy and are composed of any ceramic material in accordance with this invention. The radiating patch  may be made from any conductive metal, implemented with either a thin film or etching of copper on the microstrip material, and in the preferred embodiment it is composed of copper.","The  prior art single layer embodiment provides a reduced antenna length of 10 times the prior art while this invention's triple layered antenna  with higher dielectric constant ceramic microstrip material can provide an even shorter antenna. This makes size reduction of 40 or more times the antenna length is now possible. It is also noted that an odd number of dielectric substrate layers is required and leads to an omnidirectional antenna pattern.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 4","FIG. 7","FIG. 5","FIGS. 4 and 5","FIG. 5","FIGS. 4-5"],"b":["40","40","42","43","41","41","45","41","49","45","43","30","40","47","48","37","38","40"]},"The main advantage of this invention's corrugated alternating shortened cylindrical microstrip antenna structures over other VHF or lower frequency omnidirectional microstrip antennas is that although the distance between the two radiating edges is small, the electrical length of the electromagnetic wave between these radiating edges is long due to the corrugated alternating feature. This is because the wave has to travel between many layers of dielectric ceramic or other microstrip material, with part of ground plain at one side and part of the radiating patch the other side of these concentric dielectric cylinders. This effectively shrinks the antenna length at the extremely small expense of making the diameter slightly larger due to additional layers of thin dielectric material with thinner copper coatings. For example, in , the physical distance between radiating edges  and  is small compared to the electrical distance the wave has to travel between seven layers of ceramic in between the many layers of ground plane  and patch .","The present invention also encompasses a method for providing an electrically small, shortened low frequency cylindrical microstrip antenna in a corrugated alternating layered structure, comprising the steps of forming a cylindrical, ceramic microstrip substrate; fitting the cylindrical, ceramic microstrip substrate closely around a copper-coated cylindrical ground plane; forming a radiating patch with a patch section, a narrow section, a middle section, a center point, and a junction point; wrapping the patch section partially around the cylindrical microstrip substrate; connecting the narrow section to a coaxial feed means; and positioning the junction point in the middle section to shorten an impedance transition length from the center point to a patch edge of the narrow section. The methods continue with the steps of folding the radiating patch; interleaving the radiating patch, the cylindrical, ceramic microstrip substrate, and the copper-coated cylindrical ground plane into the corrugated alternating configuration; reducing an effective resistive impedance near the junction point with the impedance transition length; generating an electric field with the junction point that decreases the impedance transition length to a decreased impedance transition length; and providing a shortened low frequency antenna length with said radiating patch and said copper-coated cylindrical ground plane being folded and interleaved into the corrugated alternating configuration with an elongated radiating surface within a confined space.","It will be understood that the embodiments described herein are merely exemplary and that a person skilled in the art may make many variations and modifications to the described embodiments utilizing functionally equivalent elements to those described. Any variations or modifications to the invention just described are intended to be included within the scope of said invention as defined by the appended claims."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 5"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 7"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
