---
title: Suspended vertical head restraint for vehicle seats
abstract: The invention relates to a removable suspended device which serves as both a head rest and a head restraint for the passenger of a vehicle. The invention is essentially characterized in that the device is suspended in space such that it can move without any direct contact being established between the supporting area and the seat, thereby maintaining the vertical position of both the head and the neck. The preferred embodiment of the invention includes a rigid suspension element () which is generally secured to the highest part () of a seat and from which the main body (MB) of the device is suspended. The lower occipital region of the head is supported by the lower area of the main body of the device (). The head is further restrained by means of a front area () restricting forward movement and two vertical side areas restricting side movements. The aim of the invention is to improve a passenger's quality of rest and sleep, to prevent neck discomfort and injury and to provide increased safety in the event of an accident or a sudden vehicle maneuver.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08172328&OS=08172328&RS=08172328
owner: Siesta Systems, S.A.
number: 08172328
owner_city: Elcano, (Navarra)
owner_country: ES
publication_date: 20090223
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["TECHNICAL FIELD OF THE INVENTION","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","DISCUSSION OF THE INVENTION","DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENT FOR VEHICLES IN WHICH THE SECURING ELEMENT IS PREVIOUSLY INTEGRATED INTO THE TOP ZONE OF THE BACK-REST OR HEADREST OF THE SEAT","DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS FOR VEHICLES IN WHICH THE SECURING ELEMENT IS NOT PREVIOUSLY INTEGRATED INTO THE PASSENGER SEAT","First Embodiment","Second Embodiment","DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENT FOR VEHICLES IN WHICH BOTH THE SECURING SYSTEM AND THE SUSPENSION ELEMENT ARE INTEGRATED INTO THE PASSENGER SEAT"],"p":["In general, the present invention relates to a suspended vertical head restraint for vehicle seats. More particularly, the invention relates to a mobile restraint device for the head which successfully improves the resting conditions, it prevents postural disturbances of the neck and increases the safety of a passenger. The combination of suspension and mobile characteristics achieved by the attachment of the main body of the invention to a suspension element located above the head and secured in the upper part of the back-rest of a seat constitutes, as far as our knowledge of the prior art is concerned, a novel concept in the field of devices for vehicle seats, since a non-rigid and vertical is suspension of the head is achieved at the same time as restricting its movements in likely directions of displacement. The resulting effect has been referred to as \u201cDynamic and floating vertical restraint of the head and neck\u201d.","When one makes a medium or long distance journey in any means of transport, the passengers frequently become sleepy as a result of inactivity. When sleep starts to occur, a relaxation takes place of the muscles of the neck and torso which leads to the head nodding or to its lateral rolling, along with poor positioning of the neck. All this gives rise to continual interruptions to sleep, which prevents any refreshing rest from being achieved. Moreover, the postures which the neck adopts are dangerous for the state of health of the cervical zone and can be much more serious in case of accident or a brusque maneuver of the vehicle, especially if this occurs during the said periods of muscular relaxation.","Some known devices for trying to reduce both the nodding of the head and the lateral rolling of it with respect to the back-rest of the seat and thereby improving rest during the journey include pillows and similar devices. The most popular of these is a pillow, inflatable or otherwise, with the shape of a horseshoe which rests on the shoulders and is positioned around the passenger's neck in order to support the head in a more or less vertical position. Nevertheless, it is known that said pillows do not provide sufficient support for the head which ends up being considerably inclined, with the consequent disturbance that this produces, especially in the neck. There exist other patented devices which aim to facilitate rest for the passenger by means of rigid elements such as those described in documents: U.S. Pat. No. 6,033,023, U.S. Pat. No. 4,881,777, U.S. Pat. No. 5,806,933, GB2415616, FR2883528, U.S. Pat. No. 7,204,557, US2003\/0038521, FR2875752, EP1106427, JP200325149, US2001040401, U.S. Pat. No. 5,806,933, JP20066213253, U.S. Pat. No. 4,097,086, U.S. Pat. No. 5,868,471, ES2221767, WO2005\/000629, GB2246292 and others which are based on the use of belts or bands which are applied to different parts of the head, like those described in the documents: FR2534125, CN1059690, US2004124685, DE9001789U1, GB1497847A and WO2007031153A2. None of the above documents shares the main characteristics of the present invention, in other words, that it concerns a mobile and suspended device from an independent suspension element located above the head, and instead they refer to non-suspended and rigid is elements or those which are attached directly to the fixed structure of the vehicle. Moreover, in the case of the aforementioned inventions which carry out a restraint of the head by means of belts or cords, the functioning axis of the restraint is horizontal and anterior-posterior, rather than being vertical, which substantially changes the way in which it works, the properties and, indeed, the resulting effect on the restraint of the head.","The documents technically closest to the present invention, due to sharing its suspended character in passenger vehicles, are: U.S. Pat. No. 1,837,406, U.S. Pat. No. 1,855,408, US70555A, US83227A and FR2720988A1, which are analyzed below.","The main differences between the document U.S. Pat. No. 1,837,406 and the present invention are the following:\n\n","The suspended devices described in documents U.S. Pat. No. 1,855,408, US70,555A and US83,227A have the following as their main differences compared to the present invention:\n\n","The invention described in document FR2720988A1 comprises as its main differences with present invention:\n\n","Finally, there exist other inventions which are not applicable to transportation vehicles but rather to domestic appliances which serve to facilitate the posture of people with physical impediments, or to systems for carrying out traction in patients with vertebral pathologies, like those described in documents U.S. Pat. No. 5,010,898A and U.S. Pat. No. 4,987,886A. A fundamental difference between the two documents and the present invention is that they do not describe any kind of safety mechanism nor its use in passenger vehicles. Moreover, the invention described in U.S. Pat. No. 5,010,898A reports on a securing made in the rear part of a seat, rather than in the upper zone thereof and a chin rest needs to be provided that will secure the head due to the fact that the vertical belt joining the helmet to said chin rest passes in front of the ears, a situation that does not occur in the present invention where the functioning axis passes behind the ears and is directed towards the lower part of the occipital zone of the head, the place where the head rests on the device, which produces a slight but sufficient tendency of the head to move backwards rather than forwards, and therefore no chin rest is necessary. Moreover, the invention described in document U.S. Pat. No. 4,987,886A is secured to the shoulders of the patient rather than to the back-rest of the seat, it requires the use of a pulley which is in no case necessary in the present invention, and it also comprises rigid elements on both sides of the head, which could be very traumatic if used in a vehicle.","The technical problems tackled by the present invention are:\n\n","In order to achieve these three objectives, the invention generally comprises the following elements:\n\n","With all this, the effect achieved has been referred to as \u201cDynamic and floating vertical restraint of the head and neck\u201d. Said restraint is referred to as \u201cdynamic\u201d because it generates a restriction on the movements of the head and neck that is not static but instead keeps step with the actual displacements of the vehicle. The goal is to avoid any pain in specific pressure zones, which with other inventions is indeed produced on account of the rigidity of the contact. The suspended device exerts in a characteristic way a smooth and progressive action when restraining the head. The action mechanism is also referred to as \u201cfloating\u201d because the support zone for the suspended main body is not in contact with any element of the vehicle which could restrict its mobility. In this way, it is displaced in any direction of the same horizontal plane until a dynamic restriction starts originated by the articulated attachment of the suspended main body with the rigid suspension element. The fact that in the present invention this attachment is located above the head of the passenger, but not far from it, is a key element so that, when the vehicle makes a turn or during a sudden braking or accidents, the restraint in the movement of the head and neck commences rapidly, but not brusquely.","The use of the present invention prevents the bad posture of the neck in sleeping passengers due to the fact that the head takes on a position that is primarily vertical with just a slight backwards inclination. This is so because the functioning axis of the invention, defined as the line joining the point from which the main body is suspended and the central zone in which the support for the head takes place, is inclined slightly backwards (less than 30\u00b0). Moreover, and due to the fact that the axis of the neck is also vertical and is close to the functioning axis of the invention, the passenger can turn his or her neck and head, if so wished, in a way that is integral with the device during its use.","In the event of accident or brusque maneuver of the vehicle, the safety of the passenger improves with the use of the invention due to the fact that some limitation is produced on the displacement of the head and neck in all likely directions. This is on account of the restraint carried out by the suspended main body and its securing to a rigid point located in a forward direction above the head of the seated passenger and at a maximum distance of up to 50 cm from the vertical projection of the front edge of the back-rest of the seat of the vehicle and, when seen front on, is centered with respect to the seat and the head of the passenger. In a characteristic way, the vertical lateral zones of the suspended main body rest on the zone of the temporal bone of the head of the passenger, preferably in the zone immediately behind the ears, thereby creating a restriction on the sideways movements of the head. If the force of lateral displacement of the head is greater than that resistance, due for example to a prolonged turn or a side-on collision of the vehicle, the lateral zone of the parietal bone of the head of the passenger progressively makes contact with the highest part of the vertical lateral zone of the main body, with a total restriction of the sideways movement of the head being completed, owing to the incorporation of that zone. The forward displacement is restricted by means of the frontal restraint, which has a controlled breakage point depending on its composition and resistance, while the downwards and backwards displacements are restricted by means of the support presented by the lower occipital part of the head in the main support zone of the suspended main body. All the restrictions are dynamic and progressive owing to the suspended nature of the invention.","Moreover, and from the point of view of safety, it is important that there are no traumatic elements in the zones of movement of the head. To achieve this, the rigid element of the invention is located above the head and is generally provided with a safety mechanism which displaces it towards the roof of the vehicle as soon as the head ceases to be supported in the suspended main body, and it is therefore unlikely that any trauma could be produced.","To summarize, the main advantages of the invention are to be found among the following:\n\n","This type of vehicle has to have a securing element integrated into the design of the seat at the moment it is manufactured, though so far there is no record of any vehicle with this arrangement.","An embodiment of the suspended main body (MB) is represented in  in a non-limiting manner. This concerns a lightweight element, resistant to traction, flexible and with a soft surface which in general comprises five differentiated zones depending on its use: the upper or suspension zone (), with a design that permits adjustment so that it can be adapted to passengers of different heights; the lower or support zone (), which is where the passenger will rest his or her head with its lower occipital part; the vertical lateral zones () which serve to restrict the sideways movements of the head and are generally located behind the ears; the front zone or frontal restraint element (), which surrounds the frontal zone, thereby completing the restraint of the head, having a controlled breakage point depending on its composition, and being removable and adjustable to the contour of the forehead; finally, the intermediate or bridge zone (), which connects the upper zone with the vertical lateral zones and which is the most rigid part of the suspended main body, leaving a space beneath which is occupied by the head of the passenger.","Although the external surface of the suspended main body is slightly soft and non-traumatic, it can contain inside itself a metallic structure which increases the resistance of the device and which acts as an element permitting a molding, preferably of the frontal restraint element, thereby improving its adaptation to the contour of the forehead and, in general, to the head.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0055"},"figref":["FIG. 2A","FIG. 2B"],"b":["6","7","8"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0056"},"figref":"FIGS. 3A and 3B","b":"6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0057"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":["7","9","10"]},"This type of vehicle can be any of those currently used for passenger transport.","In , an embodiment that includes the entire securing system of the invention can be seen. This system comprises a rigid element () which is fixed in the vertical bars () of the vehicle headrest, and which in this embodiment has the form of an \u201cH\u201d so that it adapts better to the majority of headrests existing in automobiles. The securing is completed by means of screws or other similar elements (). A support bar () is fixed in the securing element (), generally via its rear part, in order to then follow an ascending path behind the headrest until reaching its upper edge (). From this place, it will be directed by means of a suspension element (), fixed or removable, towards the zone of the space, which has already been described in this document, located above the passenger's head.","Represented in  is a suspension element (), with a removable securing system which is fastened on the upper or rear surface of the actual back-rest or of the headrest of the vehicle and which can be adapted to any type of seat. It is based on the use of one or several cords, belts or similar elements (), which are located in the horizontal or vertical direction and which directly secure the suspension element to the upper zone of the vehicle seat or to its headrest. Generally, this embodiment also comprises a securing plate () in order to improve its stability.","In this embodiment, a suspension bar () is integrated into the structure of the back-rest and remains hidden inside it when is not been used. When the invention is going to be used, the bar is manually pulled upwards. The cross-section represented in  shows that, once outside of the seat and without is becoming detached from it, the bar () is inclined forwards by means of a mechanism articulated in its base. The main body of the headrest is then hung. This bar can comprise an automatic withdrawal system, which acts when the head ceases to rest in the device by means of a spring, counterweight or similar element (), located inside an internal cavity () of the seat, which is where said suspension bar is stored when it is not being used."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The invention is described below making reference to the attached non-limiting drawings in which:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0045"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0046"},"figref":"FIG. 2A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0047"},"figref":"FIG. 2B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0048"},"figref":"FIGS. 3A and 3B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0049"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0050"},"figref":"FIGS. 5A and 5B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0051"},"figref":"FIG. 6"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
