---
title: Non-destructive rotary imaging
abstract: Non-destructive imaging of an object. An imaging head supported on a rotatable arm samples an electric field scattered by the object at a plurality of locations as the arm rotates about a central axis, with the locations corresponding to a defined spatial domain located remotely from the object. One or more processors execute computer-readable instructions for controlling rotation of the arm and generating a multi-dimensional profile representative of the object in the defined spatial domain based on the sampling.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08482602&OS=08482602&RS=08482602
owner: The Curators of the University of Missouri
number: 08482602
owner_city: Columbia
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20091113
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"GOVINT":[{},{}],"heading":["STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENT INTEREST","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["The U.S. Government has a paid-up license in this invention and the right in limited circumstances to require the patent owner to license others on reasonable terms as provided for by the terms of Grant No. NNM06AA08G awarded by the National Aeronautics and Space Administration.","The ever-increasing utility of new composite materials and structures in many critical applications, such as applications in the transportation and aerospace industries, has created a need for robust non-destructive imaging (\u201cNDI\u201d) techniques capable of inspecting these structures. But standard NDI techniques, such as ultrasound, eddy current, etc., are not always capable of inspecting these structures. On the other hand, millimeter wave NDI techniques, which use near-field, lens-focused, synthetic aperture-focused and three-dimensional (\u201c3D\u201d) holographical techniques, have been used for inspecting a wide range of aerospace composite materials and structures. In particular, synthetic millimeter wave imaging has shown utility for inspecting space shuttle external fuel tank spray-on foam insulation and its acreage heat tiles, as well as honeycomb composites similar to those used in aircraft radomes. Synthetically-focused millimeter wave imaging is fundamentally founded on measuring the electric field scattered from the structure-under-test (\u201cSUT\u201d) over a given spatial domain. This imaging technique achieves focusing by compensating for reflected signal phase due to two-way travel from the transmitter to the receiver as transmitter moves along the SUT.","For example, in one conventional NDI application, a scanner collects data regarding a SUT in a two-dimensional (\u201c2D\u201d) plane by moving a probe on a 2D grid, i.e., scanning. The typical 2D grid is a rectilinear grid represented in a Cartesian (x, y) format. Cartesian scanners are inherently slow because the scan must be performed step-wise in rows and columns. In step-wise scanning, the scanner first advances its probe in one direction for scanning along a row of the grid. The scanner must then stop its probe for reversing its direction. In other words, the probe scans one direction, moves a step up or down to the next row, and then scans in the opposite direction.  illustrates the back and forth scanning pattern of a Cartesian scanner. These Cartesian scanners waste a considerable amount of time in deceleration and acceleration at the beginning and end of each row\/column. And this acceleration and deceleration comprises a major portion of the overall scan time for a Cartesian scanner, especially for small and\/or sparse (i.e., scan grids with large step-size) scan areas. The necessary repeated direction changes also put mechanical stresses on the structure of a Cartesian scanner, especially the motors, which in turn reduces the total operating life of the Cartesian scanner.","Aspects of the invention permit sampling the electric field scattered by an object by rotating an imager about a central axis and moving the imager radially with respect to the central axis during rotation. Based on the sampling, a multi-dimensional profile representative of the object in a defined spatial domain is generated.","Briefly, a system for non-destructive imaging of an object embodies aspects of the invention. The system includes a rotatable arm and an imaging head supported on the arm and facing the object during imaging. The imaging head samples an electric field scattered by the object at a plurality of locations as the arm rotates about a central axis, with the locations corresponding to a defined spatial domain located remotely from the object. The system also includes one or more processors configured to execute computer-readable instructions for controlling rotation of the arm and generating a multi-dimensional profile representative of the object in the defined spatial domain based on the sampling.","In another aspect, a system for non-destructive imaging of an object includes an imager facing the object for receiving information representative of a characteristic of the object, a rotational stage for rotating the imager about a central axis during imaging, and a radial stage for moving the imager radially relative to the central axis during imaging. The system also includes one or more processors configured to execute computer-readable instructions for controlling movement of the imager relative to the central axis and processing the information received from the imager during imaging.","Another aspect of the invention is directed to a method of generating a multi-dimensional profile of an object. The method includes orienting at least one imaging head toward the object and illuminating the object with an electric field. The electric field includes electromagnetic energy having a frequency greater than ultra high frequency and being scattered by the illuminated object. The method also includes rotating the imaging head relative to a central axis, moving the imaging head radially relative to the central axis while rotating the imaging head relative to the central axis, and sampling the scattered electric field with the imaging head at a plurality of locations as the imaging head rotates and moves radially relative to the central axis. The locations correspond to a defined spatial domain located remotely from the object. The method further includes generating a multi-dimensional profile representative of the object in the defined spatial domain based on the sampling.","This summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter, nor is it intended to be used as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter.","Corresponding reference characters indicate corresponding parts throughout the drawings.","Referring now to , a scanning system, or scanner, embodying aspects of the present invention is shown generally at reference character . In the illustrated embodiment, the system  comprises a rotational stage  and a linear, or radial, stage . According to aspects of the invention, rotational stage  is responsive to one or more processors  for driving an imager  to impart rotational motion on the imager . Linear stage  is responsive to processor  for driving imager  to impart radial motion, relative to rotational stage , on imager . In operation, imager  illuminates an object  with electromagnetic radiation in, for example, the millimeter wave range, and measures the resulting electric field scattered by object . In turn, imager  receives this information representative of the electric field scattered by object  and sends sensor signals back to processor . In one embodiment, processor  is configured for generating a multi-dimensional image of object  based on the sensor signals. In this manner, scanning system  permits robust non-destructive multi-dimensional imaging of various structures using millimeter wave electromagnetic radiation. In particular, scanning system  measures an electric field scattered by object , i.e., a structure-under-test (\u201cSUT\u201d), over a defined spatial domain.","Electromagnetic (\u201cEM\u201d) fields in the millimeter wave range, i.e., the frequency range of 30 GHz to 300 GHz and corresponding wavelengths of 10 mm to 1 mm, have many unique characteristics, which make them particularly suitable for subsurface sensing purposes. For example, millimeter waves can be used to interrogate dielectric materials and produce images of their interiors. These waves, unlike sound waves, do not experience severe attenuation while propagating in free-space, thus enabling non-contact measurements. Since these waves have relatively small wavelengths, images produces by millimeter waves have relatively high spatial resolutions. Millimeter wave frequency spectrum covers several conventional waveguide bands, each of which has a relatively wide range of operating frequency. Thus, using swept-frequency measurements permits the generation of images with relatively fine depth-resolution.","Because EM radiation in the millimeter wave range is non-ionizing, the imaging equipment and procedures operating in the millimeter wave range are generally considered hazard-free and can be readily deployed anywhere without the need for special imaging environments. In contrast, x-ray imaging systems require users to observe exposure guidelines and wear equipment intended to limit exposure to the x-ray radiation.","Referring now to  and , in one embodiment, a system  for non-destructive imaging of an object comprises a rotatable arm  and at least one imaging head  supported on arm . Imaging head  is oriented such that it faces the object during imaging. In this embodiment, imaging head  samples an electric field scattered by object  at a plurality of locations as arm  rotates about a central axis . Arm  rotates about central axis  at a predetermined angular velocity measured in, for example, revolutions per minute (\u201cRPM\u201d). A longitudinal axis  of arm  traverses the radius of a circle defined by arm  as it rotates. While  and  illustrate a right angle between central axis  and longitudinal axis  of arm , embodiments embodying aspects of the present invention may further accommodate a tilt angle between longitudinal axis  of arm  and central axis . Because arm  supports imaging head , during its rotation, imaging head  travels in a generally circular motion relative to central axis . In addition, imaging head  is configured for movement along longitudinal axis  of arm . Imaging head  travels radially relative to central axis  along a length  of longitudinal axis  and rotationally relative to central axis  as arm  rotates. While moving, imaging head  selectively samples the scattered electric field at locations corresponding to a defined spatial domain. Advantageously, scanning system  is capable of obtaining sampled measurements of an electric field using a generally circular scan area as demonstrated in  using polar coordinate positioning. In one embodiment, sampling head  moves along length  in a stepwise fashion, indicated at , resulting in the set of concentric circle sampling patterns as demonstrated in . In another embodiment, sampling head  moves along length  in a continuous fashion, resulting in a spiral sampling pattern as demonstrated in .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 4"],"b":["300","212","307","304","307","311","307","410","309","304","311","307","410","309","304","311","410","309","304","311","311","308","308","308","204","315","311","311","308","307","212"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":"FIG. 6","b":["600","307","304","307","410","304","307","308","309","304","304","308"]},"In yet another embodiment demonstrated in , imager  comprises an array of imaging heads , wherein each imaging head or sensor  in array  selectively samples a scattered electric field as arm  rotates about central axis . According to aspects of the invention, the one or more array of imaging heads or sensors  are supported along, for example, longitudinal axis  on rotatable arm  in a generally linear pattern.","Referring now to , an embodiment of system  for non-destructive imaging includes processor  in the form of, for example, a personal computer, configured to execute computer-readable instructions for controlling operation of rotatable arm  and generating a multi-dimensional profile representative of object  in the defined spatial domain based on the sampling. In one embodiment, the computer-readable instructions for controlling rotation of arm  includes instructions for moving imaging head  along length  of the longitudinal axis  of rotatable arm .  illustrates aspects of the computer-readable instructions that are executable by processor  for controlling movement of the at least one imaging head  relative to SUT . In this embodiment, processor  uses various parameters for specifying a desired scan area  (see ).","As demonstrated in , the parameters include, for example, a radius  of the desired scan area , \u03c1, the step sizes  along the radius , \u03b4\u03c1, and the step size along the circumference of any given circle in the scan area , \u03b4c, i.e., an arc length. In one embodiment, the computer-executable instructions for moving imaging head(s)  include instructions for operating servo  (i.e., linear, or radial, stage ) that moves carriages  and \u2032 along length  and \u2032, respectively, of longitudinal axis  of rotatable arm . The computer-executable instructions for controlling rotation of arm  in this embodiment include instructions for controlling the speed of rotation. The exemplary computer-executable instructions for controlling rotation of rotatable arm  may further include instructions for receiving feedback indicating angular position of rotatable arm , speed of rotation of rotatable arm , and a time stamp. During operation of imaging system  (or , , or ), processor  executes computer-executable instructions for generating the multi-dimensional profile of the object in the spatial domain based on the sampling. According to one embodiment, the sampling information is received wirelessly from imaging head , for example, via one or more wireless ultra wideband communication links. In another embodiment, information is received via a wired connection between imaging head  and processor .","In operation, the specified radius and step size information illustrated in  are used by processor  to generate a list of sampling locations within the spatial domain of the sampling area at the beginning of the scan, as demonstrated by the \u201cX\u201d positions denoted in . These sampling locations are arranged at points on concentric circles () or at points along a spiral path (). For example,  demonstrates evenly-spaced sampling locations (including A, B, and C) generated along the circumference of a circle of radius  \u03b4\u03c1. Therefore, when imaging head  is positioned at length  along longitudinal axis  of arm  corresponding to radius  in  and arm  rotates 360 degrees, sampling head  will pass over each of the sampling locations in  in the course of exactly one rotation of arm . During a typical scan, however, information regarding the angular position of arm  may be sparse compared to the sampling positions, the time of a given sampling can be linearly extrapolated from past position updates as shown in . Furthermore, if sampling head  fails, for whatever reason, to obtain a sampling at a given sampling location, or obtained sampling is compromised due to a data communication failure, the sampling at the missed location can be interpolated based on sampling values obtained at adjacent sampling locations.","To minimize the number of power, control, and data cables running from rotating arm  to processor , various components can advantageously be installed or otherwise mount on the back of arm . One of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that these components may include, but are not limited to, a servo controller, a USB hub for routing information received from imaging head , a USB data acquisition card (DAQ), and a DC power supply. In one embodiment, an off the shelf slip-ring hub (e.g., Model number AC6305 from Moog) routes power, control, and USB to arm . In this exemplary configuration, the number of cables connecting to rotating arm  (passing through the slip ring) are limited to three AC power lines for powering servo  and the DC power supply, three 24 V lines for the servo controller digital control, three lines for the slip-ring bus, and 6 lines for the USB. The USB cable is kept shielded, for example, up to 1\u2033 from the slip-ring on each side to maintain its impedance and minimize the unshielded portion only to a short distance through the slip-ring. Slip-rings are typically not suited for high data rate buses such as the USB, but instead typically transfer low data rate according to the CANbus data communication protocol. However, due to the compact slip-ring design with low impedance contacts and by alternating the shield and power lines in-between the data lines of the USB, the distortion to the USB data through the slip-ring is minimized. Utilizing a USB interface for data transfer allows for a multitude of options (off the shelves or custom made) in data acquisitions and controllers.","Furthermore,  demonstrates aspects of a method of generating a multi-dimensional profile of object . At least one imaging head  is oriented facing object . The object  is then illuminated with an electric field. In one embodiment, the electric field comprises electromagnetic energy having a frequency greater than ultra high frequency. It is understood in the art that ultrahigh frequency designates the range between 300 megahertz (\u201cMHz\u201d) and 3,000 MHz. For example, the millimeter wave frequency designates a range above ultrahigh frequency between 30 GHz to 300 GHz. In this embodiment, upon illumination, SUT  absorbs or otherwise scatters the electric field about SUT . In order to generate the multi-dimensional profile, imaging head  is rotated relative to central axis , while also being moved radially along length  relative to central axis  during rotation. Imaging head  samples the scattered electric field at a plurality of defined spatial locations during the rotational and radial movement. As noted above,  illustrate a concentric circle sampling pattern and spiral path sampling pattern respectively.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"figref":"FIG. 10","b":["1000","212","207","308","309","1002","1004","1016","1010","1010","1004","1012","1004","1016","1018","1020","1022"]},"Scan measurements, e.g., phase or magnitude of a reflection coefficient acquired by one or more probes, can be graphically represented in pseudo real-time as the scan processes. According to aspects of the present invention, the scan area can be divided into a mesh of triangles, as illustrated in . The triangles are formed by connecting measurement positions (A, B, C, D, E, . . . ) between adjacent concentric circles, as shown in . Each triangle is then filled with a gradient based on the measured values at the three vertices.","The following non-limiting examples are provided to further illustrate aspects of the present invention. Several experiments were conducted using a prototype imaging system using embodiments of the current invention to confirm its operation.  demonstrates a rear view of one exemplary SUT scanned by the imaging system as described herein. As shown, the SUT generally has a pair of crossed wires on the back side of a piece of plywood. The imaging system sampled the electric field scattered by the SUT in a pattern defined by the following illustrative parameters:\n\n",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0039","num":"0043"},"figref":["FIGS. 12B-12E","FIGS. 12B-12E","FIG. 12B","FIG. 12C","FIG. 12D","FIG. 12E"]},"A system (i.e., system , , , or ) embodying aspects of the invention for non-destructive imaging of object  comprises rotatable arm  and imaging head  supported on arm . Imaging head  is oriented to face object  during imaging. An electric field source illuminates object  with an electric field having a frequency greater than ultra high frequency. For instance, imaging head  comprises a millimeter wave transmitter\/receiver, or transceiver. During imaging, imaging head  samples the electric field scattered by object  at a plurality of locations as arm  rotates about central axis . These locations correspond to a defined spatial domain located remotely from object . The system also includes one or more processors  configured to execute computer-readable instructions for controlling rotation of arm  and generating a multi-dimensional profile representative of object  in the defined spatial domain based on the sampling. As described above, imaging head  is movable radially relative to central axis  along longitudinal axis  of the arm . In one embodiment, imaging head  is mounted on carriage  supported on arm . The carriage  is responsive to processor  for moving imaging head  along length  of arm .","In an alternative embodiment, the system includes two or more imaging heads  and \u2032, each facing object  during imaging and configured for sampling the electric field scattered by object  at a plurality of locations as arm  rotates about central axis . For example, arm  supports a pair of carriages  and \u2032. First imaging head  is mounted on first carriage  and second imaging head \u2032 is mounted on second carriage \u2032. In this instance, first and second carriages , \u2032 are responsive to processor  for moving first and second imaging heads , \u2032 along length , \u2032 of arm . Moreover, in the embodiment illustrated in , arm  extends from central axis  in two directions and first and second carriages , \u2032 are supported on arm  substantially opposite each other relative to central axis . In another embodiment, imaging head  is at a polarization orthogonal to imaging head \u2032, where the sampling data obtained from imaging heads  and \u2032 can be converted to images representing a single polarization at any angle using appropriate mathematical relations as known in the art. In another embodiment, imaging head  rotates during rotation of arm , such that imaging head  maintains its polarization. In yet another alternative embodiment, arm  supports imaging head  and a corresponding counterweight substantially opposite imaging head  relative to central axis .","Aspects of the invention are also directed to imaging head  having the array of sensors  supported along a length of arm .","In another embodiment, a system for non-destructive imaging of object  comprises imager  (or  and ) oriented such that it faces object . Imager  in this embodiment receives information representative of a characteristic of object , such as a millimeter wave characteristic, a temperature characteristic, or an electromagnetic emission characteristic, such as light emission. In other embodiments, imager  receives ultrasound, x-ray, video, or other characteristics of object . The system also includes rotational stage  for rotating imager  about central axis  during imaging and linear stage  for moving imager  radially relative to central axis  during imaging. In one embodiment, rotational stage  is a direct drive rotary (\u201cDDR\u201d) servo motor, driving a worm gear or any other suitable torque conversion scheme, thereby reducing the rotary axis to a single motor and eliminating reduction gears, power transfer mechanisms, and\/or support bearings. One or more processors  are configured to execute computer-readable instructions for controlling movement of imager  relative to central axis  and processing the information received from imager  during imaging. Rotational stage  includes, for example, a drive motor and rotatable arm  driven by the motor. Linear stage  includes one or more carriages  and \u2032 supported on the rotational stage, particularly, arm . In this embodiment, imager  is mounted on carriage , and carriage  is responsive to processor  for moving imager  along length  of arm .","In operation, a method of generating a multi-dimensional profile of object  embodying aspects of the invention includes orienting at least one imaging head  to face object  and illuminating object  with an electric field. The electric field comprises, for example, electromagnetic energy having a frequency greater than ultra high frequency and is scattered by object . The method also includes rotating imaging head  relative to central axis  and moving imaging head  radially relative to central axis  while rotating imaging head  relative to central axis . By sampling the scattered electric field with imaging head  at a plurality of locations as imaging head  rotates and moves radially relative to central axis , the method permits generating a multi-dimensional profile representative of object  in a defined spatial domain located remotely from object .","The order of execution or performance of the operations in embodiments of the invention illustrated and described herein is not essential, unless otherwise specified. That is, the operations may be performed in any order, unless otherwise specified, and embodiments of the invention may include additional or fewer operations than those disclosed herein. For example, it is contemplated that executing or performing a particular operation before, contemporaneously with, or after another operation is within the scope of aspects of the invention. Embodiments of the invention may be implemented with computer-executable instructions. The computer-executable instructions may be organized into one or more computer-executable components or modules. Aspects of the invention may be implemented with any number and organization of such components or modules. For example, aspects of the invention are not limited to the specific computer-executable instructions or the specific components or modules illustrated in the figures and described herein. Other embodiments of the invention may include different computer-executable instructions or components having more or less functionality than illustrated and described herein.","When introducing elements of the present invention or the embodiments(s) thereof, the articles \u201ca\u201d, \u201can\u201d, \u201cthe\u201d and \u201csaid\u201d are intended to mean that there are one or more of the elements. The terms \u201ccomprising\u201d, \u201cincluding\u201d and \u201chaving\u201d are intended to be inclusive and mean that there may be additional elements other than the listed elements.","Having described aspects of the invention in detail, it will be apparent that modifications and variations are possible without departing from the scope of aspects of the invention as defined in the appended claims. As various changes could be made in the above constructions, products, and methods, without departing from the scope of the invention, it is intended that all matter contained in the above description and shown in the accompanying drawings shall be interpreted as illustrative and not in a limiting sense.","In view of the above, it will be seen that the several objects of the invention are achieved and other advantageous results attained."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 2"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 2"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIGS. 5A and 5B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 11"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 12A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":["FIGS. 12B-2E","FIG. 12A"]}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
