---
title: Tether restraint apparatus and method
abstract: A tether restraint apparatus may include two folding members, pivotally connected, a tether attachment and two stakes, wherein each folding member may have one of the two stakes pivotally connected and stowable within, and where the stakes may be pivoted outside of the folding members for deployment. The two folding members are operable to be folded together with each folding member having one of the two stakes stowed within, and are further operable to be unfolded to deploy the two stakes by pivoting each of the two stakes outwardly from within the two folding members.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07921815&OS=07921815&RS=07921815
owner: WalkNStake, Incorporated
number: 07921815
owner_city: Cary
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20090619
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS","FIELD OF THE DISCLOSURE","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY OF THE DISCLOSURE","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["The present application claims the benefit of priority under 35 U.S.C. \u00a7119 from U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61\/074,072 filed Jun. 19, 2008 entitled SYSTEM FOR RESTRAINING ANIMALS which is hereby incorporated herein in its entirety by reference.","The present disclosure generally relates to systems and apparatuses for restraining a tether and more particularly to portable tether restraining systems and apparatuses including systems for animal detainment.","Tether restraining systems, where a tether, such as, but not limited to a rope, chain, wire, leash, etc., is secured to the ground, are useful in a wide variety of applications. For example, tents often require a guy wire for support, or in some cases, to prevent the tent from being blown away by wind in the case of light weight tents. Temporary communications stations often include temporary antenna masts that require support by guy wires that are attached to stakes in the ground surrounding the mast. Another common application of tether restraining systems are animal detainment systems.","Portable animal detainment systems are useful for restraining animals when and where the use of a fence or other non-portable restraint system is not practical or convenient. Portable restraint systems allow animal owners to bring their pets to places without having to worry about the safety or legal issues associated with allowing an animal to run loose. Many places have leash laws or equivalents to leash laws that require animals to be restrained in settings such as public parks and the like. Further, an unrestrained animal may run away, run into traffic, or possibly get hurt or hurt another animal or human being.","Systems of transportable animal restraint currently exist, but they have shortcomings. Existing systems include retractable leashes, large spiral leash-tether anchors, stakes, and stake and chain systems.","Retractable leashes are useful in that they can help minimize leash tangles by reducing the leash slack. Such leashes are inconvenient in that they still require a person to continuously hold the leash and to adjust the leash length if necessary. Because of the lack of a safe, easy and portable anchoring system it is impossible for someone to set an animal in the shade or away from major activity (such as a soccer game, picnic event, or campfire) without the person also being away from the activity. Also, when someone needs to hold the leash in order to restrain the animal, the animal will tend to get entangled around the person's legs or other objects nearby (such as chairs or trees). One existing retractable leash is designed to connect to a carabiner type clip (D-shaped with a spring catch on one side) on a single stake in the ground. Another retractable leash system is designed to connect to a fixed point on a single stake.","Another example of an animal restraint is a large spiral leash-tether anchor. In this type of restraint system, the animal owner has to attach and detach the leash to the leash-tether anchor, so the probability of loss of control of the animal during the fastening process is great. These devices are also cumbersome and possibly dangerous to use. In order to secure such a system to the ground (by twisting the bottom side in a corkscrew motion) a great deal of force is necessary and may require the use of tools such as a length of pipe for leverage. Precautions must be taken during transport of this device due to fact that the pointed side (that fastens to the ground) is exposed until it is attached to the ground. The same pointed side becomes dirty after use, yet remains exposed during transport without an additional cover being placed onto the device.","Simple ground stakes are sometimes used to secure a leash to the ground. Due to the exposed point (on the side that is secured to the ground), it is not safe or practical for the leash to be attached until the state is secured in the ground. This means that the probability of loss of control during attachment of the leash to the stake is higher than if the unit was safely portable while attached to the leash. Simple stakes are also cumbersome despite their slim size because of the tools necessary for fastening them to the ground. This type of device retains dirt on the pointed edge if the owner does not also bring a cover. The exposed sharp edge is also unsafe without a cover during transport.","Systems that use a stake (attached to the ground) and a chain (attached to the stake) have the same shortcomings as the stake system.","These existing systems fail to combine the benefits of portability, safety, and cleanliness in a single system.","Leashes can easily get tangled with people's legs or they can get pulled out of the user's hands, thereby freeing the animal to run away which creates dangers to the animal and potentially others in the vicinity. The existing practice of just holding onto a leash or trying to tie it to some stationary object is not safe, convenient, or stable. Sometimes, dogs are tied to strollers, chairs or bikes at athletic events or picnics. This common practice causes bikes to fall, strollers to overturn, chairs to tip, leashes to become entangled around objects possibly injuring people or the animal, and an assortment of other problems.","The various embodiments disclosed herein resolve the problems of the previous systems by providing a compact and easy to use apparatus and system. The various embodiments provide portable and easy to operate tether restraint systems. The various embodiments further provide safer, cleaner, and more portable systems of animal restraint as opposed to the more cumbersome previous systems described above that are less effective, more difficult to use and less safe. The various embodiments provide a system for fastening an animal leash to a portable apparatus that can be easily held by an animal owner and can also be readily and securely fastened to the ground in order to secure the animal's leash to a fixed location. Other applications of the various embodiments will also occur to those of ordinary skill and such other applications remain within the scope of the various embodiments herein disclosed.","The present disclosure provides an apparatus that comprises two folding members, pivotally connected and having a tether attachment; and two stakes, wherein each folding member has one of said two stakes pivotally connected and stowable within, and operable to be pivoted outside of said each folding member, wherein the two folding members are operable to be folded together with each folding member having one of said two stakes within, and wherein the two folding members are further operable to be unfolded to deploy the two stakes by pivoting each of said two stakes outwardly from within said two folding members. The apparatus may further include a hinge base connected to the tether attachment and having two hinges, each hinge of the two hinges being hingedly and pivotally connected to one of the two folding members. The tether attachment may be rotatable around its axis. In embodiments having a hinge base, the tether attachment may be rotatable around the axis of its connection to the hinge base.","In the various embodiments, the two folding members may each include a recess wherein one of the stakes is pivotally connected within the recess. The two folding members may also include a closing portion such that they form a seal enclosing the two stakes when the folding members are folded together. Some embodiments may have as a closing portion, a tongue and groove connection wherein one of the two folding members includes a tongue portion and the other of the two folding members includes a groove portion. Some embodiments may also include a handle portion having a grip on one of both of the folding members.","The two stakes may be pivotally connected within the two folding members via a pin connector, where the stakes are pivotable about the pin connector, or via a screw, where the stakes are pivotable about the screw.","The two folding members may be unfolded to form an angle of approximately 180 degrees with respect to each other. The two stakes are operable to be pivoted outwardly from their respective, corresponding folding members to form an angle of approximately 90 degrees with the corresponding folding member.","Further, in some embodiments, the two folding members may be operable to be unfolded to form an angle of approximately 180 degrees with respect to each other, and further operable to be offset in elevation relative to each other by forming respective angles between a hinge base and each of the two folding members.","The present disclosure also provides a method of operating a tether restrain apparatus comprising unfolding two folding members, pivoting a first and second stake outwardly from each of the two folding members; and applying a downward pushing force upon the two folding members to push the first and second stake into the ground. The method may also include unfolding the two folding members to from an angle of approximately 180 degrees; and arranging the two folding members such that one folding member is offset in elevation with respect to the other folding member.","The foregoing summary, as well as the following detailed description of the various embodiments, will be better understood when read in conjunction with the appended drawings. For purposes of illustration certain embodiments are shown in the drawings, however, it is to be understood, that the various inventive features illustrated in the present disclosure are not limited to the arrangements and instrumentality shown in the attached drawings but that various embodiments and equivalents may occur to those of ordinary skill and such embodiments remain within the scope of the present disclosure and the appended claims.","The various embodiments disclosed herein provide a portable system and apparatus for securing a tether to a fixed position. One application of an embodiment herein disclosed provides a safe and portable system for restraining anything that is typically restrained by a leash, such as a dog or other animal. Other applications include, but are not limited to, tent guy wire or wind restraining strap restraints, antenna mast guy wire restraints, or any other suitable application in which a tether, such as, but not limited to, a rope, wire, guy wire, strap, leash, etc., may be fastened to a fixed position in the ground. Various other applications may occur to those of ordinary skill based upon the disclosure of the various embodiments provided herein.","In certain embodiments, a single unit design is disclosed to which a leash may be attached. Some of the various embodiments may include two stakes, which may be multiple sided stakes, (for securing the system to the ground). The stakes can fold into and out of a handle when the apparatus is opened. The handle and stakes may be made out of aluminum, plastic or any other suitable alternative material. Still other embodiments may include three sided stakes, rounded stakes, or stakes having various other shapes. Additionally, multiple stakes per side may be used. This folding of the stakes allows for clean and safe storage of the stakes until needed to deploy the apparatus.","The various embodiments may have various overall sizes and incorporate folding stakes of various lengths. In one embodiment for use as a pet detainment apparatus, the overall size, when closed, may be approximately 10 inches long by 4 inches wide. Some embodiments may also include a rounded and tapered handle portion. For example, in some embodiments a tapered handle portion may be approximately 1.25 inches wide by 3.5 inches long. When opened for deployment, some embodiments may have a length of approximately 19 inches and a width of approximately 1.25 inches. The various embodiments may be fabricated using plastic, aluminum, rubber and stainless steel, or various combinations thereof. However, any suitable material may be used in accordance with the embodiments.","Turning now to the drawings wherein like numerals represent like components,  illustrates a side view of one exemplary embodiment  of an apparatus for restraining a tether in a folded or closed position. The exemplary embodiment  include two folding members , each of which stows a stake  within a stake recess. In , the stake recesses are concealed within the folding members . The two folding members  are relatively longitudinal in that their length is at least equal to, or slightly greater than, the length of the stakes , such that the stakes  may be stowed within. The two folding members , when folded, have the appearance of a single apparatus or unit. The two folding members  may include a locking mechanism , which may be any suitable locking mechanism, such as, but not limited to, a latch, clasp, clip or magnet, at the closing end of the folding members  to assist in maintaining the folding members  in a closed position when folded together. Thus, for example, locking mechanism  in  may be a magnetic clasp. The stakes  may be made of aluminum or plastic, or any other suitable material, and are held in position via a pin or screw . The stakes  may be removable and replaceable by removing the pin or screw , installing a new stake and reinstalling the pin or screw  or providing a new pin or screw . The exemplary embodiment  also includes a handle portion  that has a grip  which is of a suitable size such that a user's fingers may fit comfortably within the grip  so that the user may grasp onto the handle portion . The embodiment  further includes a tether attachment  which may be attached to a hinge base . The hinge base  includes two hinges  at each end of the hinge base, and is hingedly and pivotally connected to both of the folding members . The folding members  may also include a texturing material to provide a textured surface . The handle portion  may similarly have a textured surface , which may provide, for example, a rib like surface for enhancing the user's grip on the handle portion . Some embodiments may also include a wrist strap hole , to which a wrist strap (not shown) may be attached. The handle portion  or a wrist strap, enables a user to hold the apparatus when, for example, a pet's leash is attached to the tether attachment, so that the user may control the leash using the apparatus, rather than having to hold onto the leash itself.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":["100","15","3","15","8","16","8","9","16","16","8","8","16","15","8","16","15","15","8","15","15","15","12","15","12","100","17","1","17"]},"In some embodiments the two folding members  will be essentially equal halves of the apparatus and joined together at a point such that the two members may be rotated, or pivoted, away from each other using one or more hinges, such that the folding members  may be positioned at approximately 180 degrees. When the folding members  are opened, the two stowed stakes  are allowed to swing out of the stake recesses  on pins, or some other suitable connection, in a hinge like manner. The stakes  are moveable to a point that is approximately 90 degrees with respect to the folding members . That is, after being deployed from the stake recesses , the stakes are approximately perpendicular to the two connected folding members . After the stakes  are deployed, the apparatus may then be deployed by pushing the stakes  into the ground by human force, ideally to a point where the entire apparatus is flush with the ground. This can be accomplished by hand and\/or by stepping on the flat textured portion of each handle portion  or of each folding member . For animal detainment applications, an animal's leash would be already attached to the apparatus before and after staking into the ground in order for the animal owner to exercise continuous control over the animal.","Some embodiments will provide a loop type tether attachment , attached to a top side of the apparatus, an that may swivel 360 degrees in any direction. The tether attachment may be positioned at the center of the apparatus, but may be at various other positions.","An animal owner may step onto each end on the folding members , or on the handle portions , to push the stakes flush with the ground if desired. The handle portions , which have grips , are useful for removing the apparatus from the ground by pulling upwardly on the handle portions . Some embodiments may have a wrist strap in lieu of the handle portions , and in such embodiments the wrist straps may be used to remove the apparatus from the ground. After removal from the ground, the apparatus may be closed with the stakes  folded\/nestled inside of the two folding members , which may be held together through a locking tongue and groove type closing portion .","The stakes  may be placed apart at various distances in the various embodiments. In embodiments for detaining pets, two stakes spaced approximately 17 inches apart will provide holding strength for when the animal pulls in one direction or another. In some embodiments, the stakes  may also be of various lengths, and may have multiple sides to increase the surface area of the stake that is dug into the ground, which thereby increases the frictional surface in order to add to the holding power of the system. Some embodiments for pet detainment applications may employ stakes of approximately 7 or 8 inches in length.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0041","num":"0040"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 3","FIG. 3"],"b":["100","15","3","3","2","15","2"]},"The stakes  may be oriented at approximately 90 degree angles with each stake's respective folding member , such that the stake  may be readily pushed relatively downwardly into the ground. The user may provide additional force by stepping on the apparatus so that the user's body weight provides force to push the stakes into the earth. Assistance may also be provided by the textured surfaces ,  on either of, or both of, the two folding members  and their respective handle portions . The stakes  may be driven into the ground until the apparatus is flush with the surface of the ground.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0043","num":"0042"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":["100","8","16","15","16","8","16"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0044","num":"0043"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 5"],"b":["100","4","7","1","100","1","1","100"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0045","num":"0044"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 6"],"b":["8","16","2","2","12","9","8","16","8","8","9","8","8","16","8","8","8","16"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0046","num":"0045"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 7","FIG. 7"],"b":["100","700","100","701","701","1","700","1","701"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0047","num":"0046"},"figref":["FIG. 8","FIG. 9"],"b":["15","3","2","2","15","1","15"]},"In , the tether attachment  is connected to a hinge base  via hardware , which may be a screw, or, may be a rivot or pin that allows the tether attachment  to freely rotate. The folding members  as shown in , are channel like segments that allow the stakes to be stowed within the interior of the channel.  also illustrates a closing portion  that provides a tongue and groove seal when the folding members  are placed in a closed position.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0049","num":"0048"},"figref":["FIG. 10","FIG. 11","FIG. 1","FIG. 10","FIG. 11","FIG. 1","FIG. 10"],"b":["17","1015","1008","1001","1009"]},"Therefore the various embodiments provide advantages over prior systems and apparatuses in that the various embodiments are more transportable, more practical, safer to transport (as all pointed\/sharp ends are nestled inside of the closed apparatus), cleaner to handle (as soiled stakes are nestled inside of the closed apparatus), less cumbersome to use (as there is no need for additional tools such as hammers or pipes for leverage), and are self-contained. Embodiments used for pet detainment applications allow for continuous control of an animal (such as a dog) and may be used almost anywhere you would like to walk or stop to secure your animal. Other benefits over existing systems and apparatuses include an increase in the amount of exercise an animal gets because of the increased mobility the disclosed embodiments offer to pet owners who may now be more inclined to take their animals places and include them in activities knowing that they will have the freedom to secure the animal in almost any desired location easily and safely (such as camping, picnics, athletic events, exercise, training, or visiting friends and family).","While some embodiments have been described with reference to the drawing figures provided herewith, it is to be understood by those of ordinary skill in the art that various changes and modifications may be made and that various equivalents may be substituted without departing from the scope of the present disclosure and the various embodiments herein disclosed. In addition, many modifications may be made to adapt to a particular situation or a particular application, such as using various materials, etc., and that such modifications or adaptations to the teachings do not depart from the present disclosure's scope. Therefore, the various embodiments herein disclosed and described are for illustrative purposes and are not in any way to be construed as limiting the scope of the present disclosure to the particular embodiments disclosed."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 1","FIG. 2"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 1","FIG. 3"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 1","FIG. 4"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 1 through 5"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIG. 9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":"FIG. 10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":["FIG. 11","FIG. 10"]}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
