---
title: Compactable, collapsible chair
abstract: A collapsible, compactable chair or seating apparatus having a pair of rigid frames hingedly connected to one another to form an A-frame configuration. Both frames may be collapsed so that the frame dimensions of the chair in an operational, deployed configuration may be reduced in two dimensions (i.e., height, length) when collapsed into a compacted configuration for storage or transport. The novel chair may be compacted into a thin bundle that may be rolled up in and contained within fabric forming a portion of the chair. In its compacted, rolled up state, the novel chair is suitable for transportation within a backpack or other such enclosure.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08056982&OS=08056982&RS=08056982
owner: 
number: 08056982
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20090106
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["FIELD OF THE INVENTION","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","Discussion of the Related Art","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENT"],"p":["The invention pertains to collapsible seating structures and, more particularly, to a chair having a rigid, collapsible frame having reduced dimensions in a collapsed state allowing the compacted, collapsed chair to be carried in a back pack or the like.","Many outdoor activities are greatly enhanced by the use of a portable seat or back support structure. While many such devices have been proposed in the prior art, all suffer from the limitations of bulk and\/or weight. While many prior art structures may be folded or collapsed for transportation or storage, the rigid frames thereof retain their original dimensions. Consequently, the frame dimensions of such prior art chairs or seats, even in the folded or collapsed configuration are not reduced and the degree of compaction of such structures is thereby limited. In other words, when such prior art seats are folded or collapsed, they typically retain at least two dimensions (e.g., height and width), of their open, operational dimensions even in their collapsed state. When the activity for which a seat or backrest is required occurs a distance from a transportation source, the collapsed dimensions of prior art structures still present logistical problems due to their bulk when hand carrying them to the site of the activity.","Several at attempts at providing portable and\/or collapsible seating or backrest structures may be found in the prior art. For example, U.S. Pat. No. 1,799,939 for CONVERTIBLE GROUND SEAT AND LOUNGE, issued Apr. 7, 1931 to Claude Beauchamp Wainwright et al. discloses a portable seating structure collapsible along a single dimension.","U.S. Pat. No. 2,570,571 for COMBINATION BACK REST AND BAG STRUCTURE, issued Oct. 9, 1951 to Robert N. Leeman teaches another portable seating arrangement collapsible along a single dimension.","U.S. Pat. No. 2,816,599 for COMBINATION SUPPORT AND BAG, issued Dec. 17, 1957 to Marjory M. Adams discloses another seat\/backrest structure collapsible along a single dimension and having a carrying bag which, in addition to facilitating carrying the ADAMS seat, functions as seat and back support surfaces.","U.S. Pat. No. 4,736,825 for COMBINATION TOTE BAG AND BODY REST, issued Apr. 12, 1988 to Daniel P. Belfi shows another structure collapsible in a single dimension and including an integral tote bag.","U.S. Pat. No. 4,530,451 for COMBINATION BACK PACK\/BEACH CHAIR, issued Jul. 23, 1985 to James Hamilton discloses a seat\/back rest structure collapsible along a single dimension and having integral straps to facilitate carrying the device on one's back.","U.S. Pat. No. 5,042,874 for FOLDING BEACH LOUNGE, issued Aug. 27, 1991 to Daniel E. Williams teaches another portable seating device collapsible along a single dimension. Extendable portions my be withdrawn to collapse the WILLIAMS device to a predetermined size rectangular parallelepiped, thereby lowering the height as well as the thickness of the lounge, consequently actually allowing compression of structure size along two dimensions.","U.S. Pat. No. 5,701,979 for BAG THAT MAY BE CONVERTED INTO A FOLDING BACK REST FOR THE BEACH OR PARK, issued Dec. 30, 1997 to Jan Harriet Voich teaches a folding structure that may be compacted into an integral carrying bag. However, the structure collapses only along a single dimension.","Published United States Patent Application No. 2004\/0195891 for GROUND LOUNGER, published Oct. 7, 2004 upon application by Clifford Eugene Vaughan, provides yet another folding structure, collapsible along a single dimension.","U.S. Pat. No. 6,902,230 for FOLDABLE CHILD SUPPORT DEVICE, issued Jun. 7, 2005 to Shun-Min Chen, provides a structure having frame members foldable at a mid point thereof so as to compact the structure along both height and a length dimensions.","None of the patents and published patent application, taken singly, or in any combination are seen to teach or suggest the novel compactable, collapsible chair of the present invention.","In accordance with the present invention there is provided a compactable, collapsible seating structure wherein dimensions of the chair in an operational, deployed configuration may be reduced along two dimensions (i.e., height, length into a compacted configuration for storage or transport. The novel chair may be compacted into a thin bundle that is rolled up in and contained within fabric that forms a portion of the chair. In its compacted, rolled up state, the novel chair is suitable for transportation within a backpack or other such enclosure.","It is, therefore, an object of the invention to provide a seating structure convertible from an operational, deployed configuration to a collapsed configuration.","It is another object of the invention to provide a seating structure convertible from an operational configuration to a collapsed configuration wherein both height and length are reduced in the transformation.","It is an additional object of the invention to provide a seating structure having a rigid frame that is convertible from an operational configuration to a collapsed configuration.","It is a further object of the invention to provide a seating structure convertible from an operational configuration to a collapsed configuration having a seat-supporting portion and a back-supporting portion, an angle therebetween being adjustable.","It is a still further object of the invention to provide a seating structure convertible from an operational configuration to a collapsed configuration having a moisture proof mat portion, when in a collapsed configuration the seating structure may be rolled up within the mat portion.","It is yet another object of the invention to provide a seating structure convertible from an operational configuration to a collapsed configuration having frame members foldable at approximately a mid point thereof, the frame members being held in a locked configuration by sliding lock mechanisms.","The present invention provides compactable, collapsible chair structure having a seat-supporting portion and a back-supporting portion hingedly connected to one another, the angle therebetween being adjustable.","Referring first to , there is shown an isometric view of the compactable, collapsible chair of the present invention in an open, operational configuration, generally at reference number .","Chair  has a seat\/leg-supporting portion  consisting of a seat-supporting region  and a leg-protecting region . Referring now also to and , there are shown side, cross-sectional, elevational views of two embodiments of seat\/leg supporting region  of seat .","As seen in , seat-supporting region  is typically a padded structure with a moisture barrier,  forming a lower, ground-engaging surface. A wear-resistant membrane  forms an upper surface of both leg-protecting region  and seat supporting region . In a first embodiment, seat-supporting region  has a foam pad  disposed between water-resistant membrane  and wear-resistant membrane . While a foam pad  has been chosen for purposes of disclosure, it will be recognized by those of skill in the art that many alternate materials may be substituted therefor. Consequently, the invention is not considered limited to the foam pad  chosen for purposes of disclosure. Rather, the invention comprehends any and all suitable padding materials.","It will be further recognized that while a two-ply structure consisting of moisture resistant membrane  and wear-resistant membrane  has been shown, a single-ply structure may readily be substituted therefore.","As seen in , an inflatable bladder  and an inflation tube and valve  replace foam pad . The use of an inflatable bladder  allows chair  to possibly be compacted to a smaller volume than in the embodiment of having foam pad . Further, inflatable bladder  allows a user to adjust a degree of firmness or support of the \u201cpadding\u201d provided thereby to a personal preference. Inflatable bladders  and inflation tubes and valve structures  are considered to be well known to those of skill in the art and art not further described herein.","A back-supporting portion  is hingedly attached to seat\/leg supporting region  by a continuation of at least wear resistant membrane  or back padding .","Referring now to and , there are shown top plan, schematic views of a frame  in an open, operational configuration, and a partially collapsed configuration, respectively. Frame  defines and supports back-supporting portion  of chair .","In its open, operational configuration (), frame  is substantially rectangular having foldable side members , , top members , , and a bottom member . Foldable side members , each have a central connector , , respectively, disposed at approximately a midpoint of respective side members , along the major axis thereof. Central connectors , divide respective side members , into upper segments , and lower segments , . Typically, connectors , bisect respective side members , causing upper segments , and lower segments , to be approximately the same length. It will be recognized that other arrangements may be contemplated wherein by changing the placement of connectors , , the lengths of upper segments , may be different than the lengths of lower segments , . Consequently, the invention is not considered limited to the particular placement of connectors , along side members , , respectively. It will be recognized that upper segments , and lower segments , form respective continuous members when respective slide locks , are in place.","Slidable locks , are selectively positionable along side members , , respectively, to secure upper segments , and lower segments , in a substantially linear orientation when frame  is in its open, operational configuration. An end view of slidable locks and ","Corner hinges , , connect distal ends of lower segments , to lower member . Likewise, corner hinges c, d connect distal ends of upper segments , to an upper frame brace . Upper frame brace  consists of top frame members , and frame brace side members , . Corner hinge arrangements are considered to be well known to those of skill in the art and, consequently, are not further discussed herein. Any suitable hinge arrangement may be used throughout the novel folding chair  and the invention is not limited to the hinge arrangement chosen for purposes of disclosure.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0039","num":"0038"},"figref":"FIG. 3","i":["b ","a","b ","a","b","a","b ","a","b "],"b":["120","134","134","128","128","130","130","132","132","126","138","142"]},"Referring now also to , frame  is shown in a fully collapsed configuration.","Referring now to and , there are shown top plan, schematic views of a vertical support frame  in an open, operable configuration and in a partially collapsed configuration, respectively. Vertical support frame  is similar in both construction and operation to frame  (-) discussed in detail hereinabove.","In its open, operational configuration (), frame  is also substantially rectangular having foldable side members , , top members , , and a bottom member . Foldable side members , each have a central connector , disposed at approximately a midpoint of respective side members , along the major axis thereof. Central connectors , divide respective side members , in to upper segments , and lower segments , . Typically, connectors , bisect respective side members , causing upper segments , and lower segments , to be substantially the same length. It will be recognized that other arrangements may be contemplated wherein by changing the placement of connectors , , the lengths of upper segments , may be different than the lengths of lower segments , . Consequently, the invention is not considered limited to the particular placement of connectors , along side members , , respectively.","Slidable locks , are selectively positionable along side members , , respectively, to secure upper segments , and lower segments , in a substantially linear orientation when frame  is in its open, operational configuration.","Corner hinges , , connect distal ends of lower segments , to lower member . Likewise, corner hinges c, d connect distal ends of upper segments , to upper frame members , ",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0045","num":"0044"},"figref":"FIG. 4","i":["b ","a","b ","a","b","a","b ","a","b ","a","b. "],"b":["220","234","234","228","228","230","230","232","232","226","224","224"]},"Referring now to , there is shown a perspective, schematic view of frames  and  rotatably interconnected into the A-frame structure that forms the complete frame of the novel chair . Pivotable interconnections are shown schematically at reference numbers . It will be recognized that numerous mechanisms are known to those of skill in the art for pivotably interconnecting frames  and . Such mechanisms include, but are not limited to, detented mechanism capable of self-locking frames  and  in discrete, predetermined angular relationships to one another. Such mechanisms are not further described herein.","Flexible straps, typically having one or more grommets  may be used to secure the angular relationship of frames  and .","Other flexible straps , are typically fastened to top frame member and bottom frame member . Flexible straps , provide back support to a user of chair .","Refer now again also to -and -. In operation, compactable, collapsible chair  may be transformed from an operational configuration to a collapsed configuration by first unfastening straps .","If the chair  configuration includes an inflatable bladder  (), it may be necessary to deflate inflatable bladder  prior to unfastening straps .","Slidable locks , , , on frames  and , respectively, are unlocked and slid away from connectors , , , , respectively.","Frame members , , , of frame  and , , , of frame  may be pushed inwardly (toward the center of respective frames  and ) until the frames are totally collapsed.","Once collapsed, the compacted structure may be rolled up in the moisture proof barrier  (, ) into a configuration suitable for carrying in a backpack or other such container.","Since other modifications and changes varied to fit particular operating requirements and environments will be apparent to those skilled in the art, the invention is not considered limited to the example chosen for purposes of disclosure, and covers all changes and modifications which do not constitute departures from the true spirit and scope of this invention.","Having thus described the invention, what is desired to be protected by Letters Patent is presented in the subsequently appended claims."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["Various objects, features, and attendant advantages of the present invention will become more fully appreciated as the same becomes better understood when considered in conjunction with the accompanying drawings, in which like reference characters designate the same or similar parts throughout the several views, and wherein:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":["FIGS. 2","FIG. 1"],"i":["a ","b "],"b":"2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":["FIGS. 3","FIG. 1"],"i":["a","b","c "],"b":["3","3"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIGS. 3"],"i":["d ","a","b","c; "],"b":["3","3"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":["FIGS. 4","FIG. 1"],"i":["a ","b "],"b":"4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 1"]}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
