---
title: Recombinant antigen for detection of toxocariasis
abstract: A vector comprising a polynucleotide sequence encoding a polypeptide having an amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 2 for detecting antibody against spp. in a biological sample.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08962259&OS=08962259&RS=08962259
owner: Universiti Sains Malaysia
number: 08962259
owner_city: Pedang
owner_country: MY
publication_date: 20090227
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATION","FIELD OF INVENTION","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION","EXAMPLE","Example 1","PCR Amplification of Coding Sequence of TES-26 Gene","Example 2","Cloning of Genes Encoding TES-26","Example 3","Repair of Base Mutations","Example 4","Subcloning into Bacterial Expression Vectors","Example 5","Expression and Purification of TES-26","Example 6","Western Blot","Example 7","Enzyme-Linked Immunosorbent Assay (ELISA)"],"p":["The instant application claims priority to Malaysian Patent Application No. P1 20085032, filed Dec. 12, 2008, pending, and PCT International Application No. PCT\/MY2009\/000044, filed on Feb. 27, 2009, pending, the entire specifications of both of which are expressly incorporated herein by reference.","The present invention relates to a recombinant antigen for the detection of toxocariasis. In more particular, the present invention provides a vector having polynucleotide from TES gene and the polypeptide of recombinant TES antigen which is derived from larvae cultured in vitro. It also provides a method for detecting toxocariasis using the recombinant TES antigen.","Toxocariasis is a helminth infection of human which is caused by roundworm, or . This infection occurs when embryonated eggs containing fully developed infective larvae of the spp. are ingested. The larvae in the human intestine will penetrate the bowel wall and migrate through blood vessels to reach liver, muscles and lungs, even into eye and brain. Therefore, a method for diagnosis and detection of toxocariasis is crucial for its prevention and treatment.","There are hardly any patented technologies relating to the detection or diagnosis of toxocariasis in the prior arts. Most of the serological and immunological studies of nematode parasites disclosed in the prior arts are designed for the diagnosis of heartworm, such as as described in U.S. Pat. No. 6,103,484.","Some patented technologies aim to detect and raise antibodies against various species of nematode parasites, including the species of the genera and others. In U.S. Pat. No. 5,948,644, an isolated polynucleotide segment comprising a nucleotide sequence encoding an excretory-secretory protein having molecular weight of 11 kDa, 17 kDa, 30 kDa, 37 kDa and 81 kDa is disclosed. Apart from that, a purified antigen derived from a parasitic nematode species having molecular weight of 40 kDa is also disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 5,871,738. These inventions helps to provide antibodies against the antigens and related molecules, and antibody compositions comprising the antibodies, vaccines comprising the antigens and others. However, these methods are complicated and the proteins used are not specific.","Most of the patented technologies use proteins of higher molecular weight in the detection of nematode parasites. In addition, the methods disclosed are not capable of detecting or diagnosing toxocariasis specifically. Even though the excretory-secretory antigens derived from second stage infective larvae (L2) maintained in defined medium in vitro have been extensively used for the immunodiagnosis of human toxocariasis, immunoassays using serum samples from patients with ascariasis, filariasis and strongyloidiasis, however, shows cross-reactivities with the native TES.","Therefore, it is desirable for the present invention to innovate an antigen which is capable of specifically detecting toxocariasis to overcome the drawbacks of the prior arts. As low molecular weight antigens are shown to be more specific than high molecular proteins for detection of toxocariasis, a suitable protein derived from larvae can be applied to develop a more useful and effective serodiagnostic marker for this disease.","The primary object of the present invention is to develop a recombinant protein or antigen which is capable of detecting or diagnosing toxocariasis specifically and effectively.","Another object of the present invention is to provide an antigen having lower molecular weight which is more sensitive and specific for the detection of toxocariasis.","Still another object of the present invention is to provide a vector which expresses a TES polypeptide which can be used as recombinant antigen in the detection of toxocariasis in a biological sample.","Yet another object of the present invention is to develop a specific, sensitive and reliable method to detect and diagnose the presence of antibody against spp. in a biological sample.","At least one of the preceding objects is met, in whole or in part, by the present invention, in which one of the embodiments of the present invention describes a vector comprising a polynucleotide sequence encoding a polypeptide having an amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 2 for detecting antibody against spp. in a biological sample. Preferably, the vector is a gluthathione-S-transferase (GST)-tagged vector.","Another embodiment of the present invention is a bacterial cell comprising a vector which expresses a polypeptide having an amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 2 for detecting antibody against spp. in a biological sample.","Still another embodiment of the present invention is an isolated polypeptide having an amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 2 for detecting antibody against spp. in a biological sample.","According to one of the preferred embodiments of the present invention, the polypeptide is a recombinant protein or antigen.","Yet another embodiment of the present invention is an isolated polypeptide having an amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 1 encoded by a gluthathione-S-transferase-tagged vector and a TES-26 gene.","Further embodiment of the present invention is a method for detecting antibody against spp. in a biological sample, comprising: a) cloning a polynucleotide sequence or complementary sequence thereof encoding a polypeptide having an amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 2; b) expressing the clone in an expression vector to obtain the polypeptide; and c) developing an immunoassay using the polypeptide to detect antibody against spp. in a biological sample.","In another preferred embodiment of the present invention, the polynucleotide sequence is derived from an open reading frame (ORF) or complete coding sequences (cds) of TES-26 gene. Preferably, the expression vector is a GST-tagged vector.","One skilled in the art will readily appreciate that the present invention is well adapted to carry out the objects and obtain the ends and advantages mentioned, as well as those inherent therein. The embodiments described herein are not intended as limitations on the scope of the invention.","The present invention relates to a recombinant antigen for the detection of toxocariasis. In more particular, the present invention provides a vector having polynucleotide from TES gene and the polypeptide of recombinant TES antigen which is derived from larvae cultured in vitro. It also provides a method for detecting toxocariasis using the recombinant TES antigen.","Hereinafter, the invention shall be described according to the preferred embodiments of the present invention and by referring to the accompanying description and drawings. However, it is to be understood that limiting the description to the preferred embodiments of the invention and to the drawings is merely to facilitate discussion of the present invention and it is envisioned that those skilled in the art may devise various modifications without departing from the scope of the appended claim.","The present invention discloses a vector comprising a polynucleotide sequence encoding a polypeptide having an amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 2 for detecting antibody against spp. in a biological sample.","One of the embodiments of the present invention is an isolated polypeptide having an amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 1 encoded by a gluthathione-S-transferase-tagged vector and a TES-26 gene.  shows the amino acid sequence of the expressed vector with the TES-26 protein, which is denoted as SEQ ID NO: 1. The mino acid sequence of the TES polypeptide is illustrated in . The preferred vector used for the expression of this polypeptide is a GST-tagged vector which is preferably the commercially available PET42\u2122 VERSION \u201cB\u201d (cloning vector).","Preferably, the polynucleotide sequence can be derived from an ORF or complete cds of a TES gene, which is preferably TES-26 gene encoding a 26 kDa protein. The biological sample which can be used for the detection includes human serum, plasma or whole blood (with or without anti-coagulant).","Another embodiment of the present invention is a bacterial cell habouring a vector which expresses a polypeptide having an amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 2 for detecting antibody against spp. in a biological sample. The bacterial cell is an expression host which can be cultured in vitro. According to the preferred embodiment of the present invention, the bacterial host can be BL21(DE3)\u2122 (expression competent cells), XL1-BLUE\u2122 (expression competent cells), DH5\u03b1\u2122 (expression competent cells), TOP10\u2122 (expression competent cells) or NOVABLUE\u2122 (expression competent cells) which are commercially available. In the most preferred embodiment, BL21(DE3)\u2122 (expression competent cells) is used as the bacterial host. However, the present invention is not intended to limit the use of suitable hosts available for the expression of the polypeptide.","The present invention also discloses an isolated polypeptide having an amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 2 for detecting antibody against spp. in a biological sample. This polypeptide is non-glycosylated. Glycosylation of the polypeptide may lead to increase in cross-reactions with antibodies to other organisms that recognize the sugar moieties. Therefore, the non-glycosylated polypeptide invented will not be affected by such cross-reactions. It is also low in molecular weight and suitable to be used for detecting and identifying the presence of antibodies against spp. in a biological sample sensitively, specifically and reliably.","The recombinant protein, also known as rTES-26, can be used as a sole antigen or in combination with other recombinant antigens such as rTES-30 and\/or rTES-120 for detection of human toxocariasis. Besides, this rTES-26 can be employed in immunoassays such as microplate ELISA, dot-blot, Western blot and agglutination assays. It can also be employed in developing rapid tests such as flow-through test and immunochromatography tests (lateral flow test).","Further embodiment of the present invention is a method for detecting antibody against spp. in a biological sample, comprising: a) cloning a polynucleotide sequence or complementary sequence thereof encoding a polypeptide having an amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 2; b) expressing the clone in an expression vector to obtain the polypeptide; and c) developing an immunoassay using the polypeptide to detect antibody against spp. in a biological sample.","As set forth in the foregoing description, the polynucleotide sequence applied is derived from an ORF or complete cds of a TES gene, which is preferably the TES-26. Illustrated in  is the polypeptide used in the present method. This polypeptide is coded by the TES-26 gene which comprises amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 2.","The preferred embodiment of the present invention discloses a set of primers comprising nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO: 3 and SEQ ID NO: 4 designed for detecting and identifying TES-26 gene in a biological sample that contains spp. The forward and reverse primers of SEQ ID NO: 3 and SEQ ID NO: 4 as shown in  are designed by referring to the ORF or complete cds of TES-26 gene obtained from GenBank. A RT-PCR is preferably performed using RNA from the biological sample to obtain the nucleotide fragment of TES-26 gene.","Subsequently, the gene encoding TES-26, which is an A-tailed fresh purified RT-PCR product, is preferably cloned into a cloning vector, which is preferably a TOPO vector. However, the present invention are not intended to limit the use of any other commercially available PCR cloning vectors, such as the PJET1.2\u2122 (cloning vector), PT7BLUE T\u2122 (cloning vector), PCR\u2122 II\u2122 (cloning vector), PGEM[R]-T\u2122 (cloning vector) or PLUG-MULTI TA\u2122 (cloning vector). A suitable TOPO vector which can be commercially obtained is the TOPO TA Cloning vector. The plasmid cloned is then transformed into a competent bacteria cell, which is preferably a commercially obtained host. The orientation of the recombinant plasmid can then be confirmed by PCR screening using both TES gene-specific primers (SEQ ID NO: 3 and SEQ ID NO: 4); and vector-specific M13R primer (SEQ ID NO: 5) with TES gene-specific reverse primer (SEQ ID NO: 4). The primer sequences are shown in . The presence of the engineered gene is preferably confirmed by DNA sequencing.","Base mutations may occur during the cloning process. Therefore, an in vitro PCR-based site directed mutagenesis can be performed to correct the base errors occurred in the TES-26-TOPO vector recombinant plasmid before transformation into the expression host. A commercially obtained base mutation-repairing kit can be applied. As shown in the electrophoresed gel in , the amplified RT-PCR products of the ORF of gene encoding TES-26 (lane 2) shows a band size of approximately 793 bp.","As described in one of the preferred embodiments of the present invention, the recombinant plasmid and expression vector can be digested with restriction enzyme before being subcloned into a GST-tagged vector, for example the PET42\u2122 VERSION \u201cB\u201d (cloning vector). The present invention, however, are not intended to limit the use of other suitable expression vectors available to produce the polypeptide targeted. After verified by DNA sequencing, the plasmid constructed is subjected to a transformation process, in which a bacterial cell or host is applied. As set forth in the foregoing description, the bacterial cell is preferably BL21(DE3)\u2122 (expression competent cells). However, other suitable hosts available can also be applied for the expression of this polypeptide.","The recombinant bacteria can be cultured until mid-log phase and the expression is then induced with isopropyl-\u03b2-D-thiogalactopyranoside (IPTG). The culture can be harvested after 3 hours and purified under native condition if the recombinant protein is present in sufficient amounts in an active or soluble form. Affinity purification method can be applied wherein the recombinant bacterial cells are lysed in lysis buffer and purified using GST resin. This GST tag is then cleaved or removed by restriction grade site-specific proteases, such as Factor Xa enzyme.","After cleavage of the target protein, Factor Xa is removed by affinity chromatography. The cleavage or removal can be verified by electrophoresis. One of the most preferred methods which can be applied to determined the sizes of protein and polypeptide is the SDS-PAGE. However, the present invention are not intended to limit the use of other suitable methods as well. As shown in , the expressed target protein size determined by SDS-PAGE analysis is of approximately 69 kDa. Since the GST tag is a large molecule of approximately 26 kDa which may affect the immunogenicity of the protein, it was thus necessary to remove the GST tag prior to development of an immunoassay. After cleavage or removal of the GST tag, the molecular weight of the TES-26 recombinant protein shows approximately 30 to 34 kDa.","Optionally, an analysis of the immunoreactivity of the recombinant protein can be conducted. The preferred method used is Western blot.  shows the Western blot analysis on the recombinant TES-26 antigen probed with various categories of serum, including serum from patients suffering from toxocariasis, trichuriasis, toxoplasmosis and serum from healthy normals. As illustrated in , the antigenicity of the cleaved TES-26 recombinant protein is only reactivity in serum samples from toxocariasis patients. None of the sera from healthy individuals and other helminthic infections show any reactivity.","As set forth in the preceding description, the purified recombinant protein of TES-26 is then used to develop an ELISA test, which is preferably an IgG4-ELISA test for the detection of specific antibody in sera from patients infected with . The preferred procedure is further described in the following examples. Subsequently, the sensitivity and specificity of these assays are evaluated for its usefulness in the detection of toxocariasis using a panel of toxocariasis sera, healthy normals and other helminth related infections. The IgG4-ELISA rTES-26 antigen invented is capable of achieving a sensitivity level of 78% to 85% and specificity level of 95% to 99%.","The present disclosure includes as contained in the appended claims, as well as that of the foregoing description. Although this invention has been described in its preferred form with a degree of particularity, it is understood that the present disclosure of the preferred form has been made only by way of example and that numerous changes in the details of construction and the combination and arrangements of parts may be resorted to without departing from the scope of the invention.","The invention can be further described with reference to the following examples. These examples are provided to illustrate different aspects and embodiments of the present invention and are not intended in any way to limit the disclosed invention, which is limited only by the claims.","The sequences (open reading frame or complete cds) of TES-26 gene was obtained from Genbank (accession no: U29761). Primers were designed and analyzed with Vector NIT\u2122 version 6.0 (Informac Inc., Invitrogen, USA). The sequences of the forward and reverse primers used are shown in SEQ ID NO: 3 and SEQ ID NO: 4, respectively. RT-PCR was performed by using commercial STRATASCRIPT\u2122 One-Tube RT-PCR System with Easy A\u2122 High-Fidelity PCR Cloning Enzyme kit (Stratagene, USA). The experimental reaction comprised 39.5 \u03bcl RNase-free water, 5 \u03bcl of 10\u00d7RT-PCR buffer, 1 \u03bcl of forward and reverse primer (20 pmol\/\u03bcl each), 1 \u03bcl of 40 mM dNTP mix, 1 \u03bcl of mRNA sample, 1 \u03bcl of diluted STRATASCRIPT\u2122 RT (2.5 U\/\u03bcl) and 0.5 \u03bcl of EASY-A\u2122 HiFi PCR cloning enzyme. All components were added sequentially into 0.2-ml PCR tube to make up a total reaction volume of 50 \u03bcl. The amplification process was carried out as follows: first-strand synthesis at 42\u00b0 C. for 15 minutes; STRATASCRIPT\u2122 RT inactivation at 95\u00b0 C. for 1 minute; denaturation at 95\u00b0 C. for 30 sec, template-primer annealing at 60\u00b0 C. for 30 sec, extension at 68\u00b0 C. for 2 minutes (40 cycles) and final extension at 68\u00b0 C. for 5 minutes.","The A-tailed fresh purified RT-PCR product was cloned into TOPO\u00ae TA Cloning vector (PCR2.1 TOPO\u2122 TA\u2014Invitrogen, USA), followed by transformation into TOP10 host Invitrogen, USA). The orientation of the recombinant plasmid was then confirmed by PCR screening using both gene-specific primers (TES26F and TES26R); and vector-specific primer (M13R) and gene-specific primer (TES26R). This is followed by DNA sequencing, and the sequence of the engineered gene was then compared with the published sequences using NIT\u2122 software version 6.0 (Informac Inc., Invitrogen, USA).","In-vitro PCR-based site directed mutagenesis was performed to correct four base-errors (124, 502, 613 and 768 bp) in TES-26 recombinant plasmid (TES-26\/TOPO) using a commercially available kit (QuickChange XL, Stratagene, USA). The amplified RT-PCR products of the ORF of gene encoding TES-26 is shown by gel electrophoresis.","Recombinant plasmid and expression vector were digested with EcoR1 enzyme (Fermentas, USA). After digestion, TES-26 recombinant plasmid was subcloned into PET42\u2122 VERSION \u201cB\u201d (Novagen, Germany) using T4 Rapid DNA Ligation kit (Roche Diagnostics, Germany). After the construct was verified by DNA sequencing, the recombinant plasmid was transformed into an expression host, BL21 (DE3)\u2122 (Novagen, Germany).","The recombinant bacteria was cultured in Terrific broth (TB) containing 30 \u03bcg\/ml kanamycin and incubated at 37\u00b0 C. until the ODreached mid-log phase (OD=0.5). The expression was then induced with isopropyl-\u03b2-D-thiogalactopyranoside (IPTG) to a final concentration of 1 mM at 30\u00b0 C. in an incubator shaker. The culture was then harvested after 3 hours. Subsequently, the recombinant bacterial cells were lysed in lysis buffer containing NaHPO, KHPO, NaCl and KCl by using French press and purified using GST resin (Novagen, Germany). Restriction grade site-specific proteases, Factor Xa enzyme was used for specific cleavage\/removal of GST tag using a commercial kit (Factor Xa Cleavage Capture Kit, Novagen, Germany). After cleavage of the target protein, Factor Xa was removed by affinity chromatography using XARREST\u2122 Agarose (Novagen, Germany). The expressed target proteins size were determined by SDS-PAGE analysis.","The immunoreactivity of the recombinant protein was analyzed by Western blot technique based on detection IgG4 antibody in serum samples. rTES-26 (20 \u03bcg\/ml) was electrophoresed in 10% SDS-PAGE and transferred onto nitrocellulose membrane (Osmonic, USA) using a semidry transblot (BioRad, USA). The membrane was cut into strips, blocked with 1% casein blocking solution (Roche Diagnostic, Germany) for 1 hour. Subsequently, the strips were incubated with serum samples (diluted at 1:100 in 0.5% blocking solution) at 4\u00b0 C., overnight; followed by monoclonal anti-human IgG4-HRP (Zymed, USA) at 1:2000 (in 0.5% blocking solution) for 30 minutes. BM chemiluminescence blotting reagent (Roche Diagnostic, Germany) and X-ray films (Kodak, USA) were used for development of the blots.","An ELISA based on the rTES-26 antigen was developed and laboratory evaluations were carried out using a panel of sera comprising infections, other helminth related infections and healthy individuals in order to validate the sensitivity and specificity of the assay. Each well of the 96-well flat-bottomed microtiter plate (NUNC IMMUNO\u2122 Maxisorp, Denmark) was coated with 100 \u03bcl of the rTES-26 at an optimum concentration of 10 ug\/ml in 0.02 M bicarbonate buffer (pH 9.6). The plate was then covered and incubated in a humid chamber at 4\u00b0 C., overnight and 37\u00b0 C. for 2 hours. The plate was washed in phosphate-buffered saline, pH 7.2 containing 0.05% (v\/v) Tween-20 (PBS-T), pH 7.2 to remove any unadsorbed antigen. After a washing step of 5\u00d75 minutes, each well was blocked with 1.0% blocking reagent (Roche Diagnostics, Germany) for 1 hour at 37\u00b0 C. The plate was again washed as previously described, followed by addition of duplicates for each serum dilution (100 \u03bcl of human serum diluted at 1:50 in PBS) to each well and incubated at 37\u00b0 C. for 2 hours. After washing off the excess serum, mouse monoclonal anti-human IgG4-HRP (Zymed, USA) was added at an optimum dilution of 1:1000 (in PBS) and incubated at 37\u00b0 C. for 30 minutes. Following a final washing step, 2\u2032,2-azino-bis[3-ethylbenz-thiazoline-6-sulfonic acid-diammonium salt] (ABTS) substrate (Roche Diagnostics, Germany) was added and the optical densities (O.D) were measured after 30 minutes at absorbance 405 nm (reference 490 nm) using an ELISA spectrophotometer (Tecan, Sweden). An O.D reading of 0.200 was used as the cut-off value (COV) for determination of positivity or to discriminate between positive and negative. This COV was based on mean O.D. reading plus three standard deviations (SD) of 30 serum samples from healthy individuals. The O.D readings were blanked with the PBS (as blank) and O.D readings of equal and\/or greater than 0.200 were interpreted as positive cases. The results of sensitivity and specificity evaluations of the IgG4-ELISA are shown in Table 1.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0055","num":"0054"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00001","num":"00001"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"center"}},"thead":{"row":[{"entry":"TABLE 1"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":"Sensitivity evaluation:"}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"5"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"21pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"42pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"63pt","align":"center"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["IgG4-ELISA","Total","Positive","Negative","Sensitivity (%)"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"5","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["rTES-26","30","24","6","80.0"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"5","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"center"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":"Specificity evaluation:"}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"126pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"91pt","align":"center"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Types of infection sera","Negative by rTES26-ELISA"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"126pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"49pt","align":"right"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{"i":["A. lumbricoides","T. trichiura"]},"27\/28","(1)"]},{"entry":[{"i":"Strongyloides stercoralis"},"4\/5","(1)"]},{"entry":[{"i":"Gnathostoma spinigerum"},"1\/1","(0)"]},{"entry":[{"i":"Entamoeba histolytica"},"28\/30","(2)"]},{"entry":[{"i":"Brugia malayi "},"26\/28","(2)"]},{"entry":[{"i":"Toxoplasma gondii"},"18\/20","(2)"]},{"entry":["Healthy individuals","100\/100","(0)"]},{"entry":["Total","204\/212","(8)"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"126pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"91pt","align":"center"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"Specificity (96.2%)"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}}]}}}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["For the purpose of facilitating an understanding of the invention, there is illustrated in the accompanying drawing the preferred embodiments from an inspection of which when considered in connection with the following description, the invention, its construction and operation and many of its advantages would be readily understood and appreciated.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 1","i":"Toxocara "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":"FIG. 6"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
