---
title: Cloud federation as a service
abstract: A Cloud federator may be used to allow seamless and transparent access by a Cloud Client to Cloud services. Federation may be provided on various terms, including as a subscription based real-time online service to Cloud Clients. The Cloud federator may automatically and transparently effect communication between the Cloud Client and Clouds and desired services of the Clouds, and automatically perform identity federation. A Service Abstraction Layer (SAL) may be implemented to simplify Client communication, and Clouds/Cloud services may elect to support the SAL to facilitate federation of their services.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08924569&OS=08924569&RS=08924569
owner: Intel Corporation
number: 08924569
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20091217
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["FIELD OF THE INVENTION","BACKGROUND","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["The present invention generally relates to cloud services and virtualization, and more particularly to providing a federated cloud service environment transparently making interoperable multiple incompatible cloud services.","The phrase \u201ccloud computing\u201d is one of many references to the concept of seeking to provide a diverse set of Internet based \u201cservices\u201d to a broad variety of clients. Often the term \u201ccloud\u201d is used to refer to accessing resources on the Internet; cloud computing generally refers to an abstraction of resources and the network infrastructure needed to access resources of the cloud. Cloud computing is an \u201con-demand\u201d environment including characteristics previously associated with many utility and grid computing models. Cloud computing generally tries to harness ever increasing computing power and sophistication in computing technologies. The terms \u201cservice\u201d or \u201cservices\u201d are used to refer to such abstracted resources. Various services, such as ones provided by Amazon.Com, Inc. (e.g., Simple Storage Service (S3)), Google Inc. (e.g., Google File System (GFS)), or Microsoft Corporation (e.g., Microsoft Office Online) represent well known cloud computing resources typically accessed from a web browser or other light weight client through the cloud. Unlike a traditional application program, where the application and its data are typically stored on a local storage, with cloud services, this information is typically stored on remote (corporate) servers. Generally speaking, cloud computing encompasses any subscription based or hosted service accessible over the Internet.","Cloud applications are generally broadly divided into categories, such as:","(1) Web Services, e.g., software designed to be interoperable machine-to-machine using a well defined software interface such as Web Services Description Language (WSDL), Application Programming Interface (API), or other standardized communication protocol;","(2) Software as a Service (SaaS), which is essentially just delivery\/on demand utilization of application software, e.g., an email application program simultaneously accessed through a browser by thousands of customers;","(3) Infrastructure-as-a-Service (IaaS), in which clients are provided with virtual servers and\/or on-demand resources, such as storage, that are paid for as needed akin to consuming a utility resource; and","(4) Platform as a Service (PaaS), for allowing developers to deploy applications hosted on cloud-based infrastructure.","In cloud computing, a client device, software, etc. often needs to connect to different clouds to receive different services. Unfortunately, each cloud provider does not own the user's business and there is no standardized or seamless inter-connection among services to which a user or client may subscribe.","A drawback to current cloud service options is there is no \u201cone stop shopping\u201d for transparently utilizing multiple offerings from multiple service providers. Currently each service provider has a proprietary environment providing cloud services, and hence proprietary account management, proprietary data formats, etc. To make cloud computing more useful, users\/clients\/servers need to be able to know how to seamlessly switch between different clouds to access different services and functions from different clouds simultaneously. However, due to lack of inter-connection, there is no automatic migration\/interoperability between different cloud service providers. For example, a user\/client would need to use and therefore reconfigure different accounts, user interfaces, applications, network connections, payment strategies, etc., to move between clouds\/services. Moreover, capabilities do not exist to allow users\/clients who subscribe to different clouds\/services to interact beyond simplistic email exchanges.","To address this, and other cloud computing seamless interoperability issues, selected embodiments concern providing a federated customer profile across multiple cloud services, cloud vendors, data environments, Information Technology systems, etc. (collectively referred hereafter simply as Clouds) to allow various Cloud Clients to seamlessly access different Clouds for different services. The phrase Cloud Client is intended to generally and collectively include software and\/or devices, server software and\/or devices, middleware, and\/or logical, virtual constructs, Artificial Intelligence or rules-based programming constructs, as well as a user thereof that is capable of accessing Cloud services.","As indicated above, what is missing from a typical cloud configuration is a universal customer profile federation service that can provide real-time \u201cbrokerage\u201d for connections and provide interoperability so a Cloud Client can connect to any Cloud service without additional user configuration. In one embodiment this will enable a Cloud Client to seamlessly and securely use and move between different Clouds simultaneously without changing or accessing profiles. Exemplary multiple Cloud services include development collaboration across different cloud platforms, open gaming, cross referencing, component reuse, user transparent payment, and the like. Brokering connections for interoperability may borrow from telecommunication federation principles, e.g. the telecommunications industry developed standards for telephony interconnection, routing, billing, clearing, and revenue settlement.","It will be appreciated service federation includes not only passing identity information associated with a Cloud Client that may be applied across multiple Clouds, but a federated profile may also include storing multiple copies of identity customer profile with different Cloud providers, as well as storing portions of identity profile in parts across multiple Clouds. For example, a Cloud may desire to cache certain aspects of a Cloud Client's profile that may be particularly relevant to that Cloud and possibly difficult and\/or expensive in terms of time and\/or resources to obtain or reconstruct that data when a Cloud Client reconnects. It will be appreciated various communication techniques and technologies may be employed to federate Cloud Client profile, and that in various embodiments, a Cloud Client may have local controls, preferences, security or other policies that affect and\/or direct the Cloud Client's profile federation (see, e.g.,  item ). In one embodiment, profile federation is implemented using open standards and\/or protocols, such as those to support cross-domain single sign-on with entitlement management. For example OASIS SAML (Security Assertion Markup Language) specification, an XML (eXtensible Markup Language)-based standard for exchanging authentication, authorization data and other profile information may be used at least in part to implement profile federation.","In illustrated embodiments, reference may be directly or indirectly made to physical devices or resources, such as clients, servers, machines, virtual machines, routers\/switches, mass storage, and other machines such as discussed with respect to . It will be appreciated by one skilled in the art, unless specifically called out to have one or more unique characteristic, they are expected to be generic and hence may be substituted one for another or between devices without materially changing inventive intent herein. In illustrated embodiments, reference may also be directly or indirectly made to logical devices, which one skilled in the art will appreciate generally corresponds to associating metadata with a physical device or resource to make it effectively unique from other physical devices or resources. The expression \u201ceffectively unique\u201d is used because while a true globally unique identifier (GUID) of some sort may be used in the associated metadata, one may also use a locally unique or statistically likely to be unique identifier instead. An exemplary logical device is a network interface card (NIC) or other communication endpoint since to enable communication between endpoints, the generic physical device must be assigned metadata (e.g. a Media Access Control (MAC) address or other identification) to allow distinguishing between endpoints.","In addition to physical and logical devices, it will be appreciated virtual devices may be used to implement portions of embodiments of the invention. A virtual device may be thought of as a logical device that is not tied to an actual physical device, but instead operates with respect to arbitrarily defined virtual hardware. Virtual machine environments, for example, utilize virtual hardware abstracting actual underlying physical hardware in which the virtual machine may be operating. In one embodiment, a logical device or a virtual device may be physically separated from associated underlying physical hardware. For example, a logical device in one location may use a network to access physical hardware in a different location.","In one embodiment, a Cloud Client accesses what appears to be a single Cloud service, where the service in fact represents a transparent integration of multiple services in multiple Clouds, where one or more of the services are provided by incompatible vendors in the Cloud. In one embodiment, through use of a federated profile the Cloud Client will not need to reconfigure applications, services, accounts, etc. to access incompatible Clouds and services and instead the Cloud Client has automatic migration and interoperability. Note while reference may be made to a single service or single client, it will be appreciated in various embodiments multiple related and\/or unrelated clients may access multiple related and\/or unrelated services from multiple related and\/or unrelated providers.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["100","102","110","102","108","102","108","104","112","118","110"]},"In the illustrated embodiment, Cloud  may provide any manner of Cloud service or services, such as providing data center services and\/or computational resources to entities within (e.g., communicatively coupled with) the first network . In the illustrated embodiment the Cloud Client accesses cloud services from Cloud , such as to access a virtualized datacenter. Additionally, the Cloud Client also seeks to access services of the remote SaaS Cloud  on the second network  for business functions. In the illustrated embodiment, the local and remote Clouds ,  may use incompatible and\/or proprietary techniques for authenticating and\/or communicating access needs and data transport between the Clouds ,  and the Cloud Client ; however, in the illustrated embodiment, accessing the local and remote Clouds , is transparent to the Cloud Client .","To facilitate this transparent access to services, the Cloud Client  subscribes to a Cloud Federator  located within the local network . While the Cloud Federator is illustrated as being within the first network  it will be appreciated it may instead be located on the second network  or another network (not illustrated) so long as it is communicatively coupled with the Cloud Client  and any other Clouds with which the Cloud Client seeks services. It will be appreciated use of the Cloud Federator  may be on any desired terms, e.g., use may be on free access terms (e.g., as a public service or government subsidy), as a pay per use service (not illustrated is an appropriate transaction tracking\/charging service), as part of a technology access agreement or license agreement (e.g., a corporate or university site license), etc. It will be further appreciated that access may be granular and that individual services or sub-services thereof may have different access terms.","In the illustrated embodiment, the Cloud Federator inside the first network  provides a real-time integration between Cloud  and the SaaS Cloud . The integration services provided by Cloud  can include a variety of services such as modifying data to be transported between Cloud Client  and Cloud services so as to ensure a consistent user interface. It will be appreciated that the Cloud Federator may have predetermined mappings to make various Cloud communication consistent, however the Cloud Federator may contain a hardware and\/or software component, or access an external resource (not illustrated), to allow the Cloud Federator to dynamically classify and\/or modify data for consistent presentation to the Cloud Client.","For example, to present billing data, while many Cloud service may use a common interface for marking the billing data, e.g., by way of a tag based description language such as XML, which may make it simpler to consistently present billing data, some Cloud services may use atypical descriptions or formats and it will be appreciated that a classification component of the Cloud Federator may be used to dynamically analyze the atypical description and conclude it is billing data and present it accordingly. Proper identification of billing data also allows for seamless and automatic payment for services when such payments are authorized, and thus removes any need for a user of the Cloud Client to manually configure payment settings or manually process payments.","In one embodiment, Cloud Federator  implements a Service Abstraction Layer (SAL) that defines a standardized service interface to which is mapped (as needed) service requirements and techniques for different Clouds, with translations as needed for compatibility between various Clouds and the SAL. As will be discussed with respect to  below, various data  may be used to assist with this mapping.","It will be appreciated the Cloud Federator  may itself operate as a Cloud service providing at least seamless and transparent connections between the Cloud Client  and various Clouds regardless of access incompatibilities. It will be appreciated the Cloud Client may provide the Cloud Federator with identities of Clouds to which it seeks to subscribe, however in one embodiment, the Cloud Client identifies a type of services or data to which it seeks to subscribe, and the Cloud Federator locates an appropriate Cloud providing the desired services or data. It will be appreciated in this embodiment the Cloud Federator may apply heuristics (see, e.g.,  AI\/Expert System ) to select a Cloud meeting desired constraints (see, e.g.,  Policies ), such as cost, speed, high availability (e.g., connectivity reliability), etc.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIGS. 1","FIG. 6"],"b":["200","3","4","106","302","402"]},"As illustrated there may be a User Interface (UI) component defining the type of information and\/or formatting a Cloud Client may be expecting to receive. As discussed above with respect to , interaction between the Cloud Client and various Clouds is seamless and transparent, and towards that end a common UI may be adopted by the Cloud Client. It will be appreciated that well known Cloud services may provide their service with a well-defined interface and\/or provide an API (Application Program Interface) or descriptive language to allow a Cloud Client to present different Cloud UI's in a common format as desired by the Cloud Client. In one embodiment, UI  describes the desired UI format to be used for the Cloud Client. It will be appreciated that different Cloud Clients may adopt different UI formats.","Also illustrated is data that may be used by an Artificial Intelligence (AI)\/Expert System\/Search Engine  (hereafter AES). It will be appreciated by one skilled in the art that if a particular Cloud service does not utilize a well-defined format for accessing its service, then it may be somewhat more difficult to present a seamless and transparent access to that particular Cloud's services. In one embodiment, a Cloud Client applies AES data so that an AES may operate as a middle-man between the Cloud Client and the particular Cloud. In one embodiment the AES analyzes data and identifies material for presenting to the Cloud Client. For example, to provide a common UI  with a new Cloud, or as discussed above with respect to  for identifying and utilizing Account and Payment information . It will be appreciated that depending on how the AES is implemented, the entire AES itself may be represented here, such as by way of defining it with a rule set stored within data . It will be appreciated a Cloud Federator may assist a Cloud Client to identify cloud services based at least in part on customer requirements and the AES.","It will be appreciated Cloud Clients may store Account and Payment information  for services for which a Cloud Client is already configured to pay. It will be appreciated a Cloud Client may have constraints such as relating to maximum amount, frequency, contract terms, or other constraints or criteria. Account and Payment information may also include various payment methods, e.g., bank accounts, credit cards, payment services such as PayPal, as well as restrictions or preferences in the use of the payment methods in various contexts. Account and Payment information may also be configured in various embodiments to indicate certain kinds of payments or services, such as adult services, that are simply prohibited. And, as with the UI , it will be appreciated that Account and Payment information may be accessed with respect to the AI\/Expert System  to allow for dynamically analyzing and processing payments with Clouds not using a well known format or interface to their payment system. For brevity herein the AI\/Expert system  will not be called out for how it may be applied with the remaining exemplary data or Cloud related interfaces -, but one skilled in the art will appreciate it may be used.","Also illustrated is Identity information . In one embodiment, the Identity information contains typical identifying information about the Cloud Client, such as device name, device address, tokens for associating payment options (which would be reflected in the Account and Payment information), etc.; however the identifying information may also it may also, or instead, contains identifying information for a user of the Cloud Client, such as the user's name(s), address(es), numeric identifier(s) such as driver's license number, social security number, etc., as well as payment choices (which would be reflected in the Account and Payment information). It will be appreciated that some or all of the Identity information will be used as needed to authenticate a Cloud Client with a particular Cloud or service(s) thereof.","Also illustrated is Applications information  which may contain information to facilitate automatic integration between different Clouds and their services. Applications information may include services for which a Cloud Client wants to access, services that should be avoided, services that should generate a prompt to a user (if the Cloud Client is configured to interact with a user, e.g., some Cloud Clients may be autonomous and\/or embedded without a user interface) for confirmation before accessing. Applications information may also contain information required for seamless and transparent access to a Cloud. For example, as illustrated in , Clouds ,  may have completely different techniques for authentication with the Clouds. Applications information  may be used to store authentication requirements, techniques, security tokens, and other data, as well as utilize, for example, the Account and Payment  information, and the Identity  information, to access the Clouds ,  notwithstanding their having different authentication requirements.","In the illustrated embodiment, there may also be a Cloud Type information. As discussed above the illustrated data  may be multiply instantiated such as records in a database, where a data set is tracked for each cloud for which seamless integration is desired. The Cloud Type may be used to track different types of the Clouds (e.g., SaaS, IaaS, PaaS, etc.) and the  Cloud Federator  being used by a Cloud Client. In one embodiment, the Cloud Federator provides multiple layers of federation, for example, allowing multiple Clouds to be independently authenticated with a Cloud Client with, and, if desired, with different levels of access to Cloud Client features by a Cloud service, and\/or different levels of integration by the Cloud Client to Cloud service(s).","In the illustrated embodiment, there may also Network Connections  information stored, which may track networks over which a certain Cloud or Cloud Type may be accessed, or that may express network connection preferences for various Clouds or Cloud Types, such as to minimize costs. It will be appreciated that Network Connections may have associated roaming preferences to limit or preclude connections depending on the current location or connectivity of the Cloud Client, and that in one embodiment associated costs may be recorded as part of the Network Connections data, or in another embodiment as part of Account and Payment information .","In the illustrated embodiment there may also be associated Policies . These may be systemic policies that may override policies, if any, that might be incorporated into data -, as well as they may be used as the implementation of policies, if any, incorporated into data -. In one embodiment, the Policies may include policies that affect and\/or direct the Cloud Client's federation, including whether, and how, to perform multiple layers of federation.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0040","num":"0039"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":["300","302","304","306","300","308","310","312","314"]},"In the illustrated embodiment, the Cloud Client  seeks similar functions or services from the two different Cloud service providers ,  in the SaaS Cloud , such as the Google File Service (GFS) or database (DB) services. As illustrated, the Cloud Client  subscribes to an Cloud Federator  that operates similarly as discussed above with respect to  in conjunction with  type data  with which the Internet based Cloud Federator  may interact. By accessing the Internet Cloud Federator, the Cloud Client will be able to obtain federation in terms of consistent features as discussed above with respect to , such as a consistent API (Application Programming Interface), application integration, and application management, file system management, network connectivity, in addition to user profile, UI (User Interface), ID\/account managements, etc.","In one embodiment, presentation language is one component that may be federated for consistency. It will be appreciated automatic translation techniques exist that allow for translating from one language to another. In one embodiment, technical context of what type of data is being translated is used to hint, e.g., improve, translation. For example, the word \u201cpounds\u201d in a billing context may translate differently than it might in the context of weight.","It will be appreciated various techniques may be employed to obtain consistency between the SaaS Clouds , . In one embodiment, the Cloud Federator  implements a Service Abstraction Layer (SAL) with which the Cloud Client communicates to, as discussed above, provide a standardized interface to which the SaaS Clouds ,  are mapped (as needed) to access their data and\/or services. This then allows the Cloud Client to only know a single (or relatively few) interfaces, and so long as the Cloud Client can communicate with the Cloud Federator's SAL, the Cloud Client can reliably access multiple Clouds regardless of their implementation details.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0044","num":"0043"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":["400","402","404","406"]},"In this embodiment, Cloud Client  subscribes to an Cloud Federator  located on a Public Access Network (PAN) , such as a network that might be present in an airport, train station, or other area providing network services to a large number of devices, Cloud Clients, etc. It will be appreciated the network being a PAN is for exemplary purposes only and any network, including the Internet, is contemplated.","In the illustrated embodiment, the Cloud Client  subscribes to a Cloud Federator  that operates similarly as discussed above with respect to  Cloud Federator  in conjunction with  type of data  with which the Cloud Federator may interact. By accessing the Cloud Federator, the Cloud Client, as it accesses services and\/or data - provided by different Clouds -, may obtain transparent federation and consistency of API, file system, application integration and management, network connectivity, user profile, UI, ID\/account managements, language, etc.","In one embodiment, by making Clouds consistent through use of the Cloud Federator, an entity (including the Cloud Client ) can construct an entire product offering by combining the platform, infrastructure and services offered by the SaaS, IaaS, and PaaS Clouds, even if the Clouds utilize different techniques to access their services and\/or data. It will be appreciated by one skilled in the art that as discussed with respect to  above, the Cloud Federator  may provide multiple layers of federation between the Cloud Client  and the various Clouds - with which it is operating. By applying the principles discussed above with respect to , Cloud Clients obtain a basic agility to switch between Clouds to receive services such as private\/public, business\/personal, different applications (storage, productivity, security, . . . ), etc.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0048","num":"0047"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIGS. 1"],"b":["500","106","308","408","3","4","502","510","502"]},"Illustrated is a Database Applications Cluster  which it will be appreciated may implement any number of database techniques to provide data storage and data access services. Also illustrated is a Manager , which in one embodiment, provides system management tools to monitor, manage and automate tasks such as database and applications server management, e.g., for Web Applications Cluster  and Database Applications Cluster , hardware and software configuration tracking and cloning, manage database configuration and\/or schema changes, and dynamic resource allocation to facilitate more efficient task performance. The Manager may manage a variety of different platforms, including Microsoft .NET environments, Microsoft SQL Server, Oracle deployment platforms, NetApp Filers, BEA weblogic, etc. An exemplary Manager that could be used is the Oracle Enterprise Manager.","In the illustrated embodiment, there is also a Software and\/or Service Provisioner  to allow for automated and on-demand provisioning of software and\/or services. It will be appreciated that various techniques may be used, such as through application of a script or workflow concept that may be used to identify and classify tasks to be performed, and have associated operations, steps, data input or output, or the like necessary to accomplish a particular task. The scripts or workflows may of course be dynamically responsive to current operating conditions of a service or software to be provisioned. It will be appreciated use of middleware services - allows for enforcing consistency in how applications, databases, software, services, etc. may be managed if the middleware is configured to operate in complementary fashion. An exemplary Software\/Service Provisioner that may be used is the IBM\u00ae Tivoli\u00ae Provisioning Manager.","In the illustrated embodiment, shown is a Distributed Execution and File Services  component to provide a distributed file system and distributed task execution environment. It will be appreciated by one skilled in the art that selected ones of the middleware services - may be used with the Distributed Execution and File Services to provide a task execution environment. In combination these services - represent one exemplary embodiment for exposing a hardware platform to software and middleware to enable federation of services. The illustrated exemplary platform architecture could be used, for example, to provide on-line, subscription-based, real-time services to business clients and consumers for Cloud federation.","In the illustrated embodiment, the services - are communicatively coupled to a Cloud Application Programming Interface (API) . This API allows the services to be designed so as to only have to speak to the API. The API in turn utilizes a Cloud Control Federator  that operates to manage and distribute communication with the services - across multiple SaaS, PaaS and IaaS (SPI) Cloud interfaces -. The SPI interfaces may be configured to provide a front end for desired Cloud services to various requesting Cloud Clients (not illustrated), with the back end hardware environments supporting the service - may be any combination of Virtual Machine Environment , such as an Oracle VMM utilizing the libvirt API, a Dynamic Computation Allocation  environment such as the Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (EC2), or a Distributed Resource Scheduling  environment such as the VMware DRS (Distributed Resource Scheduling). By supporting hardware architectures utilizing virtual machine, dynamic computation allocation, in conjunction with a variety of software and service management middleware services -, it will be appreciated that a very efficient and very scalable architecture is presented that may be used, in conjunction with the Cloud Federators discussed above to provide robust federated access to Cloud services. In one embodiment, increased virtual machine security may be implemented in the illustrated shared cloud environment where private data can be accessed only by authorized applications, and activities can be tracked for auditing and compliance reporting.","Based on the foregoing one skilled in the art can appreciate how a Cloud federation service may be implemented to provide real-time \u201cbroker\u201d for connections and provide interoperability for a user\/Cloud Client, including providing identity federation, so that the Cloud Client can connect to any service without additional user configuration. A federator provides the necessary interoperability, and it should be appreciated by one skilled in the art that identity federation is just one example operation of Cloud Federation, and that the discussion with respect to  should illustrate that many other service, data, events, etc. may be federated. Federation enables simultaneously use of different Clouds along with jumping between clouds without changing profiles or otherwise reconfiguring the Cloud Client. It will be appreciated that a Cloud Client may be dynamically reconfigured as needed, if needed, depending on whether the principles of a SAL (Service Abstraction Layer) have been utilized. It will be further appreciated that with automated federation, there is increased security since there is little room for error, and transparency of operation increases (if applicable) user experience.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0054","num":"0053"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},"Typically, the environment includes a machine  that includes a system bus  to which is attached one or more processors , which may be single or multiple core, as well as dynamically programmable, a memory , e.g., random access memory (RAM), read-only memory (ROM), or other state preserving medium, storage devices , a video interface , and input\/output interface ports . The machine may be controlled, at least in part, by input from conventional input devices, such as keyboards, mice, etc., as well as by directives received from another machine, interaction with a virtual reality (VR) environment, biometric feedback, or other input source or signal.","The machine may include embedded controllers, such as programmable or non-programmable logic devices or arrays, Application Specific Integrated Circuits, embedded computers, smart cards, and the like. The machine may utilize one or more connections to one or more remote machines , , , such as through a network interface , modem , or other communicative coupling. Machines may be interconnected by way of a physical and\/or logical network , such as the networks , ,  of , , . One skilled in the art will appreciated that communication with network  may utilize various wired and\/or wireless short range and\/or long range carriers and protocols, including radio frequency (RF), satellite, microwave, Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) 802.11, Bluetooth, optical, infrared, cable, laser, etc.","The invention may be described by reference to or in conjunction with associated data such as functions, procedures, data structures, application programs, etc. which when accessed by a machine results in the machine performing tasks or defining abstract data types or low-level hardware contexts. Associated data may be stored in, for example, volatile and\/or non-volatile memory , or in storage devices  and\/or associated storage media, including conventional hard-drives, floppy-disks, optical storage, tapes, flash memory, memory sticks, digital video disks, etc., as well as more exotic mediums such as machine-accessible biological state preserving storage. Associated data may be delivered over transmission environments, including network , in the form of packets, serial data, parallel data, propagated signals, etc., and may be used in a compressed or encrypted format. Associated data may be used in a distributed environment, and stored locally and\/or remotely for access by single or multi-processor machines. Associated data may be used by or in conjunction with embedded controllers; hence in the claims that follow, the term \u201clogic\u201d is intended to refer generally to possible combinations of associated data and\/or embedded controllers.","Thus, for example, with respect to the illustrated embodiments, assuming machine  embodies the  Cloud Client , then remote machines ,  may respectively be the SaaS Cloud  and Cloud Federator . It will be appreciated that remote machines ,  may be configured like machine , and therefore include many or all of the elements discussed for machine . Remote Virtual Machine(s)  may represent a virtualized representation of machine ; it will be appreciated the Virtual Machine(s) may be configured so as to increase security, improve performance, or optimize operational characteristics as desired.","Having described and illustrated the principles of the invention with reference to illustrated embodiments, it will be recognized that the illustrated embodiments can be modified in arrangement and detail without departing from such principles. And, though the foregoing discussion has focused on particular embodiments, other configurations are contemplated. In particular, even though expressions such as \u201cin one embodiment,\u201d \u201cin another embodiment,\u201d or the like are used herein, these phrases are meant to generally reference embodiment possibilities, and are not intended to limit the invention to particular embodiment configurations. As used herein, these terms may reference the same or different embodiments that are combinable into other embodiments.","Consequently, in view of the wide variety of permutations to the embodiments described herein, this detailed description is intended to be illustrative only, and should not be taken as limiting the scope of the invention. What is claimed as the invention, therefore, is all such modifications as may come within the scope and spirit of the following claims and equivalents thereto."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The features and advantages of the present invention will become apparent from the following detailed description of the present invention in which:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIGS. 1"],"b":["3","4"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 6"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
