---
title: Quantum based information transmission system and method
abstract: A method and system of data transmission; the method comprising: converting data into qubits; transmitting a first qubit; measuring the first qubit at receiver location; determining whether or not to transmit portions of data from a sequential successive qubit based upon the value of the first qubit measured at the receiver location. The system comprising a sender and at least one receiver, the sender comprising: a converter for converting data into qubits; a modulator for modulating a signal based upon the values of the qubits; a transmitter for transmitting the modulated signal to at least one receiver; the at least one receiver comprising: a detector for measuring the value of at least one qubit; a feedback circuit for transmitting the measured value of the at least one qubit to the sender; whereby the transmission of data for each successive qubit is based upon the value measured for the preceding qubit and the sender utilizes only the data for each successive qubits which correlates to the measured value of the preceding qubit.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08503885&OS=08503885&RS=08503885
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 08503885
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100212
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["RELATED APPLICATIONS","GOVERNMENT INTEREST","FIELD OF THE INVENTION","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS","Example","Sound Spectrum Computation","APPENDIX A COMPUTER LISTING"],"p":["This application claims priority of U.S. Nonprovisional application Ser. No. 11\/196,738, filed Aug. 4, 2005, which issued as U.S. Pat. No. 7,660,533 on Feb. 9, 2010, and U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60\/598,537 filed Aug. 4, 2004, both of which are incorporated herein by reference.","The invention described herein may be manufactured, used, and licensed by or for the United States Government.","This invention relates in general to methods and apparatus for processing, compression, and transmission of data based upon quantum properties and in particular to high density transmission of data.","Quantum computing represents a revolutionary frontier technology undergoing intense development. Quantum computing for example, may render classically intractable computations feasible. In spite of theoretical calculations showing enormous efficiency increases for quantum computers relative to classical computers, such improvements have made slow progress. Yet, the societal implications of data compression and transmission based on quantum computing algorithms are considerable. Transmission of voice, image, video and holographic signals in a lossy, extremely highly compressed format would impact nearly every field of human endeavor. As the usage of cell phones, television signals and internet communications crowds the bandwidth available, there exists a need for compression of data communications.","Quantum communication involves qubits, which are quantum bits or units of quantum information. A qubit may be visualized by a state vector in a two-level quantum-mechanical system. Unlike a classical bit, which can have the value of zero or one, a qubit can have the values of zero or one, or a superposition of both. A qubit may be measured in basis states (or vectors) and a conventional Dirac is used to represent the quantum state values of zero and one herein, as for example, |0 and |1. The \u201cpure\u201d qubit state is a linear superposition of those two states can be represented as combination of |0 and |1 or q=A|0+B|1, or in generalized form as A|0 and B|1 where Aand Brepresent the corresponding probability amplitudes and A+B=1. Unlike classical bits, a qubit can exhibit quantum properties such as quantum entanglement, which allows for higher correlation than that possible in classical systems. When entangled photon pairs are split, the determination of the state (such as polarization or angular momentum) of one of the entangled photons in effect determines the state of the other of the entangled photon pair; since entangle photon pairs are the conjugates of one another. An example of a visualization of a series of qubits is depicted in ; a schematic depicting a prior art three qubit quantum binary tree to illustrate an information storage index space equivalency to eight classical bits. The quantum binary tree of  is depicted for 3 qubits which provides an index space of 8.","The present inventive method allows for the transmission of information over a path wherein the data or information is first converted to qubits. A quantum tree formed of qubits is depicted in , A, B and C. In the example shown, 3 qubits are used. However, the number of qubits may be changed without departing from the scope and principles of the present invention. As the first qubit is transmitted, a measurement takes place and the result is inputted into computer , illustrated in , et seq. Based upon this measurement, as illustrated by the decision tree of , either the left (L) or right (R) portion of qubit  is not used (or transmitted). Following the transmission of the portion of qubit , another measurement takes place and the result is inputted into computer . Based upon this measurement, as illustrated by the decision tree of , either branch A or A is followed. In the example shown in , where the first and second measured values were zeroes, the qubit portions represented by the nodes at the dotted line branches are unused and not transmitted.","Due to the properties of the qubits, a preferred embodiment system employs the quantum Fourier transform (QFT) and a classical or quantum inverse Fourier transform in the measurement process. Data inputted in the form of a wave function, generated using, for example, amplitudes of a given signal, is converted into a quantum state or qubits over which, in a preferred embodiment of the present invention, transforms, such as the quantum Fourier transform (QFT), operate. The conversion of the wave function to a quantum state represented by qubits is described, for example, in GuiLong, Yang Sun; \u201cEfficient scheme for initializing a quantum register with an arbitrary superposed state,\u201d Physical Review A, Volume 64, 014303, hereby incorporated by reference). The quantum Fourier transform is implemented by a series of optical elements implementing quantum operations followed by a measurement as described for example, in Robert B. Griffiths, et al. \u201cSemiclassical Fourier Transform for Quantum Computation,\u201d Physical Review Letters, Apr. 22, 1996, hereby incorporated by reference). Although a particular embodiment is described, other equivalent formulations, processes, and configurations are encompassed within the scope of the invention.","In terms of data flow, a preferred methodology comprises splitting a wave function representative of an input data set into an arbitrarily oriented elliptical polarization state and a comparator wave function state, the comparator wave function state being transmitted to a detector. In a preferred embodiment, a quantum Fourier transform is performed on the arbitrarily oriented elliptical polarization state to yield a quantum computational product. A quantum Hadamard transform is performed on the quantum computational product to yield one of two possible quantum particle outputs. Through feedback circuitry, the input data set is processed based upon the coincident arrival of the comparator wave function state and one of the two quantum particle outputs. Data compression and transmission in accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention may be performed on either a quantum computer or a digital computer.","A data communication system operating on quantum computation principles includes a light source having a photon output coding an input data set. A Type-I or Type-II nonlinear crystal converts the photon output into an entangled photon output. An arbitrarily oriented polarization state is assured by passing the entangled photon output through a polarization modulator () and a phase modulator (). A polarization interferometer () performs a controlled phase shift transform on the arbitrarily oriented polarization state as an interferometer output. A halfwave plate then performs a quantum. Hadamard gate transform to generate one of two possible photon states from the interferometer output thus completing the operations required for a quantum Fourier transform. Coincidence electronics reconstruct the input data set a distance from the light source. The reconstruction is based on the coincident arrival of the one of two possible photon states and at least one of the entangled photon output or the interferometer output. The result is then fed back via computer  and associated circuitry whereupon the computer  in conjunction with polarization modulator () and a phase modulator (), based upon the \u201cbranch\u201d determinations, processes only portions of the succeeding qubits, resulting in reduction in the amount of data which is transmitted.","The present invention has utility in data transmission. A quantum computing algorithm for processing data has greater than classical efficiency when run on a quantum computer. It is appreciated that an embodiment of the present invention comprises a method for data compression and transmission that is operative in a classical digital computing environment although without the superior speed and information storage properties of qubits that are realized on a quantum computer. While the present invention is hereafter detailed in the context of sound compression and transmission, it is appreciated that data corresponding to any number of media are equally well suited for transmission in a highly compressed and lossy manner, such as light transmission. Data set types other than sound readily transmitted according to the present invention illustratively include images, video, holograms, digital instrument output and numerical streams.","A preferred embodiment of the present invention includes a system for the transmission and reconstruction of a data set through the utilization of a quantum Fourier transform (QFT) operation on qubits coding the data set.","A preferred embodiment of the present invention prepares a wave function in a n data set; as described for example in Long and Sun; \u201cEfficient scheme for initializing a quantum register with an arbitrary superposed state, \u201cPhysical Review A, vol. 64, Issue 1, 014303 (2001) (hereinafter \u201cLong and Sun\u201d). In \u201cLong and Sun,\u201d a scheme is presented that can most generally initialize a quantum register with an arbitrary superposition of basis states as a step in quantum computation and quantum information processing. For example, \u201cLong and Sun\u201d went beyond a simple quantum state such as |i, ii, . . . i with ibeing either 0 or 1, to construct an arbitrary superposed quantum state. \u201cLong and Sun\u201d utilize the implementation of O(Nn) standard 1- and 2-bit gate operations, without introducing additional quantum bits. The terminology arbitrary superposed quantum state as used herein correlates to the construction of an arbitrary superposed quantum state as described, inter glia, in \u201cLong and Sun.\u201d","As depicted in , a series of optical elements are provided to act as quantum operators followed by a measurement to implement the quantum Fourier transform. R. B. Griffiths, C.-S. Niu; 76, 3328-3231 (1996). An optical bench with appropriate electronics is well suited to function as a quantum computer for the compression and transmission of data corresponding to sound. Those of ordinary skill in the art can appreciate that although an optical bench is described as the platform for generating and performing operations on qubits, it is appreciated that three plus qubit quantum computers are known to the art based on ion trapping and the nuclear magnetic resonance spectrometer.","An inventive quantum computing system has been developed for data processing. The data set amplitudes, such as sound amplitudes, are represented by a quantum wave function. The wave function is in turn coded into the qubits of quantum particles. Preferably, the quantum particles are photons, but trapped ions or magnetic spin states can also be utilized to practice the principles of the present invention.","In the practice of the present invention on a classical computer, the data series, that for illustrative purposes is a sound, is broken into a series of segments each represented by the number of qubits that the classical computer can store and compute. In a quantum computer, the quantum particles, preferably photons, are operated on by optical components to perform the inventive method steps.","The method of the present invention relies on the use of qubits in a quantum computer or the simulation of qubits in a classical computer. Qubits comprise superpositions of ones and zeros where both simultaneously exist. Photons that define the wave function are subjected to a quantum Fourier transform operation. In the process, the photons are measured thereby destroying the quantum state, but providing the measured probability in terms of the wave function and its complex conjugate\n\n\u2003\u2003(1)\n","An inverse Fourier transform (FT) is then applied to the square root of the measured probability to recover a lossy intelligible data compression in the form of quantum particle detection. It is appreciated that the inverse Fourier transform may be either a classical or quantum transform. A classical fast Fourier transform is readily performed by optical bench elements or through a classical computer program. The forward and inverse transforms are conducted using a relatively small sample of the wave function Fourier modes which has the property of preserving much of the intelligibility of the data while providing a compression and communication efficiency. Using the quantum computing simulation of a classical computer according to the present invention, a sound data set (for example) is intelligibly reproduced with a lossy compression factor over a classical computation. Computational efficiency with the present invention increases in the case of an increasing set of qubits. In practice, the inventive method allows for the transmission of information over a long path using a small number of photons. Data transmission with a small number of photons carrying the data in a quantum particle form is amenable to free optical path transmission through air or vacuum, through optical fibers and via satellite transmission. As a result, a first location remote from a second location is retained in communication therebetween with the transmission of a comparatively small number of qubits of quantum particles relative to the data exchanged. Photons are amenable to transit in an environment exposed to climactic weather between the locations. It is appreciated that co-linear transmission of a comparator wave function state and an information carrying state facilitates long-range data transmission.","State Preparation","According to the present invention, a data set is modeled by, or in the form of, a wave function. By way of example, a sound is characterized by intensity amplitudes at uniformly spaced intervals",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00001","num":"00001"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["\u03b1","i"]},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mi":"\u03b1","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"msub":{"mi":["t","i"]}}}},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mtext":{}},"mi":"where"}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"2"}}]},{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["t","i"]},"mo":"=","mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"t","mn":"0"},"mo":"+","mrow":{"munderover":{"mo":"\u2211","mrow":{"mi":"j","mo":"=","mn":"1"},"mi":"i"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mi":"\u0394","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["t","j"]},"mo":"."}}}}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"3"}}]}]}}}},"A superimposed quantum form is applied to the sound data set to facilitate quantum computer manipulation. To accomplish the quantification, data amplitudes are equated to a wave function in the form of a series",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0034"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00002","num":"00002"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mi":"\u03c8","mo":"=","mrow":{"munderover":{"mo":"\u2211","mrow":[{"mi":"i","mo":"=","mn":"0"},{"msup":{"mn":"2","mi":"N"},"mo":"-","mn":"1"}]},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["\u03b1","i"]},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mo":["\uf603","\u232a"],"mi":"i"}}}},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mtext":{}},"mi":"where"}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"4"}}]},{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mo":["\uf603","\u232a"],"mi":"i"}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"5"}}]}]}}}},"is the quantum state key. The qubits are characterized as the quantum state superpositions\n\n|0|1.\u2003\u2003(6)\n\nA quantum probability conservation condition is imposed such that\n\n=1.\u2003\u2003(7)\n","To account for the quantum superposition, the quantum data is organized in terms of a conventional quantum binary tree. A prior art quantum binary tree is depicted as a branching between 0 and 1 outcomes for successive steps in . Using the qubit representation shown in , the first step is to determine whether a one or zero exists at the first branch located at the top of the triangle depicted in . If a zero value is present, Branch A is followed and the right side of the triangle or the \u201cBranch B\u201d becomes unnecessary to future determinations. Elimination of the \u201cB Branch\u201d results in data compression.  is a depiction of the second level branching following the determination depicted to the left in . If the value is zero, Branch A is followed. If the value is one, Branch A is followed. In each case, the other branch is eliminated resulting in data compression.  is a depiction of the third level branching following the determination depicted to the left in . If the value is zero, Branch A is followed. If the value is one, Branch A is followed. In each case, the other branch is eliminated resulting in further data compression. The particular values selected for depiction in  are merely exemplary. Results a \u201cone\u201d determination at first level are not shown in  to make the diagram easier to follow. Results of a \u201cone\u201d determination at the second level are not shown in  to make the diagram easier to follow.","The outcomes of the successive steps sum to the values 0 through 2\u22121, where n is the number of qubits. The means of obtaining the 0 or 1 depends on the specific experimental and corresponding simulation implementation. There are several conventional rules that are possible for determining the 0 or 1 value. For example, a 0 state may correspond to a horizontal measurement and the 1 may correspond to a vertical measurement, or the reverse may be true. In general, the series of qubit measurements are prepared such that each value of the state preparation is conditioned to determine the 0 or 1 at each branch. An alternate qubit architecture operative herein is termed \u201cwinner take all.\u201d In the simulation depicted in , n qubit measurements are made. The n value is determinative of the first branch. The 2\u2033 are divided into two parts, lower 0 to ((2\/2)\u22121 and higher indices ((2\/2) to 2\u22121. The side with the greatest sum of the indices measured determines the path of the first branch. The second level branch has one half the number of indices of the first branch. Consecutive indices assigned are from the selected half from the first branch. The same process is used for the second branch level as from the first branch, but with half of the indices. This process repeats until all the branching is determined and the selected single index is determined. The quantum binary tree depicted in prior art  for three qubits provides an index space of eight. The quantum binary tree is expandable to n qubits which is equivalent to an index space of 2over which transforms, such as the QFT operate.","The quantum superposition amplitudes at any qubit level in the binary tree may be constructed from sound amplitudes",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0040","num":"0039"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00003","num":"00003"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["A","k"]},"mo":"=","mrow":{"munderover":{"mo":"\u2211","mrow":[{"mi":"i","mo":"=","mn":"0"},{"mi":"i","mo":"=","mrow":{"mfrac":{"mrow":{"msup":{"mn":"2","mi":"n"},"mo":"\u2062","mi":"k"},"mn":"2"},"mo":"-","mn":"1"}}]},"mo":"\u2062","msub":{"mi":"\u03b1","mn":"1"}}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"8"}}]}}}},"br":[{},{},{}],"in-line-formulae":[{},{}],"i":"n","sub":"k"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0041","num":"0040"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00004","num":"00004"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["B","k"]},"mo":"=","mrow":{"munderover":{"mo":"\u2211","mrow":[{"mi":"i","mo":"=","mfrac":{"mrow":{"msup":{"mn":"2","mi":"n"},"mo":"\u2062","mi":"k"},"mn":"2"}},{"mi":"i","mo":"=","mrow":{"mrow":{"msup":{"mn":"2","mi":"n"},"mo":"\u2062","mi":"k"},"mo":"-","mn":"1"}}]},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"\u03b1","mn":"1"},"mo":"."}}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"10"}}]}}}},"br":{}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0042","num":"0041"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00005","num":"00005"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"\u03b1","mn":"0"},"mo":"=","mrow":{"munderover":{"mo":"\u220f","mrow":[{"mi":"i","mo":"=","mn":"0"},{"mi":"i","mo":"=","mrow":{"mrow":{"msup":{"mn":"2","mi":"n"},"mo":"\u2062","mi":"k"},"mo":"-","mn":"1"}}]},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"msub":{"mi":["A","i"]}}},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mtext":{}},"mi":"and"}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"11"}}]},{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["\u03b1","k"]},"mo":"=","mrow":{"munderover":{"mo":"\u220f","mrow":[{"mi":"i","mo":"=","mn":"0"},{"mi":"i","mo":"=","mrow":{"mrow":{"msup":{"mn":"2","mi":"n"},"mo":"\u2062","mi":"k"},"mo":["-","-"],"mn":"1","mi":"j"}}]},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mrow":{"munderover":{"mo":"\u220f","mrow":[{"mi":"j","mo":"=","mn":"0"},{"mi":["j","i"],"mo":"="}]},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["A","i"]},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["B","j"]},"mo":"."}}}}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"12"}}]}]}}},"br":{}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0043","num":"0042"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00006","num":"00006"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mi":"k","mo":"=","mrow":{"munderover":{"mo":"\u2211","mrow":[{"mi":"i","mo":"=","mn":"0"},{"mi":"i","mo":"=","mrow":{"mi":"n","mo":"-","mn":"1"}}]},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mrow":[{"mo":["(",")"],"msup":{"mn":"2","mrow":{"mi":["n","i"],"mo":"-"}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["\u2329","\u232a"],"mrow":{"mo":["\uf603","\uf604"],"msub":{"mi":"q","mn":"1"}}},"mo":"."}],"mo":"\u2062"}}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"13"}}]}}}},"br":[{},{},{}],"in-line-formulae":[{},{}],"img":[{"@attributes":{"id":"CUSTOM-CHARACTER-00012","he":"3.13mm","wi":"0.68mm","file":"US08503885-20130806-P00003.TIF","alt":"custom character","img-content":"character","img-format":"tif"}},{"@attributes":{"id":"CUSTOM-CHARACTER-00013","he":"3.13mm","wi":"0.68mm","file":"US08503885-20130806-P00001.TIF","alt":"custom character","img-content":"character","img-format":"tif"}}],"i":"q","sub":"i","sup":"th "},"Quantum Data Simulation","Superpositions of qubits are used to store and process data such as sound. The amplitude of the \u201cdata\u201d can be stored as the amplitudes of a superposed quantum state\n\n\u03c9=\u03a3\u03b1.\u2003\u2003(15)\n\nwhere |k is the eigenstate of \u03a8. The term  can be decomposed as a direct product of qubits\n\n||q . . . |q\u2003\u2003(16)\n\nwhich compacts storage requirements by a factor of log 2 relative to a classical computation. A data set of size 2can be stored and operated on in n quantum bits. Mathematical transforms can also be performed on the quantum stored signal with the associated computational savings.\n","Quantum Computational System","According to the present invention, data compression and transmission are preferably performed using photons as quantum particle qubits. Various system configurations are depicted in accompanying  where like numerals described with reference to subsequent figures correspond to previously detailed elements.","Referring now to , an inventive system is depicted generally at . A data encoder  converts the data set to a set of photonic qubits that satisfies the expression of Equation 15 and triggers a light source  accordingly. Preferably, the light source  is a laser. Exemplary lasers operative herein illustratively include Nd:YAG, ion lasers, diode lasers, excimer lasers, dye lasers, and frequency modified lasers. Photons  emitted from the light source  are optionally passed through a spatial filter . Filter  converts the photons  in an image space domain to a spatial frequency domain and serves the purpose of removing, for example, stripe noise of low frequency and\/or high frequency noise. The noise associated with system fluctuations illustratively including line noise powering the light source , thermal gradients, detector noise, and inherent quantum noise. The photons  having passed through spatial filter  are then passed through a Type-II nonlinear optics crystal . Type-II nonlinear optic crystals are well known to the art and illustratively include potassium dihydrogen phosphate, potassium titanyl phosphate, beta-barium borate, cesium lithium borate and adamantyl amino nitro pyridine. A dichroic mirror  is used to selectively reflect out of the beam path  those photons  that have changed wavelength as a result of passing through the crystal . A beam stop  blocks the path of photons . The entangled photons  are split by interaction with a polarization beam splitter . The entangled photons  are split into a known photon state  and a comparator wave function state . The comparator wave function state  is directed onto a single photon counting module  by an optional mirror set . It is appreciated that a reorganization of beam paths in the system  obviates the need for mirror set . The detection of the comparator wave function state  by the single photon counting module  is fed to coincidence electronics  and is used to reconstruct the data set. The known photon state  is then passed through a polarization modulator  and a phase modulator . Exemplary polarization phase modulators illustratively include liquid crystals, Kerr cells, and Pockel cells. Preferably, a series of two liquid crystal devices and a quarter wave plate are used to achieve arbitrary polarization. Upon the known photon state  interacting with the polarization and phase modulators  and , respectively, the known photon state  is transformed into an arbitrarily oriented elliptical polarization state  based on the data set signal being transformed and any previously measured photon state, if any is known. The arbitrarily oriented elliptical polarization state  is optionally reflected from a mirror  and then enters a polarization interferometer depicted generally at . The interferometer  depicted has the geometry of a polarization Mach-Zehnder interferometer and includes a polarization beam splitter  that transmits one portion  to a phase modulator  resulting in a phase shift in the light component  reaching polarization beam splitter  relative to the other polarization component . Polarization beam splitter  recombines beam components  and  to complete a controlled phase shift transform on the recombined state  from the interferometer . Ancillary mirrors collectively numbered  are provided to reflect light in desired directions. The controlled phase shift transformed light component representing a recombined phase state  then interacts with a half wave plate oriented at 22.5 degrees  in order to implement a quantum Hadamard gate transformation therein and thus complete a quantum Fourier transform. The half wave plate  provides a qubit prioritized input  to a polarization beam splitter .","The process that computes the Quantum Fourier Transform (QFT) of a signal may be described as follows. First, the computer or device that holds the signal divides the signal into a series of sections. Each section contains N samples of the signal. This section of N samples is then used to prepare the first qubit of the quantum state using a prescribed technique for the QFT. This quantum state is then passed though a device that applies a particular phase shift appropriate to this qubit of the QFT. The qubit is then measured and the result of that measurement is recorded as a 0 or 1. This measurement is also used to determine which half of the N samples of the current signal section are used as a subsection to prepare the next qubit, the other half is not needed to prepare the next qubit. This qubit and all the remaining qubits generated for the original signal section are prepared and measured in a similar way with each qubit measurement using only half of the remaining signal subsection to prepare the next qubit. This process ends when the last qubit that is prepared using only 2 samples of the signal section. When all these qubits have been measured for one section we have a binary number that tells us to add 1 to the bin addressed by that binary number, for instance the binary number 010 would indicate address 2 and the binary number 110 would indicate address 6. These steps are repeated a number of times on the same signal section to generate a power spectrum representation of the signal section. Signal processing techniques such as a classical inverse Fourier transform or compressive sensing\/sampling can used on this power spectrum to reconstruct the initial signal section in a lossy but still recognizable manner.","In the QFT a number of photons, each with prepared qubit states, are sent sequentially through quantum controlled phase transforms followed by quantum Hadamard transforms. The state preparation is accomplished by setting the values of the phase and setting the photons to particular elliptical polarization values.","The Hadamard transform is a quantum transform operating on one qubit at a time. The Hadamard gate transform is given as",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0052","num":"0051"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00007","num":"00007"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":[{"mn":"1"},{"mn":"1"}]},{"mtd":[{"mn":"1"},{"mrow":{"mo":"-","mn":"1"}}]}]}},"mo":"."}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"17"}}]}}}},"br":[{},{},{}],"in-line-formulae":[{},{}],"i":["q","\u2032","=H|q"],"sub":["n",{"sub2":"k"},"n",{"sub2":"k"},"k "],"img":[{"@attributes":{"id":"CUSTOM-CHARACTER-00023","he":"3.13mm","wi":"0.68mm","file":"US08503885-20130806-P00001.TIF","alt":"custom character","img-content":"character","img-format":"tif"}},{"@attributes":{"id":"CUSTOM-CHARACTER-00024","he":"3.13mm","wi":"0.68mm","file":"US08503885-20130806-P00001.TIF","alt":"custom character","img-content":"character","img-format":"tif"}}]},"Hadamard transforms in the order of the most significant qubit to the least significant qubit.","The initial state of each photon qubit is conditioned on the measured values of each photon that went before.","A single photon is operated upon by a Hadamard transform, with the effect of Hadamard transforms on multiple photons representing an entire wave function is represented by the combined Hadamard transform.","Wave Function Transform","The total wave function made of arbitrary superposed states is operated on by the combined Hadamard transform\n\n|\u03c8\u2032=|\u03c8\u2003\u2003(19)\n\nwhere\n\n\u2003\u2003(20)\n\nHere the direct product of the identities is repeated until all of the qubits are taken into account.\n","Single photon counting modules  and  count individual photons with a given polarization and report a counting event to coincidence electronics . Only when coincidence is noted between a photon counting event at module  and , or between module  and module  is the count considered a valid probability density function measurement. The probability density function is defined by\n\n\u2003\u2003(21)\n\nand sets the number of times on the average that a photon lands in an indexed space interval. For n qubits there are 2indexed space intervals.\n","A determination as to the polarization of each photon is provided by signal measurement at one of the single photon counting modules  and . The polarization of each photon is measured at the end of the photon path through the Hadamard gate and electro-optics. If horizontal (0) then no phase operations applies to the remaining qubits. Otherwise, a controlled phase operation Ris applied to remaining operations. The Rset is defined as",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0060","num":"0059"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00008","num":"00008"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["R","m"]},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":[{"mn":"1"},{"mn":"0"}]},{"mtd":[{"mn":"0"},{"msup":{"mi":"\u2147","mfrac":{"mrow":{"mi":["i","\u03c0"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}},"msup":{"mn":"2","mrow":{"mi":["\u0394","n"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}}}}}}]}]}},"mo":"."}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"22"}}]}}}}},"The term \u0394n represents the distance between the nindices of the binary tree levels under consideration,\n\n\u0394\u2003\u2003(23)\n","The output of an inventive system is provided to a buffer store. From the buffer store it may be provided to an output device on either a real-time or delayed basis as still images, video images, movies, audio sound representations, and the like.","Referring now to  where an inventive system is depicted generally at , the system  has numerous features in common with that system depicted in  and such attributes share like numerals with those detailed with respect to . In contrast to system  depicted in , the system  includes an interferometer shown generally at  that has the geometry of a polarization Mickelsen interferometer. The interferometer  receives an arbitrarily oriented elliptical polarization state  incident on a polarization beam splitter  that splits the arbitrarily oriented elliptical polarization state  with one component of the polarization  phase shifted at phase modulator  relative to the other polarization component . The polarization component  interacts with a quarter wave plate  rotating polarization by 90 degrees. Phase component  is then reflected from mirror  back to polarization beam splitter  where the phase component  is recombined with phase shifted polarization component  that has passed through polarization modulator , a quarter wave plate  rotating the polarization by 90 degrees and returning to polarization beam splitter through reflection from translating mirror . It is appreciated that the phase modulator  is readily removed and the phase difference applied to phase shifted polarization component  is imparted by the translating mirror . Regardless of the specific components of interferometer , the recombined state  is reflected off mirror  and further manipulated as detailed with respect to  such that a valid probability density function measurement is only counted upon coincidence between photon detection at modules  and , or between modules  and .","Referring now to , an inventive system is depicted generally at , the system  has numerous features in common with that system depicted in  and such attributes share like numerals with those detailed with respect to . In contrast to system  depicted in , the system  includes an interferometer shown generally at  that has the geometry of a polarization Sagnac interferometer. The arbitrarily oriented elliptical polarization state  is split at polarization beam splitter  to phase shift a polarization component  through interaction with a phase modulator . A second component  is recombined with the phase shifted component  through coincidental reflection with the mirrors collectively labeled . The recombined state  is reflected by mirror  onto a half wave plate  to implement a quantum Hadamard gate transformation.","Single photon counting modules  and  count individual photons with a given polarization and report a counting event to coincidence electronics . Only when coincidence is noted between a photon counting event at module  and , or between module  and module  is the count considered a valid probability density function measurement.","Referring now to , an inventive system is depicted generally at  that is a Type-I nonlinear optics crystal analog in the system  depicted with reference to , where like numerals used with reference to  correspond to the description of those previously provided with respect to . A Type-I nonlinear crystal  generates entangled photon pairs with the same known polarization from photons . Type-I nonlinear optical crystals operative herein illustratively include beta-barium borate, potassium niobate, lithium triborate and cesium lithium borate. Preferably, the crystal  is tuned for non-degenerative down conversion with regard to dichroic mirror . The entangled photon pair with same known polarization  is separated from frequency shifted components  that are in turn terminated at beam stop . The monochromatic known polarization beam  is incident on polarization beam splitter  and that component with a known photon state  is directed through a polarization modulator , a phase modulator  to yield an arbitrarily oriented polarization state  that is optionally reflected off mirror  and into interferometer  that has the geometry of a polarization Mach-Zehnder interferometer. Second photon state  is directed onto beam stop . The arbitrarily oriented elliptical polarization state  retains characteristics of the data set signal to be subsequently transformed in any previously measured photon state, if such is known. The interferometer  depicted has the geometry of a polarization Mach-Zehnder interferometer and includes a polarization beam splitter  that transmits one portion  to a phase modulator  resulting in a phase shift in the light component  reaching polarization beam splitter  relative to the other polarization component . Polarization beam splitter  recombines beam components  and  to complete a quantum Fourier transform on the recombined state  from the interferometer . Ancillary mirrors collectively number  are provided to reflect light in desired directions. The recombined state  is such that one of the photons of an entangled photon pair is reflected by dichroic mirror  to single photon counting module  while the other photon of the entangled photon pair will be transmitted onto the half wave plate .","Single photon counting modules  and  count individual photons with a given polarization and report a counting event to coincidence electronics . Only when coincidence is noted between a photon counting event at module  and , or between module  and module  is the count considered a valid probability density function measurement. It is appreciated that a co-linear transmission of the combined state  or the arbitrarily oriented polarization state is well suited for remote transmission between the light source  and coincidence electronics .","Referring now to , a Type-I nonlinear optical crystal analog system is depicted in general at 180 relative to system  of , where like numerals used with reference to  correspond to the description of those previously described with respect to the proceeding figures. A Type-I nonlinear crystal  generates entangled photon pairs with the same known polarization from photons . Preferably, the crystal  is tuned for non-degenerative down conversion with regard to dichroic minor . The entangled photon pair with same known polarization  is separated from frequency shifted components  that are terminated at beam stop . The monochromatic known polarization beam  is incident on polarization beam splitter  and that component with a known photon state  is directed through a polarization modulator , a phase modulator  to yield an arbitrarily oriented elliptical polarization state  that is reflected off minor  and into an interferometer shown generally at  that has the geometry of a polarization Mickelsen interferometer. The interferometer  receives the arbitrarily oriented elliptical polarization state  incident on a polarization beam splitter  that splits the arbitrarily oriented elliptical polarization state  with one component of the polarization  phase shifted at phase modulator  relative to the other polarization component . The polarization component  interacts with a quarter wave plate  rotating polarization by 90 degrees. Phase polarization component  is then reflected from mirror  back to polarization beam splitter  where the phase component  is recombined with phase shifted polarization component  that has passed through polarization modulator , a quarter wave plate  rotating the polarization by 90 degrees and returning to polarization beam splitter through reflection off of translating mirror . Second photon state  is directed onto beam stop . The arbitrarily oriented elliptical polarization state  retains characteristics of the data set signal to be subsequently transformed in any previously measured photon state, if such is known. The combined state  is transmitted through a half wave plate  oriented at so as to perform a quantum Hadamard transform to yield recombined transformed output . The recombined transformed output  is such that one of the photon components thereof is reflected by dichroic mirror  to single photon counting module  while the other photon component is carried to beam splitter  to yield a single photon registered on one of the single photon counting modules  or .","Single photon counting modules  and  count individual photons with a given polarization and report a counting event to coincidence electronics . Only when coincidence is noted between a photon counting event at module  and , or between module  and module  is the count considered a valid probability density function measurement.","Referring now to , a Type-I nonlinear optical crystal analog system is depicted in general at  relative to system  of , where like numerals used with reference to  correspond to the description of those previously described with respect to the proceeding figures. A Type-I nonlinear crystal  generates entangled photon pairs with the same known polarization from photons . Preferably, the crystal  is tuned for non-degenerative down conversion with regard to dichroic mirror . The entangled photon pair with same known polarization  is separated from frequency shifted components  that are terminated at beam stop . The known polarization beam  is incident on polarization beam splitter  and that component with a known photon state  is directed to a polarization modulator . The polarization modulator  and phase modulator  are controlled by computer , which determines which half of the data to process based upon the last measurement fed back from coincident detector , which is connected to the computer  by lines  and . The component with a known photon state is directed through a polarization modulator  and phase modulator  to yield an arbitrarily oriented elliptical polarization state  that is reflected off mirror  and into an interferometer shown generally at  that has the geometry of a polarization Sagnac interferometer. The interferometer  receives the arbitrarily oriented elliptical polarization state  incident on a polarization beam splitter  that splits the arbitrarily oriented elliptical polarization state  to phase shift a polarization component  through interaction with a phase modulator . Phase Modulator  is also connected to computer  by lines  and . The computer  controls the phase modulator  depending upon the stage of the Fourier transform. Optionally, a second computer  may be used to control phase modulator  if the phase modulator is at a remote location. The second component  is recombined with the phase shifted component  through coincidental reflection with the mirrors collectively labeled . Second photon state  is directed onto beam stop . The arbitrarily oriented elliptical polarization state  retains characteristics of the data set signal to be subsequently transformed in any previously measured photon state, if such is known. The combined state  is transmitted through a half wave plate  oriented at so as to perform a quantum Hadamard transform to yield recombined transformed output . The recombined transformed output  is such that one of the photon components thereof is reflected by dichroic mirror  to single photon counting module  while the other photon component is carried to beam splitter  to yield a single photon registered on one of the single photon counting modules  or .","Single photon counting modules  and  count individual photons with a given polarization and report a counting event to coincidence electronics . Only when coincidence is noted between a photon counting event at module  and , or between module  and module  is the count considered a valid probability density function measurement. The coincidence electronics  feed the result back to the computer  via lines  and  so that the computer  determines which portion of the data to process next and how to prepare the data bases on the last measurement detected by the coincidence electronics. This feature is depicted in  where dotted lines are used to show data paths which are no longer in use and the 4 BINS labeled R are no longer used, while the 4 BINS labeled L remain to be processed. By making a determination not to use the 4 BINS labeled R as depicted in , data compression is achieved.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0072","num":"0071"},"figref":["FIG. 9","FIG. 9","FIGS. 2-7"],"b":["12","10","12","12","14","16"]},"In order to evaluate the ability of the inventive quantum algorithm to compress and transmit a signal representative of the data set with a comparatively small number of photons, 32 sound samples defining a normalized arbitrary spectrum are provided in the top left panel of . The histogram defines a quantized spectrum while the solid lines superimposed thereover represent classical Fourier (gray line) transform and QFT (black line) fits to the data. The 32 sound sample elements of the top left spectrum are amenable to storage and operation on 2or 5 qubits. The top right panel of  represents a single statistical evaluation of the arbitrary spectrum depicted in the top left panel. The line superimpositions on the histogram in the top right represents a classical and quantum magnitude superposition. The lower left panel is duplicative of the conventional four photon single evaluation of the arbitrary spectrum (upper left panel) and represents the input signal into the quantum computer depicted in . The lower right panel depicts the reconstructed arbitrary spectrum (upper left panel) based on quantum Fourier transform as described herein, followed by an inverse Fourier transform. The solid overlapping lines represent reconstructed probability and classical magnitudes.","Patent documents and publications mentioned in the specification are indicative of the levels of those skilled in the art to which the invention pertains. These documents and publications are incorporated herein by reference to the same extent as if each individual document or publication was specifically and individually incorporated herein by reference.","The terminology \u201ccomputer\u201d as used herein means processor, microprocessor, CPU, multiprocessor, personal computer or any device which has the capability of performing the functions of a computer.","The foregoing description is illustrative of particular embodiments of the invention, but is not meant to be a limitation upon the practice thereof. The following claims, including all equivalents thereof, are intended to define the scope of the invention.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0077","num":"0076"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00001","num":"00001"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"203pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"function scqft"]},{"entry":[{},"% Test of Semi-Classical Fourier"]},{"entry":[{},"%%profile on"]},{"entry":[{},"warning(\u2018off\u2019, \u2018all\u2019)"]},{"entry":[{},"H=hadamard(2)*sqrt(2) \/2;"]},{"entry":[{},"%%[ys Fs bits] =wavread(\u2018hal90005k.wav\u2019);"]},{"entry":[{},"[ys Fs bits]=wavread(\u2018kennedy_PCMa.wav\u2019);"]},{"entry":[{},"%%[ys Fs bits]=wavread(\u2018postest2.wav\u2019);"]},{"entry":[{},"%%[ys Fs bits]=wavread(\u2018chimes.wav\u2019);"]},{"entry":[{},"%[ys Fs bits]=wavread(\u2018G2.wav\u2019);"]},{"entry":[{},"%%[MM NN]=size(ys)"]},{"entry":[{},"%%%sb=fix(size(ys(512+1:512+2{circumflex over (\u2002)}17)));"]},{"entry":[{},"sb=fix(size(ys));"]},{"entry":[{},"%%sb=fix(size(ys(1:256)))"]},{"entry":[{},"NBits=fix(log2(sb(1)))+1"]},{"entry":[{},"%%% TEST"]},{"entry":[{},"%%NBits=10"]},{"entry":[{},"NBits=19"]},{"entry":[{},"%%NBits=15"]},{"entry":[{},"%%ttt=BuildPhase(1,3)"]},{"entry":[{},"pause"]},{"entry":[{},"2{circumflex over (\u2002)}NBits"]},{"entry":[{},"A=zeros(2{circumflex over (\u2002)}NBits,1);"]},{"entry":[{},"AR=A;"]},{"entry":[{},"%%AR(1:2{circumflex over (\u2002)}NBits)=ys(1:2{circumflex over (\u2002)}NBits);"]},{"entry":[{},"AR(1:sb(1))=ys(1:sb(1));"]},{"entry":[{},"%%AR=AR+.1;"]},{"entry":[{},"%%AR=[\u2212sqrt(\u2212.25) .2 sqrt(\u2212.6) 1];"]},{"entry":[{},"%%AR=[1 0 0 1 0 0 1 0 0 1 0 0 1 0 0 1];"]},{"entry":[{},"%%AR=[\u2212sqrt(\u22121) \u2212.25 .75*sqrt(\u22121) 1];"]},{"entry":[{},"%%AR=2*rand(1, 2{circumflex over (\u2002)}NBits\u22121;"]},{"entry":[{},"%%R=sqrt(AR);"]},{"entry":[{},"AR=AR\/sqrt(sum(AR.*conj(AR)));"]},{"entry":[{},"%%AR=transpose(AR);"]},{"entry":[{},"[min(AR) max(AR)]"]},{"entry":[{},"plot(AR)"]},{"entry":[{},"hold on"]},{"entry":[{},"arsize=size(AR)"]},{"entry":[{},"%%pause"]},{"entry":[{},"% Output Subset"]},{"entry":[{},"wavwrite(AR,Fs,bits, \u2018haltest.wav\u2019)"]},{"entry":[{},"AR1=AR-min(AR);"]},{"entry":[{},"AR1=AR1\/max(AR1);"]},{"entry":[{},"wavwrite(AR1,Fs,bits,\u2018haldc.wav\u2019)"]},{"entry":[{},"clear AR1"]},{"entry":[{},"asum=sum(abs(AR))"]},{"entry":[{},"A=AR;"]},{"entry":[{},"A(1:2{circumflex over (\u2002)}NBits)=0;"]},{"entry":[{},"%%% TEST AR1 was AR"]},{"entry":[{},"A(1:1:2{circumflex over (\u2002)}NBits)=AR(1:1:2{circumflex over (\u2002)}NBits);"]},{"entry":[{},"size(A)"]},{"entry":[{},"size(AR)"]},{"entry":[{},"clear AR"]},{"entry":[{},"NSamples=5;"]},{"entry":[{},"spectrum=zeros(2{circumflex over (\u2002)}NBits,1);"]},{"entry":[{},"spectrum2=spectrum;"]},{"entry":[{},"posum=spectrum2;"]},{"entry":[{},"A2=A.*conj(A);"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2018A2 Sum\u2019"]},{"entry":[{},"a2sum=sum(A2)"]},{"entry":[{},"sum(A2\/a2sum)"]},{"entry":[{},"[min(A2) max(A2)]"]},{"entry":[{},"wavwrite(sqrt(A2),Fs,bits,\u2018haltest2.wav\u2019)"]},{"entry":[{},"%%plot(sqrt(A2),\u2018green\u2019)"]},{"entry":[{},"%%hold off"]},{"entry":[{},"%%chunkmx=2{circumflex over (\u2002)}7; %2{circumflex over (\u2002)}4"]},{"entry":[{},"chunkmx=2{circumflex over (\u2002)}0;"]},{"entry":[{},"%%chunkmx=2{circumflex over (\u2002)}8;"]},{"entry":[{},"%%chunkmx=2{circumflex over (\u2002)}0"]},{"entry":[{},"chunksz=2{circumflex over (\u2002)}NBits\/chunkmx"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2018Done Readin\u2019"]},{"entry":[{},"pause"]},{"entry":[{},"%%%for ichunk=1:chunkmx"]},{"entry":[{},"%%%\u2003[ichunk chunkmx]"]},{"entry":[{},"%%%\u2003istart=(ichunk\u22121)*chunksz+1;"]},{"entry":[{},"%%%\u2003istop=istart+chunksz\u22121;"]},{"entry":[{},"%%%\u2003A2T=A(istart:istop);"]},{"entry":[{},"%%%\u2003A2Tsum=max(abs(A2T));"]},{"entry":[{},"%%%\u2003spectrum2=fft(A2T);"]},{"entry":[{},"%%%\u2003spectrum2=(spectrum2.*conj(spectrum2));"]},{"entry":[{},"%%%\u2003ssum=sum(spectrum2);"]},{"entry":[{},"%%%\u2003spectrum2=spectrum2\/ssum;"]},{"entry":[{},"%%%\u2003spmx=max(spectrum2);"]},{"entry":[{},"%%%\u2003A2IF=ifft(sqrt(spectrum2));"]},{"entry":[{},"%%%\u2003AO(istart:istop)=real(A2IF)\/sum(abs(real(A2IF)));"]},{"entry":[{},"%%%\u2003plot(AO(istart:istop),\u2018red\u2019)"]},{"entry":[{},"%%%\u2003hold on"]},{"entry":[{},"%%%\u2003plot(A2(istart:istop),\u2018green\u2019)"]},{"entry":[{},"%%%\u2003plot(spectrum2,\u2018cyan\u2019)"]},{"entry":[{},"%%%\u2003hold off"]},{"entry":[{},"%%%\u2003drawnow"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003%% Normalize"]},{"entry":[{},"%%%\u2003AO(istart:istop)=A0(istart:istop)*A2Tsum;"]},{"entry":[{},"%%%end"]},{"entry":[{},"%%%plot(real(AO),\u2018red\u2019)"]},{"entry":[{},"%%%hold on"]},{"entry":[{},"%%% \u2018AO\u2019"]},{"entry":[{},"%%%[max(real(AO)) max(real(A2)*asum)]"]},{"entry":[{},"%%%hold off"]},{"entry":[{},"%%%AO=AO\/max(abs(AO+eps));"]},{"entry":[{},"%%%wavwrite(AO,Fs,bits,\u2018haltest3.wav\u2019)"]},{"entry":[{},"%%pause"]},{"entry":[{},"%%%clear AO"]},{"entry":[{},"%%profile on"]},{"entry":[{},"A2S=A2;"]},{"entry":[{},"A2SSUM=sum(A2S)+eps;"]},{"entry":[{},"A=A\/sqrt(A2SSUM);"]},{"entry":[{},"A2S=A.*conj(A);"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2018sum test\u2019"]},{"entry":[{},"sum(A.*conj(A))"]},{"entry":[{},"clear A2S"]},{"entry":[{},"CBits=1og2(chunksz)"]},{"entry":[{},"ipend=1;"]},{"entry":[{},"%%% Build List of U operators"]},{"entry":[{},"for ii=CBits:\u22121:1"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003ii"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003nn=2{circumflex over (\u2002)}CBits; mm=nn;"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003UL(ii).H=BuildU(ii,H);"]},{"entry":[{},"end"]},{"entry":[{},"pause"]},{"entry":[{},"for ichunk=1:chunkmx"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003tic"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003[ ichunk chunkmx ]"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003istart=(ichunk\u22121)*chunksz+1;"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003istop=istart+chunksz\u22121;"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003ipend=ipend+chunksz;"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003spct1=zeros(2{circumflex over (\u2002)}CBits,1);"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003posum=spct1;"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003spctI=spct1;"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003% Extract Subset of Input Signal and Normalize"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003A2S=A2(istart:istop);"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003A2SSUM=sum(A2S)"]},{"entry":[{},"%%% subplot(2,2,3)"]},{"entry":[{},"%%% A2S=A2S\/(A2SSUM+eps);"]},{"entry":[{},"%%% bar(A2S\/(max(A2S)+eps))"]},{"entry":[{},"%%% [min(A2S) max(A2S)]"]},{"entry":[{},"%%% a2mx=max(A2S);"]},{"entry":[{},"%%% axis([0 2{circumflex over (\u2002)}CBits+1 0 1.01])"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003% Extract Sub-sample for state preparation"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003A2S=A2(istart:istop);"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003AIS=A(istart:istop);"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003% Prepare for QFT"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003spct1=zeros(2{circumflex over (\u2002)}CBits,1);"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003posum=spct1;"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003apsum=posum;"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003aspct=posum;"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003A2I=A2S\/sum(A2S);"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003AI=AIS\/norm(AIS,2);"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003AMX=max(abs(A(istart:istop)));"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003if (sum(AI)~=0)"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003for IS=1:NSamples"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003y(1:CBits)=0;"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003% Start QFT"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003IB=0;"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003AN=transpose(AI);"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003for ii=CBits:\u22121:1"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003IB=IB+1;"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003% Build U for this operation on the state"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003%%%U=BuildU(ii,H);"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003% Multiply U by the current state"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003%%nn=2{circumflex over (\u2002)}ii; mm=nn;"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003API=UL(ii).H*transpose(AN);"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003% Find probabilities"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003P=API.*conj (API);"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003% Extract Probabilties of Measuring"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003% current Qbit in state |1>"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003isto1=2{circumflex over (\u2002)}ii;"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003istr1=floor(isto1\/2)+1;"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003P1=sum(P(istr1:isto1));"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003% Meausure Qubit"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003y(ii)=MeasureQ(P1);"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003if(ii ~= 1)"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003% Extract new state"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003if(y(ii)==0)"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003AN=API(1:istr1\u22121);"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003else"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003AN=API(istr1:isto1);"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003end"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003AN=AN\/norm(AN,2);"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003% Build controlled Phase operation"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003R=BuildPhase(y(ii),CBits\u2212IB);"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003% Multiply that state by the controlled"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003% phase"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003AN=R*AN;"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003clear R;"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003AN=transpose(AN);"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003end"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003end"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003str2=num2str(y(CBits:\u22121:1),\u2018%ld\u2019);"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003[str2 \u2018 \u2019 num2str(ichunk) \u2018 \u2019 num2str(IS)]"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003% Store measurements in index basis"]},{"entry":[{},"%%%\u2003\u2003\u2002subplot(2,2,1);"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003str=num2str(y(1:CBits),\u2018%ld\u2019);"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003indx=fix(bin2dec(str))+1;"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003spct1(indx)=spct1(indx)+1;"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003spct1o=(spct1)\/IS;"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003spct1o=spct1\/sum(spct1);"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003%%%bar(spct1o)"]},{"entry":[{},"%%%\u2003\u2003\u2002hold on"]},{"entry":[{},"%%%\u2003\u2003\u2002spctmx=max(spct1o);"]},{"entry":[{},"%%%\u2002\u2003\u2003p2=(abs(fft(A(istart:istop))));"]},{"entry":[{},"%%%\u2003\u2003\u2002p2=p2.*conj(p2);"]},{"entry":[{},"%%%\u2002\u2003\u2003p2=p2\/(sum(p2)+eps);"]},{"entry":[{},"%%%\u2003\u2003\u2002plot(p2,\u2018green\u2019)"]},{"entry":[{},"%%%\u2003\u2003\u2002spctmx=max(spctmx,max(p2));"]},{"entry":[{},"%%%\u2003\u2003\u2002axis([ 0 2{circumflex over (\u2002)}CBits+1 0 spctmx])"]},{"entry":[{},"%%%\u2003\u2003\u2002hold off"]},{"entry":[{},"%%%\u2003\u2003\u2002drawnow"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003% Fourier Signal"]},{"entry":[{},"%%% \u2003\u2003\u2002subplot(2,2,4)"]},{"entry":[{},"%%% \u2003\u2003\u2002piqft=real(ifft(sqrt(spct1)));"]},{"entry":[{},"%%% \u2003\u2003\u2002piqft=piqft\/sum(abs(piqft));"]},{"entry":[{},"%%% \u2003\u2003\u2002Piqft=piqft\/max(abs(piqft));"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003%%%bar(piqft)"]},{"entry":[{},"%%% \u2003\u2003\u2002hold on"]},{"entry":[{},"%%% \u2003\u2003\u2002ap=AO(istart:istop)\/(max(abs(AO(istart:istop)))+eps);"]},{"entry":[{},"%%% \u2003\u2003\u2002plot(ap, \u2018green\u2019)"]},{"entry":[{},"%%% \u2003\u2003\u2002hold off"]},{"entry":[{},"%%% \u2003\u2003\u2002pmx=max(max(piqft,ap\u2019));"]},{"entry":[{},"%%% \u2003\u2003\u2002pmn=min(min(piqft,ap\u2019));"]},{"entry":[{},"%%% \u2003\u2003\u2002axis( [0 2{circumflex over (\u2002)}CBits+1 pmn\u2212eps pmx+eps])"]},{"entry":[{},"%%% \u2002\u2003\u2003drawnow"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003end"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003end"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2018After Samples\u2019"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003% Classical IFT"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003iqft=ifft(sqrt(spct1\/NSamples));"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003signal(istart:istop)=real(iqft)\/sum(abs(real(iqft)));"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003signal(istart:istop)=signal(istart:istop);%*AMX;"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003a2ssum=sum(A2(istart:istop));"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003toc"]},{"entry":[{},"end"]},{"entry":[{},"profile off"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2018Before Full Signal\u2019"]},{"entry":[{},"sigmx=max(abs(signal))"]},{"entry":[{},"signal=signal\/sigmx;"]},{"entry":[{},"clf"]},{"entry":[{},"plot(signal,\u2018red\u2019)"]},{"entry":[{},"drawnow"]},{"entry":[{},"hold on"]},{"entry":[{},"%%plot (real(AO),\u2018green\u2019)"]},{"entry":[{},"%%plot(A\/max(abs(A)),\u2018cyan\u2019)"]},{"entry":[{},"waywrite(real(signal),Fs,bits,\u2018qfthalNL.wav\u2019)"]},{"entry":[{},"function answer=MeasureQ(prob)"]},{"entry":[{},"s=rand;"]},{"entry":[{},"answer=99;"]},{"entry":[{},"while answer==99"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003if(s<prob)"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003answer=1;"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003else"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003answer=0;"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003end"]},{"entry":[{},"end"]},{"entry":[{},"function answer=BuildU(N,H)"]},{"entry":[{},"I=eye(2,2);"]},{"entry":[{},"answer=sparse(H);"]},{"entry":[{},"for i=1:N\u22121"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003answer=sparse(kron(answer,I));"]},{"entry":[{},"end"]},{"entry":[{},"function answer=BuildPhase(y,NQ)"]},{"entry":[{},"isize=2{circumflex over (\u2002)}NQ;"]},{"entry":[{},"%answer=eye(isize,isize);"]},{"entry":[{},"answer=speye(isize);"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2018Build Phase\u2019"]},{"entry":[{},"if (y==1)"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003for IQ=1:NQ"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003nchunks=2{circumflex over (\u2002)}(IQ\u22121);"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003chunksize=isize\/(2*nchunks);"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003[IQ NQ nchunks chunksize]"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003afac=exp(i*pi*y\/(2{circumflex over (\u2002)}IQ));"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003for ichunk=1:nchunks"]},{"entry":[{},"%% \u2003\u2003\u2002[ichunk nchunks]"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003istart=(ichunk*chunksize)+1+(ichunk\u22121)*chunksize;"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003istop=istart+chunksize\u22121;"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003for IS=istart:istop"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003c=fix( (istop\u2212istart)*.1);"]},{"entry":[{},"%% \u2003\u2003\u2003if(mod(IS,c)==0)"]},{"entry":[{},"%% \u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003[IS istart istop]"]},{"entry":[{},"%% \u2003\u2003\u2003end"]},{"entry":[{},"%% \u2003\u2003\u2003answer(IS,IS)=answer(IS,IS)*exp(i*pi*y\/(2{circumflex over (\u2002)}IQ));"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003answer(IS,IS)=answer(IS,IS)*afac;"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003end"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003end"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003end"]},{"entry":[{},"end"]},{"entry":[{},"C"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}}],"GOVINT":[{},{}],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":["FIG. 1A","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":["FIG. 1B","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":["FIG. 1C","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 9"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
